23-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||3 turncoats now 'dependable' for BJP||Jalandhar, January 22Of the 11 candidates announced for the Doaba belt by the BJP in its first list released on Friday, at least three are turncoats who had recently joined the saffron party after being denied tickets by their respective parties.While the three Jalandhar candidates (Manoranjan Kalia, Mahender Bhagat and KD Bhandari) are veteran leaders, who are part of the party’s old guard from Hoshiarpur, barring a couple, all are old party leaders.The three new entrants to the BJP are Kapurthala candidate Jathedar Ranjit Singh Khojewal (a former Akali Dal candidate), Garhshankar candidate Nimisha Mehta (a former Congress candidate) and Banga candidate Mohan Lal.Hoshiarpur relies mostly on old guardLike Jalandhar, most of the candidates from Hoshiarpur are part of the old guard except Nimisha Mehta who joined recently. From the three Jalandhar seats, the party has fielded Manoranjan Kalia, a former cabinet minister, from Jalandhar Central; former CPS KD Bhandari from the Jalandhar North and Mahinder Bhagat from the Jalandhar West.All three are veteran party leaders who have been with the BJP since the beginning and have served a long political innings with the party.Similarly from Hoshiarpur, Tikshan Sud, Raghunath Rana, Jangi Lal Mahajan and Dr Dilbagh Singh have all been with the BJP since long.Chosen as a candidate from Hoshiarpur, Tikshan Sud has been winner from the Hoshiarpur seat three times.He has been the former local bodies minister and has been associated with the party for decades. However, both Raghunath Rana (a Dasuya candidate) and Dr Dibagh Rai (a Chabbewal candidate) will be contesting the elections from the party ticket for the first time. Raghunath Rana is a sports entrepreneur based in the Kandi area of Hoshiarpur. Jangi Lal Mahajan, who has also been with the BJP for long, contested from Mukerian as an Independent from 2017.In the 2019 bypoll, he contested as a party candidate. Dr Dilbagh Rai, the party’s Chabbewal canddiate is a former doctor who was earlier with the Congress, but has been with the BJP for the past over five years.KapurthalaFormer SAD leader Jathedar Ranjit Singh Khojewal was chosen as the Sikh face to represent the BJP from Kapurthala, the seat which is at present a stronghold of Cabinet minister Rana Gurjeet Singh. A new entrant to the party, Khojewal joined the BJP just a month ago in the presence of Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat at an event held in Ludhiana. Khojewal, a former chairman of the Market Committee, Kapurthala, has also been a member of the PAC committee of the Akali Dal. He has also been an office-bearer of the Youth Akali Dal. While he had been pinning his hopes on the Kapurthala seat from the Shiromani Akali Dal, he was miffed at the seat going to SAD’s partner BSP as part of seat sharing between them. A prominent Sikh face from Kapurthala, Khojewal enjoys a considerable clout in the segment. He opted for the BJP after the three farm laws were repealed by the PM. Keeping in mind the panthic vote in the region, especially in the rural areas and villages, the BJP fielded Khojewal instead of senior BJP leaders like Umesh Dutt Sharda, Sham Sunder Aggrawal among others who had been pinning their hopes on the seat.GarhshankarThe young Nimisha Mehta, who had been a vocal leader from the Congress in Hoshiarpur, joined the BJP just last Sunday. On Friday, she was among the BJP’s first list of chosen Doaba candidates. She is one of the only two women who made the cut in the BJP’s first candidate list. Mehta made the shift within a day of the Congress declaring Amarpreet Singh Lali as its candidate from Garhshankar. An active leader from the region, Mehta, who is a resident of Hoshiarpur, had been vocal on key issues related to governance, law and crime. In November when the Congress reduced power rates, Nimisha had celebrated with her supporters by distributing ladoos in Mahilpur and Garhshankar. While her ticket had even been approved by the CM, it was Lali who prevailed as a candidate.BangaFiftyfour-year-old Mohan Lal Banga, who has been MLA two times, joined the BJP only in December after he was convinced that a Congress ticket from Banga would prove difficult. He was among the Cong leaders who had been vocal in their protests against ticket to Hussan Lal (CM Channi’s principal secretary) from the constituency. Lal had been chosen an MLA in 1997 and 2002. Son of Chaudhary Swarna Ram, who was among BJP’s first SC leaders of the state, Mohan Lal was a SAD MLA from Banga in 1997 and later joined the BSP. Subsequently, he joined the Congress ahead of the 2019 general election. While in Congress, he chose several ingenious ways of seeking a ticket. In November, he even chose show shining as a mode of protest to register his demand for ticket from the constituency. Exhausting all other means, in December, he embraced the BJP. A month later, he has been announced the party candidate from Banga.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-turncoats-now-dependable-for-bjp-363646
23-01-2022||---||Hun nhi khavange dhokha:  AAP's new slogan this time||Jalandhar, January 22Four days after announcing Bhagwant Mann as Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Chief Minister face in Punjab, the party’s popular slogan ‘Ik mauka Kejriwal nu’ has now changed to ‘Hun nhi khavange dhokha, Kejriwal te Bhagwant Mann nu devange mauka’.Party activists pledge to oust corrupt parties from Phagwara Phagwara: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Phagwara on Saturday pledged complete unity for ousting corrupt parties, including the Congress, BJP and Akali-BSP alliance from Phagwara. In a meeting held here, district president Gurpal Singh Indian, district secretary Nirmal Singh, district finance secretary Harjinder Singh Virk, district doctor wing Dr Jagjit Singh Virk and others welcomed the decision of the party to field former minister Joginder Singh Mann from Phagwara Assembly segment. They said the AAP unit will unitedly make efforts to bring AAP government in the state and make Bhagwant Mann as the next CM. They said no stone would be left unturned to oust corrupt parties such as the Congress, BJP and Akali-BSP alliance from Phagwara. OCThe hoardings having Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and Bhagwant Mann’s pictures with new slogan are being installed at various locations in the city. When asked to a few AAP workers about the slogan, they said: “We now have a proud Punjabi face who will lead the party to victory. His name and photo in all hoardings and banners of the party is a must, therefore, we decided to rehash the slogan.”They said the slogan ‘ek mauka Kejriwal’ nu has already got popular and they were using it for campaigning before the CM’s face announcement. But from now onwards, all official hoardings and banners will have both AAP Supremo and Mann’s pictures.Sharing details about their campaign, they said: “We are working on such slogans and designs that will show party’s ideologies and the changes they would bring in Punjab after being elected to power. Apart from door-to-door campaigns and other programmes, our main focus is online campaigning,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hun-nhi-khavange-dhokha-aaps-new-slogan-this-time-363647
23-01-2022||---||Three of family killed in accident, woman hurt||Mukerian (Hoshiarpur), January 22Three of a family died, while a woman was injured in a road accident on the Jalandhar-Jammu National Highway, near Mansar, on Saturday. They were returning to their native village Naushera Nal Banda in district Pathankot after attending a wedding in Fattuwal village of Mukerian in an MUV (Innova).The speeding MUV collided with the railing on the highway near Mansar village. The collision was so intense that the iron girder pierced through the MUV and came out from the rear side. In this horrific accident, three persons died on the spot, while a woman was seriously injured. Eyewitnesses said the driver appeared to be drunk and fled from the spot.The deceased have been identified as Rajwinder Singh, son of Jaswant Singh; Jashanpreet Singh, son of Naik Kamaljit Singh; and Jashanpreet Singh, son of Paramjit Singh, while the injured woman has been identified as Bhupinder Kaur, wife of Rajwinder Singh. The woman has been admitted to the Civil Hospital in Mukerian. The police are investigating.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-of-family-killed-in-accident-woman-hurt-363648
23-01-2022||---||Driver, conductor die as bus rams into a stationary canter||Garhshankar, January 22A bus driver and conductor died on the spot after their bus rammed into a canter around 5.30 on Saturday morning. They were on the way to Gurdaspur from Delhi and a canter was parked on the road. Luckily, the passengers travelling in the bus escaped unhurt.As soon as the information of the accident was received, DSP Garhshankar and SHO Mahilpur reached the spot and started rescue with the help of three JCBs and people to evacuate the bodies stuck in the bus. The drivers of Punjab Roadways present at the spot told the police that the bus was on its way to Gurdaspur from Delhi. When the driver of the bus reached near King Edward Senior Secondary School, close to Tutomjara, his bus rammed into a canter parked on the road side.The passengers in the bus escaped unhurt but both bus driver and conductor died as they got crushed between the vehicles. Colleagues of the deceased PUNBUS staff told that the driver Gurnam Singh was a resident of Tibri Cantt Gurdaspur district and the conductor Jatinder Kumar Sonu was a resident of Dehlan in Una district of Himachal Pradesh.The Mahilpur police have started investigation by taking possession of both vehicles. The bodies of the deceased were sent for post-mortem to Garhshankar Civil Hospital. A large number of employees working in the Punjab Roadways reached the spot. Traffic was disrupted for a long time due to this accident. The canter which was on its way to Hoshiarpur from Ludhiana had broken down, due to which, the driver parked it on the roadside. The police are investigating the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/driver-conductor-die-as-bus-rams-into-a-stationary-canter-363649
23-01-2022||By Ashok Kaura||Constituency watch: Phagwara||Phagwara is a prominent NRI-dominated city in Punjab falling on National Highwa-1. It is well-connected by rail and road but is placed 40 km away from the district headquarters of Kapurthala. A reserved constituency, it is spread over 50 urban wards and 91 villages. It has given chances to both Congress and BJP equally. This time Phagwara is witnessing a multi-cornered contest with candidates of the SAD-BSP alliance, BJP, Congress and AAP in the fray. BJP, however, is yet to open its cards. Here are the main candidates from the seat...Balwinder Singh DhaliwalParty: CongressAge: 60 yearsQualification: MA (geography)Background: He left his job as an IAS officer and contested the by-election from here in October 2019. He served as Principal Secretary of the SC Welfare Department at the time when the alleged Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme scam occurred, giving his opponents enough ammunition.Priorities:1. Strengthening of Dhussi Bundh around Chaheru rivulet2. Better health, education infrastructure3. To make Phagwara a districtJOGINDER SINGH MAANParty: Aam Aadmi PartyAge: 71 yearsQualification: GraduateBackground: He has been elected thrice as MLA from here in 1985, 1992 and 2002. A nephew of Congress stalwart and former Union Home Minister late Buta Singh, he has served as minister in the Cabinets headed by ex-CMs Beant Singh, Harcharan Singh Brar, Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and Captain Amarinder Singh. Mann had lost elections in 2007 and was denied ticket in 2012. He again lost in 2017. He moved to AAP recently.Priorities:1. District status for Phagwara2. A govt college at Phagwara3. Making Phagwara a tourist hub headquartersJASVIR SINGH GARHIParty: BSPAge: 42 yearsQualification: Masters in Public AdministrationBackground: He is the state president of BSP. He joined politics after resigning from government veterinary inspector post, where he served for 18 years. He hails from Garhikanogo village in Balachaur area of Nawanshahr. He remained associated with the India Backward and Minorities Communities Employees' Federation (BAMCEF).Priorities:1. To make Phagwara a district2. 500-bed multi-specialty hospital3. Focal Point with modern infrastructure||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/constituency-watch-phagwara-363652
23-01-2022||---||728 test +ve  in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, January 22As many as 728 new cases of Covid were reported from Jalandhar on Saturday. With this, the Covid tally in the district reached 73,467 cases. As many as 67,010 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases reached 4,933 on Saturday. No new death was reported and the toll remained at 1,524. Of the 19,68,003 samples collected in the district so far, 18,14,585 tested negative.234 cases in KapurthalaThe Kapurthala district reported 234 new cases of coronavirus on Saturday taking the Kapurthala district tally to 22,268. Meanwhile, no new death was reported. The toll so far remains 556. New cases were reported from Kapurthala, Sultanpur Lodhi, Cantt and New Court Complex among other areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/728-test-ve-in-jalandhar-district-363653
23-01-2022||---||34K-ltr lahan destroyed in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, January 22A joint operation was launched by the Hoshiarpur police and the Excise Department in the Mand area along the banks of the Beas on Saturday.The drive against illicit liquor smuggling was launched on the directions of Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale, under the supervision of Mukhtiar Rai, SP, as police had inputs that notorious smugglers from Gurdaspur area (on the other bank of Beas) sneak into the mand area to manufacture the illicit liquor and smuggle it in the surrounding areas .A special team consisting of Ranjit Singh DSP Sub division Dasuya, DSP Raj Kumar Sub division, SHO Tanda, SHO Garhdiwala, along with two Excise Inspector and Police Party conducted early morning surprise raids in the mand area of Beas at Terkiana village.The raids led to a recovery of 34,000 litres of illicit raw liquor (lahan) along with two stills and tarpaulins used to hide and store the lahan. An FIR has been registered under Section 61 of the Punjab Excise Act in this regard against the accused Swaran, a resident of Mochpur village and some unidentified accused.2k-ltr lahan seized in Mehatpur, ShahkotJalandhar: Ahead of the Assembly poll, the rural police and the excise teams today jointly launched a major crackdown against anti-social elements and people indulged in manufacturing illicit liquor, thus seizing 2,000 litres of lahan and destroyed 43 lakh ml lahan in mand area of Mehatpur and Shahkot.The joint teams comprising DSPs Harinder Singh Gill, Jasbinder Singh, ETO Harjot Singh, Jaspreet Singh along with sleuths from drone team and local police stations conducted a search operation with the help of the drones. He said the teams seized 10 lakh ml lahan from five drums and destroyed 43 lakh found in the tubes in Baupur village of Mehatpur. He said the accused managed to flee from the spot.The team also confiscated four polythene bags containing 10 lakh ml lahan in Shahkot’s Mand area. Four persons - Jinder Singh, Jajju, Bagicha and Satpal of village Baupur have been nominated in the case. He said that separate cases have been registered under Sections 61,1 and 14 of Excise Act in this regard.The spokesperson said the crackdown against illicit liquor would be intensified in coming days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/34k-ltr-lahan-destroyed-in-hoshiarpur-363654
23-01-2022||Jalandhar||BMW carjacking case cracked; two arrested||The city police have cracked the case in which a BMW car of a city-based businessman was taken away at gunpoint from outside Hot Drive in the posh Model Town locality two weeks ago.The two accused were arrested from Majithia Road in Amritsar on Saturday. The accused have been identified as Harshbir Singh, alias Harsh, a resident of Jagdev Kalan village in Amritsar; and Rajkaran Singh, alias Bunty, a resident of Majithia Road in Amritsar. Both accused are said to be drug addicts and in the past, too, many cases of carjacking have been registered against them.In a press conference on Saturday, the police informed that after the robbery, they scanned the CCTV footage from all areas in Model Town. After analysing it thoroughly, the location of the robbers was traced. They said even the accused realised that the police had come to know about their location, after which they left the car in an abandoned field on Batala Road in Amritsar on January 9.“After this, we started tracing their location in Amritsar and even scanned several CCTV cameras installed there and finally on Saturday, we caught them from Majithia Road in Amritsar,” they said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bmw-carjacking-case-cracked-two-arrested-363655
23-01-2022||---||Foundation to help Rurka Kalan football club 'grow'||Jalandhar, January 22In a first-of-its-kind initiative, The GROW Fund will invest up to INR 100 crore in two years to build capacity and support future readiness of 100 NGOs across the country. The Youth Football Club (YFC) Rurka Kalan, an NGO, has been selected from Punjab for the purpose.The YFC has been working in the areas of community development, art and culture and sports.YFC has been working in the areas of community development, art and culture and sports. As per the project, in a first-of-its-kind opportunity, 100 NGOs doing critical and credible social impact work across the nation have been selected to receive grants from The GROW Fund, which is anchored by EdelGive Foundation, along with several reputed funding partners. Out of the selected 100 NGOs, one organisation from Punjab is part of the cohort. Every NGO chosen to be a part of the initiative’s first cohort of 100, will receive INR 80 lakhs over two years to direct resources to building its capabilities, resilience and future readiness. With registrations from over 2,300 organisations, the NGOs will be assisted with mentoring, networking and leadership building.The GROW Fund is a unique financial initiative that aims to redefine philanthropy by committing to build a conducive ecosystem for organisations to grow resilient and future ready.The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Manan Trust, Rohini Nilekani Philanthropies, MacArthur Foundation, ATE Chandra Foundation, Rainmatter Foundation, Dalyan Foundation, Oak Foundation, a private philanthropy partner, Indus Foundation of Utah, Omidyar Network India and Ashish Kacholia along with Edelweiss Group are part of this initiative as core funders. Additionally, eminent businesspersons and changemakers such as Sanjay Purohit, Rati Forbes, the Bikhchandani Family, Helenka and Sunil Anand, Onward Foundation and Govind Iyer have also lent their support to GROW Fund.Commenting on the announcement of the cohort, VidyaShah, Executive Chairperson, EdelGive Foundation, said, “We are delighted to see YFC Rurka Kalan NGO from Punjab being included in the first cohort for GROW Fund grantees selected from 20 states of the country. This grassroots organisation has been working tirelessly with underserved communities across the state inareas like community development, art and culture and sports. Apart from the monetary support, the NGO from Punjab would benefit immensely from training and sessions on technology, finance, human resources, fundraising and communications among others. This will be coupled with an organisational development assessment tool, specialised 12-14 months programme and GROW hub knowledge dissemination platform.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/foundation-to-help-rurka-kalan-football-club-grow-363656
23-01-2022||---||SSM releases its candidates' list||Jalandhar, January 22Congress councillor from MC Jalandhar, BSP leader and a leading potato grower are in the list of seven candidates of Doaba region declared by the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) here on Saturday.‘Do not want an outsider’If it is Jatt vs Jatt vs Jatt in Jalandhar Cantonment, it will be BSP vs BSP vs BSP in Adampur as candidates of SAD, Congress and SSM all have a BSP background. Notably, local SSM workers, who had a clue that Heer could be their candidate, had already warned the morcha that they would protest if an outsider and an ex-BSP leader would be made their candidate.Congress councillor from Ward No.80 Des Raj Jassal said he left his party and joined the farmers’ movement to be their candidate from Jalandhar North. “My own party did not trust me but the SSM offered me a seat and I have accepted it,” he said. Likewise, leading potato grower Jaswinder Sangha is set to give a fight to the other two Jatt contestants from Jalandhar Cantonment – Pargat Singh Powar from Congress and Jagbir Brar of SAD. Sangha has been leading Jalandhar Potato Growers’ Association and has been repeatedly raking the issues of potato farmers of the region. He is locally well-connected.Among other candidates of SSM are Parshotam Heer from Adampur. He is a rebel BSP leader as he quit it after remaining District BSP president Hoshiarpur. If it is Jatt vs Jatt vs Jatt in Jalandhar Cantonment, it will be BSP vs BSP vs BSP in Adampur as candidates of SAD, Congress and SSM all have a BSP background. While sitting MLA in Adampur and SAD candidate Pawan Tinu, Sukhwinder Kotli of Congress and Heer of SSM, all have a BSP background.Notably, local SSM workers, who had a clue that Heer could be their candidate, had already warned the morcha that they would protest if an outsider and an ex-BSP leader would be made their candidate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ssm-releases-its-candidates-list-363657
23-01-2022||Kapurthala||DC, SSP lead flag march in Bholath, Sultanpur||District Electoral Officer, Kapurthala, Deepti Uppal and SSP Dayama Harish Om Parkash on Saturday led a flag march in Sultanpur Lodhi and Bholath Assembly constituencies. The march started from Dana Mandi to create a sense of security among people for the upcoming Assembly poll besides encouraging them to cast their votes without any fear.The flag march covered the entire geographical area of Sultanpur Lodhi and Bholath constituencies and more than 140 jawans of the Punjab Police and paramilitary forces took part in it. The DC said the district administration would take stern action against the violation of Model Code of Conduct and especially the organiser of poll meetings without prior approval. She asked security personnel to remain vigilant 24×7 by using the static surveillance teams, flying squad etc. The SSP said adequate number of police personnel and paramilitary forces have been deployed.Three expenditure observers deployed. The DC also informed that three expenditure observers have been deployed by the ECI for all four Assembly constituencies in Kapurthala. For Bholath, IRS officer Asish Kumar (99692-35960), for Kapurthala and Phagwara (SC constituency) IRS Om Parkash Yadav (95320-40376) and for Sultanpur Lodhi segment IRS Md Manrazul Hasan (84236-29004) have been appointed. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-ssp-lead-flag-march-in-bholath-sultanpur-363658
23-01-2022||Phagwara||Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose remembered||MLU DAV College, Phagwara, celebrated the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose with patriotic enthusiasm under the guidance of Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa.A webinar was organised for students by the Political Science Department. Students participated actively in essay writing, speech and poetry-recitation competition.During speeches, students shared inspirational quotes of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. To commemorate his contribution to India’s struggle for Independence, every year on January 23, Subhas Chandra Bose’s birthday is celebrated across the various parts of the country.It is also known as the “Parakram Diwas” and purpose of it is to inspire people of the country, mainly youth, to act with courage in the face of adversity, as Netaji did, and to infuse them a spirit of patriotic fervour. Dr Randhawa, while addressing the students, said Subhas Chandra Bose was an Indian revolutionary who played an important role in the Independence movement against the British rule of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/netaji-subhas-chandra-bose-remembered-363659
23-01-2022||Jalandhar||Students make eco-bricks||session on psychological needsKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised an online interactive session on psychological needs of cancer patients. The session was organised by PG Department of Psychology. Dr. Anubha Bharthor, Oncologist and Haematologist, Patel Hospital, was the resource person for the session. Addressing about 70 participants during the session, Dr. Anubha, while providing detailed information about the disease like cancer and its different types, at the same time, also highlighted about the proper treatment at the right time. Talking about the subject, she said that it is very important to keep the morale of the patients battling with cancer high so that they can overcome this disease keeping self-confidence and desire to live life at the centre. Along with this, she also appealed to such patients to adopt positive thinking. At the end of the program, various questions asked by the students were also answered in a very simple manner by the resource person.Treasure huntDIPS Chain of Schools organised treasure hunt activity for pre-primary wing. During this activity, parents and teachers hid treasure at various places, giving many exciting clues. Students at home with the help of interesting riddles searched for the hidden treasure enthusiastically by solving such riddles students got gifts in the form of soft toys, chocolates, story books, toys etc. questions put up by the teachers made the activity more interesting and enjoyable. Principals of all schools encouraged students for participating whole heartedly in this activity. They also remarked that treasure hunt encourages leadership qualities, creativity and thinking outside the box, teaches team work, patience, paying attention an exciting way of being on the move, build self-confidence etc. Therefore, it is always fun teaching kids through fun and games.Online Surya NamaskarTo commemorate 75th anniversary of India's Freedom as Azadi Ka Mahostsav, the Department of Physical Education and the Department of Yoga of PCM SD College for Women started surya namaskar Project. This programme was organised according to the guidelines of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India. The programme was commenced with surya namaskar in the college premises. The resource person of the event was Shwetank Anand (Yoga Ratna and yogacharya). Various yogic activities were conducted by the resource person which includes pranayama postures, asana etc. Principal of the college Dr Pooja Parashar, faculty members of the various departments and students participated enthusiastically in the event. While addressing the audience, Principal told that Surya Namaskar Project was also posted on the college’s Facebook.Interactive session with pm modiHMV Innovation Cell attended Prime Minister's interaction with start-ups hosted by DPIIT, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, to mark the celebrations of the 6th anniversary of the launch of the Start Up India initiative. The event formed the part of the week -long Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, 'Celebrating Innovation Ecosystem.' Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with more than 150 start-ups across the country via video conferencing in order to appreciate the innovative ideas and solutions offered by the youngsters from the start up world.Students bag university positionsStudents of St Soldier College of Education securing university position in B.P.Ed second semester result which was declared by Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University Patiala. Principal Dr Alka Gupta said Gurpratap Singh secured the first position in the university by securing 90 percent marks, Sudha, Bibhanshu Kumar second with 89 percent marks, Kumar Samanwal third with 88 percent marks, Rajender Kumar, Arvind Sharma fourth with 87 percent marks, Anjika, Kamal Kant, PankajSolanki, Anil Bhadu fifth with 86 percent marks, Dharmendra Singh, Atinderpal Singh, Vijay, Priyanka, Manoj Beniwal, Anjali Sagar has secured 7th position with 85 % marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-make-eco-bricks-363660
23-01-2022||Nakodar||Attempt to murder: 1 held||1 booked for illegal miningShahkot: Shahkot police have booked an unidentified person for illegally mining sand. The investigating officer (IO) said they had received a tip-off regarding illegal quarrying and sand theft near Sutlej. The IO said a case under Section 21 of the Punjab Mining Act and Section 379 of the IPC has been registered against unidentified person. OCIllicit liquor seized, 4 bookedShahkot: The police have booked four persons on the charge of brewing illicit liquor. The investigating officer (IO) said the accused have been identified as Jaju Singh, Bagicha Singh Satpal and Jindar residents of Bau Pur village who were found brewing illicit liquor. A police raided the spot and seized 1,000 litres of lahan but failed to arrest the accused. A case under Sections 61/1/14 of the Excise Act has been registered against the accused. The Mehatpur police booked unidentified persons for brewing illicit liquor and recovered 1,000 litters of Lahann near Umrewal village. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/attempt-to-murder-1-held-363661
