28-01-2022||---||Cops barricade 66ft road, commuters a harried lot||Jalandhar, January 27Commuters were a harried lot due to the visit of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other party leaders to Jalandhar on Thursday. A long stretch of the road, starting from petrol station to Jalandhar Heights, and even some nearby areas were closed early in the morning for security reasons. It remained closed till Rahul left in the evening.The stretch is used by thousands of people residing in the localities along the road and by commuters travelling to Nakodar, Pholriwal village and Mithapur. The commuters had to take kutcha roads that pass through villages in Jalandhar Cantt and other long routes to reach their destinations. Besides, a long traffic jam was witnessed on Mithapur road that further leads to Cheema Chowk.“From former CM Capt Amarinder Singh to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, the Congress government in past has many times vowed to end VIP culture, but in reality it is otherwise. Whenever any senior leader or CM’s convoy has to pass or attend function somewhere, several roads are closed and barricaded, giving commuters a tough time,” said Mayank Kumar, a resident.Another resident, Jyoti Sachdeva of Jalandhar Heights 1, said it took her 30 minutes to drop his son to the tuition centre that’s just 500m away from her house. “I requested police officials to kindly allow me to go, but they refused and instead of sharing any alternate route, they insisted that I should go back home and teach my son on my own,” she said.Residents complained that no proper route diversion was planned and the entire stretch was closed to give freeway to Rahul Gandhi. “The road should have been closed for a few minutes before the arrival of the guests. We do understand the security concerns, but closing the road when people leave for their work and children for their classes, can’t be justified,” said Balminder Kaur.Another commuter Shamsher Singh said: “The residents often have to face such troubles during visits of VVIPs. These unjustified restrictions imposed on commuters are absolutely wrong. Why people should suffer due to ministers or others?”Meanwhile, the police deployed at the venue and at barricades maintained that due security reasons, they received the orders to close the entire stretch for traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cops-barricade-66ft-road-commuters-a-harried-lot-364851
28-01-2022||---||Two Jalandhar students among 135 honoured on R-Day||Jalandhar, January 27Recalling the exceptional contribution made by Dr BR Ambedkar in drafting the Constitution of the nation, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday unfurled the Tricolour at Guru Gobind Singh Stadium here.He said it was a humongous task to frame the Constitution for a country as diverse as ours, but Baba Saheb made strenuous efforts and accomplished the gigantic work with aplomb. It took two years, 11 months and 18 days to draft the Constitution, which was handed over to the President of the Constituent Assembly, Dr Rajendra Prasad, on November 26, 1949, thus paving the way for country becoming a republic on January 26, 1950.Exhorting the people to leave no stone unturned in ensuring unhindered developmental journey of the country, the CM assured that the communal harmony and peace in the state would be maintained at all costs. The march past was led by Jasroop Kaur Baath, IPS, and DSP Satbir Singh, comprising the contingents from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Commissionerate Police (men and women), PRTC Jahan Khelan (three contingents) and Home Guard Wing of the Commissionerate Police.The Chief Minister also honoured 135 persons from different walks of life rendering selfless services to society with the appreciation certificates besides honouring the members of march past contingents with the mementoes. The list of awardees included two students – PM Bal Puraskar awardee Meedhansh Gupta for his social work and Bhavya, a budding artist. Bhavya has made several sketches of real-life heroes, religious gurus, saints and senior police officials. Noted plant lover Parduman Thukral, who has been maintaining several parks in the city and has organised various plantation drives, was also honoured.Assistant Commissioner of Police (Headquarters) Subhash Chander Arora, too, was among the awardees for rendering his services, especially during the Covid-19 period through various outreach programmes carried out by the police during the trying times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-city-students-among-135-honoured-on-r-day-364853
28-01-2022||Jalandhar||Covid: Jalandhar district reports 4 deaths, 411 cases||As many as 17 deaths due to Covid were reported from Jalandhar in the past four days. With 411 new cases of Covid, the tally has reached 75,836 cases. With four deaths in the district, the deceased tally reached to 1,541 today. As many as 71,005 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar have reached 3,290 today. Of the 19,85,396 samples collected in the district, so far, 18,28,746 samples have tested negative.3 lose life in KapurthalaThe district reported 144 new cases of Covid , taking the tally to 22,956 cases. The district also reported three new deaths. The total deceased tally at Kapurthala now has reached 562. The deceased include a 70-year-old man from Kapurthala, a 70-year-old man from Majijitpur village and a 25-year-old man from Begowal. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-jalandhar-district-reports-4-deaths-411-cases-364854
28-01-2022||---||Hockey India suspends Hockey Punjab||Jalandhar, January 27Hockey Punjab, a state-level hockey body, has been suspended by Hockey India over allegations that the election process adopted by the state body is in serious violation with the principles of Hockey India.In a notice sent to Hockey Punjab, it has been mentioned that the Hockey India Executive Board at its meeting after considering various aspects, unanimously agreed that the election process adopted by Hockey Punjab is in violation of the principles of a free and fair election process set by Hockey India. It said that voting cannot be dispensed with, as was done by Hockey Punjab for elections for the period of 2021-2025.It further reads that a notice was sent to Hockey Punjab in this regard. However, their response that no individuals submitted their nomination for any post was found unsatisfactory. Therefore, Hockey Punjab has been considered a defaulter and liable for disaffiliation since it is not following any guidelines or instructions that cover good governance, transparency and good ethical practices.“The executive board of Hockey India has taken a serious view and suspended the Hockey Punjab until free and fair elections can be held by the Ad Hoc Committee,” the notice reads.Besides, Hockey India has formed a three-member adhoc committee for the day-to-day working of Hockey Punjab, keeping in view the interests of Punjab players. Bhola Nath Singh, Olympian Balwinder Singh Shammi and Cdr RK Srivastava have been appointed Chairman, Member, and Convener, respectively.Meanwhile, former secretary-general of the Surjit Hockey Society Iqbal Singh Sandhu, while welcoming the decision, alleged that hockey Olympian-turned-politician Pargat Singh, along with a local businessman has been misusing Hockey Punjab for its own political benefits. He said Pargat who was Director (Sports), Punjab, in 2009 joined hands with the SAD chief and then deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal to dislodge the DGP, Punjab, from the post of president as the control of Punjab Hockey was used to be with the Police Department.In October 2009, Sukhbir became the president and Pargat Singh as secretary-general by setting up a new body called namely Hockey Punjab. Sandhu further said when the Akali government lost elections in 2017, Pargat Singh joined hands with the Congress and removed Sukhbir from the post of president and appointed Nitin Kohli, a local businessman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hockey-india-suspends-hockey-punjab-364855
28-01-2022||---||4 Doaba names on BJP's 2nd list||Jalandhar, January 27National Commission for Scheduled Caste Chairman Vijay Sampla has been fielded from the Phagwara constituency by the BJP in the party’s second list of candidates for the Assembly elections released today. Of all the 27 candidates in the list, four names from Doaba have been announced namely Vijay Sampla from Phagwara, former Akali leader Sarabjit Makkar from Jalandhar Cantt, former Jalandhar Mayor Surinder Mahey from Kartarpur and Narinder Pal Singh Chandi from Shahkot. Bhandari, Laddi, Kohar file papersThe seat with a predominant Hindu urban base, Phagwara has seen current Cabinet minister Som Parkash win both in 2012 and 2017 poll. While Union minister Som Parkash’s wife Anita Parkash was also a contender from the seat, the BJP went with Sampla fielding him from the constituency.Meanwhile, former Akali leader Sarabjit Makkar, who had recently joined the BJP party, has been fielded as the party’s candidate from Jalandhar Cantt. Makkar will be contesting against Cabinet minister Pargat Singh, incumbent MLA from the seat. Makkar had quit the Akali Dal to join the BJP after being denied a ticket by the SAD, which chose Jagbir Brar as its candidate from Jalandhar Cantt.From Kartarpur, former Congress leader and former Jalandhar Mayor Surinder Mahey has been chosen to contest the elections while from Shahkot Narinder Pal Singh Chandi has been fielded as the party’s candidate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-doaba-names-on-bjps-2nd-list-364857
28-01-2022||---||Kaypee attends Rahul Gandhi's rally||Jalandhar, January 27Annoyed with the party over being denied ticket, ex-Congress minister MS Kaypee was seen prominently seated on the front row of the stage of former AICC president Rahul Gandhi today during the virtual rally event on 66ft road here.As Rahul came on the stage, he met everyone and stood interacting for a few seconds with Kaypee giving all onlookers an impression that it could be something about his candidature. A Dalit face of the party and relative of Punjab CM Charanjit S Channi, Kaypee had been seeking review of his ticket from the high command. Kaypee had been expecting a review of the ticket which did not even come in the second list. A third and the final list of the party is expected any time.Like Kaypee, miffed ex-MLA Gurbinder Atwal also came close to Rahul on stage and handed him over a white slip. He too had been reportedly annoyed as he had applied for candidature from Nakodar seat which has gone to Dr Navjot Dahiya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kaypee-attends-rahuls-rally-364858
28-01-2022||By Avneet Kaur||Constituency watch: Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr became a district in 1995 and was renamed as Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (SBS Nagar) in 2007. It is a semi-urban constituency with nearly 1.76 lakh voters. The district is divided into 19 wards and 466 villages. The locals here have voted mostly for the Congress. Late Dilbag Singh remained the most influential leader from the seat. He was also responsible for making Nawanshahr a district. This time when the BJP is contesting in alliance with Capt Amarinder Singh's Punjab Lok Congress (PLC), the BSP and SAD are together and the Congress (candidate not announced yet), AAP and new entrant Samyukta Samaj Morcha (SSM) also in the fray, the electoral battle has turned interesting and it's all set to witness a multi-cornered contest. Here are the main candidates from the seat...Nachhatar Pal SinghParty: SAD-BSPAge: 47 yearsQualification: B PharmacyBackground: Nachhatar Pal Singh, who is BSP’s state general secretary, has been a social worker, a two-time councillor, and former vice-president of Nawanshahr Municipal Council. He contested for the Assembly poll in 2017, also on BSP ticket, but managed just 19,578 votes. He has been associated with the Bahujan Samaj Party since the Kanshi Ram movement and before being appointed as state general secretary, he was district BSP chief.Priorities:1. To upgrade the educational infrastructure and establish a college/university in district2. A medical college & hospital3. To create job opportunities by setting up more industriesLalit Mohan PathakParty: Aam Aadmi PartyAge: 52 yearsQualification: GraduationBackground: A property dealer by occupation, Lalit Mohan Pathak (popularly known as Ballu), has been a four-time councillor and two-time president of the Nawanshahr Municipal Council. During his tenure, Nawanshahr district topped twice in Swachh Bharat Survekshan in the north zone for urban local bodies with a population of 25-50,000. He was a die-hard Congressman, but due to his differences with sitting MLA Angad Saini and other reasons, he left the Congress and joined AAP.Priorities:1. To make Nawanshahr a corruption-free district2. Establishment of a PGI-like hospital in the district3. Development of sports parks and stadiumsKuldeep SinghParty: SSMAge: 42 yearsQualification: Class XBackground: A farmer by profession, Kuldeep Singh has been an active farm activist from the region. At present, he is the president of the Doaba Kisan Union. Besides, he is a member of Samyukta Kisan Morcha and Bharatiya Kisan Union. He says he led the farmers’ protest at Singhu border from the region. It was he who took along thousands of protesters to the site and had stayed there from Day 1.Priorities:1. Healthcare facilities in every village and hospital in district2. Will work to make Nawanshahr a corruption-free district3. Socio-economic uplift of labourers, farmers and other workers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/constituency-watch-nawanshahr-364863
28-01-2022||---||Republic Day celebrated with patriotic fervour in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, January 27Punjab Revenue, Rehabilitation and Disaster Management Minister Aruna Chaudhary unfurled the national flag at the Police Lines ground, Hoshiarpur, during a district-level function on Wednesday. After unfurling the Tricolour, Choudhary inspected the parade.Giving a message to the people of the district, the minister said even though the country became independent on August 15, 1947, we became a republic only after the Indian Constitution came into force on January 26, 1950. She handed over 20 sewing machines to the needy and five wheel chairs to the beneficiaries on behalf of the District Red Cross Society. Apart from this, 63 personalities who excelled in different fields of life were also honoured. A spectacular march past was held under the leadership of Parade Commander DSP Manavjit Singh. On behalf of the district administration, DC Apneet Riyat and SSP Dhruman H. Nimbale presented a memento to the chief guest.At the subsidiary training centre, Border Security Force, Kharkan camp, chief guest IG Madhu Sudan Sharma unfurled the Tricolour. All the personnel officers, subordinate officers, jawans, trainees and children of the training centre participated in the celebrations.The national flag was also unfurled at Government College, Talwara; BJP office; Rotary Club, Hoshiarpur; Gems Cambridge International School; District Congress Committee office; The SVM School, Talwara, among other places.R-Day celebrated in NakodarNakodar: Republic Day was celebrated with grandeur in Nakodar and Shahkot subdivisions and Nurmahal subtehsil. Sub-divisional magistrates Poonam Singh and Lal Biswas unfurled national flag at Nakodar, Shahkot and Nurmahal NC president HK Johalat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/republic-day-celebrated-with-patriotic-fervour-in-hoshiarpur-364865
28-01-2022||---||Sarangal exhorts voters to participate in Assembly poll||Nawanshahr, January 27Exhorting the people of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district to break the previous records of voting by participating in large numbers during these Assembly election, Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said huge turnout on the polling day (February 20) would further strengthen the foundation of Indian democracy.Addressing the people after unfurling the national flag here at local ITI Ground during 73rd Republic Day celebrations, the Deputy Commissioner said the historical participation of the voters in the elections would set new milestone and would make India a more vibrant nation in the world. He said it was an honour to be an elector in the largest democracy of the world and reminded the electorate by exercising their fundamental right to vote, they would be fulfilling aspirations of coming generations and would create strong system that would further take the country to the greater heights.Saluting the doctors, healthcare and frontline workers for their unmatched resolve in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, Sarangal said due to their commitment and dedicated efforts, Punjab has emerged as victorious in this war against an invisible enemy. Paying rich tributes to the father of Indian Constitution, Sarangal said Indian Constitution is the result Dr Ambedkar’s hard work, dedication and vision and asked the people to follow the path shown by him. He called upon them to make dedicated efforts securing justice and equality for all sections of society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sarangal-exhorts-voters-to-participate-in-assembly-poll-364866
28-01-2022||---||Students vow to abide by Constitution, remember martyrs||Jalandhar, January 27Republic Day was celebrated with great enthusiasm at various schools and colleges in the city. Flag hoisting, declamation competition, patriotic songs were sung and among other events were held to mark the day.KMV CollegeRepublic Day was celebrated at KMV College with great fervour. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi started the function by hoisting the national flag. In her address, she averred that the Republic Day celebration is dedicated to our brave soldiers and martyrs. Prof. Dwivedi exhorted everyone to remember that many valiant and precious lives had been lost during the freedom struggle and India stands strong amongst all the nations of the world committed to world peace and harmony. She said that every citizen should follow the path and direction given in the constitution in order to make our nation more prosperous, strong and happy. She also made everyone aware about their Fundamental Rights granted to us by our constitution and maintained that along with their rights, the citizens should also remember their duties towards their motherland.Apeejay SchoolApeejay School, Mahavir Marg, observed Republic Day celebrations virtually through Zoom platform. The programme was solemnized by the singing of the National Anthem and the hoisting of the Tricolour. The young compeers, Gunisha, Devina, Sargun and Yadavi wearing the colours of the Tricolour on their faces from grades 1-3, delightfully engaged with the audience. The group song led by Sammanith from grade 9 held the audience enthralled with their poignant rendition. While Pranav Sharma from Class I presented a poem as a tribute to the freedom fighters, Saanvi Aggarwal from Grade III delivered an impressive speech extolling the significance of this day. A theatrical enactment ‘Hamara Savidhan, Hamari Shaan’ was presented as a wake-up call to the youth to cherish the gift of Independence.DC Collegiate Sr Sec SchoolDC Collegiate Senior Secondary School under Doaba College, Jalandhar, and the student welfare committee celebrated Republic Day with teaching and non-teaching Staff following the Covid-19 guidelines. Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari graced the occasion as the chief guest. Dr Bhandari addressed the august gathering and apprised them about the relevance of Republic Day. The students participated in virtual online mode and gave outstanding performances in the form of poems, patriotic songs and dances. Head girl Rashi Rawal and Mitali, student coordinator for literary activities, conducted the show affectively.Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical CampusThe School of Management, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus (LKCTC), celebrated the 73rd Republic Day with patriotism and fervour. The Cultural Committee of School of Management organised various Online Events on theme- “My Country, My Expectations” such as poetry competition, e-poster making competition, slogan writing competition and patriotic song competition. The events were conducted to inculcate among students the sense of belongingness towards their country and sober souvenir of the sacrifice of the martyrs who passed away for the country in the freedom movement. Parul Nanda and Anterpreet Kaur were the coordinators of the event. The students across different schools and colleges participated with great zeal and enthusiasm. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, Director, Academic Affairs, commended the Department of Management and highlighted that such events will surely help in imbibing the feeling of patriotism among the students for progressive Nation.St Soldier Groupof InstitutionsSt Soldier Group of Institutions celebrated Republic Day with gaiety and patriotic fervor. On the occasion, chairman Anil Chopra, vice chairperson Sangeeta Chopra along with the directors, principals, staff members and students of all colleges saluted the Tricolour hoisting on the campus. The parade was marched by the NCC, NSS of Law College, and school students. The students made tricolor on their faces and in their hands, saluted the martyrs who sacrificed for the country’s freedom by presenting a short drama on life, struggle, and contribution. The students took a vow to always love the country and increase its value. While congratulating everyone on Republic Day, chairman and vice-chairperson gave a message to all to love the country and live together.HMV CollegePrincipal of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya (HMV) Dr Ajay Sareen was honoured by CM Charanjit Singh Channi at the Republic Day function organised in Jalandhar. Dr Sareen was honoured for her contribution in the field of education, cleanliness, innovation and spreading environment consciousness among the students. Dr Sareen thanked the district administration for this honour. She said HMV always strives for innovation, which is the need of the hour. On the occasion, Dr Anjana Bhatia, Dean, Innovation and Research of the College, was also awarded in recognition of her performance of duty in the field of innovation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-vow-to-abide-by-constitution-remember-martyrs-364867
28-01-2022||Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr DC briefs expenditure observer||Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal on Tuesday briefed the election expenditure observer Jayshankar Prakash Upadhyay about the arrangements made by the administration for expenditure monitoring during the assembly poll. He said strict vigil was being ensured for transparent functioning of the expenditure monitoring teams in the district. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-dc-briefs-expenditure-observer-364869
28-01-2022||Jalandhar||Bhagwant Mann's conduct disrespect to BR Ambedkar's statue: Hans Raj Hans||The BJP on Thursday condemned the incident wherein a statue of Dr BR Ambedkar was garlanded by AAP’s CM candidate Bhagwant Mann by taking off his own garland. BJP leader and Delhi MP Hans Raj Hans today said the incident involving the statue of BR Ambedkar was extremely hurtful and Mann should immediately tender a written apology for hurting the sentiments of the schedules class.Addressing a press conference at the BJP party’s central election office here today, Hans said Dr Ambedkar is the father of the Constitution and any disrespectful behaviour towards his stature in our society is deplorable and Bhagwant Mann should immediately apologise for his misdemeanour towards Dr Ambedkar. The BJP leader also said several complaints had been filed on the mideamanour by Mann and the pressure to lodge an FIR will also be stepped up. —                                     #Bhagwantmann                                     #BRAmbedkar                                     #HansRajHans||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/manns-conduct-disrespect-to-br-ambedkars-statue-364870
28-01-2022||Hoshiarpur||8 candidates file nominations in Hoshiarpur||Eight candidates on Thursday filed nomination papers for the Assembly elections in the Hoshiarpur district. The Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer, Apneet Riyait, said in the Mukerian constituency Sarabjot Singh from Shiromani Akali Dal filed nomination papers while from the Dasuya constituency Sushil Kumar Sharma and Meena, covering candidate, from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) filed nomination papers. She said Lakhwinder Singh from the BSP had filed nomination for the Urmar Assembly constituency. Sundar Sham Arora had filed nomination from Congress and Dr Shivani Arora, covering candidate; from Aam Aadmi Party Brahm Shankar Sharma and Vibha Sharma, covering candidate, have also filed papers for Hoshiarpur Assembly constituency. The DEO said no nomination papers have been received for Shamchurasi, Chabbewal and Garhshankar constituencies.Riyait said as per the criteria laid down by the EC , only three persons, including the candidate would be allowed to enter the returning officer’s room where nomination papers would be received. The nomination papers can be filed from 11 to 3 pm till February 1, whereas nomination papers would not be received on January 30 due to a holiday but the nomination papers will be received on January 29. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-candidates-file-nominations-in-hoshiarpur-364871
28-01-2022||Hoshiarpur||3 booked for abetting suicide||Rs2L cash seized in talwaraTalwara: The police seized Rs2,01,850 from a car-borne suspect at a naka on the Sansarpur Terrace road, Talwara. The driver has been identified as Sachin Kumar, a resident of Amroh. Deepak Kumar, a resident of Marwari, Una, Himachal Pradesh was also travelling in the vehicle. The police personnel had stopped the vehicle on suspicion and during the search Rs 2,01,850 in cash was found from the dashboard of the vehicle. When asked about the source of the money, the suspects failed to give a satisfactory answer. The police sealed the recovered amount in a plastic box and sent it to the returning officer of Dasuya. OCMisbehaving with doctor: 3 bookedNakodar: The police have booked three persons for misbehaving with a government doctor. The investigating officer said the accused have been identified as Sanjiv Kumar, Baldev Singh and Mangal Singh, all residents of Kang Sahib Rai village. The police received a telephone call from the Civil Hospital that the accused misbehaved with Harpreet Kaur, a government doctor, and disrupted her in discharging her official duty. The IO said a case under Sections 188, 353, 506 and 34 of the IPC have been registered. oc2 arrested with smuggled liquorHoshiarpur: The police arrested two persons with 31,500-ml liquor, smuggled from Chandigarh and Himachal. The Garhdiwala police arrested Stawinder Kaur, a resident of Mallian and recovered 24,750 ml of smuggled liquor having ‘for sale in Chandigarh only’ marked on it. The Dasuya police arrested Sarabjit Singh of Balaggan village recovering 6,750 ml of liquor having marked ‘for sale in Himachal Pradsh only’ on it. Both the accused have been booked under the Excise Act. OCPO in snatching case arrestedNakodar: The police have arrested a proclaimed offender (PO) absconding for the past one year. The investigating officer said the accused has been identified as Robin Chandar alias Muna, a resident of Gorsian Peeran village. The accused is wanted in a case of snatching. OCDrunk man kills 1.5-year-old sonJalandhar: A man has been arrested for allegedly killing, in an inebriated state, his one-and-half-year-old son by throwing him on the floor. The mother the child, Anjali (23), a resident of Guru Tegh Bahadur Park, has lodged a complaint with the police in this regard. The complainant told that her husband Sunil Kumar, in a drunken state, started quarrelling with her after coming home on January 25 evening. She said when her husband started beating her, the baby sitting nearby got scared and started crying loudly. In a fit of rage, her husband threw him on the ground, killing him instantly. The investigating officer Desraj said the accused has been arrested under Section 302 of the IPC. The body of the deceased child was handed over to the family after the post-mortem. The accused was produced before a court, which sent him to 14-day judicial custody. TNSHoshiarpur: five die, 408 infectedHoshiarpur: The district on Thursday reported 408 new cases of Covid-19. With this, the Covid tally in the district has reached 38,837. As many as 34,846 persons have recovered from Covid in the district so far while the number of active cases has reached 2,995. With five deaths reported in the district today, the deceased tally stands at 1,036. OC9 food samples collectedHoshiarpur: The District Health Officer (DHO), Dr Lakhvir Singh, on Thursday collected nine samples of milk and milk products. The samples have been sent to the Food Testing Laboratory in Kharar. Dr Lakhvir said samples were collected from milkmen at the Government College chowk and a shop on the Phagwara road, Kamalpur. He said the team collected five samples of milk from milkmen, while one sample each of milk, khoya, barfi and cheese were taken from Dilbagh Sweets Shop on Phagwara road. He said the Health Department would receive the reports in three weeks. The DHO said strict action would be initiated against those found indulged in this malpractice. He appealed to the food manufacturers and sellers to make pure and quality food products. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-booked-for-abetting-suicide-364873
28-01-2022||---||Charanjit Singh Channi or Navjot Sidhu? Decision soon, says Rahul Gandhi||Jalandhar/Amritsar, January 27On his daylong visit to the state, former AICC chief Rahul Gandhi today said he would soon announce the chief ministerial candidate for the state Assembly elections.Addressing a virtual rally in Jalandhar, Rahul said either of the two — Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi or PCC chief Navjot Sidhu — would be picked. He said opinion would be sought from the party workers before making the announcement.Rahul said he discussed the issue with both Sidhu and Channi on his way to the venue. “They told me the biggest question everyone is asking in Punjab is who of the two will take the lead. There cannot be two leaders. If one gets the chance, the other one will pledge support for him. I was really happy with it. So, I thought that if the party leaders, workers and Punjab want it, we will take the decision. We will do it by seeking the opinion of our workers and I want everyone to fight as a team.”Prior to his speech both Sidhu and Channi set the narrative in this direction. Sidhu said: “People are asking who will be the leader to put forth the party agenda. I will accept your decision. Meinu darshani ghoda na bana dena (Do not make me a mere showpiece).”Starting his speech with the verses of Guru Ravidass, Channi told Rahul, “If you have liked my 111 days of CMship, a thought could be given for the next five years.” He was, however, quick to change his stance, “You have already given too much to someone whose family has not even had anyone even as an MLA. Pick anyone as CM face. I assure you my full support.” At this, he invited Sidhu near him on the dais and hugged him. Sidhu responded with a warm gesture as ministers Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Pargat Singh also came along.Rahul also spoke on many plans already put forth by Sidhu in his Punjab Model for the past few days.Affirming that his party would give a push to the industry, Rahul said, “We want ‘Made in Punjab’ labels to go popular.” On governance, he said, “We will start single window system for 160 services under ‘Sarkar aapke dwaar’ project. We will focus on decentralisation.” On women issues, he said, “I have suggested that a dedicated women manifesto must be released with two-three main promises”.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi along with party’s all candidates kicked off the election campaign after paying obeisance at the Golden Temple here today. He also paid tributes to martyrs at the Jallianwala Bagh, before visiting Durgiana Mandir and Bhagwan Valmiki Tirath temple.Rahul landed at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, Amritsar, at 12.30 pm from where he directly reached the Golden Temple. Unlike his June 2017 visit when he opted to stand in a queue meant for common devotees, he gained access from the VIP lane to the sanctum sanctorum and offered ‘rumala’ and ‘karah parshad deg’ at the shrine. In acknowledgement, SGPC staffers presented him a ‘sehra’ (a garland). Congress leader Bhagwant Pal Singh Sachchar presented him a ‘kirpan’. He also listened to the kirtan for some time.He was flanked by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Deputy CMs OP Soni and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. During the course of his visit, he kept on sharing his experience through tweets in Hindi.Eight of nine MPs not presentOf a total of eight Congress MPs, only Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla accompanied Rahul. Punjab Lok Congress leader Amarinder Singh’s wife Preneet Kaur (Patiala), Manish Tewari (Anandpur Sahib), Ravneet Singh Bittu (Ludhiana), Jasbir Singh Gill (Khadoor Sahib), Mohammad Sadique (Faridkot), Chaudhry Santokh Singh (Jalandhar) and Amar Singh (Fatehgarh Sahib) were conspicuous by their absence. Congress leaders said most MPs were busy with their prior commitments. The Khadoor Sahib MP clarified due to his personal obligations he was not able to attend the Amritsar function and for this he had already informed his leadership, ‘no assumptions please’.There can’t be two chiefsThey (Channi & Sidhu) told me the biggest question everyone is asking in Punjab is who of the two will take the lead. There cannot be two chiefs. If one gets the chance, the other one will pledge support for him. Rahul Gandhi, former AICC chief                                     #CharanjitChanni                                     #Congress                                     #NavjotSidhu                                     #RahulGandhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-singh-channi-or-navjot-sidhu-decision-soon-says-rahul-gandhi-364783
