30-01-2022||Remote workforces have become very common amid the pandemic and with the pandemic days being far from over this system is expected to continue even once the virus is contained. The way companies are managing remote workforces will definitely initiate long-term implications for their business and its growth potential.||How India Inc is making new normal of remote teams work||Managing remote workers requires an extra effort from employers, as companies face unique challenges when employees are not together in a physical office. However, with a solid strategy and effective communication, businesses with remote workers can overcome any kind of obstacles.For remote work to be a success, employees know what is expected of them - the scope of the work, the deliverables and the deadlines and there should be no room for obscurity. If one is doing a poor job, morale and productivity will suffer, on the other hand if you're successful, a remote workforce can build immense loyalty and boost engagement with in the company.Not only India Inc but the corporate world the world over is in the throes of a transition in work environment wherein the key words are remote working or hybrid working model.Over the past two years, companies have dealt with both the issues pandemic and labor shortage. As per a recent survey conducted by the HR software company Principles, says that 94% of responding companies onboarded new remote employees during the pandemic have only interacted with their co-workers virtually. Out of these companies, 31% responded that new employees are adapting but struggling to make connections with coworkers, while 10% are unsure of how these employees are adapting at all.As companies are adapting to this new normal, Managers and HR heads are faced with the challenges posed by work rhythms of remote working teams. A slew of strategies and models are being used in different sectors to get the maximum benefit from remote working.Talking about the mechanics of this new normal Sonica Aron, Founder and Managing Partner, Marching Sheep, says, 'Work from home', seen as a perk or a special benefit for a few of those in need in pre-covid times, became a norm in the last two years. However, each time we saw things improving, organisations fell in one of the following brackets. There were organisations who embraced the concept wholeheartedly, who could see the benefits of saving real estate cost, travel time, giving better work life balance and allowing workforce the flexibility to work from anywhere. The other bracket opted for hybrid working models as per industry needs, where some functions and roles needed to be at work, or some people simply chose to be at work few days a week for ease of meetings or personal interaction. Then came the bracket where organisations insisted on employees coming back to office citing reasons of higher productivity and innovation.Different tools and strategies are being used across the board to keep up productivity standards as well as to allow the workforce to maintain the delicate work-life balance even as the work space is merging with personal space literally. Maninder Singh Bajwa, CEO and Founder, iScuela said, "Work from home is something that no one planned for or anticipated. Both the employees and employers had to manage their expectations due to this change. Companies have gotten better with time to manage this new form of working. Adoption of tech tools to manage timelines and work allocations have helped retain and, in some cases, increase the levels of efficiency in the employees. For us at iScuela it's basically helping our team to achieve work life balance. As we work to help children become curious and transform them into lifelong learners, our team needs to always be at their creative best. We believe we can only achieve that if our team gets ample opportunity to focus on learning new things apart from work. When our teams are working from home, we encourage them to pick up something new even if it's reading a book or writing a journal. Pandemic has already taken a lot away from people's lives".According to Rakesh Saraf, Founder and Director, Windsor Digital, "Digital Marketing has been a blessing for most businesses through online advertising during the pandemic. For us, managing the workforce and making sure they have everything they need to work smoothly has been a priority. The right tools and platforms as well as regular team interactions helps them do great work for our clients ".Chandresh Sharma, CEO, Techpanion said,"Covid-19 has unparalleled human challenges that are proportionally affecting the companies and their employees. Many organisations are acting swiftly to safeguard employees, leading to the migration of employees to a new workplace. A modern business is centered around its employee experience, as this inevitably leads to a more successful, profitable, and productive organisation, making sure no stone is left unturned in bringing out the best of their potential. To ensure this, we actively participate in engaging and shortlisting the learning programmes as per our employee's capabilities and needs. Not only this, but we also aim for a virtually-flexible work environment, i.e Work from Anywhere! Post-Covid, we now know how a remote working environment feels like, hence it is easier to allow our employees to customise their schedules based on the other priorities in their life!"Sumit Gupta, Founder, Whizard API said, "We live in a fast-paced world where our professional and personal lives are often rushed and mashed together in a blur of activity. We have a chatbot solution, for businesses to operate in a much more effective way by increasing brand awareness, tracking leads, gaining customer loyalty, and providing a seamless communication experience, all on a recognized messaging platform. In this unprecedented time when face-to-face interaction is not the best way to connect, make it convenient for businesses to cater to the demands of people via instant replies, alerts and notifications, regular reminders, 24×7 services, and information regarding new offers and deals. Therefore, keeping the current scenario in mind we are looking forward to making people understand the use and benefits of an official WhatsApp Business API integration."Amid this new trend it is however, heartening to see managements and HR heads sparing a thought for work-life balance. "The companies need to strike a fine balance between giving their employees work, making them accountable and also not expect them to be working 24x7 just because they are working from home. Companies need to focus on the work life balance of their employees which will help in maintaining good mental health which will undeniably increase efficiency and productivity," says Bajwa.Kriti Aggarwal, Co-Founder & CPO, StoreHippo said, "Work-life balance is a tightrope walk for most of us. The change in workforce dynamics and increasing competition among companies are threatening the security of a job for employees. Our ultimate goal is to create a flexible and motivating work environment - where employees feel trusted and valued. However, the yellow alert presently has got employees worried and in a critical mental state, so they must be provided with a flexible as well as virtual working environment along with an active learning experience for a better quality of work and results.""In a nutshell, it all boils down to trusting employees on their commitment, empowering them and evaluating them on deliverables as opposed to micromanagement and judging them on time spent in office. Organisations that have managed to build processes based on trust, decision making that includes employees, empowers them have been able to leverage work from home well and continue to do so", sums up Sonica Aron.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/how-india-inc-is-making-new-normal-of-remote-teams-work-365322
30-01-2022||---||Pargat, Henry, Kalia among 28 file nominations in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, January 29As many as 28 candidates on Saturday filed their nomination papers from the nine Assembly segments in Jalandhar district. These included six from Jalandhar Cantonment, five from Phillaur, four each from Shahkot and Jalandhar North, two each from Kartarpur, Nakodar, Adampur and Jalandhar Central and one from Jalandhar West.Those who filed their nominations from Phillaur constituency were Mulkh Raj from Peoples Party of India (Democratic), Raunki Ram from Nationalist Justice Party, Prem Kumar and Kulwinder Kumari from Aam Aadmi Party, Surjit Singh from Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar).In Nakodar, Harpreet Singh from Bahujan Samaj Party (Ambedkar) and Dilbagh Singh from Bhartiya Janjagriti Party filed the nominations. Similarly, Ratan Singh and Ranjit Kaur from Aam Aadmi Party, Sulakhan Singh and Paramjit Singh from Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) the filed nominations in the Shahkot assembly constituency.\Likewise, Balkar Singh and Harpreet Kaur from Aam Aadmi Party filed their papers in Kartarpur. In Jalandhar Central, Manoranjan Kalia from the Bharatiya Janata Party and Raman Arora from Aam Aadmi Party submitted nominations. Neelam from Begumpura Sanjha Front filed nominations in Jalandhar West constituency.In Jalandhar North, Kuldeep Singh Lubana and Baljinder Kaur from Bahujan Samaj Party, Avtar Singh Henry and Harseerat Kaur from the Congress filed nominations. Pargat Singh Powar and Barinderpreet Powar from the Congress, Gurmukh Singh from Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar), Surinder Singh Shokar and Rajvarinder Kaur from Aam Aadmi Party and Satnam Singh filed nomination as an Independent in Jalandhar Cantt constituency. Jit Lal Bhatti and Manoj Kumar Bhatti filed nominations from Aam Aadmi Party in Adampur constituency.Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Ghanshyam Thori said as many as 46 nominations had been filed so far. He said that Tuesday would be the last day for filing of nominations while no nomination would be received on Sunday. The scrutiny will be held on February 2, said the Deputy Commissioner, adding that the papers could be withdrawn on February 4.17 file nominations in KapurthalaAs many as 17 candidates filed their nomination papers in the district on Saturday. Nine nominations were filed on Friday and a total of 26 nominations had been filed till today in four assembly segments in the district. Incumbent MLA of Sultanpur Lodhi Navtej Singh Cheema, SAD candidate from Sultanpur Lodhi Harminder Singh, Kapurthala BJP candidate Ranjit Singh Khojewal and Bholath AAP candidate Ranjit Singh Rana among others filed their nominations.In the Bholath assembly segment, AAP candidate Ranjit Singh Rana filed the nominations (Harsimran Singh was his covering candidate).In the Kapurthala assembly constituency, BJP candidate Ranjit Singh Khojewal filed his nominations. Gursharanjeet Kaur Deol acted as his covering candidate. Khojewal was accompanied by district BJP president Rajesh Passi, BJP district general secretary Advocate Chander Shekhar, and senior BJP leaders Sham Sunder and Kuldip Singh Deol.In Phagwara, BSP candidate Jasvir Singh filed his nomination papers. Congress MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal also filed his nominations from Phagwara and Kamalpreet Singh was his covering candidate.In Sultanpur Lodhi assembly constituency, incumbent MLA Navtej Singh Cheema filed the nominations and Jaspal Kaur served as his covering candidate. Harminder Singh from the SAD also filed nominations from Sultanpur Lodhi. Karanveer Singh acted as his covering candidate.11 file papers in Hoshiarpur Hoshiarpur: Eleven candidates came forward on the fourth day of filing nominations for the Assembly elections. District Electoral Officer Apneet Riyait said till Friday, 18 candidates had filed nominations and with Saturday’s addition, the total number of nominations filed so far in the district has become 29. She said nominations could be filed till 3 pm on February 1. The papers would not be received on January 30 as it is a holiday. Those who filed their papers on Saturday are AAP’s Gurdhian Singh and Prabhjot Kaur for Mukerian; for Shamchurasi, AAP’s Ravjot Singh and Gurnam Singh and Mahinder Singh from BSP filed papers; for Hoshiarpur, Virinder Singh from BSP, Naresh Saggar and Sandeepani Saggar from Sarv Saanjhi Party and Om Prakash Jakhu from Democratic Party filed their papers. Davinder Kumar from Samaj Bhalai Morcha (Azad) filed nominations for Chabewal and Nimisha Mehta on behalf of Bharatiya Janata Party for Garhshankar also filed their nominations. No papers were received for Dasuya and Urmar on Saturday. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pargat-henry-kalia-among-28-file-nominations-in-district-365423
30-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||2 Punjab Lok Congress candidates from Doaba return tickets||Jalandhar, January 29Days after the Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) led by former CM Capt Amarinder Singh announced the ticket for hockey Olympian and Arjuna awardee Ajitpal Singh (74) from the Nakodar seat, the party on Saturday gave it to another candidate as he reportedly refused to contest citing personal reasons.The PLC announced the ticket for former Punjab Police officer Shammi Kumar Kalyan. Shammi Kumar, who belongs to the Jyoti Nagar area in the city, had served as SP (Headquarters). He retired from the service two years ago. He said, “I had been in touch with the BJP leaders and Capt Amarinder Singh for quite some time. I am happy that they have chosen me to contest this time.”Ajitpal Singh, who has lived in Delhi since he retired from the BSF, did not turn up in the constituency even for a day. He conveyed it to the party that he could not contest after which the decision to field Shammi Kumar was taken. The PLC selected a hockey stick as its symbol, the buzz was that Ajitpal refused to hold the Capt’s hockey.Another PLC candidate Satvir Palli Jhikki, who was fielded as a candidate from Nawanshahr and appointed the party’s district chief, has refused to contest from the seat. Jhikki, who is reportedly also in the fray to get Nawanshahr ticket from the Congress, has been a Congress worker for the past few decades. He did not get along well with MLA Angad Saini.Since there are reports that Saini could be denied ticket as his name did not figure even in the second list, Jhikki feels that he stands a good chance to be the Congress candidate — a desire that he has been nurturing for the past nearly 10 years.The local BJP leaders, who wanted a ticket from the seat, had also refused to support Jhikki and had demanded that the seat should remain with the saffron party. PLC has an alliance with the BJP and SAD (Sanyukt) for the Assembly poll.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-punjab-lok-congress-candidates-from-doaba-return-tickets-365424
30-01-2022||By Ashok Kaura||Constituency watch: Nakodar||Nakodar is popularly known as the land of saints, as it houses popular deras, including those of Baba Murad Shah and Dera Lal Badshah. A majority of the houses here have youth settled abroad, especially in Canada. Lack of job opportunities, potholed roads, lack of sanitation facilities, traffic chaos have marred semi-rural areas. A triangular contest could be witnessed among the Congress, AAP and SAD-BSP in Nakodar. Here are the main candidates...Dr Navjot Singh DahiyaParty: CongressAge: 53 yearsQualification: MCh OrthopaedicsBackground: Dr Dahiya is a renowned orthopaedician and runs private hospitals. He is also the national vice-president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). He is a member of the PPCC campaign committee. He was recently appointed chairman, General Categories Commission, Government of Punjab. Earlier also, he has served as the spokesperson of PPCC.Priorities:1. Better health and education2. Corruption-free environment3. Modernisation of farmingInderjit Kaur MaanParty: Aam Aadmi PartyAge: 53 yearsQualification: GraduateBackground: Inderjit Kaur Maan started her political career as a block samiti member in 2002 and later remained the sarpanch of Bir Pind till 2019 end. As a sarpanch, she has organised various campaigns to improve female sex ratio and promote tree plantation.Priorities:1. Beautifying entry points in Nakodar2. Installing traffic lights in Nakodar town3. To set up ring road around BilgaGurpartap Singh WadalaParty: SADAge: 59 yearsQualification: BEEBackground: Son of Akali stalwart Kuldip Singh Wadala, who led the campaign for the opening of Kartarpur corridor, he started his political career as Wadala village sarpanch and was elected the block samiti member. Then, he was appointed as the YAD general secretary. He contested his first Assembly election from Nakodar in 2012 and got re-elected in 2017.Priorities:1. Setting up industry in Nakodar2. Making Nakodar a sports hub3. Revamping rural roads Mandip Singh SamraParty: Sanyukt Samaj MorchaAge: 45 yearsQualification: Class XIIBackground: He is a resident of Samra village and a renowned farmer and district president of Bhartiya Kisan Union. He is the choice of farmers for Nakodar seat. He starts his door-to-door campaign in the wee hours and many youngsters are seen supporting him.Priorities:1. Develop farming2. Corruption-free system3. To improve medical and education infrastructure SHAMMI KALYANParty: Punjab Lok CongressAge: 63 yearsQualification: MA (History)Background: In a sudden change in the list of Punjab Lok Congress, a retired police officer AIG Shammi Kalyan (retd) will be the candidate of PLC from Nakodar now in place of hockey Olympian Ajit Pal Singh. Kalyan retired as AIG from the Punjab Police Academy Phillaur three years ago.Priorities:1. Corruption-free system2. To provide better education and health facilities3. To prevent youngsters from migrating abroadADC visits SDM office in NakodarNakodar: Additional Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, Amarjit Singh Bains, PCS, on Saturday visited the SDM office, Nakodar, to take stock of the preparations of the election in the assembly constituency. Nakodar SDM Poonam Singh apprised him of various teams that had been put on election duty. The SDM also apprised the ADC of various preparations made for the smooth conduct of the election. Bains put his signature in the signature campaign being initiated in the assembly constituency to strengthen democracy. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/constituency-watch-nakodar-365425
30-01-2022||---||Nawanshahr district leads state with highest voter enrolment||Nawanshahr, January 29Punjab Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Dr S Karuna Raju has applauded the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar administration for maximum enrolment of young voters (aged 18-19) in the state.In a virtual programme held to celebrate 12th National Voters’ Day here, Dr S Karuna Raju appreciated the administration led by Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal for leading the state with maximum 45 per cent enrolment of young voters followed by Sri Muktsar Sahib with 43 per cent and Hoshiarpur with 42 per cent.Presiding over a district-level event at the District Administrative Complex, the Deputy Commissioner said the theme for this year’s National Voters’ Day was ‘Making elections inclusive, accessible and participative’ during the election.He called upon the voters to participate in the election as their active involvement would strengthen democracy. He said focus was being laid on sensitising the people, especially the youngsters to exercising their franchise.He categorically said strengthening democracy at the grassroots level was a difficult task and the youth must contribute significantly towards this national service by participating in large numbers.The DC said observing National Voters’ Day had its own significance as it assured more participation of young voters in the democratic process. He said the ECI was actually acting as a custodian of the democratic rights of every citizen of the country.On the occasion, he felicitated officers and employees, including Balachaur SDM Deepak Rohilla, SVEEP nodal officer Satnam Singh, Deputy DEO Amrik Singh, principal Surinder Kumar Agnihotri, Assistant Horticulture Director Jagdish Singh, Hardeep Kaur, Rajni Bala, Amit Singh Saini, Ranjeet Singh, Ajit Singh, Rakesh Kumar, Narinder Singh Rana, Kulbir Singh Negi, Jaspal Singh Gidha, Kashmir Singh Sanava and Preeti Mahant, for their meritorious services towards voter awareness and three first-time voters. He also administered an oath to all the participants during the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-dist-leads-state-with-highest-voter-enrolment-365426
30-01-2022||---||Jalandhar district reports 211 cases, three deaths||Jalandhar, January 29As many as 211 new cases of Covid were reported from Jalandhar today. With this, the Covid tally in Jalandhar has reached 76,260 cases. There is also no let up in the deaths being reported in Jalandhar. With as many as 3 deaths in the district, the district deceased tally reached to 1548 today.As many as 72,298 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar have reached 2414 today. Of the 19,93,627 samples collected in the district, so far, 18,34,065 samples have testedKapurthala district reports 104 casesThe Kapurthala district reported 104 new cases of Corona today. The Kapurthala district tally reached 23,125 today. No new death was reported in Kapurthala today.One succumbs to virus in HoshiarpurThe district reported 277 new cases of Covid, taking the tally to 39,254 on Saturday. The district also reported one new death. The toll in Hoshiarpur has now reached 1,039. The deceased was a 65-year-old female of Possi block, who died at Raja Hospital Nawanshahr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-211-cases-three-deaths-365427
30-01-2022||---||1.46-lakh kg lahan, working stills destroyed in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, January 29In a special drive being run jointly by the Excise Department and the district police, teams of the departments seized 1,46,640 kg of lahan during raids conducted in border areas of Himachal Pradesh near Mukerian and mand area along the Beas on Friday evening.The seized lahan was destroyed on the spot. Besides, 10 running stills, 10 boilers, 41 plastic cans, three iron drums and three big tarpaulins were seized. The officials also impounded the nine vehicles, four cars and five motorcycles, used by smugglers.Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Apneet Riyait said in view of the Vidhan Sabha elections, a joint operation was carried out by the Excise Department, Hoshiarpur police and Kangra police of Himachal Pradesh under the leadership of Hoshiarpur SSP Dhruman H Nimbale in areas which share borders with Himachal near Mukerian. In this regard, Mukerian police have registered a case against 10 accused under the Excise Act.During the raid, areas were intensively monitored with the help of drone cameras, during which large deposits of lahan were detected. During this, around 1,40,000 kg of lahan, 10 running still with 10 boilers, 40 plastic cans, five motorcycles and four cars were seized.Continuing the operation on Saturday morning, raids were conducted in the mand area of Gandhowal and Miyani villages. During the raid, 6,640 kg of lahan was destroyed while three big tarpaulins, one plastic can and three iron drums were recovered in which lahan was stored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-46-lakh-kg-lahan-working-stills-destroyed-in-hoshiarpur-365428
30-01-2022||---||Coffee table book highlights panoramic views of Punjab||Jalandhar, January 29A coffee table book titled ‘Sadda Sohna Punjab’ authored by Chairman Punjab Info-tech and nature artist Harpreet Sandhu, depicting the mesmerising unseen nature locations of Punjab was released here on Saturday.The book highlights the serene nature of Punjab.“My book will help nature lovers of not only Punjab but also people from across the world to get closer to the nature and to witness the mesmerising locations, get panoramic views of densely populated green forests and rivers whirring with sparkling flow, said Sandhu.This Coffee Table book has been acknowledged and carries valuable messages from Banwari Lal Purohit, Governor of Punjab, Lokpal Punjab Justice Vinod K Sharma, former Prime Minister of India Dr Manmohan Singh, Chancellor Central University of Punjab Dr SS Johl and several eminent intellectuals of the nation, who all have described the 133-page book as a step to be of immense interest for projecting tourism prospects of Punjab.The book amalgamates the philosophy of Guru Nanak which emphasises that the Almighty prevails in his whole creation, “Air is our Guru, water is our father and the Earth is our mother” and thus will inspire people of Punjab to look at nature as divine presence of the creator and to have loving relation with it.Sandhu has thanked Padma Shri Dr Surjit Patar for providing guidance in completing the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/coffee-table-book-highlights-panoramic-views-of-punjab-365429
30-01-2022||Jalandhar||Webinar dwells on cyber security||The Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Design and Automation at GNA University organised an international webinar on current challenges in the field of cyber Security.The keynote speaker of the webinar was Dr Ioan-Cosmin MIHAI, Cyber Security Officer, Romania. Iaon- Cosmin MIHAI is a researcher, professor, trainer and conference speaker with an experience of more than 15 years in cyber crime and cyber security. Dr Anurag Sharma, Professor and Head (CSE), welcomed the keynote speaker and participants. Dr Cosmin explained the important issues of cyber security such as principles of cyber security, risks, assets, threats, and vulnerabilities in system/network. The speaker also talked about online transaction security, email account security, social media advantages and disadvantages. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-dwells-on-cyber-security-365431
30-01-2022||---||Announce Channi as next CM face, says Youth Congress||Jalandhar, January 29Two days after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hinted at announcing the Chief Minister’s (CM) face in the state shortly before the Assembly elections, the Youth Congress workers in the district today recommended CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s name as the next CM face in Punjab.A major factor being seen behind the move is that the Congress in Doaba is likely to see a big boost if the incumbent Dalit CM is projected as the face for the next government too.Amid deadlock over the Chief Ministerial face of the Congress in Punjab, the Youth Congress leaders, in a written letter to Gandhi, appealed to take into consideration incumbent Channi as the next CM face of the party in the upcoming elections.While Rahul Gandhi declared to reveal the CM face in Punjab after obtaining feedback from the party workers, at a virtual election rally in Jalandhar Cantt on Thursday, Angad Dutta, district youth Congress leader projected Channi as the potential CM candidate, to lead the state. Dutta said people had liked the working style of Channi in his 111 days of tenure. A large number of youth Congress workers signed the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/announce-channi-as-next-cm-face-says-youth-congress-365432
30-01-2022||Phagwara||Get to know what's on your plate||GNA University organised an E-webinar on the most basic and vital essence of the palate and the food industry i.e. Sauces & Gravies. Chef Jaswinder, Assistant Professor, Punjab University, Chandigarh was the resource person of the webinar.The event was coordinated by Chef Sonu Katnoriya with the support of the entire FOH department headed by Chef Dhiraj Pathak. The motive of the webinar was not just limited to disseminating knowledge and also to add to new learning and experience on the ingredients on our plate. Indian cuisines use various gravies such as tomato-based, cashew nut with varying spice combinations. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/get-to-know-whats-on-your-plate-365433
30-01-2022||Jalandhar||'Sustainability way forward to safeguard generations'||Pushpa Gujral Science City organised an orientation meet on ‘Sustainable Development Goals - Attitude, Skill and Knowledge (SDG-ASK)’ in collaboration with UNDP SDG Coordination Centre in digital mode.Around 100 principals and teachers from different institutions of Punjab participated in the event. The programme was inaugurated by Vikas Verma, Regional Head –North India, UNDP. In his inaugural address, he spoke on ‘SDGs 2030: Punjab Status and Opportunities’. During his talk, he said Sustainable Development Goals and UN’s Sustainability Agenda 2030 provided a global framework for addressing the most urgent social, environmental and development challenges and said that it gives us hope for future. It focuses on ‘whole of government’ and ‘whole of people approach’.Covid has shown us that SDGs are the way forward if we want to safeguard our future generations. He said Punjab has been consistently improving its performance as per NITI Aayog’s SDG index and youth and students of the state will have a crucial role in maintaining and improving this performance. He congratulated PGSC for the innovative and timely programme which will run through 2022.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General Science City, during her introductory remarks, said, sustainable development was critical for the future of the earth and its people. Our world today faces numerous challenges and the 17 SDGs are ambitious objectives to be achieved by 2030 for a greener, healthier, more peaceful, and equal planet, agreed to by all governments. She further said Science City was setting up SDG Clubs in select government and private schools and has planned yearlong activities for students focusing on SDG. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sustainability-way-forward-to-safeguard-generations-365434
30-01-2022||Jalandhar||Fancy frolics contest||Indian Newspaper Day celebratedKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated the Indian Newspaper Day. On this occasion, activities such as news writing, poster making and article writing were organised here. Students participated actively in these activities by making beautiful posters on various topics such as freedom of press, role and importance of linguistic newspapers, women empowerment and media, importance of press in nation building etc. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi, while addressing on this occasion, explained the role of press in nation building, democracy and social uplift. She averred that such events were helpful for students to understand the importance of the subject. The principal lauded the efforts made by the PG Department of Journalism and Mass Communication for organising this successful event.Industry conferenceMittal School of Business at Lovely Professional University organised a one-day online international conference on the present-day fifth industrial revolution comprising a score of legendary speakers from 16+ countries. The theme of the conference was “Industry 5.0: Human Touch, Innovation and Efficiency (IHTIE)”. Speakers were from top industries and institutions of the USA, UK, Australia, South Africa, Middle East, The Czech Republic, Malawi, Poland, Bangladesh and more. The conference was in line with Strategic Human Resource Management (SHRM) for vouchsafing “better workplaces; better world.” Session wise, it held many key note addresses, master class, panel discussions and technical sessions. These covered the effect of Industry 5.0 across all functional areas like marketing, finance, HR, Operations; and, specific applications such as intelligent healthcare, cloud manufacturing, supply chain management and more. The keynote address was made by Director (Snapdeal) K Ullas Kamath.University toppersStudents of MA English final year of the PG Department of English of Apeejay College of Fine Arts added another shining feather in the glorious cap of college by bagging top covetous university positions. It was a proud moment for college when Riya and Pallak Saini scored 1137 and 1129 marks out of 1600 and ranked first and second positions in university examinations respectively. Dr Sunit Kaur, Head Department of English said, “Ever since MA English was introduced at ACFA, our students have been bagging coveted university positions year after year.” She added we ensure optimum career enhancement of our students. Riya would now be leaving for UK to join a prestigious University of Bristol for further studies in English literature and Pallak Saini has been recruited as a lecturer in Department of English at Apeejay itself.NSS students celebrate Republic DayThe department of NSS, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, celebrated the 73rd Republic Day, under the guidance of Principal Dr Navjot. Poster-making and face-painting competitions were organised on this occasion in which the NSS volunteers and the students participated in full swing. Principal Dr. Navjot congratulated the NSS officers Manita, Manjeet Kaur and Aatma Singh for organising the event.Challenges in cyber securityThe Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Design and Automation at GNA University organised an international webinar on current challenges in the field of cyber security. The keynote speaker of the webinar was Dr Ioan, Cosmin MIHAI, Cyber Security Officer, Romania. He is a researcher, professor, trainer and conference speaker with an experience of more than 15 years in cyber crime and cyber security. Dr Anurag Sharma, professor and head, CSE, welcomed the keynote speaker and participants. Dr Cosmin explained the important issues of Cyber Security like principles of cyber security, risks, assets, threats, and vulnerabilities in system/network. The speaker also spoke about online transaction security, email account security, social media advantages and disadvantages. He further discussed about importance of law knowledge, scope of cyber-crime, Ransomeware attack, lottery frauds, job frauds, Aadhaar Card, OTP frauds, bonus point frauds, online ticket frauds and various online frauds. The question-answer session was conducted at the end where the participants asked various questions related to the security aspects in day to day life related online activities. Gurdeep Singh Sihra, pro-chancellor, GNA University, congratulated the department for organising such skill based webinars which enhance the technical skills of students and faculty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fancy-frolics-contest-365436
30-01-2022||Nurmahal||Hit by jeep, biker dies in Nurmahal||Goods stolen from schoolShahkot: Shahkot police have booked unidentified persons on the charge of stealing materials from a government school. Manisha Ranni, head teacher of Government Alimentary School, Raibwal Dona village, on Friday lodged a complaint with the police that unidentified persons barged into the school office and decamped with a computer set, school records and biometric attendance machine. Investigating officer and Malsian police post in-charge Gurdev Singh said a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC has been registered against unidentified accused. OC1 held for posting obscene videoHoshiarpur: The Chabbewal police arrested a youth for allegedly raping a girl and uploading her video on social media a year ago. SHO Harprem Singh said a girl complained that Vishal Chaudhary allegedly raped her and made her obscene video. He kept blackmailing her and later uploaded it on social media. The police have registered a case under various sections of the IPC and IT Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hit-by-jeep-biker-dies-in-nurmahal-365437
