01-05-2020||India||In highest single-day spike, India records 2,364 cases, more than 1,000 in Maharashtra||India recorded the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections with 2,364 cases on Friday, the first time the country has reported more than 2,000 daily cases of the disease that first showed up in Kerala more than three months ago. Almost half of Friday’s caseload came from Maharashtra, which reported 1,008 cases. This is also the first time that the state, which has been pummelled by the contagion, has reported more than 1,000 cases.The previous highest daily count was 1,907 cases that was reported on April 28, also the day India crossed 30,000 Covid-19 cases. Despite the rise, the government continued to express confidence in strict containment measures and said it had sufficient supplies of medical equipment, drugs and ventilators to tackle any surge in demand.An analysis by HT showed that the country averaged a daily number of 1,836 new cases every day in the past seven days, up from 1436 the week before. After Maharashtra, which has the highest share of infections in the country, the biggest chunks of cases came from Gujarat (326) and Delhi (223). The total cases in India stood at 37,259, the number of deaths at 1,221 and the number of those recovered at 9,874.Despite the steady rise in the number of cases, the doubling rate – the number of days it takes for a given number of infections to double – has been steadily rising, a sign that the government has been able to contain the rapid spread of the disease. It stood at 11.7 days on Thursday, up from around four at the beginning of the month.But on Friday, the doubling rate slightly decreased to 11.5 days – the first time since April 5 that the number has gone down.In Maharashtra, the state capital of Mumbai recorded 751 cases – the highest one-day jump for the city that accounts for roughly two-thirds of all infections in the state. The total number of cases for the city stands at 7,812 and that for the state is at 11,506.State government officials said 399 of the 1,008 positives were from tests conducted between April 25 and 28, and were added to Friday’s tally after verification.While 106 patients were discharged on Friday upon recovery, 26 patients died, the Maharashtra health department said.The death toll reached 485 and number of discharged patients was 1,879, officials added.Ten deaths were recorded in Pune city, five in Mumbai, three is Jalgaon district and one each Pune district, Sindhudurg, Bhiwandi, Thane, Nanded, Aurangabad and Parbhani during the day. Besides, a resident of Uttar Pradesh died in Mumbai during treatment for virus infection. 15 of 26 patients who died had high-risk comorbidities (existing health issues), the statement said.Globally, the total number of cases topped 3.36 million, almost a third of which are from the United States. The US recorded 16,500 daily cases as of Friday night, followed by Spain at 3,648 and Italy at 1,965. The total number of cases in the three countries stand at 1,111,510, 242,988 and 207,428, respectively.(with inputs from agencies and HTC, Mumbai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-2-364-cases-in-a-day-more-than-1k-in-maha/story-AMpiOGrqOKLh0qjwXQxsmM.html
01-05-2020||India||Influenza pandemics may hold clue for Covid outbreak||Scientists at the Centre for Infectious Disease Research and Policy in the United States have offered some clues about how the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic may evolve based on the experience and trajectories of previous influenza pandemics, four of which occurred in the last century.The analysis, which maps out three distinct trajectories the Covid-19 outbreak can take, focuses on the northern hemisphere and developed countries but cautions that the impact in the so-called global south or developing countries could be worse, given the high population density and inadequate health infrastructure.The scientists posited two key takeaways from comparisons with the influenza pandemics. The first that the outbreak may stretch to 18-24 months as immunity slowly builds up in the population. “Given the transmissibility of SARS-CoV-2 [that causes Covid-19], 60% to 70% of the population may need to be immune to reach a critical threshold of herd immunity to halt the pandemic,” the report said.The other takeaway summarized three possible trajectories for the pandemic. The first of these sees the first wave of Covid-19 in spring 2020 and followed by smaller waves of the disease over the next year before finally diminishing in 2021. “Depending on the height of the wave peaks, this scenario could require periodic reinstitution and subsequent relaxation of mitigation measures over the next 1 to 2 years,” the study found.The second scenario sees a second wave follow the first wave in the fall or winter of 2021 and smaller subsequent waves in 2021. “This pattern will require the reinstitution of mitigation measures in the fall,” the study said. This pattern is similar to the 1918-19 influenza pandemicThe third scenario showed the first wave of Covid-19 in spring 2020 followed by a “slow burn” of ongoing transmission and case occurrence but without a clear peak.“Whichever scenario the pandemic follows, we must be prepared for at least another 18 to 24 months of significant Covid-19 activity, with hot spots popping up periodically in diverse geographic areas. As the pandemic wanes, it is likely that SARS-CoV-2 will continue to circulate in the human population and will synchronize to a seasonal pattern with diminished severity over time,” the scientists wrote.The study cautioned that while the Covid-19 and influenza pandemics had similarities, there were important differences.Both diseases are caused by viruses that are spread predominantly via the respiratory and aerosol route and to which human beings have no pre-existing immunity. Both diseases see asymptomatic transmissions and are capable of rapid infections.The two pathogens differed in the incubation period (2-14 days for Sars-CoV-2 and 1-4 days for influenza), the percentage of asymptomatic patients (higher for Sars-Cov-2), and significant pre-symptomatic transmission of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/influenza-pandemics-may-hold-clue-for-covid-outbreak/story-wIHg6m3vmtEhUekaXopcaI.html
01-05-2020||India||India to sequence 1,000 genomes to understand Covid-19 virus||The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) has undertaken a project to sequence 1,000 SARS-CoV-2 genomes from samples to understand the evolving behaviour of the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The samples will be collected from across India to study the emerging mutations in the virus and how they change the symptoms of the infections disease that has killed at least 235,000 people across the world.“The project started out as a consortium of DBT institutes, but now a couple of other nationally reputed institutes have also come forward. The objective is to have as much genomic data in one place as possible. We will not limit it to 1,000 but can do as many as possible. This data on the virus and its interaction in the Indian population will feed into other DBT and government programmes working to develop diagnostics, vaccines and therapeutics,” said Dr Suchita Ninawe, senior scientist with DBT.The analysis of the data will also help the researchers understand how genetic variations in the human host relate to the severity and transmissibility of the infection and the susceptibility to it.“This is essentially a pan-Indian consortium on Covid-19 genomics. What we are trying to do is collect sequences from different regions of India. This will help us track the virus and how it has evolved across India. What we are trying to see is the differences in the viral RNA sequence of the virus circulating in different zones of India,” said Dr Saumitra Das, director, National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG) in Kalyani, West Bengal.The institute has already sequenced about five Sars-CoV-2 genomes.The study will be coordinated by NIBMG along with the primary partners Centre for DNA Fingerprinting And Diagnostics – Hyderabad, Institute of Life Sciences – Bhubaneswar, National Centre for Cell Science – Pune, Institute For Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine – Bengaluru. Other DBT laboratories will also contribute in sample collection and sequencing from across the country. The Indian Institute of Sciences is also likely to join the project.Apart from the primary centres, 10 other DBT institutes will help in the project.“Apart from that, we will also be able to correlate the sequence variation to the disease severity and the transmission efficiency of the virus. This will have to be validated in cell culture models to understand whether the mutations change the functions of the virus. Second thing is to understand how will the same virus impact people living in different zones, meaning what is the role of the genetic makeup of the human host,” said Dr Das.According to researchers, the methodology is already in place and the sequencing of the 1,000 genomes should take about two months. “The major hurdle right now is the availability of these sequencing kits because of the global lockdowns. The sequencing of 1,000 genomes should take about two months, but it will take longer to analyse the data coming in from various laboratories across the country,” said Dr Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-sequence-1-000-genomes-to-understand-covid-19-virus/story-QwV3xAIkQJAlpXm6kCZKjO.html
01-05-2020||India||India must consider ways to get access to remdesivir: Nirmal K Ganguly||The antiviral drug, remdesivir, emerged as the first successful treatment against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after a US government-funded trial on 1,063 people found it could effectively block the virus and boost recovery. “The data shows remdesivir has a clear-cut, significant, positive effect in diminishing the time to recovery,” said US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) director Dr Anthony Fauci, who likened the finding to the first retrovirals that worked with modest success against HIV in the 1980s.The US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) is expected to announce an emergency-use authorization for use of remdesivir to treat patients.Remdesivir is an experimental antiviral drug developed by the US-based pharma major Gilead Sciences. It failed in trials against the Ebola virus and was found to have limited effects among patients in Wuhan, China, where the illness was first detected last year.Dr Nirmal K Ganguly, emeritus scientist and former director general of Indian Council of Medical Research, has gone through the findings of the soon to be published NIAID trial. He spoke to Sanchita Sharma over the phone on what these finding means for India.Remdesivir has failed several trials in the past. How effective is it against Covid-19?The world finally has a drug against Covid-19, but it will not be a public health tool as it has to be given intravenously to hospitalized patients to hasten recovery.The drug was originally created as a pan-viral drug to treat RNA viruses, Marburg and Ebola, but it was not successful. In later trials, it has also been investigated for action against all coronaviruses, including those that cause Sars [Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome], Mers (Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome), and now Covid-19 as well as it worked against animal coronaviruses. It was found to be clinically fulfilling Lipinski’s Rule [which give the probability of the success of a drug] and was found to work on viral replication in respiratory epithelial cells, which are the first target of infection. It does not promote mutation.The NIAID study has confirmed its effectiveness in hastening recovery, and Gilead now plans to expand trials to include 5,600 patients in seven countries. India does not figure in the list.However, it was not licensed in any country in the world. The USFDA has now recommended its use as an emergency drug. A small study done by Dr Aruna Subramanian, a clinical professor of medicine and infectious diseases at Stanford University School of Medicine in California, also found 50% patients given 5 mg of the drug improved in 10 days, and 60.6% were discharged in 14 days.If remdesivir gets the USFDA nod, will India consider using it to treat Covid-19 patients?Results from the NIAID preliminary trial show remdesivir reduced recovery time for Covid-19 patients from 15 to 11 days, which is similar to the effect that influenza drugs like Tamiflu, which don’t cure patients quickly, but help them recover.The NIAID trial used the drug for five days and 10 days in patients with pneumonia who needed oxygen, but did not need ventilator support at that given moment. The impact on death give a trend of 4% advantage, but this result was not statistically significant, the trend was visible.The first dose was 200 mg, followed 100 mg a day, give intravenously to hospitalised patients, with one group given the drug for five days and the other for 10 days. A significant number of patients given remdesivir did not have to go on ventilator support, and at least 30% fewer patients needed ventilation. There was clear advantage of reduction in hospital stay, with patients given the drug being discharged in 10-14 days. Five days of therapy was as effective as 10 days, which is a critical advantage in terms of reducing hospital stay, cost of medication and risk of severe adverse events [side effects]. Should India consider using remdesivir to treat patients?Gilead Sciences is reported to have drugs to treat 1.2 lakh patients, and now plans to expand trials to many countries, excluding India. Available data shows it is one of the foremost potential drugs against the disease, and since the supply is limited, according to Gilead, India must plan to get access remdesivir.In this emergency situation, the USFDA has announced emergency use authorisation. India must consider ways to make this drug available to its population. In the past, India saved millions by providing affordable and effective anti-retroviral drugs to treat HIV and AIDS, not just to its own population, but also to other countries who needed them, including to many countries in Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-must-consider-ways-to-get-access-to-remdesivir-nirmal-k-ganguly/story-aFjSJwEpEeudDzZWLfsrcK.html
01-05-2020||India||8 housing colonies reopened in Ghaziabad, downgraded to orange zone||The Ghaziabad district administration on Friday opened eight residential societies after no Covid-19 case was reported in 14 days there, officials said. The eight housing societies include Gyan Khand, Shipra Sun City of Indirapuram Ward No. 2, Ghaziabad Nagar Nigam; Shalimar Garden Extension-2 Sahibabad, Sector-6 Vaishali; Khatu Shyam Colony, Duhai village (Delhi-Meerut road) and Oxy Homez, Bhopura Loni Road, Sahibabad. District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey told PTI that the new set of guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs has downgraded the area from red zone to orange zone. The district has been kept in the orange zone because of its decreasing number of Covid-19 cases. In case coronavirus cases increase in future, the district would again reach the red zone and no relaxation would be provided in lockdown that has been extended for another two weeks from May 4. Meanwhile, a woman died of heart failure on Wednesday evening at a private hospital after being admitted for treatment of high blood pressure, diabetes and infection in the stomach, Chief Medical Officer Dr N K Gupta said. She was kept on ventilator support but could not be rescued. Her blood samples were sent for Covid-19 test that came out positive. The post-mortem report has confirmed that the woman had died due to heart failure, Gupta said. Till date, 66 coronavirus positive cases have been reported out of whom 44 patients have recovered, the CMO added. Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani said police will strictly deal with loiterers during the extended phase of the lockdown and also initiate legal action against them. The colony parks and public places would be observed by drones to check whether people gather there or flout social distancing norms. People found driving outside would be challaned and their vehicles seized if the owners take it out without any valid reason, the SSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-housing-colonies-reopened-in-ghaziabad-downgraded-to-orange-zone/story-KTs3kAmMH1BLpYazKSm5HI.html
01-05-2020||India||Karnataka govt issues show cause notice to IAS officer for tweet on Tablighi Jamaat members||A purported tweet in which he referred to Tablighis as “heroes” serving the country, and lashed out at their critics including those in the media has put a senior Karnataka IAS officer in trouble as the state government has sought an explanation from him for such outpourings.According to a senior official, on April 27, the officer Mohammad Mohsin had posted a tweet which attracted the attention of the top officials in the state and also received coverage in the media for its “controversial” content.“More than 300 Tablighi heroes are donating their plasma to serve the country in New Delhi only. What about it? Godi Media? They will not show you the works of humanity done by these heroes,” the senior official had tweeted.According to sources, the tweet received adverse coverage and this fact was also noted by the government.“At a time when the state government under Chief Minister Yediyurappa is leading a fight against Covid-19 by taking all sections along, it is better that officers not make remarks which are political in nature or can create disharmony,” said the senior official quoted earlier.The state government, has therefore, issued a show cause asking the officer to explain his comments on social media.The Tablighi Jamaat has been in the midst of a controversy during the Covid-19 outbreak as a gathering of its leaders in Delhi allegedly led to several people getting infected across the country.The organization has, however, claimed that it is cooperating in various ways to fight the pandemic.According to the official, Mohsin has been asked to explain in writing in within five days why his remarks should not be seen as violation of the All India Service Conduct rules. Mohsin, who is presently posted as a secretary in the Backward Classes Welfare Department was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-issues-show-cause-notice-to-ias-officer-for-tweet-on-tablighi-jamaat-members/story-WiAogvokbJYbmIhod3bgMM.html
01-05-2020||India||Labourer cycling to UP from Maharashtra dies in Madhya Pradesh||A labourer from Uttar Pradesh who had gone to Maharashtra in search of work died at village Bijasan near Sendhwa town in Madhya Pradesh while cycling home along with several others, on Thursday, said administrative officials on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Tabrat Mansoori,50, a resident of Maharajganj district in Uttar Pradesh, according to officials in Barwani district, 313 kilometres south west of Bhopal, on MP-Maharashtra border.Sub-divisional magistrate Ghanshyam Dhangar said, “The deceased was in a group of 11 persons who were on their way to Uttar Pradesh on bicycles. When they reached near Bijasan, about 16 kilometres away from Sendhwa the man felt uneasy and told his companion about his condition. However, he died on the spot.”The SDM said, “As per the post-mortem report the man died of cardiac arrest. A man in the group who is said to be from his family stayed back for administrative formalities while others left for their destination.”As per the officer, a pandal is erected at Bijasan Mata temple premises where labourers coming from Maharashtra are supposed to have rest and food and they can stay there too.Talking to media persons Ramesh Pawar, one of companions of the deceased said, “Tabrat was in Bhiwandi in search of work. The group set out for Maharajganj on April 25 on bicycles when they couldn’t get any transport. They had covered about 400 kilometres up to Madhya Pradesh but Tabrat complained about uneasiness and he died before we could reach any hospital for help.” Sendhwa police station in charge VS Parihar said, “The group of labourers performed last rites.”As per the state government’s bulletin released on Friday evening Covid-19 patients tally in Madhya Pradesh rose to 2715 with 90 more positive cases identified in the past 24 hours.Of the total positive cases, 1515 have been reported from Indore out whom 72 have died so far while Bhopal with 526 cases has had 15 deaths. In Ujjain the tally rose to 147 with 25 of them dead. Mandsaur in Malwa region saw a jump of 15 patients from 9 to 24. So far, 524 patients have recovered from the disease and discharged from hospitals across the state.As many as 32 districts in the state out of the total 52 districts have been affected by Covid.As per Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Good Governance, Bhopal’s analysis, Madhya Pradesh had 36 confirmed cases of Covid per million against the national average of 29 as per the data released on Thursday night. The test positivity rate in MP was 6.29% against India’s 3.13%. The recovery rate in MP was 18.36% as compared to 25.37% in the country and fatality rate was registered at 5.22% against 3.27% national fatality rate among Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/labourer-cycling-to-up-from-maharashtra-dies-in-madhya-pradesh/story-GHrdmYOOsZ28c9FG9gLyGP.html
01-05-2020||India||Drunk businessmen arrested for driving around in Audi during lockdown in Kolkata||Three businessmen were arrested and legal proceedings initiated against two women, who were traveling in an Audi car with CC (consular corps) number plate in Kolkata on Friday.Police said that all the men were drunk and returning from a party. They were also misusing the number plate of a consulate with forged documents. The car had earlier been contracted on hire by the South Korean consulate. The contract ended in 2019. The accused were still using the number plate.“The three persons have been identified as Bandan Agarwal, 27, Varun Hada, 33 and Manoj Agarwal, 45. While Bandan has a business dealing with manufacturing of manhole covers, Hada deals with scrap iron. Manoj has a pesticide business,” said a top official of the Kolkata Police, who didn’t wish to be named.Police said that between 12:30 am and 1 am on Friday, the car was intercepted at a check naka on Russel Street, a posh area in south Kolkata.“The men were all drunk and claimed to be returning from a party hosted by the Agarwal family. They live in the same apartment and are relatives. Hada stays barely two km away. They were going to drop Hada. Initially they claimed that the car belong to a consulate. But investigation revealed that the South Korean consulate had once contracted the car on hire. The contract had expired in 2019. Since then the CC number plate was being used illegally,” said another police officer.The accused were booked various section of the Indian Penal Code including 420 (cheating), 471 (forging documents) and 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act that relates to drunk driving. The accused were produced in the court and sent to police custody till May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drunk-businessmen-arrested-for-driving-around-in-audi-during-lockdown-in-kolkata/story-OtOcRk4RjR8cClknyHIAJO.html
01-05-2020||India||Lockdown 3.0: Aarogya Setu App made mandatory in Containment Zones, government offices||The government, on Friday, made the Aarogya Setu App mandatory for people living in the coronavirus Containment Zones inside the 130 districts identified as the Red Zones. The government considers the App to be a handy coronavirus containment tool which can be used to assess the level of risk an individual is exposed to viz a viz Covid-19 infection. The App, developed by the ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY), uses cell phone tracking technology to put individuals in low-risk, moderate and high-risk categories by tracing if the person came in contact with a virus-infected patient or a person suspected to be infected. The government notification released on May 1, which announced the extension of the national lockdown by another two weeks beginning May 4, divides the 733 districts across the country into three zones—Red, Orange and Green—based on the risk of further spread of the virus and specifies graded restrictions for each of the zones. Most restrictions apply to Red Zones that house Containment Zones or virus hotspots, which have to face the maximum restrictions including on movement outside one’s home.“The most sensitive areas of the country, from the spread of COVID-19 point of view, and falling within the Red and Orange Zones, are designated as Containment Zones. These are areas where there is a significant risk of spread of the infection.,” says the government notification.The compulsory use of Aarogya Setu application will help the authorities monitor the status of each individual in the containment zone from a distance and will allow it to take necessary and timely action including quarantining or home isolation of suspected cases, if necessary.“The local authority shall ensure 100% coverage of Aarogya Setu app among the residents of the Containment Zone,” the latest government guidelines state.It also makes it clear that the Containment Zones would see the implementation of additional surveillance protocols including contact tracing, house to house surveillance and home or institutional quarantining.“Strict perimeter control would need to be ensured, so that there is no movement of people in and out of these Zones, except for medical emergencies, and for maintaining the supply of essential goods and services. No other activity is permitted within the Containment Zones,” the latest notification says. It adds that the containment areas would be defined by respective district administrations taking into account the total number of active cases, their geographical spread, and the need for well-demarcated perimeters for the enforcement of containment measures, says the government.ALSO READ: Red Zone classification with the list of activities permitted and prohibited during Lockdown 3.0The application in Containment Zone is the second instance of the government’s use of the Aarogya Setu App as a necessary containment tool. Earlier, a news agency reported that it had instructed all government staff to download the App and check their risk status every day before reporting to work. They were advised to not report to work if the App indicates that they are in the moderate or the high-risk category.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe App will continue to play an important role in the containment efforts as all government offices will resume work from May 4 with limited manpower—up to 33% of the total strength, barring senior officials who will be required to be present in full strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-3-0-arogya-setu-app-made-mandatory-in-containment-zones-government-offices/story-Me7wOm2mLFQszDnYUFxrHP.html
01-05-2020||India||No district in northeast in red zone; 6 districts in orange zone||In what could be a relief for people in the region, no district in the northeast has been included in the red zone as per a fresh classification issued by the union health and family welfare ministry (MoHFW) on Thursday night.While three districts in Assam have been included in the orange zone, two in Tripura and one in Meghalaya are also included in the same category. All other districts in the region have been placed in the green zone.The list, which places all districts in the country in different categories based on rate of Covid-19 infections, will be valid for the week after May 3. In a letter to chief secretaries of all state union health secretary Preeti Sudan said the “list will be revised on a weekly basis or earlier”.“It is heartening to share 30 out of 33 districts (in Assam) fall under green zone as per MoHFW categorization of India’s districts. Only 3 are put under orange zone and none in red zone. This is a cause for both cheer and caution. We need to remain vigilant,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted.Five districts in the state-Golaghat, Nalbari, Dhubri, Goalpara and Morigaon-had been earlier placed in red zone. Assam had recorded 42 Covid-19 positive cases till Thursday with 1 death, 32 recoveries and 9 under treatment.Assam government had decided to place Bongaigaon district in red zone after 4 positive cases were detected on Thursday. But the district doesn’t get included in either red or orange zone in the fresh classification.“The MoHFW list was prepared prior to detection of the new cases in Bongaigaon. The district could be placed in either red or orange zone in the fresh classification,” Sarma told journalists on Friday.The MoHFW list categories districts based on number of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback. A district is placed under green zone if there are no confirmed cases are there is no reported case in last 21 days.While districts placed in red zone have to comply with lot of restrictions on movement of people and economic activities there are some relaxations for those in orange and greed categories.Two of the eight districts in Tripura-North Tripura and Gomati-have been placed in orange zone. The state had reported 2 positive Covid-19 cases, but both patients have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals.Of the 11 districts in Meghalaya, only East Khasi Hills has been placed in the orange zone. All of the 12 positive cases detected in the state till now are from Shillong, the district headquarter as well as state capital.While one positive patient in Meghalaya has died, of the 11 active cases 10 were tested negative in consecutive tests done on Thursday and Friday. The last active patient tested negative on Friday. A retest will be done on Saturday to confirm full recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-district-in-northeast-in-red-zone-6-districts-in-orange-zone/story-OD5gnYhqV6SSg9098xTMLO.html
01-05-2020||India||Maharashtra sees highest single-day spike with 1,008 new Covid-19 cases, state tally at 11,506||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 1,008 new Covid-19 cases, the state’s highest single-day spike so far, taking the coronavirus positive patients’ tally to 11,506, the state health department said.At least 26 people died across the state in the last 24 hours due to the highly infectious disease.Ten deaths occurred in Pune, 5 in Mumbai, 3 in Jalgaon, one each in Pune district, Sindhudurg, Thane, Bhiwandi, Nanded, Aurangabad and Parbhani. The death of an Uttar Pradesh resident was also recorded in Mumbai during treatment for the infection, according to health department data.The first coronavirus case from the rural belt of Maharashtra’s Amravati district was detected on Friday after a 50-year-old homemaker from Warud tested positive in a hospital in Nagpur, some 150 kilometres from Amravati, health officials said.The woman was admitted in a private hospital in Warud three days ago with cough and fever and was then shifted to the government hospital in Nagpur where her report returned positive on Friday, an official said.About 106 patients were discharged on Friday upon recovering from coronavirus. In India, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of Covid-19 positive patients closely followed by Gujarat and national capital Delhi.The death toll in the state has climbed to 485 and the total number of patients who have recovered and been discharged stands at 1,879.Fifteen of the 26 patients who died in the last 24 hours had high-risk co-morbidities (existing health issues), the statement said.To curb the further spread of the coronavirus infection, the Union government on Friday extended the nationwide lockdown for another 14 days with certain relaxations in those zones which have limited number of Covid-19 cases.The earlier lockdown was set to end this Sunday on May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sees-highest-single-day-spike-with-1-008-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-at-11-506/story-qY6I1Wwkd4dabYGlmxrT3O.html
01-05-2020||India||First time since nationwide lockdown, Kerala sees no new Covid-19 case||For the first time since the nationwide lockdown that began on March 24, not a single Covid-19 case has been reported on Friday, said Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. In his Facebook post, the CM said although it is a big relief, the state will continue its vigil in coming days.Though two districts, Kannur in north Kerala and Kottayam in central Kerala, are in red zone, the state has been showing a steady progress in last few days. On Thursday, it had reported only two cases. The CM Vijayan said out of 497 positive cases, 392 were discharged, leaving 102 people in the hospitals still recovering. The state had reported four deaths, but it is yet to include the death of a man from Mahe in the state list. Mahe falls between Kannur and Kozhikode districts, and is part of Pondicherry.The number of people under observation also came down to 21,499. “It is a good for day for the state. Besides reporting zero cases nine persons have discharged from the hospital. We hope things will improve in coming days. But it is too early to lower our guard,” said state health minister K K Shailaja.State chief secretary Tom Jose earlier in the day said the state has no plan to resume public transport. “We will go only step by step. The state’s progress is not permanent as of now. It can change any day. We have no plan to start public transport. We will go by a staggered opening,” he said. Kerala was the first state in the country to report a coronavirus case in January last, who was a China-returned medical student. Cases increased in March first week when people started returning from middle-eastern countries and Europe. At one point , the state was leading in cases but after Nizamuddin conference imbroglio, numbers in other states shot up. In terms of mortality and recovery rates, the state is showing a good progress, statistics tell. But its fingers are crossed as more than 2 lakh immigrant people from the state are expected to return after May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-time-since-nationwide-lockdown-kerala-sees-no-new-covid-19-case/story-MGdHymJQjfZPXvfIc3ZFnN.html
01-05-2020||India||With 326 cases, toll of Covid-19 cases reaches 4721 in Gujarat||On Friday, Gujarat saw 326 new cases and 22 deaths reported on Friday, the toll of affected people in the state rose to 4,721 and number of deaths reached to 236. The spurt again came from the capital city of Ahmedabad, from where 267 new cases were reported.Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health), said of total new cases, 267 were reported from Ahmedabad, 26 from Surat, 19 from Vadodra and remaining from other districts.So on Friday, the worst five affected districts of the state were Ahmedabad (3293 total cases), Surat (640), Vadodra (308), Rajkot (58) and Bhavnagar (47).“The health staff in Gujarat is on their toes 24x7 to cure the COVID-19 patients, especially those with co-morbid conditions. In such a scenario, the health experts are provided online guidance to crucially ill patients. Around 24 children, 3 pregnant women and 68 senior citizens who were critically ill due to COVID-19 have availed the benefits of tele mentoring program and recovered successfully,” Ravi said.With 49 positive cases reported from Gandhinagar and 21 from Botad district, chief minister Vijay Rupani appointed two senior secretaries, who will supervise the works and measures being taken for curbing the transmission of the virus, effective implementation and provide guidance to the district administration. Rajeevkumar Gupta, additional chief secretary (Forest and Environment) and Sanjeev Kumar, Managing Director, GSPC, have been appointed for Gandhinagar and Botad districts, respectively, said a government statement.Ashwani Kumar, secretary to CM said the process to send back stranded labourers from Gujarat has started with launch of a helpline number --- 1070. “The stranded people are required to file an online application on Digital Gujarat Portal including migrant workers,” he said.“The CM has made it clear that only asymptomatic people will be allowed to enter the state. All those with cough, fever, cold and other such symptoms will not be permitted to enter Gujarat. Similarly , all those who are completely healthy will be allowed to return to their home state from Gujarat,” Kumar said.He added that all the migrants willing to return home from Gujarat will undergo necessary medical examination and all those who are completely healthy will be provided with a certificate stating the same. The CM has directed the District Collectors to undertake this work at Primary and Community Health Centres. A team of health workers will be appointed in urban areas for the same.Meanwhile, the Gujarat police in connection with spreading fake messages and rumors, so far 479 crimes have been registered and 938 accused have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-326-cases-toll-of-covid-19-cases-reaches-4721-in-gujarat/story-iZrO3EMGPKskMYOhdrx6ON.html
01-05-2020||India||Red Zone classification with the list of activities permitted and prohibited during Lockdown 3.0||The centre on Friday, divided the country into three zones-- Red, Orange and Green—depending upon the exposure to coronavirus and other related factors to distinctly identify the level of threat posed by the disease in each district and the degree of containment effort required. The grading also allows for the resumption of economic activities in the third phase of lockdown beginning May 4.While some businesses and activities that require mass gatherings like cinema halls, shopping malls, sports, religious, social and political gatherings, clubbing, schools, colleges, training institutes and interstate travel by air, road or rail have not been permitted in any of the zones, several other activities have been allowed in the three zones.Red zones are defined considering a host of parameters including the number of positive cases in the district, the recovery rate, the doubling rate, the extent of testing and surveillance feedback from the districts and the density of disease clusters etc. According to the government’s classification, there are 130 districts out of a total of 733 that have been put in the Red Zone. The classification of districts into Red, Green and Orange Zones will be shared by the ministry of health with the states and Union Territories (UTs) on a weekly basis. While States and UTs can include additional districts as Red and Orange Zones, they may not lower the classification of a district included by the Central health ministry in the list of Red or Orange Zones.Here is the list of activities that are permitted in the Red Zones between May 4 and May 17.1. Out Patient Departments (OPDs) and medical clinics shall be permitted to operate with social distancing norms and other safety precautions, however, these will not be permitted within the Containment Zones inside the Red Zones.2. Industrial establishments in urban areas meaning Special Economic Zones (SEZs), Export Oriented Units (EOUs), industrial estates and industrial townships with access control will be allowed to function. 3. Manufacturing units of essential goods, including drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, their raw material and intermediates; production units, which require continuous process, and their supply chain; manufacturing of IT hardware; jute industry with staggered shifts and social distancing; and, manufacturing units of packaging material are allowed to function. 4. Construction activities in urban areas have been limited to in-situ construction (where workers are available on site and are not required to be brought in from outside) and the construction of renewable energy projects are allowed.5. Only essential goods shops in urban areas in malls, markets and market complexes can remain open, however, all standalone shops including those in the neighbourhood and residential complexes that trade in both essential and non-essential goods can remain open in urban areas.6. E-Commerce activities are permitted only in respect of essential goods in the Red Zones. 7. Private offices can operate with up to 33% strength, with the remaining persons working from home. 8. All Government offices will function with senior officers of the level of Deputy Secretary and above in full attendance and the remaining staff attending up to 33%.9. Essential government departments including Defense and Security services, Health and Family Welfare, Police, Prisons, Home Guards, Civil Defence, Fire and Emergency Services, Disaster management and related services, National Informatics Centre (NIC), Customs, Food Corporation of India (FCI), National Cadet Corps (NCC), Nehru Yuvak Kendra (NYK) and Municipal services shall function without any restrictions.10. Delivery of public services shall be ensured and necessary staff will be deployed for such purpose.11. All industrial and construction activities in rural areas, including MNREGA works, food-processing units and brick-kilns are permitted12. All shops including for essential and non-essential goods can remain open in rural areas except those located in the shopping malls.13. All agriculture activities including sowing, harvesting, procurement and marketing of goods in the agricultural supply chain are permitted.14. Animal husbandry activities are fully permitted, including inland and marine fisheries. All plantation activities are allowed, including their processing and marketing. 15. All health services (including AYUSH) are to remain functional, including transport of medical personnel and patients through air ambulances. 16. A large part of the financial sector including banks, non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), insurance and capital market activities, and credit co-operative societies are allowed to function. 17. Public utilities including power, water, sanitation, waste management, telecommunications, internet, courier and postal services will be allowed. 18. Most of the commercial and private establishments including print and electronic media, IT and IT enabled services, data and call centres, cold storage and warehousing services, private security and facility management services, and services provided by self-employed persons, except for barbers etc are allowed.19. All goods traffic is to be permitted. No State/ UT shall stop the movement of cargo for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries. No separate pass of any sort is needed for such movement, which is essential for maintaining the supply chain of goods and services across the country during the lockdown period. 20. No separate/ fresh permissions will be required for continuing activities already permitted up to May 3, 2020.21. Movement of individuals and vehicles is allowed only for permitted activities, with a maximum of 2 persons (besides the driver) in four-wheeler vehicles, and with no pillion rider in the case of two-wheelers.ALSO READ: How many districts in the Green Zone and the list of activities allowed in Green ZonesList of activities not permitted in Red, Orange or Green Zones1. Air travel- All forms of air travel including International, Interstate and Intrastate will remain suspended unless cleared by the home ministry.2. Rail services- Interstate travel on the rail network will not be allowed unless in special cases approved by the home ministry.3. Metro services- In all cities including Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Lucknow will remain suspended.4. Inter-State movement by road- This includes all public and private interstate road transport services excluding those with special permission from the home ministry.5. Schools, colleges and other educational and training/ coaching institutions- This covers almost all educational institutions that have been ordered to remain shut till May 17.6. Hospitality services—This will include hotels and restaurants across the country.7. Public places of mass gathering-- Cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes etc.8. Clubs, Banquets, Carnivals, Fairs – All venues for social, political, cultural and other kinds of gatherings.9. Religious places- Mosques, Temples, Gurudwaras, Churches, Synagogues etc10. Movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm to 7 am and local authorities will issue orders in this respect.11. In all zones, persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years, shall stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes.12. Plying of cycle rickshaws and auto-rickshaws; running of taxis and cab aggregators like Ola and Uber. Intra-district and inter-district plying of buses not allowed.13. Barbershops, spas and saloons are not permitted.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-zone-classification-with-the-list-of-activities-permitted-and-prohibited-during-lockdown-3-0/story-yzyZx0xS8NrKyyYXOgcnnL.html
01-05-2020||India||With 25 fresh Covid-19 infections, J&K count rises to 639||Twenty-five more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the UT to 639, officials said. All fresh cases are from Kashmir division. Also, 31 more patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals in the Valley. Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said,“25 new cases and 31 people have recovered; Total count in UT now 639. Out of these active cases are 384—six in Jammu and 378 in Kashmir.” The daily media bulletin said out of 21,695 samples collected, 21, 056 have tested negative till May 01.Till date, 71,837 people in contact with suspected cases have been enlisted for surveillance, which includes 8,109 in home quarantine, 185 in hospital quarantine, 384 in hospital isolation and 8,430 under home surveillance. Besides, 54,721 persons have completed their surveillance period.According to the media bulletin, out of 639 positive cases, 247 have recovered and eight have died. Providing district-wise breakup, the bulletin said, all 26 positive cases in Jammu have recovered; in Udhampur there are 20 cases of which two are active; in Rajouri out of four cases, three have recovered and only one is active; all four cases from Samba district have recovered. Kishtwar had only one positive case which has recovered while Kathua, Ramban and Reasi have one active case each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-25-fresh-covid-19-infections-j-k-count-rises-to-639/story-WUgVGRcNyAsHem5NPJRLBP.html
01-05-2020||India||As migrant workers prepare to go home, Karnataka CM requests them to stay||Even as Railways started running special trains to take migrant workers home, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday appealed to them to stay back. Greeting the workers on the occasion of labour day, Yediyurappa claimed that the state government had stood by the workers during this time of crisis. He further emphasised that the Covid-19 situation in the nation is much better as compared to other countries.The Karnataka government also said that it intends to resume the economic activities soon and has met representatives from the associations of commerce and industries in this regard. It also said that the government had appealed to the employers to protect the interest of their workers and pay salaries. It therefore appealed to them that they stay back.However, later in the evening, the state government issued a notification in line with the union home ministry’s orders outlining the procedures for persons intending to leave Karnataka to other states as well as come to the state from other parts of the country. People can apply online and each application will get a unique identification number and they will be screened by health authorities and permitted to travel by road or train only after that.Meanwhile the state recorded 24 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 589. Out of this, 251 have been discharged and there have been 22 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-migrants-workers-prepare-to-go-home-karnataka-cm-requests-them-to-stay/story-grG0dHVK2xG0RlvmvFJI9O.html
01-05-2020||India||Liquor shops to open in all zones, only 5 people at a time||With the nationwide lockdown being extended for another two weeks on Friday, the Ministry of Home Affairs has allowed the sale of liquor, paan, tobacco in all zones, including red zones, in standalone shops. Liquor shops will not be allowed to function in containment zones, malls and market complexes, a MHA statement said.“Liquor stores and pan shops will be allowed to function in all zones while ensuring a minimum six feet distance (2 gaz ki doori) from each other and ensuring that not more than five persons are present at one time at the shop,” the statement from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said.In an attempt to avoid crowds at such shops, the MHA order emphasizes that not more than five people should be present at one time at any such shop during transactions.ALSO READ | Covid 19 lockdown extended:Full list of services that remain prohibited across the countryThe Centre on Friday extended the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus for another two weeks. The earlier lockdown was set to end this Sunday on May 3.The MHA also issued certain new guidelines to regulate activities during the extended lockdown, based on Red (hotspot), Green and Orange Zones. The guidelines have permitted considerable relaxations in the districts falling in the Green and Orange Zones.According to the new guidelines by the home ministry, the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm and 7 am during the lockdown. To build on the gains garnered during the earlier duration of lockdown in restricting the spread of the highly infectious coronavirus disease, all such places where people can converge such as cinema halls, malls, gyms and places of political, cultural gatherings will remain shut, according to the MHA statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/liquor-shops-to-open-in-green-orange-zones-only-5-people-at-a-time/story-wnCRjJq1HHuN15Ng8pLasM.html
01-05-2020||India||‘Give Delhi a break’: Govt may ask Centre to tweak red zone rule for capital||The Delhi government intends to ask the Centre to tweak its procedure to notify Covid-19 red and orange zones for the national capital to let them ease restrictions in areas that haven’t had a single coronavirus case.“We are finalising a proposal to be submitted to the Union Health Ministry to consider a municipal ward, and not a district, as a unit for notifying red zones,” a senior Delhi government official told Hindustan Times.The national capital’s 11 districts have been placed under the red zone by the Health Ministry.With the home ministry extending the lockdown for two more weeks, this means that the city’s estimated population of 19 million people would remain under the extended spell of lockdown. The home ministry on Friday evening extended the lockdown due to lapse on May 3 midnight by another two weeks.Officials said treating the district as a unit was unfair to the people of the city and the Centre should take a smaller unit.“The North-East Delhi District, the country’s most densely populated district, is spread over 56 square kilometers. It is unreasonable to count the entire district as one unit and place it under a continued lockdown because there were some clusters of Covid-19,” an official said.Also read | National lockdown extended by 2 weeks but restrictions eased. What it means“I think the Centre should give Delhi a break.. It is unfair,” he added.He reasoned that if the Centre continues to use the same parameter, it would be months before Delhi moves into the green zone.The city government believes a better strategy would be to demarcate the city into municipal wards - there are 272 wards under the three municipal corporations besides the NDMC and Delhi Cantonment Board - and count a ward as red, green or orange zone depending on the number of cases.When the zones system was launched last month, these were initially divided on the basis of cumulative cases and the rate of doubling of cases. “This time, we have broadened the criteria. The areas have been labelled also keeping in mind the fact these should not become potential hot spots if relaxations are given as per the green zone criteria.This implies that some places may be in the green zone but were still designated as orange or red due to their proximity to areas where the case load is high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-delhi-a-break-govt-may-ask-centre-to-tweak-red-zone-rule-for-capital/story-O71e4lzb22bE0EBH8qg6LO.html
01-05-2020||India||Returning migrant workers not allowed to enter in Andhra’s Srikakulam||Officials in Andhra Pradesh’s Srikakulam district faced a peculiar situation on Friday when people of Dolapet village in Rajam block resisted the return of 200 migrant workers, including several fishermen, who got stranded in Tamil Naidu during the month-long lockdown.A tense situation prevailed in Dolapet in the morning, when district officials brought the migrant workers from Chennai in four buses and tried to send them to their respective houses, but the locals strongly resisted their move.“They are all construction workers and fishermen who were held up in Chennai for the last two months. Though many of them belong to the same village, the locals did not allow them to be amidst us, unless they undergo quarantine for two weeks,” Srikakulam collector J Nivas told Hindustan Times.The authorities tried to convince the local villagers that all the migrants had undergone tests for Covid-19 and they had tested negative, the villagers were not convinced. They told the authorities that they would not allow the returnee migrant workers into the village and stay amidst them.They demanded that the migrants be kept elsewhere in the quarantine centres for two weeks before bringing them into the village. The arguments led to clashes and the police had to do mild lathi-charge to disperse the agitated villagers.“The situation is under control now. We have managed to convince them and keep the migrant workers in the local school,” the collector said.Srikakulam had been a Corona-free district till recently, but suddenly witnessed three positive cases on a single day on April 25, triggering panic among the people. Till Friday, the district has recorded five positive cases for Covid-19.“Perhaps, the people of Srikakulam have become cautious after the surfacing of positive cases in the district and hence have been resisting people coming from outside,” Nivas said.Thousands of construction workers, fishermen and other manual labourers from Srikakulam had migrated to different states. “We have started making efforts to bring all of them back to their native places in the district. We will conduct tests for all of them and send them to their destinations only if they test positive. Otherwise, we shall keep them in quarantine centres,” the collector said.On Thursday, a 53-year-old woman, who had walked for more than 120 km to return to her house in Srikakulam from Raigadh in neighbouring Odisha state, had to undergo similar trauma.Vavilapalli Lakshmi, a maid servant, had gone to her relatives’ place in Raighad on March 22 and got stuck there because of the sudden announcement of lockdown. After desperately waiting for over a month for the lockdown to be lifted, she started on foot from Raighad and after four days of marathon walk, she reached her house at Gujarathipet colony in Srikakulam town.But local residents did not allow Lakshmi to enter her house though she pleaded with them, saying she had obtained a medical certificate that showed that she had tested negative for Covid-19. She underwent the tests again on their insistence and tested negative again; yet, they refused and insisted that she be quarantined for 14 days.The hapless woman took shelter in the gram panchayat office and on Thursday, the local officials escorted her and left her at her home. “We warned the locals against harassing her. The issue is resolved now,” the collector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/returning-migrant-workers-not-allowed-to-enter-in-andhra-s-srikakulam/story-MXVKNyy7U2unFXZLFVMgYN.html
01-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After nod for Maharashtra, EC to focus on Rajya Sabha polls, Bihar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After nod for Maharashtra, EC to focus on Rajya Sabha polls, BiharAfter clearing elections to fill nine vacant seats in the Maharashtra Legislative Council, the Election Commission will decide next week whether polls can be held to fill 17 seats in the Bihar Legislative Council and 18 in the Rajya Sabha. Read moreLudhiana fire brigade seeks testing of two fire fighters before re-inducting them into serviceThe district fire brigade department has sought that two fire fighters, who were home quarantined in mid April on suspicion, be tested for the Covid-19 before being pressed into the service. Read moreJ&K admn working to remove bottlenecks for hassle-free production & supplyThe Jammu and Kashmir administration has been able to revive 55% to 60% industrial sector since April 20 and has started removing bottlenecks for hassle-free production and distribution of goods, which officials say may take some more time. Read moreTrump’s latest attack on Sweden revives coronavirus controversyDonald Trump’s latest verbal attack on Sweden has reignited a debate on whether the country’s relaxed approach to fighting Covid-19 is madness or genius. The US president, who is facing criticism at home for initially playing down the threat of a pandemic, on Thursday sought to direct attention toward developments in Sweden. Read moreVirat Kohli shares pic from Anushka Sharma’s intimate birthday celebration, says ‘You light up my world’What better way for Virat Kohli to celebrate his love for Anushka Sharma, than on her birthday. As she turned 32, he took to Instagram to wish her with a romantic post. Sharing a photo of him feeding her a piece of cake, he wrote, “You my love bring light into this world. And you light up my world everyday. I love you.” Read moreCISCE to announce ICSE, ISC remaining paper schedule a week prior to examThe Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), New Delhi, will conduct remaining papers of ICSE (class 10) and ISC (class 12) 2020 examination after nationwide lockdown imposed to check Covid-19 pandemic is lifted, said an official of the council on Friday. Read more Kareena Kapoor, Katrina Kaif, Aishwarya Rai: Throwback to their best wedding wear looksTraditional wedding wear has been one of the most significant styles when it comes to Indian fashion. A range of contemporary elements have been weaved into the classic patterns be it in terms of motifs, embroidery, prints, textures and silhouettes and Indian wedding wear still holds the top spot when it comes to the craft’s parameter. Read more Pet doggo interrupts a weather forecast making it the best one ever. WatchOkay, getting weather updates is definitely essential. But once you know whether to carry an umbrella or to wear sunblock, does it really matter what ocean the winds are coming from? Read more Watch| Mystery of the missing Kim Jong Un: All you need to know||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-nod-for-maharashtra-ec-to-focus-on-rajya-sabha-polls-bihar-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cBrmVvVoXZrF8yE7IwrQUL.html
01-05-2020||India||Fly-pasts by fighter jets, lit up warships in military plan to honour Covid-19 warriors||India’s chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Friday said that the armed forces will show their gratitude to the country’s corona warriors on May 3 by performing a raft of activities including fly-pasts, lighting of warships and displays by army bands. Briefing reporters in South Block in the presence of the three service chiefs, Rawat said military helicopters will shower petals over Covid-19 hospitals and the armed forces will lay wreath at the police memorial to show support for corona warriors, including doctors, nurses and police personnel, who have been at the forefront of the battle against the pandemic.Rawat said the Indian Air Force’s fighter jets and transport planes will carry out fly-pasts across the length and breadth of the country, from Srinagar to Thiruvananthapuram and Dibrugarh to Kutch. (The United States is also carrying out fly-pasts over several of its cities as a tribute to people leading the fight against the coronavirus).Rawat said the show of gratitude will involve lighting of Indian warships near the shores and mounted band performances outside Covid-19 hospitals in every district of the country.General Rawat acknowledged the contribution of healthcare workers, policemen, home guards personnel, sanitation workers, delivery boys and the media amid the coronavirus outbreak.He said, “We also cannot forget the people of the nation who have adhered to government guidelines on social distancing, wearing masks, ensuring proper hygiene…And when the government gave a call for ringing bells or lighting houses, our nation stood together.” Rawat added that the country had demonstrated the resilience to overcome the coronavirus crisis.The military’s plan to honour frontline workers on May 3 was finalised at a meeting chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday, a government official said. The meeting was attended by the national security adviser, the CDS and the three service chiefs.The armed forces are working on a war footing to handle the pandemic --- setting up dedicated hospitals, flying medical supplies, operating quarantine facilities and playing a key role in evacuating Indian nationals from other countries.Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said the government has asked the navy to stay ready to evacuate Indian nationals from Gulf countries. He said warships were ready to carry out the evacuation and would swing into action after getting the go ahead.As reported by Hindustan Times on April 29, the navy has kept three warships on standby to bring back thousands of Indian nationals struck in the Gulf countries as New Delhi works towards implementing a challenging evacuation plan that will also include special flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fly-pasts-by-fighter-jets-lit-up-warships-in-military-plan-to-honour-corona-warriors/story-KVVfkxVtYUsa105J4Tc9YI.html
01-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand initiates process to bring back 76,000 migrants from other states||Days after Centre allowed the states to bring back their residents stranded in other states, Uttarakhand has initiated the process to bring its migrants with a slew of measures. On Friday, it held a detailed meeting chaired by state chief secretary with all the senior administrative and police officials. The state government has identified about 76,000 migrants stranded in various states of the country who are willing to return. The figures were ascertained with the number of applications received on the state government web portal where the government sought had details of people willing to return, said officials. Amit Negi, secretary of state disaster management department, who is looking after the state’s response to the pandemic, said, “We have started an application process in which about 76,000 migrants stranded in other states have registered themselves to come back.”Negi said, “The major states where our migrants are stranded are Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana. We are making arrangements to bring them by state buses in coordination with the governments of respective states. From tomorrow, substantial work will start on this after a detailed meeting was held with all the district administrations and senior government officials of the state on Friday.”The senior bureaucrat also informed that the government is in talks with other state administrations to “to bring the migrants in their state buses which would come to Uttarakhand to pick their own.”“Similarly our buses will also be carrying the migrants of other states where they will be heading to bring ours. We are coordinating with the other state governments to make this process a smooth one,” said Negi adding “As of now, the government has no plans to bring the migrants through trains.”Earlier on Thursday, the government had appointed two nodal officers including an IAS officer-, secretary transport Shailesh Bagauli and an IPS-- inspector general (State Disaster Response Force) Sanjay Gunjyal to look after the evacuation process of migrants from other states. The administration has also started the online registration process for the migrants on a government website and a web-portal. The migrants stranded in other states can avail the arrangements made by government by registering themselves on the website named ‘smartcitydehradun.uk.gov.in’ and portal named ‘dsclservices.in/uttarakhand-migrantregistration.php’. The registration can also be done by the migrants’ family members on their behalf while providing essential details like the addresses of the place where they are stranded and the place in Uttarakhand where they want to come. They also have to provide their Aadhaar number or details of any other government issued ID cards apart from the contact number of a person from their place in Uttarakhand. Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order) Uttarakhand police, while informing about the evacuation process of migrants said, “Police is making a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the evacuation process. It will soon be revealed once made. Police will fully help the administration in the process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-initiates-process-to-bring-back-76-000-migrants-from-other-states/story-mN48RsIpGV0UHSsE1yYLgL.html
01-05-2020||India||How many districts in the Green Zone and the list of activities allowed in Green Zones||Currently 319 districts across the country are classified as falling under the Green Zone. A district is considered under Green Zone, if there are no confirmed cases so far or there is no reported case since last 21 days in the district. The list will be revised on a weekly basis or earlier and the green zones can be moved into either Orange or Red Zones depending upon several factors including the number of positive cases, disease density, doubling rate, recovery rate, etc.The government has listed activities that will be permitted in each zone—from the least in the Red Zones to the most in the Green Zones, however several activities including interstate travel by air, rail or road, education in school, colleges, training centres, shopping malls, cinemas, hotels, restaurants, social, political, religious gatherings and places of religious worship will remain closed across the country irrespective of any zone one is in.While all activities are permitted in the Green Zones, it is helpful to list out the main activities that will now be permitted in the Green Zone during the third phase of lockdown beginning May 4.· All activities are permitted in Green Zones except the limited number of activities which are prohibited throughout the country as mentioned above.· Interstate transport including cycle rickshaws, auto rickshaws, taxis and cab aggregators like Ola and Uber, buses will be allowed with one condition that the buses operate with up to 50 % of their full seating capacity and bus depots perate with up to 50% of their full capacity.1. Barber shops, spas and saloons2. Non-Covid hospitals and clinics3. All business and industrial activities including construction4. All offices both private and public can function5. Standalone shops, neighborhood shops and shops in residential complexes6. E-Commerce activities7. MNREGA works,8. All agriculture activities9. Animal husbandry activities10. All plantation activities are allowed, including their processing and marketing.11. Banks, post offices, non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), insurance companies etc.12. Public utilities, including power, water, sanitation, waste management, telecommunications, internet, courier services13. Cold storage and warehousing services, private security and facility management services, and services provided by self-employed persons, except for barbers etc., as mentioned earlier.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-many-districts-in-the-green-zone-and-the-list-of-activities-allowed-in-green-zones/story-OBYikcWJ2CNh321skdCXsM.html
01-05-2020||India||Railways to charge for tickets on special trains to ferry migrant workers home||The railways on Friday said it will charge for tickets on the special trains being run to ferry students, migrant workers home. The fare includes price of regular sleeper class tickets plus superfast charges of Rs 30 and an additional charge of Rs 20. This will include meals and drinking water for long distance trains.However, the state governments can pay on passenger’s behalf, said the railways ministry. “Passengers need not buy anything from the railways. State governments will coordinate and pay on their behalf,” the railways said.Thousands of migrants were stranded in places across the country since the lockdown was enforced on March 25, many even attempting to walk home hundreds of kilometres away.The railways also clarified that these are special trains planned for nominated people identified and registered by state governments. “No one under any circumstance should come to Railway station looking for trains. We will not issue any tickets to any individual or entertain any request from any group or individual. We will allow only those passengers to board whom state government officials will bring to railway stations. “State government is the final authority to decide that who will travel in our trains,” a railways spokesperson said.  Earlier today, the home ministry, after persistent requests from the states, allowed the railways to run special trains to bring home students and migrant workers stuck across the country due to the nationwide lockdown in place. These special trains will be run from point to point on the request of both the concerned State governments for sending and receiving such stranded persons.The first such service was run with 1,200 passengers from Hyderabad to Jharkhand at 4:50 am on Friday.The passengers will be screened by the sending states and only those found asymptomatic would be allowed to travel.It will be mandatory for every passenger to wear masks. Meals and drinking water would be provided to the passengers by the sending states at the originating station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-charge-for-tickets-on-special-trains-to-ferry-migrant-workers-home/story-OERvorxoBf0cDrnfCJvhWN.html
01-05-2020||India||92 districts removed, 52 new ones added to red zone list; every third Indian lives in a red zone||Government has removed 92 districts from the 170 it classified as Covid-19 hotspots, or red zones, on April 15 and added 52 new districts to the list, which now leaves 130 red zone districts in the country. These 130 districts are home to a third of the country’s population and cover a fifth of the geographical area, a Hindustan Times analysis of 2011 Census data shows. Nearly 400 million people live in these hotspots, which are spread across 22 states and Union territories, but only four states are home to more than half of them.Restrictions are unlikely to be eased in these districts when the present nationwide lockdown ends On May 3.The government had on April 15 listed 170 districts as Coronavirus disease hotspots, those which had large outbreaks or multiple clusters of cases. The list has now been updated, according to a letter sent by the Union health secretary Preeti Sudan to all states and Union territories. It has now classified only 130 districts out of the country’s 733 districts as red zones. This list is valid for a week after May 3, when the nationwide lockdown is scheduled to end, and will be revised later.There are quite a few differences between the list of red zones shared on April 15 and now. Even as the total number of red zone districts has decreased by 40, seven states have seen a rise in the number. West Bengal saw the highest rise, from four to 10. Tamil Nadu saw the biggest fall in the number of such districts – out of the 22 districts earlier classified as red zones, 13 have now been removed while three new districts have been added to the list, making the new tally 12. The 400 million people in the 130 red zones live in more than 83 million households across nearly 2,500 towns and 1,20,000 villages. These comprise a third of all towns and a fifth of all inhabited villages in the country, according to the Census data.To be sure, this is a close approximation for present times because the population figures would have changed since the Census was last conducted, and some district boundaries have also changed since then.Another interesting fact is that the 14 most densely populated districts in India, according to the 2011 Census, have been classified as red zones. These include eight districts of Delhi, two districts of Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Hyderabad and Chandigarh, all big urban clusters. Out of the 50 districts that have the highest population density, 25 have been classified as red zones.Among all states and Union territories, Delhi is the only one fully classified as a red zone, other than Chandigarh which is a single district Union Territory. After Delhi, West Bengal has the highest share of districts in red zones – 10 out of the total 23 districts, or 43%. Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh follow with nearly 39% districts being red zones. In terms of absolute numbers, Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of red zone districts – 19 out of 75 – followed by 14 districts in Maharashtra (out of 36 districts) and 12 districts of Tamil Nadu (out of 37 districts).Although the red zones are spread across large geographical areas, cutting across state boundaries, more than half of the people living in these red zones are in just four states – Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. Put together, 215 million people live in red zones in these four states, which is 54% of the total 400 million people in the red zones in India.Also, there are no red zone districts in 14 states and Union territories. These include 10 states – Goa, Himachal Pradesh and all eight states of the northeast – and four Union territories – Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Ladakh and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.The new list of red zones will come handy for states as the country heads towards the end of the second phase of nationwide lockdown and to better handle evacuation of millions of migrant workers and students stranded in other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/92-districts-removed-52-new-ones-added-to-red-zone-list-every-third-indian-lives-in-a-red-zone/story-i8BLZZ1ZdNrjejBQYKOWrO.html
01-05-2020||India||National lockdown extended by 2 weeks but restrictions eased. What it means||The Home Ministry on Friday extended the national lockdown for two more weeks but eased the restrictions, more in districts that have been classified as green zones than orange and red.Some activities such as air travel, rail, metro and inter-state movement of people will continue to be restricted irrespective of the zones. Schools, colleges and other coaching institutions, hotels and cinema halls, malls and places of worship will have to remain closed irrespective of the zone.Track live updates on Coronavirus here. Green ZonesExcept for these activities that are banned across the country, a home ministry statement said, all other activities are permitted in green zones. Even buses can run within the green zone provided they operate with less than 50 percent of its seating capacity.Red ZonesAll industrial and construction activity can resume and shops can open in rural areas, even if they are in a red zone. Manufacturing units of essential goods including drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, their raw material and intermediates; production units, which require continuous process, and their supply chain, jute industry with staggered shifts and social distancing; and manufacturing of IT hardware and manufacturing units of packaging material will continue to be permitted.Also read | India extends national lockdown for the third time: All you need to knowStandalone shops in urban areas are also allowed without any distinction of essential and non-essential. E-Commerce activities, in the Red Zones, are permitted only in respect of essential goods. Private offices can operate with upto 33% strength as per requirement, with the remaining persons working from home. All Government offices shall function with senior officers of the level of Deputy Secretary and above at full strength, and the remaining staff attending upto 33% as per requirement. Orange ZonesIn addition, taxis and cab aggregators will be permitted with 1 driver and 1 passenger in the orange zones.There will, however, be restrictions on inter-district movement of individuals and vehicles will be allowed only for permitted activities. Four wheeler vehicles will have maximum two passengers besides the driver and pillion riding will be allowed on two-wheelers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-lockdown-extended-by-2-weeks-but-restrictions-eased-what-it-means/story-iVxyhBs8NlLdkwQoM9WL9O.html
01-05-2020||India||Special train from Kerala to Odisha transport stranded migrant workers||Bhubaneswar: Around 1,200 migrant workers from Odisha, who are stranded in Kerala, boarded one of the half a dozen point-to-point Shramik Special trains, run by Indian Railways, on Friday evening, as the first batch of labourers will arrive in the state before the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions, which have been enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, end on May 3.“The Shramik Special train carrying 1,200 migrant workers from Odisha has started from Aluva railway station in Kerala at 6 pm on Friday. The 24-bogey train would run non-stop for 1,836 kilometres,” said Asit Tripathy, chief secretary, Odisha. “Those who’re coming by this train have paid the base fare of Rs 430. It’s mandatory for each passenger to wear a mask. Social distancing norm and hygiene are being strictly enforced during the journey,” Tripathy added.The Shramik Special trains are the central government’s initiative to move stranded migrant workers, students, pilgrims, tourists, and other people from different parts of the country amid the ongoing lockdown restrictions.Over the last two days, 325 migrant workers from Gujarat’s Surat have arrived in Odisha’s Ganjam district on seven buses. Another 70 students, who were stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota, the country’s coaching hub for medical and engineering aspirants, have left for Odisha in a special bus, while 1,000 more are on their way back home.The influx of people to the state comes amid Odisha reporting 149 Covid-19 positive cases, and half of them had a travel history to hotspots in neighbouring West Bengal. At present, there are 93 active Covid-19 cases in the state and one person has died so far.On Friday, two new Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the state’s Bolangir district and both the infected persons had a travel history to Tamil Nadu, another hotspot.The state government is apprehending another wave of Covid-19 positive cases, as it braces for the influx of six-lakh-odd migrant workers.Earlier in April, Odisha faced a similar challenge after a section of the followers of the Islamic sect Tablighi Jamaat, who had gone to attend the international congregation held at Nizamuddin in New Delhi between March 13 and 15, returned home, leading to the first wave of Covid-19 positive cases in the state.The Jamaat attendees have proved to be super-spreaders of SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, across the country.The chief secretary said that adequate precautions were taken to prevent the spread of the infection, as the state prepares for the influx migrant workers. Each of the 1,200 people was screened prior to boarding the train and only those found asymptomatic were allowed to travel, he said.Odisha government has also asked its counterparts to share the medical history of each and every person entering the state via 11 designed checkpoints.State health department officials said that after the migrant workers from rural areas return home, they would have to undergo a compulsory 14-day quarantine in 7,000 makeshift medical facilities, which are equipped with 2.6 lakh beds. The state government would allow home quarantine for transgender, pregnant women, or those with physical and mental disabilities.The migrant workers from urban areas would also be allowed to be home quarantined unless they themselves insist on staying in official quarantine facilities. The state has around 40,000 quarantine beds in urban areas.“We’d also allowing paid quarantine facilities in designated hotels and lodges,” the chief secretary said.“People staying at home or official quarantines would be stamped with indelible ink on their right hand mentioning their date of entry that will be used to calculate the quarantine period. Their swab samples will be tested and none of them would be allowed to go back to their respective homes during the quarantine period. Also, none of their family members will be allowed to meet them. Each person would get Rs 2,000 at the end of the quarantine period,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-train-from-kerala-to-odisha-transport-stranded-migrant-workers/story-6Wio7OjeqeVhApkcwV3NvJ.html
01-05-2020||India||Covid 19 lockdown extended:Full list of services that remain prohibited across the country||The lockdown in India has been extended by another two weeks with effect from May 4, however, this time all the districts in the country have been divided into three zones- Red, Orange and Green and certain exemptions have been granted in each zone, ranging from fewer exemptions in the Red zones to the most in the Green Zones. However, irrespective of the zonal categorization, certain services will not be available for the next two weeks throughout the country till May 17, when the third phase of the lockdown ends.Here’s a full list of such services/facilities that will not be allowed in the third phase of national lockdown starting May 4 till May 17.· Air travel- All forms of air travel including International, Interstate and Intrastate will remain suspended unless cleared by the home ministry· Rail services- Interstate travel on the rail network will not be allowed unless in special cases approved by the home ministry· Metro services- In all cities including Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Lucknow will remain suspended.· Inter-State movement by road- This includes all public and private interstate road transport services excluding those with special permission from the home ministry.· Schools, colleges and other educational and training/ coaching institutions- This covers almost all educational institutions that have been ordered to remain shut till May 17.· Hospitality services—This will include hotels and restaurants across the country· Public places of mass gathering-- Cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes etc.· Clubs, Banquets, Carnivals, Fairs – All venues for social, political, cultural and other kinds of gatherings· Religious places- Mosques, Temples, Gurudwaras, Churches, Synagogues etc· Movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm to 7 am and local authorities will issue orders in this respect.· In all zones, persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years, shall stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-extended-full-list-of-services-that-remain-prohibited-across-the-country/story-EQYLTMp5lUTc28uRyoe6dM.html
01-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown 3.0: India’s national lockdown extended again. All you need to know||The Centre on Friday extended the nationwide lockdown, which is in place since March 24 due to Covid-19 pandemic, by two more weeks while profiling the districts into red, green and orange zones. The Ministry of Home Affairs issued fresh guidelines as well in this regard to all the states and union territories permitting considerable relaxations in the districts falling in green zones.The red zones have been categorized as hotspots by the government where other than essential activities no other activity will be allowed. Track live updates on Coronavirus here. According to a press statement by ministry of home affairs, the decision to extend the lockdown beyond May 4 has been taken after a “comprehensive review”. “After a comprehensive review, and in view of the Lockdown measures having led to significant gains in the Covid-19 situation in the country, ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued an order under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, today, to further extend the Lockdown for a further period of two weeks beyond May 4, 2020,” it stated.The criteria for identification of districts as red, green and orange Zones have been spelt out by health ministry on Thursday.Also read: Nationwide lockdown extended by another two weeks, says govtThe green zones will be districts with either zero confirmed cases till date; or, no confirmed case in the last 21 days. The classification of districts as red zones will take into account the total number of active cases, doubling rate of confirmed cases, extent of testing and surveillance feedback from the districts. Those districts, which are neither defined as red nor green, shall be classified as orange zones. “The classification of districts into Red, Green and Orange Zones will be shared by MoHFW with the states and Union Territories (UTs) on a weekly basis, or earlier, as required. While States and UTs can include additional districts as Red and Orange Zones, they may not lower the classification of a district included by MoHFW in the list of Red or Orange Zones,” MHA said.The latest guidelines, according to the press statement, state that a limited number of activities will remain prohibited throughout the country, irrespective of the zone including travel by air, rail, metro and inter-State movement by road; running of schools, colleges, and other educational and training/ coaching institutions; hospitality services, including hotels and restaurants; places of large public gatherings, such as cinema halls, malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes etc; social, political, cultural and other kinds of gatherings; and, religious places/ places of worship for public. However, movement of persons by air, rail and road is allowed for select purposes, and for purposes as permitted by the government. Officials familiar with the development said movement of persons through air and rail pertains to specific Covid-19 preparation relation activity.The order by MHA also states that inter-district movement of individuals and vehicles in Orange zones will be allowed for permitted activities only. Bringing slight relaxation in vehicular movement, the order allows four-wheeler to have a maximum of 2 passengers besides the driver. Additionally, pillion riding will be allowed on two-wheelers. According to latest guidelines, which MHA said also prescribe certain measures for well being and safety of persons, movement of individuals, for all non-essential activities, shall remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm to 7 am. “Local authorities shall issue orders under appropriate provisions of law, such as prohibitory orders [curfew] under Section 144 of CrPC, for this purpose, and ensure strict compliance. “In all zones, persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years, shall stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes. Out-Patient Departments (OPDs) and Medical clinics shall be permitted to operate in Red, Orange and Green Zones, with social distancing norms and other safety precautions; however, these will not be permitted within the containment zones,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-3-0-india-s-national-lockdown-extended-again-all-you-need-to-know/story-4Ml5zMngYijQCSwVQ0ExoM.html
01-05-2020||India||Central Vista project: Environment ministry clears way for new Parliament building||The Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC)’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) has recommended granting of green clearance to the “expansion and renovation” of the existing Parliament building.The new Parliament building is a part of the government’s grandiose Central Vista project, which involves building a new complex on a plot adjacent to the existing structure at an estimated cost of Rs 922 crore.The total area involved in building and renovation is 21.25 acres, built-up area of 1,09,940 square metres and will require transplanting of 233 trees. The contentious project has been widely criticised by urban planners and civil society groups for spending hundreds of crores on renovating the heritage structure during an unprecedented economic slowdown triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.They had also raised other concerns as well. They have questioned the reason behind breaking Central Vista, a single development project, into parts, as doubts have been raised whether this has been done to obtain environmental clearance.The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) had listed the Parliament building as an “individual project” in the EIA documents. It had also stated that there are no “interlinked projects”, which LokPATH (people for Appropriate Transformation of Habitat), a collective of urban development experts that are reviewing decisions related to the Central Vista project, has dubbed factually incorrect.The EAC minutes of its meetings, held between April 22 and 24 and published on the ministry’s Parivesh website, stated that the Parliament building has been cleared with certain conditions.One of the conditions is the outcome of a special leave petition (SLP) pending before the Supreme Court (SC).The apex court is hearing two petitions filed by citizens against the way the public hearing was conducted to facilitate the project and challenging the legal validity of the land-use change process.In March, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) had changed the land-use of the 9.5-acre plot from “recreational” to “Parliament”.The EAC minutes address concerns raised by LokPATH and other civil society groups by answering each of the concerns highlighted by them.For example, civil society groups had said that the Indian Parliament is structurally a part of the composite notified heritage precinct, the Central Vista.“The application completely disregards the historical, cultural and social importance of the existing Parliament by treating its ‘expansion and renovation’ as any other regular construction project,” they had argued.In response, the EAC stated: “The project proponents are aware of the heritage value of the Parliament Building. It is because of the need to protect its heritage value, besides other practical aspects such as seating more members for the future and providing them with necessary infrastructure, that the project has been conceived.”The other concern raised by citizens is that the Parliament building application is being projected as a stand-alone project when it is a part of the larger Central Vista project, which also ignores the cumulative impacts of the project.The EAC has argued that integrated and inter-related projects, as referred to in the ministry’s official memorandum, are that without which the functional outcome of the proposed project cannot be achieved and that is not the case for the units of the Central Vista project.Experts said it was a “fait accompli” situation, where the land-use was changed by the DDA and clearance has been recommended even before the outcome of the SC case.“All the concerns of building-by-building approach to impact assessment of the Central Vista project remain. The cumulative impacts of the entire Central Vista redevelopment over a much larger area are different from that of one new Parliament building. What gets even more questionable today is that the new Parliament building, which is estimated to cost Rs 922 crore, is approved when the country is facing a severe economic, humanitarian and environmental crisis because of Covid-19,” said Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-project-environment-ministry-clears-way-for-new-parliament-building/story-yY52Zgr4yq4i4z1xDAljSI.html
01-05-2020||India||PM Modi chairs meet on civil aviation, plans to use Indian air space efficiently post-lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday held a meeting to review plans that could help in making the country’s Civil Aviation sector more efficient and able to cope with the consequences of the nationwide lockdown and closure of the Indian air space to fight the coronavirus disease.In the meeting, it was decided that the Indian air space should be effectively used in such a manner that flying time is reduced benefitting travellers and also helping airlines to cut costs in close co-operation with the Department of Military Affairs.To generate more revenue so that the aviation sector can bounce back, as well as to bring in more efficiency at airports, the Ministry of Civil Aviation has been asked to expedite the process of handing over of 6 more airports on PPP basis, by starting the tender process.The process needs to begin within three months, it was decided at the meeting.The e-DGCA project was also reviewed. This project will bring in more transparency in the DGCA’s official work and help all stakeholders by reducing the processing time for various licences/permissions.It was also decided that all reform initiatives taken by the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the organizations falling under it should proceed in a time-bound mannerHome Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Minister of State (Civil Aviation), Minister of State (Finance) and other senior officials of the Union government attended the meeting with the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-meet-on-civil-aviation-plans-to-use-indian-air-space-efficiently-post-lockdown/story-kZwcCm1pQNvtEgecynCijI.html
01-05-2020||India||After nod for Maharashtra, EC to focus on Rajya Sabha polls, Bihar||After clearing elections to fill nine vacant seats in the Maharashtra Legislative Council, the Election Commission will decide next week whether polls can be held to fill 17 seats in the Bihar Legislative Council and 18 in the Rajya Sabha.In Bihar, the sheer number of voters likely to participate in the elections will be a major consideration while deciding the schedule, said an official aware of the details.Apart from the nine vacancies from the Vidhan Sabha constituency, elections will be held to fill eight vacancies in the teachers’ constituency and graduate constituency in Bihar, for which more than 400,000 voters have registered so far.In April, following the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission indefinitely deferred polls through its powers under Article 324 of the Constitution, read with section 153 of the Representation of the People Act, to extend the period of elections beyond the prescribed term.As a result, elections to fill 18 Rajya Sabha vacancies – four each in Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, three each in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, two in Jharkhand, and one each in Manipur and Meghalaya – were put off.The governments of Gujarat and Rajasthan had also written to the Election Commission to withhold the date for elections.Asked whether the commission has begun discussions with these state governments to get a view of the ground situation, an Election Commission official said talks are underway and the situation in each state will be assessed before a decision.“Each state will be assessed separately, since the condition in each state is different. In the case of Maharashtra, the state government categorically states it will ensure elections will be held as per the stated health protocols,” the official said.On Friday, the Election Commission announced May 21 as the date for holding polls in Maharashtra, where chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is among contestants.According to the health ministry’s data, Gujarat has recorded 4,395 cases of infection and 214 deaths, Madhya Pradesh 2,660 cases and 147 deaths, Rajasthan 2,584 cases and 58 deaths, Jharkhand 109 cases and three deaths, and Andhra Pradesh 1,403 cases and 31 deaths.Commenting on the pending Rajya Sabha elections, Javed Ali Khan of the Samajwadi Party and a member of the Upper House, said the decision on holding polls is the prerogative of the Election Commission.“The situation in Maharashtra was unique. There was a constitutional requirement for the chief minister to get elected. But there is no such compulsion to fill the Rajya Sabha seats, so the Election Commission’s decision on Maharashtra cannot be questioned,” he said. A state government official in Bihar said the Election Commission will be informed about challenges related to ensuring distancing and sanitation protocols. Bihar has recorded 418 cases and three deaths.“The number of people who will register for the teachers’ and the graduate constituencies is over four lakh now. It will keep going up till the last date of filing nominations. We are looking at very large voter participation. Polling stations for these eight seats will be set up at every block across districts and it will not be easy to ensure proper distancing and health protocols,” the official in Bihar said.RJD leader and Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha, however, said since holding elections for the legislative council is different from assembly elections, the poll panel should consider announcing dates for Bihar as well. “There has to be a universal policy for all,” Jha said.In Uttar Pradesh, 11 legislative council seats – six in the teachers’ constituency and five in the graduates’ constituency – are vacant but a state government official said there had been no discussion so far on how soon elections to fill these seats will be held. Article 324 empowers the poll panel to direct, control and conduct elections to Parliament, the legislature of every state and elections to the offices of president and vice president, and extension of time for completion of polls. Section 153 allows the Election Commission, for reasons it considers sufficient, to extend the time to complete any election by making necessary amendments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-nod-for-polls-in-maharashtra-ec-to-focus-on-rajya-sabha-bihar/story-Wh4bupYJl7g9q9W3XUHIAM.html
01-05-2020||India||Nationwide lockdown extended by another two weeks, says govt||The government on Friday decided to extend the nationwide lockdown, necessitated by the coronavirus outbreak, by another two weeks. The earlier lockdown was set to end this Sunday.According to a press statement by the home ministry, the decision to extend the lockdown beyond May 4 has been taken after a “comprehensive review”. “After a comprehensive review, and in view of the lockdown measures having led to significant gains in the Covid-19 situation in the country, ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued an order under the Disaster Management Act today to further extend the lockdown for a further period of two weeks beyond May 4,” it stated.The MHA also issued new guidelines to regulate different activities in this period, based on the risk profiling of the districts of the country into Red (hotspot), Green and Orange Zones. The guidelines have permitted considerable relaxations in the districts falling in the Green and Orange Zones.The most sensitive areas of the country, from the spread of Covid-19 point of view, and falling within the Red and Orange Zones, are designated as containment zones.The containment areas would be defined by respective district administrations, taking into account the total number of active cases, their geographical spread, and the need to have well demarcated perimeters from the enforcement point of view. The local authorities have been directed to ensure 100% coverage of Aarogya Setu app among the residents of the Containment Zone. Under the new guidelines, a limited number of activities will remain prohibited throughout the country, irrespective of the Zone. These include travel by air, rail, metro and inter-State movement by road; running of schools, colleges, and other educational and training/ coaching institutions; hospitality services, including hotels and restaurants; places of large public gatherings, such as cinema halls, malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes etc; social, political, cultural and other kinds of gatherings; and, religious places/ places of worship for public. However, movement of persons by air, rail and road is allowed for select purposes, and for purposes as permitted by the home ministry.E-commerce activities, in the Red Zones, are permitted only in respect of essential goods. Private offices can operate with up to 33% strength as per requirement, with the remaining persons working from home. All government offices shall function with senior officers of the level of Deputy Secretary and above at full strength, and the remaining staff attending up to 33% as per requirement. All industrial and construction activities in rural areas, including MNREGA works, food-processing units and brick-kilns are permitted; besides, in rural areas, without distinction to the nature of goods, all shops, except in shopping malls are permitted.All agriculture activities, eg, sowing, harvesting, procurement and marketing operations in the agricultural supply chain are permitted. All agriculture activities, e.g., sowing, harvesting, procurement and marketing operations in the agricultural supply chain are permitted.Most of the commercial and private establishments have been allowed in the Red Zones. These include print and electronic media, IT and IT enabled services, data and call centres, cold storage and warehousing services, private security and facility management services, and services provided by self-employed persons, except for barbers etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nationwide-lockdown-extended-by-another-two-weeks-says-govt/story-Mj1tA2SjMtY0QglAT3rASN.html
01-05-2020||India||First Covid 19 case in IT Bombay campus registered with wife of a staffer testing positive||The first case of Covid-19 at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay, was reported on Thursday with the wife of a staffer testing positive for the virus.According to the authorities, the woman is a health worker engaged in a government hospital in south Mumbai and likely contracted the virus from a patient she came in contact with. Her husband, who is an employee of the institute and her two children, have been quarantined in a separate facility on the campus. “The lady is a health worker in a hospital and her husband works at our institute. They lived on the campus. So, once she tested positive, she was moved to a hospital and her family was quarantined in a special area on the campus. She is doing fine and is undergoing treatment,” said institute director Subhasis Chadhuri. Officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) visited the campus on Friday and standard operating procedures were being followed. The institute has sanitised some of the common areas that the woman might have accessed. “On our part, we have sanitised some of the common areas such as the lift and the lobby of the building the patient was residing in. Neighbours, too, have been asked to follow BMC directives for quarantine. We will cooperate with the state authorities on the matter,” said Chaudhuri.Chaudhuri has also urged residents not to panic. “Although there is nothing to panic as yet, we hope there are no more positive cases in the campus,” he said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAll academic and research activities remain suspended on campus since mid-March and early summer vacation was announced with the students being told to vacate the campus. The summer vacation is ending on May 31.Four buildings at the IIT Bombay campus were earlier converted into quarantine facilities for asymptomatic flyers coming into the city from different international destinations following the collector’s orders. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-covid-19-case-in-it-bombay-campus-registered-with-wife-of-a-staffer-testing-positive/story-aeq8mYIcjPSWhZQ2E2upvK.html
01-05-2020||India||How Uttarakhand’s 3,000 special police officers are emerging as ‘hands and eyes’ in Covid fight||The special police officers (SPOs) appointed from civil society are turning out to be a big help to the state police in enforcing the ongoing lockdown in a stringent way. According to the state police, SPOs are emerging as “additional hands and eyes” in the state’s fight against the Covid-19 epidemic. The SPOs were appointed by the state police about two weeks ago especially to implement the lockdown norms in the containment zones of the state. They were selected from the people living in those areas where they are now deployed.At present, there are more than 3,000 SPOs across the state. The major districts where they have been deployed include US Nagar, Haridwar, Nainital and Dehradun which all have witnessed increasing cases of Covid-19 and where containment zones have been declared. Among the aforementioned four districts, US Nagar has deployed about 1,300 SPOs which are mainly at the border areas with neighbouring Uttar Pradesh to keep a check on people trying to sneak in. “We have a 171 km long border with UP in which we identified about 125 points through which people can enter or go out. We have deployed the majority of the SPOs in those areas because with the given conditions it is not possible for the district police to man those points 24 hours,” said Barinderjit Singh, senior superintendent of police(SSP), US Nagar. Singh said, “As the SPOs are from those areas only, they are well aware of the topography and know who has come from outside. They accordingly inform us for further action. Apart from the border areas, they are also being deployed in the containment zones to implement the norms of lockdown.”Senthil Avoodai K Raj, SSP Haridwar while lauding the contribution of SPOs, termed them as additional hands and eyes of the regular police. Senthil said, “As they are among the residents of the same society, they act as a bridge between police and the public of the area where they are deployed. In Haridwar district, they are mainly deployed in containment zones to ensure home quarantine and social distancing.”He said, “They also inform the police about any issues faced by the people of an area for required action.”Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order) Uttarakhand police said, the SPOs are very helpful to the regular police in enforcing the lockdown. “They are appointed as per a provision in the Police Act. However, they are not paid any remuneration. It is a completely voluntary service for about 3 to 4 hours a day. They are a big help to the state police in enforcing the lockdown properly,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-uttarakhand-s-3-000-special-police-officers-are-emerging-as-hands-and-eyes-in-covid-fight/story-4wTh27dI7l58OQGerUZ0tL.html
01-05-2020||India||Shramik special train service brings cheer to thousands of students stranded in Kota||The Centre on Friday allowed movement of stranded migrant workers, students, pilgrims, tourists and others by rail, heeding to requests made by states that highlighted the difficulty in transporting a huge mass over long distances through road transport.The decision by the home ministry is likely to provide a big relief to migrant workers that are stranded in several states but it would bring no less cheer to several thousand students stranded in different educational hubs like Kota in Rajasthan. Several of these students have run out of money and are said to be desperate to return home.“Movement of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons, stranded at different places is also allowed by special trains to be operated by the ministry of railways,” the Friday order by the government said.Out of the Shramik Special train services announced by the ministry also include a special between Kota and Ranchi which will run on May 1, the Labour Day. This train is likely to ferry students from Jharkhand stuck in Kota.Close to ten thousand students from Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana are said to be stranded in the city known for its educational institutes that train students for engineering, medical, civil services and other competitive examinations.Around 9,000 students enrolled in different coaching centres at Kota have already been transported in around 250 buses to different places in Uttar Pradesh in mid-April and another 3,000 were recently sent back on buses to West Bengal, some students were also sent back to Chhattisgarh,Earlier in the day, the railways ministry had allowed a special train from Hyderabad with about 1200 migrant workers onboard to leave for Ranchi in Jharkhand. The ministry said that it could allow more such trains if the states sending and receiving migrant labourers expressed their willingness.Several states including Punjab, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have requested central government for allowing limited interstate services to carry stranded people including migrants and students.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe railways has made it clear that all safety protocols including social distancing and necessary sanitization will have to be observed at both the originating station and the destination while the special services are in operation.Close to 10 million migrant workers are said to be stranded in different states in relief camps, as per a rough estimate. Several states including Maharashtra have reported restlessness in the group and expressed fear that not allowing them to return to their home states could lead to a law and order situation which could be counter-productive to coronavirus containment efforts.The migrant workers have been stranded since the announcement of the first phase of national lockdown, which started on March 25. Hundreds of thousands of migrant labourers lost their jobs and were dependent on government aid for food, shelter and sanitation. Several temporary relief camps were set up in different states to accommodate them but a big number of migrants, especially from the north in Delhi and Haryana decided to walk back to their homes in the absence of public transport.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Several migrants were then sent home in buses arranged by Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments but not before it resulted in chaos and mayhem on the streets of the capital and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh where thousands of them gathered looking for transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shramik-special-train-service-brings-cheer-to-thousands-of-students-stranded-in-kota/story-qe8jOJqEMYzJibnBUvEoMK.html
01-05-2020||India||Jharkhand preps as migrant workers return home in special train from Telangana||Dilip Yadav, 24, feels himself a luckiest person, as he is among more than 1,000 migrant workers coming back home from Telangana to Jharkhand in a special train provided by the ministry of railways.Resident of Chando village in Jharkhand’s Daltonganj district, Yadav said over phone, “I am very happy that I am on the train and returning home.” Yadav went to Hyderabad from Daltonganj in December last year and worked as construction labourer there.Another worker Santosh Kumar Singh, 27, who is in the same train, said over phone that they were allowed in the train after proper screening. He expressed happiness over the treatment provided by the railways in the train. “We are being provided food in time and facing no problem,” Singh, who is also the resident of Daltonganj, said.They are not alone but over 1,000 workers, most of them belonging to Jharkhand’s Daltonganj and Garhwa district, travelling in the train are also happy returning home after 38 days of lockdown. The special train is expected to arrive at Ranchi’s Hatia station by 11pm on Friday.“We are expecting the train to arrive at Hatia station by 11pm,” Chief public relation officer-cum-senior divisional operation manager of Ranchi division, Neeraj Kumar said.The Jharkhand government is all prepared to receive the first lot of migrant workers coming in a special train from Telangana and the workers arriving from West Bengal’s Burdwan district in three buses in Jharkhand’s Sahibganj district.The workers who are travelling by train would be sent to the respective districts, mostly by tonight. The joint secretary of state disaster management department, Manish Tiwary, said, “The workers arriving by trains would be sent to their respective districts where they will be screened and quarantined.”State transport department is arranging 50 private buses to ferry the workers to their respective districts.A senior official from the transport department, who did not wish to be named, said, “Most of the workers coming by train belonged to Daltonganj and Garhwa district. We need at least 50 buses to ferry them to their destinations from Hatia station. They will be sent to their respective districts tonight.”He further said three buses were also sent to West Bengal’s Burdwan district to bring the workers stranded there. “One police and a magistrate have also been sent in each bus, who would ensure implementation of social distancing and screening there. Average 25 workers would come in one bus,” the official said.Chief minister Hemant Soren has been demanding from the Centre to allow special trains to bring Jharkhand’s migrant workers, as it is a big challenge for the state to bring workers from distant states such Mumbai, Gujarat, Telangana, Bengaluru and others. “We have readied the work plan for the workers and students stranded outside. I would like to appeal to them to not worry. The state government will bring you back safely to the home,” said Hemant Soren in special appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-preps-as-migrant-workers-return-home-in-special-train-from-telangana/story-4xdpBhE6Lultx4uJrVuYRP.html
01-05-2020||India||Govt’s king-sized repatriation plan for stranded Indians to begin from UAE||India’s king-sized effort to repatriate tens of thousands of Indians stranded abroad will start from the Gulf countries and will entail deployment of not just commercial planes but also the biggest warships and planes of the defence forces, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times on Friday.The government will start from the United Arab Emirates, home to 3.4 million Indians, and move next to Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, a government source said. Expats from Kerala would be the first ones to be brought since the state has created the infrastructure to accommodate about 2 lakh people at quarantine centres and hospitals.Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Friday reviewed the work done so far to carry out the repatriation plan at the foreign ministry’s Jawaharlal Nehru Bhawan office in central Delhi.Once executed, officials said, this would be a record-setting exercise.India’s evacuation of 1,70,000 civilians from Kuwait during the 1990 Gulf war is still considered to be the world’s largest evacuation exercise of civilians by air. India had then operated a little less than 500 flights, mostly by Air India, over two months. More than 25 years later, the feat also inspired the Akshay Kumar-starrer Bollywood flick ‘Airlift’.A top government official told Hindustan Times that this time, over 1,90,000 people would be brought home in the first phase alone.Blue collar workers would get the first priority to be flown home in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s directive. Among them, those who are facing health problems of any nature, have had a bereavement in the family or cite any other humanitarian ground would be taken in the early round of flights.The government hasn’t decided yet when the first repatriation flight will take off from India.“It will happen soon”, an official said, stressing that India or the world hadn’t seen anything of this kind in the past.Apart from planes of commercial airlines including Air India, the official said the armed forces had also pooled in their resources.The Indian Air Force would be deploying its largest transport planes including C-17 Globemaster III, which was also used to evacuate Indians from Yemen in 2015 , as well as the C-130J Hercules. The Indian Navy, on the other hand, is ready to send its largest ships including INS Jalashwa.Officials said passengers and crew of the planes and warships would have to maintain social distancing norms. “This means that we will to make twice as many trips,” one official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-start-repatriation-of-stranded-indians-from-the-gulf-uae-is-first/story-8S9O2xqt6fshJBw7qVdwdN.html
01-05-2020||India||10 things you need to know about Indian Railways Shramik Special train service||The centre has decided to run special trains to carry migrant labourers and other stranded people including students and tourists to their homes and a guideline issued by the home ministry carries details on the where and how aspect of the special facility which is likely to ease the sufferings of the daily wagers and take off a big burden from the state governments running relief camps to house them.Here’s all that you need to know about the ‘Shramik’ Special Trains that will be run by the railways for migrants interstate movement:1. Shramik Special train services will start from the Labour Day; first such special service was flagged off on Friday morning from Hyderabad to Hatia, Jharkhand.2. A total of six special trains are scheduled to start on the labour day—Lingampally to Hatia, Aluva to Bhubaneswar, Nasik to Lucknow, Nasik to Bhopal, Jaipur to Patna and Kota to Hatia.3. The Shramik specials will be available for migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places due to the lockdown.4. These special trains will run from point to point (without any stops) on the request of both states—sending and receiving people—and will follow the standard health and safety protocols.5. The Railways and the concerned state governments will have to appoint senior officials as nodal officers for coordination and smooth operation of these special trains.6. The passengers will be screened at the point of origin of the train service and only those found to be asymptomatic will be allowed to travel.7. These people will have to be brought to the railway station in batches in sanitized buses following social distancing norms and other precautions. It will be mandatory for every passenger to wear face cover.8. The Railways will attempt to enforce social distancing norms and hygiene with the cooperation of passengers.9. Meals and drinking water will have to be provided to the passengers by the sending states at the originating station. On longer routes, the Railways will provide a meal during the journey.10. On their arrival at the destination, the receiving state government will have to make all arrangements for the screening of arriving passengers and for quarantining them if found to be necessary and their further travel from the railway station to destinations within states.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-things-you-need-to-know-about-indian-railways-shramik-special-train-service/story-496m7BrZ2BwTEGSd32YRjL.html
01-05-2020||India||Migrant labourer cycles, walks, hitchhikes around 2,000 km in 13 days to reach home||A 23-year-old migrant labourer from a village in Bengal, traveled around 2000 km in 13 days – sometimes riding a bicycle, sometimes walking and sometimes taking lift from passing vehicles - to reach home on Wednesday. He is now in home quarantine. Atiul Shah started his journey on April 17 from Salem in Tamil Nadu where he had gone to install air-conditioners in newly constructed buildings. But as the pan-India lockdown started, his employer refused to give him any money and he left the job after an altercation. As his hardships started, he made up his mind to take the long arduous journey back home.“I exchanged my mobile phone with a security guard at the construction site where I worked. I took his bicycle and a few hundred rupees. Every day I peddled throughout the day and sometimes at night too. I took rest only when I could not take the pain anymore,” said Atiul Shah. Sometimes he took shelter in railway stations, sometimes outside police stations and sometimes under the shade of bridges, flyovers and abandoned shops along national highways.“One day I spent the night on a sea-beach. As the waves were coming nearer at night, I tied the bicycle to a palm tree and spent the night on that tree. It was desolate. But I had only one thing in mind. I will reach home anyhow,” he added.On his way, he met people, including police personnel, some of whom helped him with food and medicines.“Sometimes I was stopped by police personnel who refused to allow me to go any further. I narrated my story and begged before them. Later they helped me. One policeman even gave me a mask. Once a policeman gave me medicines, when he saw my legs were swollen,” said ShahAtiul could hardly remember the names of places he passed. He only remembers the hills, the sea, wide rivers and highways. Sometimes when he found shops open, he bought biscuits and dry food. Sometimes he would stand in long queues when he saw NGOs providing food to labourers.“At one point of time I could hardly pedal anymore. I then took lift from a passing motorcycle. But as I could not carry the bicycle, I had to abandon it. The motorcycle rider dropped me at one point from where I got a lift from a passing truck. Again the truck driver dropped me at one point from where I started walking. Later I met a local villager who had a bicycle. I purchased it from him for Rs 1,000 and this is how I reached home,” he added.The news of his homecoming spread like wildfire in the village and several villagers came to have a look. The local leaders took him to the Diamond Harbour Hospital where he was checked and asked to remain in home quarantine.“I met him from a distance as he is in home quarantine. He has cycled over 2,000 km in 13 days, he told me. His brother had approached me earlier for help to bring him back home. I asked them to get in touch with the local BDO of Salem but they couldn’t. Later he came back on his own,” said Mozaffar Sheikh, the deputy village pradhan of Singla village.His family, including his wife, was elated to know about his return. His wife, however, is in her parents’ house and could not meet him. The couple has spoken over phone.“I am lucky that my brother made it. As he had exchanged his mobile phone for a cycle, he used to call us from other persons’ numbers whom he met on the way. We could not get in touch with him all this time,” said Ismail Shah, his elder brother.Also read | India under lockdown: Migrant labourer pedals 1,700 km in 7 days to reach home||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-labourer-cycles-walks-hitchhikes-around-2-000-km-in-13-days-to-reach-home/story-0CLY6VT1JH71RLpJcDxEwI.html
01-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel writes to PM Modi, wants special train to ferry 1.6 lakh migrants||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday to run a special train to bring back migrant workers of Chhattisgarh stranded in other states. Baghel in his letter to PM Modi stated that the instructions issued on April 29 by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs for inter-state movement of workers, migrants will prove beneficial in restoring normalcy and economic activities in the state.Drawing the prime minister’s attention towards workers, migrants of the state who are stranded in other states and are unable to return due to lockdown, Baghel said that the number of such workers is more than 1.6 lakh at present and taking care of the economic and mental condition of these workers and their homecoming is very important.The CM said the Central Government’s decision of imposing lockdown for prevention of Covid-19 helped in controlling the spread of this epidemic in the state, as a result of which the number of coronavirus positive patients in the state is less.The CM stated in the letter that Chhattisgarh is coordinating with other states for return of these migrants and an action plan has been chalked out to bring back these workers through buses. However, it would be difficult to arrange buses and other infrastructure required to bring back these workers in such large numbers. Also, it will be extremely difficult to take care of the safety and convenience of these migrants on a long distance journey.“In the present situation point to point special trains could be run to ensure safety, convenience and hygiene of these workers. The Chhattisgarh government has requested Union Home Minister Amit Shah in this regard. I request you to take a quick decision regarding operating a special train for bringing back stranded labourers of Chhattisgarh from other states,” the CM said in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-writes-to-pm-modi-wants-special-train-to-ferry-1-6-lakh-migrants/story-amTvlUliA9YzgVg8zEBgyJ.html
01-05-2020||India||Aviation lobbyist Deepak Talwar gets bail; likely to be released from Tihar jail by evening||In a major setback to two agencies - Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probing multiple corruption and money laundering charges against aviation lobbyist Deepak Talwar, a Delhi court on Friday granted him bail in connection with a case related to alleged violation of the foreign contribution regulation act (FCRA) by his non-profit organization – Advantage India. The bail order by Delhi court allows Talwar to walk out of Tihar jail by evening. He had earlier been granted bail in other matters.The Special CBI Judge - AK Kuhar at Rouse Avenue Courts, granted the bail to Talwar on Friday through video conferencing after hearing arguments from both ED and his lawyer.Talwar’s counsel – Tanveer Ahmed Mir told HT – “For past more than one year since he was brought to India and arrested, Deepak Talwar was incarcerated in several cases. The allegations against him are imaginary. We have been fighting throughout and got him anticipatory bail in two each cases of CBI and ED and regular bail in those cases. He will finally be able to go to his home”.Mir argued before the court that Talwar was in jail for almost 15 months while agencies have not been able to present any evidence against him.ED’s counsels Amit Mahajan and Nitesh Rana argued that Talwar should not be granted bail as he is involved in serious economic offence.Officials familiar with the development said the ED will now have to approach the high court to get his bail cancelled.Talwar was brought from Dubai in January 31 last year. He is being investigated in different aviation deals and FCRA (foreign contribution regulation act) violations by his NGO. Both ED and CBI had taken his custody last year.CBI filed a chargesheet against him in March this year alleging that his NGO received Rs 90.72 crore under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) scheme for carrying out social activities but it was diverted for some other purposes. ED’s money laundering probe is based on CBI FIR.In aviation deals, Talwar is accused of receiving payments to the tune of Rs 272 crore during 2008-09 from private international airlines in lieu of securing favourable traffic rights using his contacts, due to which Air India had allegedly suffered huge losses. Both CBI and ED have claimed that he arranged kickbacks for the public servants to make Air India give up profit making routes in favour of private airlines. Deepak Talwar’s son Aditya Talwar is also under investigation in the aviation cases. He is currently based in Antigua and Barbuda. Deepak Talwar’s name had also appeared in the Nira Radia tapes and later 54 times in the controversial visitors’ entry register of former CBI director Ranjit Sinha’s residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deepak-talwar-gets-bail-likely-to-be-released-from-n-tihar-jail-by-evening/story-8K9u9DfwNOb5XjxjXKJj0M.html
01-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After no Covid-19 deaths in a week, Telangana records 3 in one day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After no Covid-19 deaths in a week, Telangana records 3 in one dayAfter a brief lull, Telangana witnessed a sudden spike in the Covid-19 cases, including three deaths, on Thursday night. The state was expecting that it would become coronavirus-free by the first week of May. Read moreAdhir Ranjan Chowdhury’s requests for a phone call with Piyush Goyal pending for 4 days is about migrantsSenior Congress leader from West Bengal Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury has written to the railways minister Piyush Goyal on May 1, 2020, with a request to make time for a telephonic conversation regarding the return of migrant labourers from West Bengal who are stranded in different states due to the ongoing nationwide lockdown. Read moreAs Pune slums emerge as Covid-19 hotspots, political activists urge for tweak in strategyPune Municipal Corporation authorities have said that notwithstanding the poor response from slum dwellers to shifting to the nearly 70 temporary shelters created in civic schools, numerous steps have been taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the city’s slums. Read moreWHO wants invite to China’s probe into virus originsThe World Health Organization said Friday it hoped China would invite it to take part in its investigations into the animal origins of the novel coronavirus. Read moreIndia lose top spot in ICC Test rankings for first time since October 2016The Virat Kohli-led Indian cricket team was dethroned from the top spot in the ICC Test rankings for the first time in close to four years after cricket parent’s body announced the latest rankings on Friday. India had yielded the top spot for since October 2016. Read moreTelangana TSCHE extends deadline to apply for EAMCET 2020, other CETsTelangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) has further pushed the deadline to apply for all the Common Entrance Tests (CET) that were scheduled to be conducted this year. Read moreLove in the time of coronavirus: Crumbling modern relationships and how familiarity breeds contemptTo be “Quarantined in love”, would surmise almost every true-blue romantic’s fantasy, a long honeymoon masquerading as a harsh decree. Read moreXiaomi phones record your web and phone use, claim researchersGabi Cirlig called his new Xiaomi phone “a backdoor with phone functionality”. And he wasn’t really joking. Cirlig was speaking to Forbes after discovering that “his Redmi Note 8 smartphone was watching much of what he was doing on the phone”. Read more Mrs Serial Killer movie review: Jacqueline Fernandez’s Netflix film is a torturous experience; one of the worst films of 2020Much before Mrs Serial Killer even begins killing, you’d wish she just abandon going after her target and focus on you instead. You’d be willing to come quietly, without putting up any struggle at all. Read moreWatch: Cops attacked in Gujarat’s Godhra, health worker attacked in MP’s Tikamgarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-no-covid-19-deaths-in-a-week-telangana-records-3-in-one-day-and-all-the-latest-news/story-GYc6vH2fmatcAyBvboOH7L.html
01-05-2020||India||Covid-19 patient admitted to hospital in UP dies after consuming toxic liquid||A coronavirus patient died at a hospital here on Friday allegedly after consuming some toxic liquid at the community health centre he was admitted to in Sarsaul in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur Dehat district, a health official said. Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) hospital’s Chief Medical Superintendent, Dr RK Maurya, confirmed the victim was Covid-19 positive and shifted to the facility on Thursday night. He, however, refused to share any further details regarding the patient’s death. It was not immediately clear whether the patient attempted suicide. Chief Medical Officer (Kanpur Dehat), Dr Rajesh Katiyar, said the man, a resident of Jharkhand, along with other labourers were travelling in a truck that was intercepted by police in Pukhrayan on April 23. “The victim was kept at the district hospital where he was screened. He tested positive for COVID-19, following which he was taken to an isolation ward of the CHC in Sarsaul on Wednesday night,” the CMO added. CHC’s Superintendent, Dr SL Verma, said the patient allegedly drank something after which his condition started deteriorating. He was also a patient of epilepsy and might have been suffering from mental illness as well, the CMO added. He held Kanpur Dehat authorities responsible for the patient’s death, claiming there was no such protocol to shift any Covid-19 positive patient at CHCs of any other district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patient-admitted-to-hospital-in-up-dies-after-consuming-toxic-liquid/story-uih92venoF2M2yLhhB1DCJ.html
01-05-2020||India||Special trains to ferry students, migrant workers stranded amid lockdown: Govt||The government on Friday allowed the use of special trains to ferry students, migrant workers stranded in various parts of the country due to nationwide lockdown necessitated by the coronavirus outbreak.The railways ministry will designate nodal officers for coordination with states and Union Territories, the home ministry order said. The railways will soon come up with guidelines on the sale of tickets, and on the social-distancing norms to be followed at stations and inside the trains, the order added.“As per the guideline issued by the ministry of home affairs, it has been decided to run “Shramik Special” trains from “Labour Day” today, to move migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places due to lockdown,” said the railways.The move comes after states requested the Centre to run special trains for migrant workers. Earlier, while relaxing the guidelines, the Centre only allowed the movement by buses. These special trains will be run from point to point on the request of both the concerned State governments for sending and receiving such stranded persons. The railways and state governments will appoint senior officials as nodal officers for coordination and smooth operation of these “Shramik Specials”.The passengers will be screened by the sending states and only those found asymptomatic would be allowed to travel. It will be mandatory for every passenger to wear masks. Meals and drinking water would be provided to the passengers by the sending states at the originating station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-trains-to-ferry-students-migrant-workers-stranded-amid-lockdown-govt/story-mQx1Tr52Sf8NhH9nmVBGfN.html
01-05-2020||India||‘Curbs to continue in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur after May 3’: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said that the lockdown in the state would be lifted gradually after May 3 when the second phase of the national lockdown ends. However, restrictions will not be lifted in Mumbai, its surrounding areas, in Pune and its surrounding areas as they fall under the red zone. Comparing the red zone areas to an active volcano, Thackeray said that lifting restrictions is “not in our interest”.Thackeray addressed the state on Maharashtra Day via Facebook Live and said, “The red zone is like an active volcano, orange zone is like a dormant volcano, and the green zone is where the volcano will not erupt. Naturally, Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune, Pune Metropolitan Region, Nagpur and Aurangabad fall in the red zone as cases are increasing daily. Here, to start something is not in our interest. In orange zones, there are a few active cases in some areas; we are looking at lifting restrictions leaving aside areas where there are more cases. In the green zone, we have already started lifting restrictions gradually.” He outlined that lifting of restriction will be done “cautiously”.The chief minister added that farming and agriculture related activities were not under restrictions before and will continue to remain exempt in areas where restrictions may continue after May 3.Thackeray added that the lockdown had helped to keep the spread of coronavirus in control. He said that the “speed breakers” have helped contain the spread which would have grown exponentially had lockdown not been imposed. He said that though the numbers of cases are increasing in Maharashtra, they are increasing among the contacts and in a cluster. He said that 75% to 80% of the Covid-19 cases in the state do not show any symptoms or show mild symptoms of the disease. Outlining the work done by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, Thackeray said that in the past few days the civic body has screened 2 lakh people in the slums for low oxygen level and other diseases including diabetes, high blood pressure, etc. Such people are susceptibility to the coronavirus. “In Mumbai, 272 people have been found with low oxygen level and other ailments. BMC is not only providing oxygen but doctors are treating their other ailments,” he said. Thackeray said that besides ramping up capacity of beds in the state, doctors and nursing staff have been inducted. He said he has received responses from 10,000 people including from doctors, nurses etc to volunteer in the fight against coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curbs-to-continue-in-mumbai-pune-nagpur-after-may-3-uddhav-thackeray/story-SmxnCuAuo86OUrEpt7IcoM.html
01-05-2020||India||MHA okays ‘Shramik Special trains’ for migrants, railways sets terms for travel||Migrant workers, students and others stranded in different parts of the country are allowed to return home by special trains that will be run by the Indian Railways, the Union home ministry said on Friday, expanding the scope of an earlier order that said such transportation can happen only by buses.The railways ministry will designate nodal officers for coordination with states and Union Territories, the home ministry order said. And soon after, the railways ministry released detailed guidelines on the social-distancing norms to be followed at stations and inside trains. Guidelines on the sale of tickets are expected soon.Photos: Away from home, migrant workers fire brick kilns in lockdownOn the occasion of Labour Day (on May 1), the government has decided to run “Shramik Special” trains to transport migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stuck across the country due to the lockdown triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the railways ministry said. “These special trains will be run from point to point on the request of both the concerned state governments (those sending and receiving the passengers) as per the standard protocols...The Railways and State Governments shall appoint senior officials as Nodal Officers for coordination...,” the ministry said.Passengers will have to be screened by states sending them, and those found with no symptoms of Covid-19 will be allowed to travel. These people will have to be brought to railway stations in batches in sanitised buses. Social-distancing norms have to be followed and all passengers will have to use face covers, or masks. Also read: Special train to ferry migrants stranded in Covid-19 lockdown begins journey“Meals and drinking water would be provided to the passengers by the sending states at the originating station,” the railways ministry said. Meals will be provided to passengers on trains in case of long journeys.“On arrival at the destination, passengers will be received by the State Government, who would make all arrangements for their screening, quarantine if necessary and further travel from the Railway Station,” the guidelines said.The ministry also listed six trains on Friday: Lingampally to Hatia; Aluva to Bhubaneswar; Nasik to Lucknow; Nasik to Bhopal; Jaipur to Patna; and Kota to HatiaThe announcement came hours after the railways ministry ran a special train to ferry about 1,200 stranded migrant labourers from Telangana to Jharkhand in a first-of-its-kind move.The Centre was under pressure from states, including Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Kerala,for deploying special trains. The recent home ministry guidelines on interstate travel for stranded people permitted movement by buses, on road.According to state estimates, about 10 million migrant labourers are stranded across the country. The movement of these workers alone is estimated to require 500,000 buses if the Centre’s social distancing norms are strictly enforced and they are transported around the same time.Also read: Andhra farmers rise above personal financial constraints, help needy migrantsPassenger trains have been suspended since March 22; the Centre has allowed freight and special parcel trains for the supply of essentials. The Centre also allowed special trains for Indian Army personnel, citing national security consideration. Military specials trains have been deployed since April 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-okays-special-trains-for-migrants-detailed-guidelines-soon/story-AkZgoQrInf5TrkHjG20rUK.html
01-05-2020||India||‘Don’t panic’: Jharkhand CM assures others as state’s migrant workers take train from Telangana||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday told residents from his state who are stranded in other parts of the country that his government will bring them back even as more than 1000 migrant workers took a train back home from Telangana.A special train was operated by the ministry of railways for the migrant labourers from Jharkhand who have been stranded in Telangana amid the Covid-19 lockdown. The “one-off special train” was run early on Friday morning on the request of the Telangana government, South Central Railway chief spokesperson Ch Rakesh said.“I assure all students, migrant workers and other people stranded in other states amid COVID-19 lockdown that our administration will soon contact you and help you in coming back to the state. Don’t panic,” Hemant Soren said, according to news agency ANI.The train, which left from Lingampalli in Telangana to Hatia in Jharkhand at 4:50am is ferrying nearly 1,200 migrants, all residents of Jharkhand. They were stranded at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Hyderabad campus at Kandi in Sangareddy district due to the lockdown.India is under a nation-wide lockdown, which was imposed on March 25 and later extended on April 14 to May 3, to stem the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) had on Wednesday allowed the movement of the stranded people, including migrant labourers, workers, students, tourists, and issued guidelines for their travel.Railway Protection Force (RPF) director-general Arun Kumar said that a decision on more such trains could be taken later on Friday.The Centre has been under pressure from states for deploying special trains to ferry migrants and students stranded across the nation due to the lockdown.According to state estimates, about 10 million migrant labourers are stranded across the country. Other states such as opposition-ruled Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Kerala have also asked the Centre to deploy special trains. Bihar, where the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Janata Dal (United) are in the ruling coalition, has also put in a similar request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-panic-jharkhand-cm-assures-others-as-state-s-migrant-workers-take-train-from-telangana/story-MzyVCxepmufc4rkMVhTWKP.html
01-05-2020||India||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, 3 services chiefs to address press at 6pm||The Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, along with the three armed services chiefs, will address the press at 6 this evening. It is not known what the feature of discussions would be, but it is likely to focus on the Covid-19 efforts and the way forward in the post-lockdown phase for the services. The nationwide lockdown is set to end on May 3.The Army has issued an alert to its personnel warning them against the possibility of their phones being hacked by Pakistani agencies using a malware carrying an app similar to India’s Aarogya Setu, two army officers said on Thursday on condition of anonymity.On April 17, Army chief General MM Naravane condemned the relentless ceasefire violations by Pakistan on the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir, saying the whole world is battling the coronavirus pandemic but the neighbouring country has not stopped stirring trouble.Defence minister Rajnath Singh last week asked India’s top military commanders to ensure that the country’s adversary is not allowed to exploit the Covid-19 situation at a time when the Pakistan army continues to violate the ceasefire on the Line of Control to help terrorists sneak into Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chief-of-defence-staff-general-bipin-rawat-3-service-chiefs-to-address-press-at-6pm/story-stoUa0iNGrFUssGFyAPLHM.html
01-05-2020||India||CM Baghel writes to PM seeking relaxation in borrowing limit for state||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday sought relaxation in the state’s borrowing limit to six per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) this year in view of the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic.Baghel also requested that the fiscal deficit of the state be made equal to five per cent of the GSDP as an exception.These, he said, will help achieve the objective of raising more economic resources for development activities in the state and providing relief to the needy. The chief minister in the letter also drew Prime Minister Modi’s attention towards the financial difficulties being faced by Chhattisgarh due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Baghel said that all economic activities in the state are stopped since March 22 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. He said the lockdown has not only led to revenue loss for the state, but also badly affected the economically weaker section of society, including daily wagers, labourers, small shopkeepers and rural households.Since it is the harvesting season, farmers are also facing difficulty in harvesting and selling crops, the chief minister said.He said extraordinary measures are required at the time of crisis, so the state should be given approval to relax the borrowing limit to six per cent of the GSDP this year. The financial deficit of the state should also be approved to be kept equal to five per cent of the GSDP as an exception this year, Baghel said. The chief minister informed that the budget allocation for the 2020-21 fiscal has already been released to all the departments of the state and there is a need for financial resources for expenditure for basic needs.He said that the Union Finance Ministry’s consent to the state for borrowing Rs 5,375 crore from the market, which is equal to 50 per cent of the state’s net lending limit for the first nine months of this financial year, is insufficient to meet the expenditure in this period. Baghel said as the state’s revenue receipts are expected to fall this year, relaxation is necessary in the state’s net borrowing limit and the fiscal deficit limit (three per cent of the GSDP) as determined by provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act.He said Chhattisgarh has been a state that has ensured strict adherence to financial discipline since its formation. Currently, it has the lowest debt burden (19.2 per cent of GSDP) and lowest interest payments (7.4 per cent of total revenue receipts).The chief minister expressed hope that in these difficult times, the Centre will consider his legitimate demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-bhagel-writes-to-pm-seeking-relaxation-in-borrowing-limit-for-state/story-CyfhQ1rX1LxwLIO0rYdgMM.html
01-05-2020||India||Anti-Muslim incidents bound to attract negative attention abroad; need to change domestic reality: Tharoor||Asserting that incidents and comments against Muslims were bound to attract negative reactions abroad, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Friday said it is more important to change the domestic reality than do damage control, while referring to India’s criticism in the Arab states over alleged “Islamophobia”.What matters is not what the government says but how it is perceived because of what it does, or let others do, Tharoor said, and alleged that the Modi government has “shamefully failed” to curb the appalling behaviour of many of its “most rabid supporters”, including some in high positions.“Let us not forget that ‘Ramzade/Hara.....’ comment came from a minister, and the latest remark from a BJP MLA in UP telling people not to buy vegetables from a Muslim vendor,” Tharoor said.His remarks were an apparent reference to 2014 comments reportedly made by Union minister Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, and the recent controversy triggered by Uttar Pradesh BJP MLA Suresh Tewari who allegedly asked people not to buy vegetables from Muslim vendors. The BJP on Tuesday issued a show cause notice to Tewari for his remarks.In an interview to PTI, Tharoor alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has, throughout the last six years, been too slow to “condemn his party’s bigotry and has condoned overt expressions of Islamophobia from his own camp”.“The attitude that India loves Muslims so long as they are outside India, but insults them at home, is not tenable in a world of instant global communications. The mounting number of incidents and statements against Muslims in India was bound to attract negative attention abroad,” the former Union minister said.His remarks came in the backdrop of angry reactions from UAE royal princess, Kuwait government and other leading citizens from various Arab countries after some people blamed Muslims for spreading COVID-19 in several parts of India following a spurt in coronavirus cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamuddin here.Also, the 57-member prominent international Mulim grouping, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), recently accused India of “Islamophobia”.  Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday dismissed all such allegations and highlighted Prime Minister Modi and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s regular conversations with their counterparts from the region in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, to stress the closeness in ties.Responding to the criticism in Gulf nations and by the OIC, Tharoor said the backlash is not surprising.“While I welcome the PM’s and the Foreign Minister’s attempts at damage control, it is far more important to change the domestic reality than to issue reassuring statements,” the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said.Asked about plea by several Indians stuck in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries and his request to the prime minister and the external affairs minister to expedite their evacuation, Tharoor said every nation has a responsibility towards its citizens. He claimed that the government’s argument is that a large number of travellers from abroad would place an unsustainable degree of strain on the country’s healthcare and quarantine facilities.“If that was true 40 days ago, it is no longer true now. We must bring our own citizens back. It is not just a matter of their rights, but of what’s right – morally, emotionally and constitutionally,” the Congress leader said.Tharoor also demanded that in these difficult times of the pandemic, the Centre must give the state governments their dues.  It is shocking that GST dues have not been paid despite states, and the Congress calling for this for more than two months, he said.“Give the states their own money, so they don’t have to beg for resources to combat the virus. In addition, yes, extra support will be needed for those states facing a larger COVID-19 burden,” Tharoor said.“The ordinary people of our country also need financial help so they can help themselves. We have been calling for Rs 7,500 to be put into every Jan Dhan account. This is far from happening, several weeks after we suggested it,” he said.Asked about Kerala doing well in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and whether other states need to emulate its model, Tharoor said Kerala has been a model state in terms of its social development indicators for a long time, but the practices and systems it has built up take generations to entrench.  Kerala spends a large portion of its state resources on health care and public education, promotes literacy and women’s empowerment, and gives village-level local authorities autonomy and funds, he said.Other states should emulate it, but it will take them a long time to reorient their current practices to get there, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-muslim-incidents-bound-to-attract-negative-attention-abroad-need-to-change-domestic-reality-tharoor/story-iTKdyCotad5TsCoSlTTMsI.html
01-05-2020||India||After no Covid-19 deaths in a week, Telangana records 3 in one day||After a brief lull, Telangana witnessed a sudden spike in the Covid-19 cases, including three deaths, on Thursday night. The state was expecting that it would become coronavirus-free by the first week of May.There had been no deaths in Telangana since April 23, and the number of positive cases was also within single digits. On Thursday, however, the state reported 22 cases and three deaths – all in Hyderabad. With this addition, the overall number of Covid-19 cases in Telangana mounted to 1,038 while the total number of deaths touched 28.According to the Telangana medical and health department authorities, only people with serious co-morbid conditions are succumbing to the disease. The dead included a 48-year-old man with diabetes, hypertension, obesity and pneumonia in Ramanthapur; a 76-year-old man with chronic heart and kidney ailments and pneumonia in Vanasthalipuram; and a 44-year-old woman with blood pressure, sugar and pneumonia in Ziaguda.The health authorities discovered that the 22 new coronavirus positive cases had originated in Malakpet Gunj, a wholesale groceries market. Apparently, it originated from two workers hailing from Pahadi Shareef in the old city of Hyderabad and they are alleged to have transmitted the virus to three shop owners. All the family members of the shop owners also have tested positive.The health authorities have declared Malakpet Gunj and Pahadi Shareef areas containment zones and said strict lockdown measures would be implemented to contain further spread.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao held an emergency meeting with the officials of the health department, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and the police to discuss the steps to contain the spread of the disease.He asked health authorities to strictly implement the lockdown restrictions at all the containment zones in Hyderabad. He instructed that focus should be laid on breaking the transmission chains across the containment zones in Hyderabad. He also directed officials from different departments to put up a coordinated effort to contain Covid-19.Meanwhile, the Centre has declared six districts in Telangana – Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Suryapet, Vikarabad and Warangal (Urban) - as Red Zone districts. Similarly, in Andhra Pradesh, five districts – Kurnool, Krishna, Guntur, Nellore and Chittoor – have been declared as Red Zones.The lockdown will continue in these Red Zone districts even after May 3, when the Centre is planning to lift restrictions on certain sectors.In the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, the number of Covid-19 positive cases continue to rise. By Friday afternoon, 60 new positive cases and two more deaths were recorded in the state, taking the total number cases in the state to 1,463 and the deaths to 33.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-no-covid-19-deaths-in-a-week-telangana-records-3-in-one-day/story-aYoDAApvg14QignTZv6ojN.html
01-05-2020||India||Goa declared green zone; fight against Covid-19 far from over: CM Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that the war against Covid-19 “is far from over”, here on Friday, soon after the central government formally declared both districts of Goa as Covid-free green zones.“With the efforts of our CoronaWarriors and support of the people of Goa, our state has now been classified as a green zone by the Government of India. The war against Covid-19 is far from over,” Sawant wrote on the microblogging site--Twitter.He added that the fight must continue by adopting a modified lifestyle giving priority to “safe health norms”.“We must continue our fight against this virus by adopting a modified lifestyle which gives priority to safe health norms such as sanitization, wearing of face covers, social distancing and staying at home during the lockdown period,” he stressed.According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Goa has a total of seven positive coronavirus cases. All seven patients have recovered. A district will be considered under Green Zone, if there are no confirmed cases so far or there is no reported case since last 21 days in the district, said the Union Health Secretary, Preeti Sudan on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-declared-green-zone-fight-against-covid-19-far-from-over-cm-sawant/story-ozJexW2qBR1xQV8CXDtNxN.html
01-05-2020||India||Five more accused arrested in Palghar lynching case||Five more accused in the Palghar lynching case have been arrested, Palghar Police said on Friday.They will be presented in court today.As many as 115 people have been arrested in the case including nine minors.The case pertains to two sadhus and their driver, who were travelling from Kandivali in Mumbai to Gujarat. They were beaten to death on April 16, allegedly by villagers in Gadchinchle of Palghar, as they suspected them of being thieves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-more-accused-arrested-in-palghar-lynching-case/story-IzZo8cnalwFgFfL6SwTKsI.html
01-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Chhattisgarh CM Baghel writes to PM Modi to relax state’s credit limit||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to relax the credit limit for the state to 6 per cent as it is facing financial problems due to lockdown in place to curb the spread of coronavirus. In a letter to the prime minister, the Chhattisgarh CM also asked that the fiscal deficit of the state be kept at 5 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Producgt (GSDP) to help it arrange for more financial resources to conduct official and development works.Baghel said that due to the effective implementation of the lockdown in the state from March 22 March, all economic activities across the country including Chhattisgarh have been stopped, which has caused revenue loss to the state.“Complete lockdown has mostly affected the financially weaker section of the society, which includes daily wagers, labourers, small shopkeepers and most rural families. It is also the time for harvesting crops. Hence, farmers are harvesting crops and selling it to make both ends meet. As this section of society constitutes major part of the Chhattisgarh’s population, it is difficult for the state to take appropriate social and financial measures to bring relief to them, without the central government’s intervention,” the chief minister’s letter stated.The CM further stated that all the state departments have been allotted budget for fiscal year 2020-21 and financial resources are required for expenditures related to basic requirements.“Government of India’s Finance Ministry has approved 50% of the net credit limit which is Rs 5,375 crores to the state for taking market loans in the first nine months of this financial year. This is insufficient for the expenses in the current situation,” the letter stated. The CM in his letter claimed that as a significant decline is expected in the state’s revenue collection this year, it requires relaxation in the net credit limit and the fiscal deficit limit (3% of GSDP) for the state under the provisions of Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act. Chhattisgarh state has been strictly following financial discipline since the day of formation, and even at present, Chhattisgarh has the least loan pressure (19.2% of GSDP) and least interest payable (7.4% of total revenue collection).“During emergency or disaster, extraordinary measures are required. Hence, the state should be given relaxation in credit limit upto 6% of the GSDP. Also, state should be allowed to keep the fiscal deficit upto 5% of the GSDP. Other than the expense control being done in the state through various measures, these relaxations by Central Government would bring great relief to the state during this difficult time of pandemic. I hope that Central Government would consider these genuine demands of the state on a compassionate note, keeping in view the difficulties being faced by Chhattisgarh and the entire country because of this pandemic,” the chief minister’s letter stated.Chhattisgarh has so far reported 76 cases of Covid-19. Out of these, there are 40 active cases while 36 patients have been cured, according to the Union health ministry’s latest figures released on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-chhattisgarh-cm-baghel-writes-to-pm-modi-to-relax-state-s-credit-limit/story-IlFWpUlp83AGygzFPmYLHO.html
01-05-2020||India||India calls on G20 nations for a concrete digital action plan to fight Covid-19||A virtual G20 Digital Economy Ministers meeting was convened on Thursday to discuss the challenges posed by the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and to forge a global coordinated response harnessing digital technologies.“G20 Digital Economy Task Force Covid-19 Ministerial statement calls for a coordinated global digital response to fight the pandemic, adopting measures to strengthen communication infrastructure and network connectivity, Non-personal data exchange in a secured manner, use of digital solutions for healthcare, cyber secured world and measures to strengthen resilience of businesses,” read a statement from the Ministry of Electronics and IT.At the meeting, India was represented by Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. The meeting was also attended by Digital Ministers of 19 other G20 members, invited countries and international organisations.At the meeting, G20 Digital Ministers agreed to leverage the potential of the digital medium to contain the Covid-19 pandemic and protect people.Under the leadership of PM @narendramodi India has effectively used digital technologies to fight #COVID19. Spoke about innovations such as @SetuAarogya app, geo-fencing for quarantine management, direct benefit transfer etc. before Ministers from #G20 countriesPrasad emphasized that G20 nations have a responsibility that everything we do during and after this crisis must be with a strong focus on building more equal, inclusive and sustainable economies and societies that are more resilient in the face of the ongoing pandemic, the statement said.Highlighting the steps taken by Indian government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to contain the spread of Covid-19, Prasad also offered the roadmap for the world to emulate. At the same time he emphasized on the importance to revive the economy while continuing the fight against Covid-19.Spoke about the need for developing more resilient global supply chains which use modern innovations and are digitally connected. India is an attractive destination for businesses who are willing to set up such resilient supply chains. #G20SaudiArabia #G20He said that next phase of digitalization is about applications that will impact livelihoods, accelerate various sectors, strengthen the supply chain and build a cyber safe world.Prasad impressed upon the G20 ministers that the present situation demands greater collaboration among stakeholders for providing solutions that can address issues related to social distancing, distributed workforce and the changing nature of global supply chain.He called on the G20 to come out with a concrete digital action plan to fight the global pandemic. He highlighted the critical role of Indian IT-ITeS Industry in maintaining the global business continuity and offered India as a lucrative destination for displaced global supply chains, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-calls-on-g20-nations-for-a-concrete-digital-action-plan-to-fight-covid-19/story-YVvj4ds3u6jLDLR2aArjFM.html
01-05-2020||India||10-year-old gangraped in Bihar’s Vaishali, accused absconding||A 10-year-old girl was lured away with a promise of chocolates and allegedly raped by four men in a village in Bihar’s Vaishali district on Friday morning, police said.The four men forcibly took the girl to a maize field in the village under Goroul police station area of the district and raped her there, officials said.The girl was later found unconscious and profusely bleeding in the field by some farmers. She was rushed to the nearby community health centre from where she was referred to the Sadar Hospital for better treatment.“The girl is in deep trauma. We are waiting for her condition to improve so that we can find more details,” Nurul Haque, Mahua’s deputy superintendent of police (DSP), said. Police have registered a case against the four unidentified men based on a complaint lodged by the girl’s family. The men are on the run, officials said.The case has been registered under section 376D (gangrape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. While the forensic team has collected samples from the crime spot, local police are on the lookout for the accused.Report of crimes, especially sexual abuse, against girls and women have been on the rise in the state in the last month.A 15-year-old girl was raped by five men in Qadirganj police station area in Nawada district on April 29. Two days before that, a 16-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped for four days by two men who later abandoned her in a village in Gaya district.Siwan Police arrested four men for the alleged gang-rape of a minor under the Darauda police station area on April 12. Another minor girl was allegedly molested at Sakurabad police station area in Jehanabad district when she was returning home from a grocery shop on April 10.A woman from the Beur police station area in Patna was abducted by four men and raped on April 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-year-old-gangraped-in-bihar-s-vaishali-accused-absconding/story-gtD8iLjtpZkkeu9laCgocP.html
01-05-2020||India||Rajasthan has fewer red zone districts, 7th on nationwide list||Rajasthan now has fewer districts in the Covid-19 red zones classified by the Union health ministry, while Uttar Pradesh tops the list with 19 such districts, according to an official letter.Following the videoconference by the Cabinet secretary with chief secretaries of states on April 30, the list classifying districts as red, orange and green zones was sent to all states.Rajasthan has eight districts in the red zone, 19 in the orange zone and six in the green zone.The letter from Union health secretary Preeti Sudan, accessed by Hindustan Times, said district will be considered a green zone if it has recorded no confirmed Covid-19 cases so far, or if no cases have been reported for 21 days.According to the list, Uttar Pradesh has 19 districts in the red zone, followed by Maharashtra (14), Tamil Nadu (12), Delhi (11), West Bengal (10) and Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh (nine districts each).Of the 733 districts in the country, 130 are in the red zone, 284 in the orange zone and 319 in the green zone.In an earlier classification done on April 15, 170 districts were in the red zone, 207 districts the white zone and 353 were in the green zone. At that time, Rajasthan, with 12 hot spot districts, was among the top five states – the others were Tamil Nadu (22), Andhra Pradesh (16), Maharashtra (14) and Uttar Pradesh (13).On April 15, the Union health ministry had designated districts as hot spots or red zones, orange zones and green zones based on cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate.In the latest list, districts have been designated across the various zones by broad-basing the criteria. This classification is multi-factorial and takes into consideration incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback, officials said.According to the latest classification for Rajasthan, the districts of Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Bharatpur, Nagaur, Banswara and Jhalawar are in the red zone.Tonk, Jaisalmer, Dausa, Jhunjhunu, Hanumangarh, Bhilwara, Sawai Madhopur, Chittorgarh, Dungarpur, Udaipur, Dholpur, Sikar, Alwar, Bikaner, Churu, Pali, Barmer, Karauli and Rajsamand are in the orange zone, while Baran, Bundi, Ganganagar, Jalore, Sirohi and Pratapgarh in the green zone.“This is a dynamic list. The list will be revised on a weekly basis or earlier and communicated to states for further follow-up action in consonance with the directions issued by Ministry of Home Affairs under the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the letter said.The Union health ministry has allowed states to designate additional red or orange zones based on feedback from the field and additional analysis at the local level. “However, states may not relax the zonal classification of districts,” the letter said.The ministry added that for districts having one or more municipal corporations, the areas under these bodies and other areas of districts may be treated as separate units.“If one or more of these units have reported no cases for last 21 days, they can be considered as one level lower in zonal classification, in case the district is in Red/Orange Zone. District authorities should, however, exercise due caution in such areas so that these areas remain free from COVID19 cases,” the letter said.Public health expert Dr Virendra Singh said Rajasthan has been able to flatten the curve due to lockdown and curfew in affected areas. “The state is among the top states in terms of testing. It is continually increasing its testing capacity, targeting 10,000 tests a day from 8,000 currently. It is because of these efforts that some Rajasthan districts have transitioned from the red to orange zone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-has-fewer-red-zone-districts-7th-on-nationwide-list/story-mSle4pyxhwQGn3xquvk4rK.html
01-05-2020||India||Tripura govt to launch agri entrepreneur facilitation desk to boost economy||Tripura government has announced the launch of an agro-based entrepreneurship facilitation desk in a bid to boost primary sectors, such as agriculture, after nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were initially enforced nationwide since March 25 for 21 days and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, are lifted.“The desk will help entrepreneurs linked to agro-based businesses,” said state law minister Ratan Lal Nath on Thursday.The state cabinet has approved the setting up of the desk, which will operate from the Directorate of Horticulture and Soil Conservation in the state capital, Agartala. The desk will be manned by those who hold a masters’ degree in business administration (MBA) or an undergraduate degree in science. The state government has worked out an estimated budget of Rs 24 lakh for the exercise, including the salaries of new hires and other related official activities. The Technical Support Group Funds of the Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture will fund the project.“Agriculture is a major sector of our economy and our government is keen for its growth. There are many entrepreneurs, who want to set up agro-based industries in Tripura, but aren’t aware of state and central government’s various schemes, including the National Horticulture Board’s subsidies and incentives. This desk will provide such information,” Nath told media persons. The state government also plans to inspire youth to engage in processing and marketing of fruits such as pineapple, lemon, jackfruit, and also vegetables that are grown in abundance in Tripura in a bid to increase farmers’ income.“The government is aiming to tap around 2,000 youth, who can become an integral part of the agro-based business within a year,” he added.In early April, Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb had said that the state started working on primary sectors, including agriculture, to tackle the economic crisis triggered due to lockdown restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-govt-to-launch-agri-entrepreneur-facilitation-desk-to-boost-economy/story-ie0iYLZY5ki7e2IWN1UGTO.html
01-05-2020||India||Yes Bank fraud case: Kapil, Dheeraj Wadhawan send to CBI custody till May 8||A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Friday extended the custody of Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoters of Diwan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL) arrested in connection with Yes Bank fraud case, till May 8. The federal agency, which had filed a first information report (FIR) against the Wadhawan brothers, had arrested the brothers on April 26 and the two have been in custody since then.CBI had alleged that Yes Bank had invested Rs 3700 crore in short-term debentures in DHFL, which has not been redeemed till date, for which the Wadhawans had paid a kickback of Rs 600 crore to Rana Kapoor, the former chief executive and managing director of the private lender, in form of a loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd.It is a company registered in the name of Kapoor’s daughters.CBI officials produced the Wadhawan brothers before the court and sought further custody for a period of seven days claiming that they needed to probe the role of other directors in DHFL and also of other Yes Bank officials.The agency is looking at the role played by the other accused in the fraud and are investigating if any kickbacks were received by DHFL or Yes Bank employees. These employees will be asked to join the probe once the Covid-19 lockdown is lifted, said CBI sources.The court after considering the seriousness of the case extended the CBI custody of the two brothers to facilitate the agency in further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-fraud-case-kapil-dheeraj-wadhawan-send-to-cbi-custody-till-may-8/story-SvSyzAWvmFakGyxlb9dbrK.html
01-05-2020||India||Sending buses to get back students from Kota: Arvind Kejriwal||The Delhi government will send nearly 40 buses to Kota to get back students from the Capital stranded in the Rajasthan city because of the Covid-19 lockdown, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday.There are nearly 800 students from Delhi who are studying in Kota, a hub for coaching centres catering to engineering and medical aspirants which attracts thousands from across India.“I had been getting messages from the stranded students with appeals to get them back. My hands were tied because we did not want to take any step without the approval of the Centre. The day before yesterday, the central government approved. Today, about 40 buses are going to Kota from Delhi. Hopefully, the buses will get the children back by tomorrow,” Arvind Kejriwal said.“I am happy they will be able to meet their parents,” he said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also urged the students to remain in self-quarantine for 14 days after coming back so that they don’t end up infecting others. People have been calling and messaging, he said, with queries about people from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand who are stranded in Delhi and want to go home.“We are in touch with other state governments. We will keep you informed about the final plan to help those from other states stranded in the city,” he said.“Till then, I appeal all of you to stay at home and follow lockdown restrictions so that we defeat corona,” he added.States like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Assam and Jammu and Kashmir have brought back thousands of students from Kota amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown to curb the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sending-buses-to-get-back-students-from-kota-arvind-kejriwal/story-4Gi1pkVZRnHYKSVtw2bFoL.html
01-05-2020||India||SC seeks Delhi govt’s response on plea of Sharjeel Imam for clubbing of 5 FIRs||The Supreme Court Friday sought Delhi government’s reply on a plea by JNU student and anti-CAA activist Sharjeel Imam seeking clubbing of multiple FIRs levelling sedition charges against him for allegedly making inflammatory speeches.A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and Sanjiv Khanna, hearing the matter through video conferencing, sought response from the Delhi government within 10 days on Imam’s plea.Senior advocate Siddharth Dave, appearing for Imam, said that there are five FIRs registered against him in different states in connection with two speeches given in Delhi and in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh.The bench said that there is nothing wrong in registration of FIR by police, if they come to know about some cognizable offence. Dave referred to the recent order of the apex court in the case of senior journalist Arnab Goswami in which court had stayed the multiple FIRs against him except for one and said that similar relief can be granted to him.He said that FIRs are lodged against Imam in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh and he has been booked under sedition charges. Recently, Delhi Police has booked Imam under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), he said. The bench asked Dave to serve the copy of petition on the standing counsel of Delhi government and posted the matter for further hearing after 10 days.Imam in his plea had sought clubbing of all five FIRs lodged in different states and transferring them to Delhi for probe by a single agency.On April 24, the top court had stayed three FIRs and 11 complaints except for one lodged in different states against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami over his alleged defamatory statements against Congress Chief Sonia Gandhi during news shows on the recent Palghar lynching incident in Maharashtra.On January 28, Imam was arrested by Delhi Police’s crime branch from Bihar’s Jehanabad in a sedition case for allegedly making inflammatory speeches in Jamia Milia Islamia and Aligarh.The PhD student at the Jawaharlal Nehru University’s (JNU) Centre for Historical Studies has been booked on sedition and other charges after purported videos of his alleged inflammatory speeches made during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) were circulated on social media.An FIR was registered against him by Delhi Police on January 25 under IPC sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A (promoting or attempting to promote disharmony or feelings of enmity on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, caste or community or any other ground whatsoever) among others.“Two videos came to light, one was on December 13 at Jamia Milia Islamia and other was on January 16 at Aligarh, where it was noticed that Imam had delivered very inflammatory speeches in opposition to the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens and such comments can potentially affect religious harmony and weaken the unity and integrity of the country,” police had said. A graduate in computer science from IIT-Mumbai, Imam had shifted to Delhi for pursuing research at the Centre for Historical Studies at the JNU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-delhi-govt-s-response-on-plea-of-sharjeel-imam-for-clubbing-of-5-firs/story-C87sze6hgkbNFhIwYZeXcJ.html
01-05-2020||India||Plasma therapy results encouraging, will continue it on trial basis: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday plasma therapy, administered to a few Covid-19 patients on a trial basis, have shown encouraging results in the initial stage and will be continued in the national capital.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said one of the first patients to be administered the experimental plasma therapy in the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital has been cured and sent home.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here LNJP Hospital is one of the medical facilities which has been permitted to use plasma therapy, increasingly being seen as a magic bullet to cure critically ill Covid-19 patients, on a trial basis.“The first patient, who was critical and in ICU, was discharged yesterday because of plasma therapy,” Kejriwal said. The Union health ministry had said earlier this week that plasma therapy should only be done as a trial, and with all requisite approvals and not as a regular line of treatment.The therapy involves transfusion of antibody-rich plasma, a component of blood, from recovered patients of Covid-19 into those who are critically ill with the disease.Also read: High load of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, all its districts in red zone’, says health ministryArvind Kejriwal pointed out that the Centre has said only those who have been allowed to work with the therapy should continue administering it on a trial basis. There should be no confusion, he added.“The initial results are positive and we hope it will continue that way so that we get a solution,” he said.The chief minister said around 1100 people who have cured have been contacted for plasma donation and most of them are willing to donate to help cure other Covid-19 patients.“I thank all those who have recovered and donating their plasma,” he said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Kejriwal also urged this AAP’s workers to help the needy people in their respective areas.He said Delhi’s tally of the Covid-19 tally has gone up to 3515 with 2362 active cases and 59 fatalities so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-results-encouraging-will-continue-it-on-trial-basis-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-E8cE4ge39Mj4d76nll0wLK.html
01-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh purchased highest value of minor forest produce in country amid lockdown||Chhattisgarh government has announced that it has topped the country in the purchase of minor forest produces (MFP) worth over Rs 18.63 crore from the state’s forest dwellers and tribal villagers amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The government has procured the MFP under the minimum support price (MSP) scheme.The government officials quoted the data, released by the Central government-run Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (TRIFED), to highlight that Chhattisgarh’s purchase has been the highest in the country to alleviate the plight of the state’s poor forest dwellers and tribal villagers, who are dependent on the MFP for their livelihood.“Besides Chhattisgarh, only two other states, Jharkhand and Odisha, have started procurement of minor forest produces. According to the TRIFED data, MFP worth Rs 18.67 crore has been purchased in the country so far, out of which MFP worth Rs 18.63 crore has been purchased by Chhattisgarh alone,” a state government press release stated.Jharkhand and Odisha have purchased MFP worth Rs 3.39 lakh and Rs 5,000, respectively, it added.The officials said the MFP procurement has been on an upswing in the state.“The latest data of the state government has shown that 72,727 quintals of minor forest produces worth about Rs 21 crore have been bought from 1,32, 272 collectors in Chhattisgarh this season. This has brought a lot of relief to forest dwellers and tribal villagers because of the state government’s MSP scheme and cash payment process amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The employment opportunities for forest produce collectors have also increased due to government support,” the release stated.The erstwhile Raman Singh-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state had made seven MFP purchases between 2015 and 2018, but the ruling Bhupesh Baghel-led Congress government has increased the frequency to 23, the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-purchased-highest-value-of-minor-forest-produce-in-country-amid-lockdown/story-qmYJv7GikWhtHRcueysP2H.html
01-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Indian-American Aruna Subramanian leading trial of remdesivir in Covid-19 treatment and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Indian-American Aruna Subramanian leading trial of remdesivir in Covid-19 treatmentThe third phase of clinical trial of the antiviral drug remdesivir for the treatment of the coronavirus patients has shown positive results, American pharmaceutical company Gilead Sciences has said. The trial is led by a group of researchers, including Indian-American physician Aruna Subramanian.Read More First special train to ferry migrants stranded in Covid-19 lockdown begins journeyThe ministry of railways deployed the first special train to ferry stranded migrant labourers on Friday, carrying over 1,000 people from Telangana to Jharkhand in 22 coaches. A South Central Railway spokesperson said a “one-off special train” was run early in the morning on the request of the Telangana government.Read MoreElection Commission decides to hold polls to Maharashtra Legislative Council on May 21The Election Commission of India will hold elections for the nine vacant seats in the Maharashtra Legislative Council, the upper house of the state assembly, on May 21, poll officials said on Friday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray needs to be elected from one of the nine seats by May 28 to retain his post at the helm of the state. Read MoreEnded up shouting at Laxman: When Sachin lost his cool in desert storm ODI22 years since that fateful day in Sharjah, Sachin narrated how his screams at teammate VVS Laxman during the chase did not go down well with his brother.Read MoreIrrfan Khan’s wife Sutapa pens heartfelt open letter: ‘It’s magical, whether he is there or not there’Irrfan Khan’s wife Sutapa Sikdar has finally opened up the journey of her husband over the last two-and-a-half years as he battled neuroendocrine tumour with determination. She shared a statement on the behalf of her two sons -- Ayan and Babil -- and herself but said she cannot call Irrfan’s death a ‘personal loss’ as so many mourn with them. Read MoreMaruti Suzuki sales down to nil in April as lockdown hurts auto sectorMaruti Suzuki, in a historic first, sold no cars in April as the entire month saw the country under a lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19. With factories closed, showrooms shut and people staying at home, the country’s largest car maker, on expected lines, had nothing to show in terms of sales for the entire month.Read More‘Ration dukaan’ to ‘how to WFH’: Here’s what India is searching for on GoogleEveryone’s turning to tools and services available online as the lockdown keeps people home. Google has also been releasing Search trends which show some interesting results. There’s a new report about what people in India are searching for based on the top five trends. What are these trends?Read More When Sabyasachi Mukherjee sold his first jewellery designs for Rs 45Since the government-mandated lockdown on account of the coronavirus pandemic has been imposed, Sabyasachi has taken to his Instagram to share anecdotes and insights into the making of the most coveted designer in India. Read here about his latest anecdoteDoctor returns home after 20 days of Covid-19 duty, gets hero’s welcome. PM Modi tweets videoA doctor fighting on the frontlines against coronavirus got a hero’s welcome when she returned home after 20 days of Covid-19 duty. A video of the incident, posted on Twitter, impressed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal along with thousands others on the platform.Read MoreSSC updates on exam, results now available on UMANG appWhen India is staring at the nationwide coronavirus lockdown, the Staff Selection Commission (SSC) on Thursday released an official notice regarding the Unified Mobile Application for New-age Governance (UMANG) app of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY). Read MoreBritish PM Boris Johnson joins UK clap, thanks ‘fantastic NHS & carers’Recently-recovered British PM Boris Johnson clapped for hospital staff and care workers. Johnson joined the UK clap to thank frontline coronavirus fighters. he British PM appeared on the doorstep of his 10 Downing Street office in central London and clapped for ‘fantastic NHS and carers’. Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-indian-american-aruna-subramanian-leading-trial-of-remdesivir-in-covid-19-treatment-and-all-the-latest-news/story-SIEk2duC9Q5JhUQ7aUf9QP.html
01-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Full list of red, orange and green zones in Uttar Pradesh||The Centre has finalised the criteria for delimitation of various zones after May 3. It has identified at least 130 districts as red zones, 284 orange zones and 319 green zones.According to a letter written by Health Secretary Preeti Sudan to the chief secretaries of all states and union territories, all the states have to delineate the containment areas and buffer zones in the identified red and orange zone districts and notify the same.Uttar Pradesh has 19 red zones, 36 orange zones and 20 green zones. The Gutam buddha Nagar in Uttar Pradesh has been identified as a red zone district while, Ghaziabad has been designated as an orange zone.Here is the list of red, orange and green zones in Uttar Pradesh:Red Zones:AgraLucknowSaharanpurKanpur NagarMoradabadFirozabadGautam Buddha NagarBulandshahrMeerutRae BareliVaranasiBijnorAmrohaSant Kabir NagarAligarhMuzaffarnagarRampurMathuraBareillyOrange Zones:GhaziabadHapurBaghpatBastiBudaunSambhalAuraiyaShamliSitapurBahraichKannaujAzamgarhMainpuriShravastiBandaJaunpurEtahKasganjSultanpurPrayagrajJalaunMirzapurEtawahPratapgarhGhazipurGondaMauBhadohiUnnaoPilibhitBalrampurAyodhyaGorakhpurJhansiHardoiKaushambiGreen Zones:BarabankiKheriHathrasMaharajganjShahjahanpurAmbedkar NagarBalliaChandauliChitrakootDeoriaFarrukhabadFatehpurHamirpurKanpur DehatKushi NagarLalitpurMahobaSiddharth NagarSonbhadraAmethi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-full-list-of-red-orange-and-green-zones-in-uttar-pradesh/story-ANo48kRgFL5X7l1bwjfnTI.html
01-05-2020||India||PM Modi meets ministers to firm up lockdown-exit strategy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi met his ministers this morning to firm up a post-lockdown strategy as the nationwide shutdown is set to end this Sunday.Home minister Amit Shah, railway minister Piyush Goyal and aviation minister Hardeep Puri were among those who attended the meeting.On Thursday, PM Modi held a “comprehensive” meeting to discuss strategies to boost the economy, with an eye on enhancing investment. In a statement, the Prime Minister’s Office said that the meeting discussed strategies “to attract more foreign investments into India as well as to promote local investments in order to give a boost to the economy against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic”.Also Watch | PM Modi discusses lockdown exit strategy with CMs: All the key details The ministry of home affairs has allowed states to bring home stranded students, tourists and migrant workers. The states have begun the work to bring the stranded people home. The railways deployed the first special train to ferry stranded migrant labourers on Friday, carrying over 1,000 people from Telangana to Jharkhand.Once restrictions on passenger flights are lifted, airports will facilitate limited domestic and international scheduled flights in phases and may be at 30% capacity to facilitate social distancing, the Airport Authority of India stated in a set of guidelines for resumption of service post-lockdown on Thursday.Strict social distancing norms will be introduced inside the planes to ensure space between two passengers, Hindustan Times had reported on April 9. According to the SOP, passenger seating arrangement shall be done in such a manner so as to maintain social distancing (1- 1.5 m) among passengers using the chairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meets-ministers-to-firm-up-lockdown-exit-strategy/story-Q19lAGjnlYybvJ40oq2yJK.html
01-05-2020||India||Bengal sees sharp rise in number of red zones, total tally now at 10||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tentacles are fast spreading in West Bengal, according to the latest figures released by the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW).Bengal, which had only four districts under the Red Zone category till Wednesday, included six more to the tally on Thursday and now 10 districts have been tagged in the high-risk category, the latest MoH&FW figures showed.Earlier, four districts – Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, Howrah, and East Midnapore -- were tagged as Red Zones.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here On Thursday, South 24 Parganas, West Midnapore, Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Kalimpong, and Malda joined the country’s 130 Red Zone districts.The number of containment zones in Kolkata and its surrounding areas has also gone up over the past few days. Earlier, Kolkata had 227 containment zones, but Thursday’s tally showed 264.In the adjoining Howrah district, there are now 72 containment zones up from 56, while the corresponding figure for North 24 Parganas is 70 from 57. The overall tally for containment zones in the state stands at 444.“Of the 37 new Covid-19 positive cases that were reported between Wednesday and Thursday, 80% of them were registered in Kolkata, Howrah and North 24 Parganas districts,” said Rajiva Sinha, chief secretary, West Bengal.The MoH&FW figures showed that Bengal reported 795 Covid-19 positive cases till Thursday, of which 139 have recovered so far.Also read: PM Modi meets ministers to firm up lockdown-exit strategyThe state government, which drew flak for its alleged abysmal rate of Covid-19 testing rate, is conducting tests across 14 facilities and around 1,900 swab samples are being tested daily. In early April, only 200 swab samples were tested daily.Full list of Covid-19 red zones: How the states stack upTill Thursday, 105 Covid-19 patients have died in the state, of which SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, claimed 33 lives and the rest 72 due to co-morbid conditions, the chief secretary added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-sees-sharp-rise-in-number-of-red-zones-total-tally-now-at-10/story-s2L2qCFkfuhFNbA2IZlzDO.html
01-05-2020||India||Covid-19: 130 red zones, 284 orange zones, 319 green zones in new govt list||In just two weeks, India has managed to reduce its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spots, or red zones, from 170 to 130 districts, according to a revised list of issued to states by the Union health ministry on Thursday.All major metropolitan cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad, however, are now in red zones as these have been reporting high caseloads and clusters of cases.The zones have been divided on the basis of areas: red zones are those where the numbers of Covid-19 infections are high; orange zones have fewer cases; and the green zones are those where no cases have been reported so far or where no case has been detected in the last 21 days.The number of orange zones has gone up to 284 from the earlier 207 districts. The number of green zones has seen a drop from 353 to the current 319, implying some district where there were no cases earlier might have reported cases. Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra have the highest number of red zones at 19 and 14 respectively, followed by Tamil Nadu at 12. All of Delhi’s 11 districts are red zones.Also, Faridabad, Gautam Buddha Nagar and Meerut have been classified as red zones, while Gurugram and Ghaziabad are designated as orange zones.“The ministry has been regularly revising the situation on the basis of feedback it receives from ground. It is an evolving situation, and we are closely monitoring even till the block level. The IDSP units are active on ground, and generating data on a daily basis. The measures will have to continue till all red zones are converted to orange zones and then green ones,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting not to be identified.The ministry has clarified that they have also revised the criteria for designating zones.“The districts were earlier designated as hotspots / red-zones, orange zones and green zones primarily based on the cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate. Since recovery rates have gone up, the districts are now being designated across various zones duly broad-basing the criteria. This classification is multi-factorial and takes into consideration incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback to classify the districts. A district will be considered under green zone, if there are no confirmed cases so far or there is no reported case since last 21 days in the district.”“It is important to ensure that we identify pockets of critical interventions for a focused management of Covid-19 at the field level, said health secretary Preeti Sudan in a letter to States.In all containment areas, stringent perimeter control and measures such as establishing clear entry and exit points, no movement except for medical emergencies and essential goods and services, no unchecked influx of population, active search for cases through house to house surveillance, testing of all cases, contact tracing and clinical management of all confirmed cases, is to be done.In buffer zones, extensive surveillance for cases through monitoring of cases of influenza-like illnesses and severe acute respiratory infections in hospitals and health centres will be conducted.“It is further highlighted that based on field feedback and additional analysis at state level, states may designate additional red or orange zones as appropriate. However, states may not relax the zonal classification of districts classified as red/orange as communicated by the ministry,” the letter further reads.“It is critical to ensure that necessary action for containment so as to break the chain of transmission of virus is initiated in both red and orange zone districts reporting confirmed cases.”Infectious disease experts say that lockdown has help and now is the time to consolidate the gains.“It is useful if we are to utilize the time gained in identifying infected individuals isolating them, tracing contacts and quarantining them to interrupt the chain of transmission. We should be able to identify cluster transmission as people are confined to homes. Mathematical models have shown how extended periods of lockdown can decrease the peak. But if infected individuals are not identified and contained, then as soon as the lockdown is lifted, there would be a spurt of cases,” said Dr Lalit Kant, infectious disease specialist and former head of the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/130-red-zones-284-orange-zones-319-green-zones-in-new-covid-19-list/story-mL5pLCugjYMXdxA7AZzecM.html
01-05-2020||India||Full list of Covid-19 red zones: How the states stack up||The Union health ministry on Thursday released an updated list of red, orange and green zones in the country, based on the spread of coronavirus and emrgence of new cases in that particular area.According to Centre’s guidelines, districts with high load of coronavirus cases or which have a high growth rate of the disease are classified under red zones, while those with considerably fewer cases of the respiratory infection fall in orange zones.Districts with no coronavirus cases are categorised as green zones.There are 130 red zones, 284 orange zones and 319 green zones across the country, as per the revised list released by the Centre.Here is a statewise list of all the red zones in the country:Andaman And Nicobar Islands:South AndamansAndhra Pradesh:KurnoolGunturKrishnaChittoorSpsr NelloreBihar:MungerPatnaRohtasBuxarGayaChandigarh:ChandigarhChhattisgarh:RaipurDelhi:South East districtCentral districtNorth districtSouth districtNorth East districtWest districtShahdara districtEast districtNew Delhi districtNorth West districtSouth West districtGujarat:AhmedabadSuratVadodaraAnandBanas KanthaPanch MahalsBhavnagarGandhinagarArvalliHaryana:SonipatFaridabadJammu and Kashmir:BandiporaShopianAnantnagSrinagarJharkhand:RanchiKarnataka:Bengaluru UrbanMysuruBengaluru RuralMadhya Pradesh:IndoreBhopalUjjainJabalpurDharBarwaniEast NimarDewasGwaliorMaharashtra:MumbaiPuneThaneNashikPalgharNagpurSolapurYavatmalAurangabadSataraDhuleAkolaJalgaonMumbai SuburbanOdisha:JajpurBhadrakBaleshwarPunjab:JalandharPatialaLudhianaRajasthan:JaipurJodhpurKotaAjmerBharatpurNagaurBanswaraJhalawarTamil Nadu:ChennaiMaduraiNamakkalThanjavurChengalpattuThiruvallurTiruppurRanipetVirudhunagarThiruvarurVelloreKanchipuramTelangana:HyderabadSuryapetRanga ReddyMedchal MalkajgiriVikarabadWarangal UrbanUttar Pradesh:AgraLucknowSaharanpurKanpur NagarMoradabadFirozabadGautam Buddha NagarBulandshahrMeerutRae BareliVaranasiBijnorAmrohaSant Kabir NagarAligarhMuzaffarnagarRampurMathuraBareillyUttarakhand:HaridwarWest Bengal:KolkataHowrah24 Paraganas North24 Paraganas SouthMedinipur WestMedinipur EastDarjeelingJalpaiguriKalimpongMaldah||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-list-of-covid-19-red-zones-how-the-states-stack-up/story-KGMPX3Dgx1s9icdgPHQVlM.html
01-05-2020||India||After bringing friend’s body from Chennai, man donates reward money to CMRF for Covid-19 fight||He travelled over 3,000 km to bring his friends body from Chennai to Mizoram, and now he has donated the money he received as reward to the Chief Ministers Relief Fund (CMRF) to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Twenty-three-year-old Raphael AVL Malchhanhima, a native of Hmawngbu village in Mizorams southernmost Lawngtlai district, on Thursday donated Rs 5,000 to the CMRF.Mizoram Chief minister Zoramthanga hailed the youth as a hero for his noble deeds.“Faith in humanity just got restored again! After his selfless and heroic act of accompanying the mortal remain of his friend for more than 3000 km, Raphael AVL Malchhanhima donated Rs 5000 to the CM Relief Fund from a Govt. designated Quarantine Centre,” he tweeted.Malchhanhima said he had contributed in his own small way as he was aware of the hardship being faced by the people of his state.“I know my state is currently grappling with the crisis that has caused people immense hardship. I am a man of limited means and there is very little that I can do for my state. I have donated Rs 5,000 for the war against the coronavirus,” Malchhanhima told PTI.After completing his formal education up to class 10, he works at a Chennai hotel to supplement the familys income.His father is a missionary under Mizoram synod of the Presbyterian Church of India.Malchhanhima is currently quarantined at a state facility in Aizawl.“I am spending good time here. The government is providing us all it can. I am happy with the care it is giving us,” he said.He urged others to also contribute to the CMRF, no matter how small the amount is.Malchhanhima had brought home the mortal remains of his close friend Vivian Lalremsanga (28), who died of cardiac arrest in Chennai, along with two Samaritans--Jeyantjiran and Chinnathambi-- the ambulance drivers, after a back-breaking four-day journey.Kima Ralte, a delivery boy, also won praise from the chief minister for donating Rs 100 from his savings to the CMRF to fight the pandemic.“When it comes to questioning the love you have for your state; Kima Ralte comes second to none,” Zoramthaga hailed Ralte in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bringing-friend-s-body-from-chennai-man-donates-reward-money-to-cmrf-for-covid-19-fight/story-aF1dyu725bzmsAuYKTuWII.html
01-05-2020||India||All metro cities under Covid-19 red zones in revised list released by Centre||The central government has designated all the major metro cities - Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad - as red zones in a revised list shared on Thursday.The categorisation in red zone is the most stringent, and is comprised of containment zones.According to Centre’s guidelines, districts with high load of coronavirus cases or which have a high growth rate of the disease are classified under red zones, while those with considerably fewer cases of the respiratory infection fall in orange zones. Also Watch | Vikram Chandra discusses Covid-19 testing pace & other top storiesDistricts with no coronavirus cases are categorised as green zones.The Centre has said that necessary action should be initiated in red zones as part of containment action plan, which includes stringent perimetre control, active search for cases, testing of all cases, contact tracing and clinical management of all confirmed cases.“It is critical to ensure that necessary action for containment so as to break the chain of teansmission of virus is initiated in both red and orange zone districts reporting confirmed cases,” the order from Union health ministry said.In urban districts, containment zones will be demarcated on the basis of residential colony, mohallas, municipal wards, police-station area, municipal zones, or towns. In rural areas, these zones will be based on villages, clusters of villages, gram panchayats, among others, the health ministry order said.There are 130 red zones, 284 orange zones and 319 green zones across the country, as per the revised list released by the Centre.Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra have the highest number of red zones at 19 and 14 respectively, followed by Tamil Nadu at 12. All 11 districts of Delhi have also been marked as red zones.In fact, the National Capital Region (NCR) has a large number of hostpots or ‘red zones’. These include Faridabad, Sonipat, and Noida (Gautam Buddh Nagar).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-metro-cities-under-covid-19-red-zones-in-revised-list-released-by-centre/story-AjeYOzmoINTtj3878EZJVO.html
01-05-2020||India||Fearing for the worst, Maha govt identifies Covid-dedicated hospitals with isolation beds||Maharashtra, which tops the list as the worst-affected coronavirus disease (Covid-19) state in the country with over 10,000 positive cases, is preparing for a spike in the viral outbreak and has identified 1,677 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals that have 1,76,357 isolated beds, state health department officials said.A dedicated Covid-19 hospital is a facility for those, who have been clinically diagnosed as mild cases. Each centre will have a dedicated basic life support ambulance equipped with staff available on a 24x7 basis in line with the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that these centres have been set up as a part of the preparations to deal with any emergency situation because of the Covid-19 outbreak.“We’ve 1,677 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals that have 1,76,357 isolated beds. There are also 7,248 beds in intensive care units (ICUs). We’ve around 3,000 ventilators, around 80,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and 2.82 lakh N-95 masks,” he said.On Thursday, Maharashtra topped the 10,000-mark, as 583 new Covid-19 cases were reported. The overall state tally was 10,498 and 459 deaths.Mumbai, the worst-hit city in the country, reported 417 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, as the total count stood at 7,061 and 290 deaths. The city has 1,459 active containment zones, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities. However, the civic body has removed 331 containment zones from its list after they completed the mandatory 14-day quarantine period.The officials are still claiming that the situation is still under control, as most of the new cases have been reported from traced contacts.Maharashtra has 733 active containment zones, the officials said. Around 10,092 survey teams, comprising doctors and paramedical staff, have screened over 42.11 lakh people so far. While, 10,695 suspected patients have been kept at institutional quarantine facilities, and 1,68,266 are home quarantined, they added.On Thursday, the state government issued an order that no hospital can turn away any patient without examination in any circumstances. The order, which comes into effect from Saturday, was issued after several complaints came to the notice of the authorities that many hospitals are denying admission to patients.The hospitals have been warned of strict action for breach of government directives. The government has ordered that any patient, Covid-19 or non-Covid-19, entering hospital premises for treatment should be attended to immediately. The patient can be shifted or admitted after the check-up is conducted, the order added.The state government has also eased ongoing lockdown restrictions, which are in place till May 3 to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak, by relaxing some norms such as allowing interstate travel from Saturday for stranded workers, students, and pilgrims.“All those stranded, including migrants, pilgrims, and students, will be allowed to travel with prior written permission in a prescribed format,’’ said state home minister Anil Deshmukh.District collectors and the directors of the state disaster management unit have been empowered to grant permission for interstate travel for the stranded people, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fearing-for-the-worst-maha-govt-identifies-covid-dedicated-hospitals-with-isolation-beds/story-U1rEhYsSFmiFZ3GdxEUlfI.html
01-05-2020||India||Central Vista panel gives nod for project as external members raise concerns||The Central Vista Committee, a special advisory group for the controversial project, has given its nod for the new Parliament building even as a request from the panel’s external members for postponement of a meeting wasn’t considered on grounds of national interest.The fifth meeting, chaired by the CVC on April 23 via video conference, was attended by government officials, including five members from the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), two from HCP design, the firm chosen for designing the project, and one member each from the housing and urban affairs ministry, the environment ministry, the town and country planning organisation, and the Delhi Development Authority.The minutes of the meeting issued on Thursday said a request from the external members to put off the meeting because of the Covid-19 lockdown was overruled in view of the project’s importance for the national interest.“It is placed for record herewith that some members, through email, expressed their inability to join the meeting on the grounds of travel restrictions in view of Covid-19 and owing to lack of technical capacity at their end to join online web-based conference facility,” the minutes said.“Also submitted that being senior citizens and also on medical grounds they are house bound due to lockdown in place in Delhi. In view of the above they requested postponement of the meeting. However, keeping in view the importance of the project in nation’s interest and time scale for its implementation, the meeting was held as per issued meeting notice.”The minutes further stated there was “no objection” from the Chief Vigilance Commissioner (CVC), with suggestions that features of the proposed Parliament building be in sync with the existing Parliament.Balbir Verma, a member of the Indian Institute of Architects (IIA), said: “They went ahead without any external member in attendance. It includes two members from the Institute of Town Planners (ITP) and two from the Indian Institute of Architects (IIA). Only government officials were there.“This is clearly a conflict of interest. Even the Supreme Court on Thursday said ‘there is no hurry to hear the matter on Central Vista’. Then what was the urgency in holding this meeting despite our requests to postpone it? We had several concerns, we had informed adequate arrangements should be made for us to attend but we got a notice on April 21 that the meeting will be held.”Verma added, “A project of this magnitude must be heard by all parties of the committee. The party involved in its implementation and sanctioning it cannot be the only one to clear it, which is why external members are formed, otherwise it is a conflict of interest. The advisory group was formed in 1962 to advise on projects of this magnitude. People must be present to provide their suggestions or objections.”The environment nod for the project is still awaited. The Centre has sent a revised application for environment clearance for the new Parliament building to the environment ministry, after the issue was deferred last month by the expert appraisal committee (EAC) on infrastructure, Hindustan Times had reported on April 13.The EAC held a meeting on April 22.In an application, the Union housing and urban affairs ministry’s construction arm, the CPWD, said the project cost for the new Parliament building has increased from Rs 776 crore to Rs 922 crore “due to changes in specifications which have been approved after the application submission”.Hindustan Times had also reported on March 9 that the Centre’s original application for environmental clearance for the new Parliament complex had been deferred by the Union environment ministry.The EAC on infrastructure had met on February 25 to review the CPWD’s proposal seeking green clearance for the building. The EAC cited pending court cases related to the project as one of the reasons for deferring the application.The EAC also noted the project would provide a “larger Parliament building for the nation for better functioning of the legislature” but added the CPWD needs to meet a slew of conditions before the proposal could be reconsidered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-panel-gives-nod-for-project-as-external-members-raise-concerns/story-UyTKrarAymPVVAva1gAuwM.html
01-05-2020||India||Indian-American Aruna Subramanian leading trial of remdesivir in Covid-19 treatment||The third phase of clinical trial of the antiviral drug remdesivir for the treatment of the coronavirus patients has shown positive results, American pharmaceutical company Gilead Sciences has said. The trial is led by a group of researchers, including Indian-American physician Aruna Subramanian.It was found that coronavirus patients receiving a 10-day treatment course of remdesivir achieved similar improvement in clinical status when compared to those taking a 5-day treatment course.“These data are encouraging as they indicate that patients who received a shorter, 5-day course of remdesivir experienced similar clinical improvement as patients who received a 10-day treatment course,” news agency PTI quoted Subramanian as saying, She is the MD, Clinical Professor of Medicine, Chief, Immunocompromised Host Infectious Diseases, Stanford University School of Medicine, and one of the lead investigators of the study.“While additional data are still needed, these results help to bring a clearer understanding of how treatment with remdesivir may be optimised, if proven safe and effective,” Subramanian said.The California-based pharma company on Wednesday said that the preliminary results showed that 50 per cent of the Covid-19 patients treated with a five-day dosage of remdesivir improved and more than half were discharged from the hospital within two weeks.The effectiveness of the drug was measured in terms of clinical improvement reported in patients ranging from improvement in breathing, increased level of oxygen support to hospital discharge.A phase three clinical trial is said to be the final step in the process of the drug approval.In an earlier interview to Stanford Medicine, Subramanian said that during normal times, a phase three clinical trial typically takes months of planning, after years of research before it is underway.“But these aren’t normal times. With a fast-moving pandemic bearing down and no approved treatments available, researchers are, like everyone else, desperate for answers, and they have ramped up their efforts to find solutions. Remdesivir jumped to the top of the list of potential treatments in part because it was farthest along in the approval process,” Subramanian said.A coronavirus infection occurs when the germ enters the body’s airways through the nose, mouth or eyes, then lodges in the cells in the lining of the lung’s airways, where it quickly starts to make millions of copies of itself, wreaking havoc on the lungs.Remdesivir, like other anti-virals, is designed to target the system the virus uses to replicate, acting as a cap that prevents the virus from making new copies of itself or infecting other cells, she said.Remdesivir is not yet licensed or approved anywhere globally and has not been demonstrated to be safe or effective for the treatment of the Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-american-aruna-subramanian-leading-trial-of-remdesivir-in-covid-19-treatment/story-wXaZFenRSr0E85PkDk4xVO.html
01-05-2020||India||Special train to ferry migrants stranded in Covid-19 lockdown begins journey||The ministry of railways deployed a special train to ferry stranded migrant labourers on Friday, carrying over 1,000 people from Telangana to Jharkhand in 22 coaches.South Central Railway chief spokesperson Ch Rakesh said a “one-off special train” was run early in the morning on the request of the Telangana government. “It is a one-of-its-kind special train. There are no directions from the ministry for running additional trains, at least for now,” he said.Railway Protection Force director general Arun Kumar told Hindustan Times: “The train is ferrying nearly 1,200 migrants...The train left from Lingampalli in Telangana to Hatia in Jharkhand at 4:50 am today.” He added that a decision on more such trains could be taken later on Friday.  Also Watch | Sick mother, 1-yr-old baby, children at home: Why migrants are desperateThe Centre has been under pressure from states for deploying special trains to ferry migrants and students stranded across the nation due to the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The recent home ministry guidelines on interstate travel permit movement by buses, on road.Officials said the train to Jharkhand did not have any stoppages. “It has in all 22 coaches including sleeper and general compartments,” Rakesh said. Officials also said necessary precautions, such as screening of passengers, and maintaining social distancing at station and in the train were followed.The 1,200 migrant workers, all residents of Jharkhand, were stranded at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Hyderabad campus at Kandi in Sangareddy district due to the lockdown.Rakesh said no public announcement was made on the running of the special train, since it could have triggered a chaos with thousands assembling at railway stations in anticipation of more such trains.“The railway authorities were in touch with the nodal officers of the Telangana government who made arrangements for shifting of the migrant labourers to Lingampalli,” he said.An official in the Telangana government, who did not want to be named, said the 1,200 migrant labourers were taken from the IIT campus on the outskirts of Hyderabad to the railway station in 57 buses early in the morning. Officials made arrangements for their food and drinking water.On Wednesday, hundreds of migrant workers --- mostly from Jharkhand and Bihar --- frustrated with prolonged lockdown and non-payment of wages by contractors despite repeated requests, went on the rampage and attacked the police with sticks and stones at the IIT campus.The situation was brought under control with the intervention of Sangareddy district authorities who assured to send them back to their native places at the earliest.According to state estimates, about 10 million migrant labourers are stranded across the country. The movement of these workers alone is estimated to require 500,000 buses if the Centre’s social distancing norms are strictly enforced and they are transported around the same time.Opposition-ruled states such as Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Kerala have asked the Centre to deploy special trains. So has Bihar, where the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Janata Dal (United) are in the ruling coalition.Passenger trains have been suspended since March 22; the Centre has allowed freight and special parcel trains for the supply of essentials. The Centre also allowed special trains for Indian Army personnel, citing national security consideration. Military specials trains have been deployed since April 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-special-train-to-ferry-migrants-stuck-covid-19-lockdown-begins-journey/story-67MTgAJkQFOk2f0awm9t0L.html
01-05-2020||India||Centre releases revised list of Covid-19 red zones, Jharkhand has only 1||The Centre on Thursday released a revised list of classification of areas based on the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. While all the districts of national capital Delhi is under red zone, Jharkhand has only one - capital Ranchi.The Union health ministry said that entire Delhi has a high load of coronavirus cases. With 76 fresh infections, the total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi rose to 3,515 on Thursday. Three deaths were also reported taking the fatalities to 59, according to a health bulletin.The Delhi government ordered screening of all people living in Covid-19 containment zones at least thrice within 14 days of identifying such areas.According to Centre’s guidelines, districts with high load of coronavirus cases or which have a high growth rate of the disease are classified under red zones, while those with considerably fewer cases of the respiratory infection fall in orange zones.Districts with no coronavirus cases are categorised as green zones.There are 130 red zones, 284 orange zones and 319 green zones across the country, as per the revised list released by the Centre.A containment zone is delineated based on mapping of cases and their contacts, geographical dispersion and cases and contacts and a well demarcated preimetre, according to Centre’s guidelines.The Centre has said that necessary action should be initiated in these areas as part of containment action plan, which includes stringent perimetre control, active search for cases, testing of all cases, contact tracing and clinical management of all confirmed cases.Meanwhile, in Jharkhand, only Ranchi has been designated as red zone while nine other districts are under orange zone classification.The rest 14 districts are in the green zone.Ranchi accounts for 80 out of a total of 110 Covid-19 cases in the state. Two out of the three deaths due to the infection have taken place in the district.The Hindpiri locality in Ranchi is worst affected by the virus.Maharashtra, the state worst affected by the coronavirus pandemic, has 14 red zones, 16 orange and six green zones.The number of Covid-19 cases in the state crossed the 10,000-mark on Friday, according to Union health ministry.Gujarat, the second worst-hit state after Maharashtra, has nine red zones, 19 orange zones and five green zones. The number of red zones in Uttar Pradesh are 19 and Tamil Nadu 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-revised-list-of-covid-19-red-zones-jharkhand-has-only-1/story-4nie78fodDky8hFghKzNcJ.html
01-05-2020||India||Andhra farmers rise above personal financial constraints, help needy migrants||Several small and marginal farmers of Andhra Pradesh’s (AP) Anantpur district have risen above their personal financial constraints and joined hands to help the poor and needy stranded migrant workers. Anantpur, which is one of the worst-affected districts in AP and has 10 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) red zones, has reported 61 positive cases and four deaths to date.The poor farmers from this perennially-drought-stricken district, however, are pulling out all stops to help the stranded migrant workers, who are staying in relief camps and shelter homes. The farmers, largely from the district’s Kalyanadurgam area that is located adjacent to neighbouring Karnataka, are pooling in their meagre resources and supplying groceries, vegetables and fruits for the migrants.K Chandra (40), is a small farmer, who owns a 2.5-acre of an arable tract in Kanukuru village that’s barely enough for subsistence living. However, he’s moved by the pitiable plight of the stranded workers and has decided to contribute in a bid to alleviate their misery.“I grow groundnut and onion on my tiny tract of land and sell them to open market. I’ve decided to donate my meagre produce to feed the poor and the needy in the relief camps amid the ongoing lockdown restrictions,” Chandra said.Chandra and enthusiastic village youth are going about their task quietly since the nationwide lockdown restrictions initially came into force from March 25 for 21 days and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak. They have been sourcing assorted foodstuff from Kanukuru and neighbouring villages and then bringing them to an adjacent warehouse that belongs to the Rural Development Trust (RDT), a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that has been working on inculcating the best agricultural practices in the drought-hit Rayalaseema region.The trust has taken up the responsibility of supplying food, groceries and vegetables to the relief camps and shelter homes since the lockdown was imposed. “So far, we’ve donated 4,300 quintals of rice, chillis, tamarind and leafy vegetables. I’m acutely aware of the pangs of hunger, and I don’t want others to suffer,” Chandra said.N Krishna Reddy, a farmer from Venkatampalli village and owns a five-acre arable plot, is also donating his vegetable produce to the trust daily.Anne Ferrer, executive director, RDT, finds the farmers’ response amid this grave humanitarian crisis “overwhelming”. “Anantapur is one of the worst-affected districts in AP. However, the viral outbreak scourge hasn’t deterred over 600 farmers from seven Red Zones in the district to generously contribute, as we’re feeding 7,000 poor people daily,” Ferrer said.On Thursday, several small farmers from Bathalapalli donated 5,000 kilograms (kg) of rice, 312 litres of edible oil, 30 kg of brinjal, 20 kg of tomatoes, 10 kg onions and 30 kg of green chillies to the RDT canteen in Anantapur. “A group of farmers from Gooty donated us firewood as well, which is coming handy for cooking,” Ferrer said.Most of the migrants living in the relief camps and shelter homes belong to Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, and they have been working in local cement factories and stone crushing units in Anantpur district.“Local farmers are supporting around 75% of our food distribution programme. However, the daily demand is growing. On Wednesday, we prepared food for almost 10,000 people. We’re working closely with the government and local authorities to support those in greater need,” said Visha Ferrer, director, RDT women empowerment director and also a programme coordinator for the food distribution programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-farmers-rise-above-personal-financial-constraints-help-needy-migrants/story-em7ptiwGwI0QRfretdRN1L.html
01-05-2020||India||Maharashtra Legislative Council polls on May 21, CM Uddhav Thackeray a candidate||The Election Commission of India will hold elections for the nine vacant seats in the Maharashtra Legislative Council, the upper house of the state assembly, on May 21, poll officials said on Friday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray needs to be elected from one of the nine seats by May 28 to retain his post at the helm of the state. The 288-members of the Maharashtra assembly will vote to elect the members to the upper house. “Elections for the post of nine MLCs have been cleared,” a senior poll official said while speaking to HT.“The commission has decided to hold the election on May 21. Normally, the counting is done on the same day. The results will also be declared then,” a second official added.Also read: Maha guv asks EC to hold polls to 9 seatsThe first official cited above said several political parties, including the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress had written to the Commission requesting them to hold the elections. “The chief secretary has assured us that the situation is better and under control. MHA and health ministry guidelines will be followed and all necessary precautions will be taken to ensure the conduct of the polls,” the first official said. “Since the election is to the upper house and 288 members will be voting, the management will be easier,” the official added. Sanjay Raut, senior Shiv Sena leader, tweeted to thank the poll panel for its decision to hold the elections.“The Election Commission of India (ECI) has allowed elections to the Legislative Council (MLC) in Maharashtra. I hope… the uncertainty that was created it will end now. I am grateful to the central government and the Election Commission of the country. Satyameva Jayate!” Raut tweeted in Hindi.Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari had asked the commission on Thursday to hold the polls “at earliest”. In a letter issued by Raj Bhavan, the governor said the elections to the vacant will help end the “uncertainty” prevailing in the state. The seats have been lying vacant since April 24. Koshyari had urged the commission to take note of the fact that the Centre had allowed for various relaxations in the second phase of the lockdown.Also read: Guv shuts nomination route for Thackeray, holds out hope with letter to EC“As such the elections to the Council seats can be held with certain guidelines,” Koshyari said in his letter. The commission had earlier decided to defer the elections on April 3 in light of the “public health emergency” due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-decides-to-hold-polls-to-nine-maharashtra-legislative-council-seats-before-may-27/story-Y0PIh3eAB9oBxBHDl1LmGP.html
01-05-2020||India||Wishes pour in on Gujarat Day, Jaishankar says proud to represent this lively state in Parliament||Foreign minister S Jaishankar and civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri wished the people of Gujarat on Gujarat Day today. May 1 is celebrated as Gujarat Day because on this day, Gujarat was carved out of Bombay state in 1960.“Greetings to the hardworking & illustrious people of Gujarat on the occasion of Gujarat Day. There is no doubt that the proud people of the state will continue to do the nation proud in India & around the world,” Puri said on Twitter. Greetings to the hardworking & illustrious people of Gujarat on the occasion of Gujarat Day.There is no doubt that the proud people of the state will continue to do the nation proud in India & around the world. pic.twitter.com/GuEJCiEQoo“Best wishes to people of Gujarat on Gujarat Day. I feel proud to represent this lively state in Parliament,” Jaishankar tweeted in Gujarati. Jaishankar is a member of Rajya Sabha from Gujarat. સૌ ગુજરાતીઓને ગુજરાત રાજ્યના સ્થાપના દિવસ નિમિતે હાર્દિક શુભેચ્છાઓ.આ વાયબ્રન્ટ રાજ્યનું સંસદમાં પ્રતિનિધિત્વ કરતા ગર્વની લાગણી અનુભવું છું.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi too wished the state on its foundation day. “On the foundation day of Gujarat greetings and congratulations to everyone,” he said on Twitter.On the eve of the state’s 60th foundation day, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday expressed confidence that the state will come out of the Covid-19 crisis.He asked every citizen to take a pledge on the foundation day that they will wear masks, practice social distancing and wash hands regularly to keep the coronavirus infection at bay.“At the time of formation of Gujarat, everybody was sceptical about the future of the new state which had desert, a large seashore and faced deficient rains. However, due to hard work of many leaders and people in the last 60 years we have been able to establish the state as number one in the country in many fields,” Rupani said in his message.“These are unprecedented times. On the eve of 60th foundation day of the state I urge all Gujaratis to come together and make the state win against coronavirus,” he said.Rupani called upon people to defeat the coronavirus pandemic.Gujarat, with 4,395 cases and 214 deaths, is the second worst-affected state due to Covid-19 in the country after Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wishes-pour-in-on-gujarat-day-jaishankar-says-proud-to-represent-this-lively-state-in-parliament/story-imGv1IHjRBgbfCSN1P8kAL.html
01-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: UP govt allows opening of betel mandis in 21 districts||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday allowed opening of betel mandis (wholesale market) in 21 districts, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Live Hindustan reported. The decision was taken in view of losses suffered by the betel industry due to Covid-19 lockdown.The order by the state food department said that the advisory issued by the Centre has allowed horticultural crops, and so, the production and distribution of betel leaves is being allowed, Live Hindustan reported.The order, however, asked district authorities to ensure social distancing norms are followed at the wholesale market.Unnao, Rae Bareli, Barabanki, Sultanpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur, Balliah, Ghazipur, Lalitpur, Banda, Azamgarh, Hardoi, Lucknow, Kanpur Urban, Amethi, Prayagraj, Sitapur, Varanasi, Mirzapur, Sonbhadra and Mahoba are districts where betel leaves are produced.As many as 77 new Covid-19 cases were detected in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, taking the state’s count to 2,211, the state health department said.The Union health ministry has, however, confirmed 2,203 cases in its update posted in the website on Friday morning.Out of the total cases, 551 patients have been cured while 40 others lost their lives due to the infection, the state health department said.The Centre has, meanwhile, issued orders to states and union territories to facilitate inter-state movement of stranded people, as per guidelines laid down by the Union Home Ministry.Uttar Pradesh announced its own plans to transport a million workers on Tuesday itself, a day before the guidelines were issued. And on Thursday, state officials said they will try to bring back most of the workers within a week. UP, India’s most populous state, has already brought back 2,70,000 workers from Delhi and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-up-govt-allows-opening-of-betel-mandis-in-21-districts/story-Q1wkOvIKcq36H2ADTJZ1ZI.html
01-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 35,000-mark, death toll at 1,147||India recorded 1993 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest spike so far, and 73 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed on Friday morning.There are 25,007 active cases, 8888 people who have been cured or discharged and 1147 patients of the respiratory disease have died across the country, the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard showed at 8am.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Globally, 3,256,846 people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease and 233,388 have died across the world, according to the Covid-19 dashboard by Johns Hopkins University’s Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE).The Union health ministry has said the case doubling rate has also seen significant improvement since the past two weeks, from 3.4 days to the current 11 days.Seven states and Union territories—Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and Punjab—have a doubling rate of between 11 and 20 days. Karnataka, Ladakh, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Kerala have a doubling rate between 20 and 40 days.And four states of Assam, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Himachal Pradesh have a doubling rate of more than 40 days.“All these states have better parameters than the national average. However, even though these states are performing better, there still may be certain districts in these states that are reporting a high number of cases, which is why we cannot afford to let our guard drop,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary with the health ministry, said.Maharashtra, however, continued to report the most number of Covid-19 cases in the country with 10,498 patients and 459 fatalities across the state. Gujarat followed with 4395 people who have tested positive and 214 has been the second worst-hit state .Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Delhi has the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases at 3515 but the number of fatalities has been less at 59 in the national capital.According to data from the Union health ministry, fewer women are dying of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India as compared to men, and at least half of those who died were over the age of 60.Covid-19 state tally: Maharashtra crosses 10,000-mark, cases rise in West BengalAge and underlying medical conditions, such as diabetes, hypertension, kidney or heart disease, are also being seen as risk factors for developing a severe form of the disease in Indian patients. India, however, is much better off as far as case fatality rate is concerned, with 3.2% of the total infected people dying. Globally, the current Covid-19 death rate is at 7.28%, with Italy having the highest at 13.60%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-1-993-covid-19-cases-73-deaths-in-last-24-hours/story-QcNI7jdOwjlZv9eD8S0WXM.html
01-05-2020||India||PM Modi wishes speedy recovery to Russia’s Mikhail Mishustin, down with Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday wished early recovery for his Russian counterpart Mikhail Mishustin who has been diagnosed with coronavirus disease Covid-19.“My best wishes to Russian PM Mishustin for early recovery and good health. We stand with our close friend Russia in efforts to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic,” PM Modi said on Twitter. My best wishes to Russian PM Mishustin for early recovery and good health. We stand with our close friend Russia in efforts to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic. @GovernmentRFMishustin had told President Vladimir Putin on Thursday that he had been diagnosed with the new coronavirus and was temporarily stepping down to recover.Mishustin, 54, suggested that First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov serve as acting prime minister in his absence. Putin, who was listening on a televised video conference, sighed when he heard the news, wished Mishustin a speedy recovery and said he agreed with the proposed replacement.Mishustin, who has been one of the main coordinators of Russia’s response to the new coronavirus, is the first high-ranking Russian official to publicly say they have the virus. He broke the news hours after the number of confirmed cases of the virus in Russia surged past the 1,00,000 mark.“I need to self-isolate, and follow doctors’ instructions. This is necessary for the safety of my colleagues,” said Mishustin, who was appointed by Putin in January.Mishustin said he would remain in contact with members of the government and Putin by phone and video conference despite his condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-speedy-recovery-to-russia-s-mikhail-mishustin-down-with-covid-19/story-SmMCaC1h5Xl1v3HwYgesKN.html
01-05-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Maharashtra crosses 10,000-mark, cases rise in West Bengal||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 35,000-mark on Friday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, out of the 35,043 Covid-19 cases, 25,007 are active cases in the country, 8,888 patients have been cured or discharged while 1,174 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have crossed the grim milestone of 10,000 while Gujarat has further increased its tally and remains the second worst-affected state by the disease. Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh have more than 2,000 cases of the coronavirus disease.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraWith 10,498 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 459 deaths so far while 1,773 patients have recovered.GujaratThe state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 4,395. While 214 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 613 recoveries so far.DelhiAs many as 3,515 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Fifty nine people have died from the infection while 1,094 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan reached 2,584 on Friday. The state has reported 58 fatalities, and 836 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 2,660 positive cases of coronavirus. One hundred thirty seven people have died from Covid-19 here while 482 have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 2,323 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 1258 recoveries and 27 Covid-19 deaths.Uttar PradeshThe total number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh reached 2,203. While 513 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 39 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1,403 positive Covid-19 patients and 327 cases of recovery. Thirty one people have died.TelanganaOver 1,000 (1,038 to be exact) positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. The number of people who have recovered from the disease stands at 397, while 26 people have died from Covid-19 here.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 795 on Friday. There have been 33 deaths and 139 recoveries in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 614. Eight people have died from the infection while 216 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 565 Covid-19 cases and 21 deaths. Two hundred twenty nine people have been cured and discharged.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 497 coronavirus cases on Thursday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 383 people have successfully recovered.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 313 and 357 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 19 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. Two hundred nine people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 90 in Punjab.In Bihar, 418 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 82 patients have recovered. Odisha has 142 Covid-19 positive patients, 39 have recovered while one person has died. Jharkhand has 109 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 20 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 57 coronavirus patients, 36 patients have recovered from the infection. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 28 have recovered. Assam has reported 42 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 29 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 40 cases of coronavirus and 36 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 56 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 17 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, 16 have recovered.Ladakh has 22 patients, 16 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported eight cases, five have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur and Tripura had two coronavirus cases each, all patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-maharashtra-crosses-10-000-mark-cases-rise-in-west-bengal/story-MpL6rSXkhqf9VBNzuC3jSO.html
01-05-2020||India||States prepare to bring migrants back, historic decline in energy demand: Covid-19 news today||Authorities across states have begun gearing up to handle the rush of returnees, after the home ministry allowed stranded migrants and students, among others, to return home during the lockdown. Nodal authorities have been identified for coordination among states and officials are setting up quarantine centres for those with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) symptoms. Meanwhile, experts suggest the coronavirus lockdown across the globe will cause the biggest drop in energy demand in history -- the equivalent of the entire energy demand of India -- with only renewables managing to increase output through the crisis.Here is a preview of important Covid-19 news from India and the world today.States prepare to bring migrant workers homeA day after the ministry of home affairs (MHA) announced guidelines for states to bring back their residents — students, tourists, and migrant labourers; mostly the last — many states started work on Thursday on what promises to be perhaps the biggest such exercise seen in India, the return of over 10 million people to at least 25 states and Union Territories. Read more. Talks on to bring back stranded Indians: GovtIndia said on Thursday consultations were on to finalise plans for repatriating citizens stranded around the world even as missions in different countries were arranging essential supplies and looking after the needs of such people. Read more. Covid-19: What you need to know todayKerala gets a lot of good press for its response to Covid-19. I have a hypothesis on that, but it can wait — perhaps for another column, perhaps forever.There’s no denying Kerala has done well, but so have Tamil Nadu, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh. Read more. PM discusses investment models to boost economyIn the backdrop of the contraction in the economy due to the coronavirus pandemic and the national lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a “comprehensive” meeting to discuss strategies to boost the economy, with an eye on enhancing investment. Read more. Covid brings local shops to the forefront of e-tail sectorThe Covid-19 crisis has spurred a new wave of online and phone commerce, powered by millions of kirana stores, or local mom-and-pop shops, small merchants, cycle-riding delivery men, distributors on scooters, even farmers. Read more. The four quarantines of Praveen BurathiA 25-year-old man took nearly two months to reach his home in the Champawat district of Uttarakhand from Tehran, capital of Iran amid the Covid-19 outbreak. In the process, he was quarantined once in Iran and twice in Rajasthan. And on Tuesday, when he reached Champawat, it was only to be quarantined again. Read more. Indigenous tests kits to be ready by mid-May: CentreIndigenous antibody-based rapid test (blood test) kits and real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) swab-based kits for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) developed by laboratories running under the ministry of science and technology will be ready around the middle of May, said health miniser Dr Harsh Vardhan. Read more. In video conversation with Rahul, Rajan suggests Rs 65k-crore aid for poorFormer RBI governor Raghuram Rajan has suggested that the government transfer cash directly to the poor and supply food through the public distribution system (PDS) to as many people as possible to help them tide over the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and the consequent 40-day lockdown,estimating the effort will cost Rs.,65,000 crore.Read more. Humans provide the conditions for epidemics to flourish: Frank SnowdenIn 2019, Frank Snowden, professor emeritus of history and medical history at Yale University, published a book that was a result of four decades of research. Called Epidemics and Society: From the Black Death to the Present, the book is a sweeping and exhaustive look at many centuries of humanities struggles with infectious diseases. And, as it turns out, it was well timed. Read more. 65% of Covid deaths in India are men, shows govt’s dataFewer women are dying of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India as compared to men, and at least half of those who died were over the age of 60, according to data from the union health ministry. Of the 1,074 Covid-19 deaths reported from across the country till April 30 afternoon, 65% are men, which is in line with the evidence so far that Covid-19 kills more men than women.Read more. Unique coronavirus mutation in Bengal, experts say too early to know its impactAfter Kerala and Gujarat, West Bengal has sequenced the SARS-CoV-2 genome and identified one unique mutation in the S2 domain of the spike protein of the virus in all samples sequenced from the state when compared to those sequenced in the other two states and Wuhan in China. Read more. India’s international sporting stars flex their muscles on family farmsPoonam Rani Malik, 28, has played over 200 international matches for the Indian hockey team; she was the forward of choice at the Rio Olympics. Like most of her teammates—in fact, like most elite athletes in India—Malik comes from a farming family. Read more. F1 looks to restart at ‘closed circuit’ if Covid-19 subsidesFormula One organisers offered a ray of hope to fans when they announced on Thursday that the delayed season will start in the first week of July with the Austrian GP in Spielberg. If held, it will be the first race of the season held up by the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more. World may see unprecedented 8% fall in CO2 emissions: IEAThe coronavirus lockdown will cause the biggest drop in energy demand in history -the equivalent of the entire energy demand of India - with only renewables managing to increase output through the crisis. As people around the world consume less oil, gas and coal, electricity generated from the wind and sun will keep flowing, resulting in an unprecedented 8% decline in global carbon dioxide emissions this year, according to a report from the International Energy Agency (IEA).Read more. Six key cities, different covid trajectories 3.8 million more in US apply for jobless aidMore than 3.8 million laid-off workers applied for unemployment benefits last week as the US economy slid further into a crisis that is becoming the most devastating since the 1930s.Roughly 30.3 million people have now filed for jobless aid in the six weeks since the coronavirus outbreak began forcing millions of employers to close their doors and slash their workforces.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-prepare-to-bring-migrants-back-historic-decline-in-energy-demand-covid-19-news-today/story-ezTRq6f4658jj37SP26CXN.html
01-05-2020||India||Mizoram CM denies exclusion of Chakmas in allocation of Covid-19 relief||Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga on Thursday denied allegations that Chakmas from the state stranded outside due to the lockdown have not been provided aid from the CM’s relief fund.In a statement on Thursday, the Mizoram Chakma Alliance Against Discrimination (MCAAD) had urged the chief minister to provide relief to hundreds of Chakmas stranded in various parts of the country.The organisation alleged that while the Mizoram government had allocated Rs 2.34 crore from the chief minister’s fund to various Mizo NGOs across the country to help those stranded from the state, no Chakma NGO has been given any assistance.“Chakmas of Mizoram constitute 8.8% of the state’s total population and at present there are over 1,000 Chakmas stranded outside the state. As there is limited socialisation between communities, only giving grants to the Mizo NGOs is not enough to reach out to non-Mizos like the Chakmas,” the statement said.The Chakma group urged the Mizoram government to provide relief to stranded Chakmas through the Chakma Autonomous District Councul (CADC) or directly to Chakma NGOs.“We have distributed relief equally to everybody through local task forces within the state. For those stranded outside, people need to understand that we don’t give money to individuals directly,” the chief minister told HT over phone from Aizawl.“The government hands over money to resident commissioners at various places where we have Mizoram Houses. At places where we don’t have offices, we give money to the welfare organizations and it is for them to distribute among those who are in need,” he added.Zoramthanga said that if the Chakma groups need any assistance they should approach the resident commissioners at places where the state government has offices or else to contact the chief secretary’s office in Aizawl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-cm-denies-exclusion-of-chakmas-in-allocation-of-covid-19-relief/story-4Zou9sTAiQPMkLqApKGHSJ.html
01-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Border Personnel Meeting between Indian and Chinese armies cancelled||A ceremonial Border Personnel Meeting (BPM) between Indian and Chinese armies scheduled to be held on Friday on the occasion of the May Day has been called off due to the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. The meeting was to be hosted by the Chinese military in five designated locations along the nearly 3,500-km border between the two countries. A decision has been taken to call off the meeting in view of the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. The two sides hold Border Personnel Meetings at five points --Daulat Beg Oldie in northern Ladakh, Kibithu in Arunachal Pradesh, Chusul in Ladakh, Bum-La near Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh and Nathu-La in Sikkim.The Chinese side hosts ceremonial BPM on the occasion of Chinese National Day on October 1 and on May 1 while India organises it on January 26 and August 15. Usually, both sides resolve various operational issues at the BPMs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-ceremonial-border-personnel-meeting-between-indian-and-chinese-armies-cancelled/story-gdPMpRLSOYa7YsIRxsvh2I.html
01-05-2020||India||Emissions set for a record fall due to Covid-19 this year. But it’s not a good sign||A new report by the International Energy Agency (IEA) has two important revelations about the impact of Covid-19 on energy demand.It said that all fuels, except renewables, will record a decline in demand in the coming decades. The agency also said that global carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions this year are set for record fall, six times larger than the fall recorded after the 2008 financial crisis and twice as large as all previous reductions since World War II.The record fall in CO2 emissions is not a good sign as it is a clear indicator of a massive economic shock and the fall may be temporary followed by more investments in dirty fuel, experts who drafted “Global Energy Review 2020” released on Thursday said.“Resulting from premature deaths and economic trauma around the world, the historic decline in global emissions is absolutely nothing to cheer,” IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol said in a statement. “And if the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis is anything to go by, we are likely to soon see a sharp rebound in emissions as economic conditions improve. But governments can learn from that experience by putting clean energy...” he added.Daily data for this year till mid-April shows that countries in full lockdown are experiencing an average 25 per cent decline in energy demand per week and countries in partial lockdown an average 18 per cent decline. Global energy demand has already declined by 3.8 per cent in the first quarter of 2020, with most of the impact felt in March when lockdowns were enforced in Europe, North America and others.The report projects that energy demand will fall six per cent in 2020 - seven times the decline after the 2008 financial crisis. The IEA said, “The decline is unprecedented - the equivalent of losing the entire energy demand of India, the world’s third largest energy consumer.”Depending on the duration of restrictive measures, developed countries are expected to see the biggest fall in energy demand - by nine per cent in the US and by 11 per cent in European Union.The energy landscape has already changed because global coal demand in the first quarter fell by eight per cent compared to last year. This was mainly due to China, a coal based economy, which was hardest hit in the first quarter. Oil demand fell by five per cent in the first quarter mainly because of restrictions on transport and aviation. But renewables recorded a growth in demand, driven by larger installed capacity in the first quarter.The IEA said that renewables receive priority in the grid and are not asked to adjust their output based on demand which insulates them from the impacts of lower energy demand. This resulted in renewables grabbing a higher share in the energy mix with record-high hourly shares in Belgium, Italy, Germany, Hungary and eastern parts of the United States. The IEA also stated that demand for renewables this year and in coming years will increase due to low operating costs.As a result of these trends in fall in oil and coal demand, global energy-related CO2 emissions are set to fall by almost eight per cent in 2020, a record drop. It will be six times larger than the one recorded in 2009. “The coronavirus pandemic has triggered a macroeconomic shock that is unprecedented in peacetime... these restrictions (lockdown) represent a challenging combination of a supply and a demand shock,” the report concluded.The impact on energy demand in India is yet to be seen. In the first quarter, energy demand in India increased by 0.3% in comparison to last year. As the lockdown continues, the impact on energy demand will be much larger in the second quarter.Experts said that Covid-19 comes with an important opportunity. “The current pandemic has brought the world to its knees. While countries are facing a public health crisis in the near-term, the world has an opportunity to show resilient character in how it deals with the issues of climate change in the long term,” said Karan Mangotra, associate director, The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). He added, “We are all privy to the clear skies and ‘very good’ AQI numbers during the lockdown period. However, to sustain this we would need to ensure that our recovery is green and sustainable lest we have a negative rebound. How do we ensure that the construction, aviation and the automobile industries are equipped to make greener transitions? Can our recovery for some of the polluting sectors be conditional to being green and sustainable? These are some of the important questions that need to be thought through lest we let go of this opportunity.”“In the short term, the drop in power generation from coal and gas has transported power systems several years into the future, with the share of renewable energy setting new records. The longer-term impact depends on government policies,” said Lauri Myllyvirta, lead analyst at Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA).“Above all, this is an opportunity to close down polluting and outdated capacity, and speed up the development of renewable energy as a part of the economic recovery packages being prepared around the world. Renewable energy played an important role in job creation and economic recovery after the global financial crisis and this can be true of the recovery from the Covid-19 crisis as well. In India, it’s vital to align the power sector bailout package that is being prepared with the shift to clean energy, by closing down old, loss-making thermal power plants, upgrading grid infrastructure and accelerating renewable energy development,” he added.“Drop in carbon emissions is a side effect that doesn’t offset the damage especially because a short-term drop in CO2 is not useful as far as climate change is concerned. Only sustained changes in emissions are relevant here. In terms of a rebound, I expect almost all of these gains to be reversed. On the bright side, it’s plausible that some of the technology we have started using might normalise more environmentally friendly practices. For instance, flying for meetings could plausibly be reduced since it has been shown that video conferences can often work well,” said Anant Sudarshan, South Asia Director of the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emissions-set-for-a-record-fall-due-to-covid-19-this-year-but-it-s-not-a-good-sign/story-IhY0KPk2jzQOcp3LjT8Z7H.html
01-05-2020||India||2 migrant labourers from Jharkhand test positive for Covid-19 in Chhattisgarh||Two migrant labourers from Jharkhand tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday at the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Raipur, taking the number of people infected to 40 in Chhattisgarh.“On Tuesday night, nine people including a few migrants quarantined in Surajpur district were tested positive by the rapid-testing method. They were brought to AIIMS Raipur where their RT-PCR tests were done. Out of these, two of were positive on Thursday afternoon and one has to be re-tested,” SS Sharma, AIIMS spokesperson said while speaking to HT.Sharma said that six patients, who tested negative, will continue to remain in quarantine in Mana Hospital in Raipur.“We have found that the three patients who tested positive in Surajpur district in the last three days are from Jharkhand. They are migrant labourers who worked in Maharashtra and had travelled to the border district of Rajnandgaon along with other labourers in early April,” Deepak Soni, Surajpur’s collector, said.Initially, they were placed in a camp on the inter-state border in Rajnandgaon but since it was overcrowded, the workers were shifted to the quarantine centre in Surajpur on April 17, the collector added.In Chhattisgarh, 36 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovery till now, health officials said.Meanwhile, AIIMS Raipur approved a laboratory for Covid-19 testing in Raigarh district on Thursday.“Now, the testing can also be done in virology laboratory in Lakhiram Memorial Medical College in Raigarh district,” AIIMS’ Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-migrant-labourers-from-jharkhand-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-chhattisgarh/story-slEetVnGdh14zwmDPwBuJN.html
01-05-2020||India||Pakistani soldier killed in India’s retaliatory fire along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch||A Pakistani soldier was killed in India’s retaliatory fire late on Wednesday as the neighbouring country continued with firing and shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district.The soldier was identified as Lance Naik Ali Baz by the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), the Pakistani army’s online publicity wing. ISPR claimed that two Pakistani civilians were also killed in the Indian firing.“Indian Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation (CFV) in Kailer & Rakhchikri Sectors along LoC. In Kailer Sector, Indian troops targeted Pakistan Army posts with automatics and heavy weapons,” ISPR said. Pakistan Army responded effectively, it added.“Reports of heavy losses to Indian troops in men and material. During exchange of intense fire, Lance Naik Ali Baz, age 34 years, resident of District Karak, embraced shahadat (died),” it said.“In Rakchikri Sector, Indian Army troops deliberately targeted civilian population. Due to indiscriminate fire in Kirni village, a girl age 16 & a woman age 52 years were martyred while a 10 years old boy & 55 years old woman got injured,” claimed ISPR.However, an Indian Army officer said India neither targets civilians nor uses them as human shields on the LoC.“We can confirm the elimination of at least one of their soldiers but we don’t target hapless civilians as they do,” he said.Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “There was unprovoked firing and shelling by Pak troops in Shahpur and Kirni sectors late Wednesday prompting us to respond in equal measure.”Col Anand said Pakistan resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation in Krishna Ghati sector of Mendhar sub-division in Poonch district on Thursday. The violation occurred at around 4.30am and the exchanges last for half an hour, he added.The neighbouring army has violated the ceasefire around 1,400 times this year. The total number of ceasefire violations by it stood at 3,168 in 2019 and 1,629 in 2018.News agency PTI reported that Pakistan on Thursday summoned the Indian charge d’affaires to lodge its protest over the alleged firing by the Indian troops across LoC that allegedly resulted in the death of a Pakistani soldier and two civilians.Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri director-general (South Asia & Saarc) ) registered “Pakistan’s strong protest over the alleged ceasefire violations by the Indian forces” in Rakhchikri Sector on April 29 with Gaurav Ahluwalia, Pakistan’s Foreign Office (FO) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-soldier-killed-in-india-s-retaliatory-fire-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-poonch/story-yRDoqNx0Aiqj5Aiy6LKFUI.html
01-05-2020||India||Army issues alert warning to soldiers against malicious Pakistani app similar Aarogya Setu||The Indian Army has issued an alert to its personnel warning them against the possibility of their phones being hacked by Pakistani agencies using a malware carrying an app similar to India’s Aarogya Setu, two army officers said on Thursday on condition of anonymity.There have been reports of the malicious app being sent by Pakistani operatives to WhatsApp groups of army personnel and an advisory has been issued to all soldiers to download the contact-tracing Aarogya Setu app only from the government website, the Google Play store or Apple’s App Store, said one of the officials cited above. The existing cybersecurity policies on the usage of mobile phones have also been reiterated, said the second official.The government has been urging citizens to use the Aarogya Setu to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and earlier this week, in a meeting with chief ministers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about “popularising the app and asked them to ensure downloads in greater numbers.”Apart from reaching out and informing users about their potential risk of infection, this “privacy-first by design” app also shares safe behaviours and updated medical advisories about Covid-19 containment in 11 languages.Defence minister Rajnath Singh last week asked India’s top military commanders to ensure that the country’s adversary is not allowed to exploit the Covid-19 situation at a time when the Pakistan army continues to violate the ceasefire on the Line of Control to help terrorists sneak into Jammu and Kashmir.The neighbouring army has violated the ceasefire around 1,400 times this year. The total number of ceasefire violations by it stood at 3,168 in 2019 and 1,629 in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-issues-alert-warning-to-soldiers-against-malicious-pakistani-app-similar-aarogya-setu/story-ufTyNh1SXFgnlAfnu8jklK.html
01-05-2020||India||Haryana hikes bus fare, VAT on diesel, petrol prices; Congress slams move||The Haryana government on Thursday decided to increase the bus fare by 15 paise per km and hike the VAT on diesel and petrol prices, drawing the flak of the Congress party for its move to “burden people” during a pandemic.The fare for ordinary, luxury and super luxury buses has been hiked from 85 paisa per passenger per km to Rs 1 per passenger per km to partially meet the increased cost of operation of buses, an official statement said after a meeting of the state cabinet.The cost of operation of buses has gone up from Rs 37.48 per km in June 2016 to Rs 52.23 per km in December 2019, it said. The Haryana Roadways has a fleet of around 4,294 buses and operate around 10.38 lakh km on a daily basis.The public transport is off the roads due to a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus.The bus hike is much below the 25 per cent increase carried out in 2010-11 and 20 per cent increase in 2012-13, the statement said.In another decision, the cabinet accorded approval to partially restore the VAT on diesel and petrol prices and decided to put a complete ban on the purchase of new vehicles, including cars and jeeps, except buses for public transport and vehicles used for emergency responses during the current financial year.The increase in rate of tax would be Rs 1 per litre on petrol and Rs 1.1 per litre on diesel, it said.The Haryana Cabinet also decided to impose one per cent market fee and Haryana Rural Development Fund cess on sale of fruits and vegetables in mandis.The Congress said other governments were putting money in people’s hand during the crisis but the BJP-JJP government was doing the opposite.“Today, Khattar Cabinet wrote a Black Chapter of anti-people measures! Govts are putting more money in people’s hands everywhere but BJP-JJP Govt forces & fleeces daily,” Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted.Surjewala said tax of “Rs 1.10 per litre on petrol/diesel, bus fare hike & Market fee on fruits and veggies is the new ‘JaJia Tax’!”.Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja also slammed the Khattar government’s move to “burden people” in the time of a crisis.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had recently said that Haryana has been losing a whopping Rs 4,600 crore revenue.Khattar in a televised address had said “we will have to curtail our expenses and generate sources of income”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-hikes-bus-fare-vat-on-diesel-petrol-prices-congress-slams-move/story-GacM7BTBKqqEYxZDCOH1vN.html
01-05-2020||India||India has stepped up as a leader in fight against coronavirus, says US Congressman Holding||India has stepped up as a leader in the fight against coronavirus, an influential American lawmaker said Thursday applauding, New Delhi for providing the US with vital supplies such as mass quantities of Hydroxychloroquine. “The Republic of India is one of America’s closest and most important allies, and our relationship has always enjoyed bipartisan support in Washington, D.C.. I am thankful that India has stepped up as a leader in the fight against coronavirus, and am glad that our special partnership remains strong during this pandemic,” Congressman George Holding, the co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian-Americans, said.In a statement, the influential Republican lawmaker from North Carolina also appreciated the role being played by Indian-American non-profit organizations and community organizations in the pandemic relied work in the US.“On the US soil, Sewa International (an India-based service organization) has been working tirelessly to donate masks, provide meals to first responders, and ensure vulnerable populations have access to food and medicine throughout the country,” Holding said.Sewa has also provided support systems by hosting informative conference calls, while Indo-American hoteliers have stepped up and donated temporary housing to Indian international students in the United States, he added.Holding said the Indian government has been hard at work both in their country and in the United States to help the international community fight COVID-19. “It’s amazing to see how one of our closest and most important partners can have such an impact in our country from nearly ten thousand miles away,” he said.Together, the Indian and US governments have been able to identify measures necessary to propel us forward in the fight against this pandemic, Holding said.India has shown that they are committed to keeping key supply and logistics chains open for pharmaceutical and medical products – benefitting both the United States and India’s own regional neighbours, he added.“In early April, Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi and President Trump worked together to overcome the challenges that international trade faces amidst national lockdowns. Since then, India has provided the United States with vital supplies such as mass quantities of Hydroxychloroquine,” said the Republican lawmaker.Observing that the US-India partnership has also directly impacted the lives of many Americans, he said as of April 16th, more than 1,500 American citizens have returned home to the United States from India thanks to the facilitation of Indian authorities.“It prides me to see that the sense of community supersedes borders and cultures during a time of international crisis,” Holding said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-stepped-up-as-a-leader-in-fight-against-coronavirus-says-us-congressman-holding/story-iUkjEGPLHZJnJyJ1lJmYtN.html
01-05-2020||India||PM Modi holds meetings to boost defence, aerospace sectors||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a series of meetings to discuss strategies to boost the economy amid the COVID-19 pandemic, and attract more foreign investments into India as well as promote local investments. He reviewed the state of investments, the defence and aerospace sector and the mine and mineral sector. An official statement said various strategies to bring investments into India on a fast-track mode and to promote Indian domestic sectors were discussed in the first meeting. The high-level meetings come amid the ongoing global backlash against China. Several companies are now looking for new bases to set up their businesses, according to reports. Detailed discussions were also held on guiding states to evolve their strategies and to be more proactive in attracting investments, the statement said. Reform initiatives undertaken by the various ministries should continue unabated and action should be taken in a time-bound manner to remove any obstacles which impede promotion of investment and industrial growth, the statement said, citing the discussions. The meeting also discussed that a scheme should be developed to promote more “plug and play” infrastructure in the existing industrial lands, plots or estates in the country and provide necessary financing support. During the meeting, Modi directed all concerned that action should be taken for a more proactive approach to “handhold” the investors, to look into their problems and help them in getting all the necessary central and state clearances in a time-bound manner. Given the increasingly worrying economic uncertainty, the government has moved to reassure both global and local investor community with focus on encouraging infrastructure and manufacturing sector investments. While chairing the meet on defence and aerospace, he said India should reduce dependence on imports and take forward the “Make in India” initiative to build its domestic capabilities for designing, developing and manufacturing state-of-the-art defence equipment. The meeting also discussed the potential reforms to ensure a robust and self-reliant defence industry in India that caters to short and long term needs of the armed forces. The meet also discussed initiatives to give a boost to the economy in the backdrop of COVID-19, an official statement said. The discussions involved reforming of the functioning of the ordnance factories, streamlining procurement procedures, focused resource allocation and encouraging research and development. Attracting investment in critical defence technologies and promotion of exports also came up in the meet. The prime minister laid emphasis on positioning India among the top countries of the world in defence and aerospace sectors, from design to production, with active participation of public and private sector fulfilling the twin objectives of self-reliance and exports. He reviewed the proposed reforms for attracting domestic and foreign investment in defence sector. It was discussed that defence expenditure be “economised” and the savings be channelised for strategic defence capital acquisition. Reviewing the mines and mineral sector, Modi laid special focus on improving the country’s self-reliance in production of minerals and their in-country processing. Auctioning of additional blocks, encouraging wider participation in auctions, increasing the production of mineral resources, reducing the cost of mining and cost of transporting formed part of the discussion. The deliberations also focussed on increasing ease of doing business while also reducing carbon footprint with environmentally sustainable development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-meetings-to-boost-defence-aerospace-sectors/story-KodxmGBCHdj6pxFSZuVJtN.html
01-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Kerala gets a lot of good press for its response to Covid-19. I have a hypothesis on that, but it can wait — perhaps for another column, perhaps forever.There’s no denying Kerala has done well, but so have Tamil Nadu, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh. I pick these three states and not other states that have done well (Karnataka, Haryana and Odisha, for instance) for one reason — all had something that went against them.Delhi and Tamil Nadu, in that order, suffered the most from the irresponsibility of the Tablighi Jamaat, which insisted on hosting a weeks-long gathering at its headquarters in Delhi in March, a gathering that was attended by missionaries from some Covid-19-affected countries. And UP is, well, UP, the U in the late Ashish Bose’s coinage BIMARU, to refer to India’s most underdeveloped states in the 1980s, and also the most populous state in the country.Delhi’s dashboard, on Wednesday night, showed 3,439 cases, 1,092 recoveries, and 56 deaths. The corresponding numbers for Tamil Nadu were 2,162, 1,210, and 27. And for UP – 2,134, 510, and 39. In terms of recoveries and deaths, all three states have done well. Kerala’s numbers on Wednesday (for an easy comparison) were 495 cases, 369 recoveries, and 3 deaths.Sure, UP lags on the testing front — just around 360 per million population, according to the latest data — but Tamil Nadu (almost 1,500) and Delhi (almost 2,400) fare well on this count too. Tamil Nadu’s performance isn’t a surprise — for decades now, the state’s social development indicators have been among the best in the country. Nor is Delhi’s — it is the national capital, after all, and administered by a progressive government. UP is a surprise, a pleasant one, which merits deeper study. Its social development indicators remain in the red, and it is vast, in terms of geography as well as population. Yet it has managed to keep its Covid-19 numbers under control.Delhi’s performance is at odds with how it has been treated by its neighbours. Both UP and Haryana are pushing for a hard border with the national capital, worried that people who live in UP and Haryana, and work in Delhi (there are many) or the other way round (there are perhaps as many) pose a risk. Local administrators, even ministers, have spoken of people who get infected in Delhi and carry it across the border.Sure, these aren’t the only states to want hard borders with neighbours — in the past month, Karnataka has pushed for one with Kerala (the latter complained); Kerala then wanted one with Tamil Nadu (the latter complained); and Tamil Nadu wanted one with Andhra Pradesh (the latter complained). But Delhi’s situation is different.It is different because Delhi is the epicentre of the National Capital Region which includes parts of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The urban and economic development seen in parts of these states bordering Delhi is simply because of that — proximity to the capital city-state. Gurugram is a city in its own right, but it is unlikely to have become the base for the India HQs of a few hundred Fortune 500 companies were it located deeper inside Haryana, say, near Sonipat (which too is part of NCR). The same is true for Noida, which is yet to graduate from being a Delhi-satellite, though that too should happen in a few years.There are other urban agglomerations in India — the Mumbai Metropolitan Region which includes several satellite towns in Maharashtra is one — and for years now, governments have struggled with how to manage them. The latest episode involving Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh needs to be seen in that context. And, to the long list of personal, organisational, and governance improvements we need to focus on when this is all over, we can add one more — a better way to manage urban agglomerations across districts within the same state, and across several states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-sdb9tW3aolYcx98I1Jn7YL.html
01-05-2020||India||As countries battle curbs, India keeps up diplomatic ties||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Thursday kicked off a detailed interaction with Indian envoys abroad to compare notes on the battle against Covid-19, its impact on India and the road ahead. This is Jaishankar’s second round of discussions with top Indian diplomats overseas.A recurring theme in Jaishankar’s last interaction on March 20 was to urge the envoys to tell Indians stranded abroad to stay put where they were and not to panic; he also asked them to look around to secure medical equipment supplies that India would need.The government’s evacuation plan to bring the stranded Indians home over the next few weeks could figure in Thursday’s interaction with the Indian envoys. Jaishankar has started with envoys from the Asia-Pacific region -- Jaoan, Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and Paua New Guinea. South-East Asian countries will be next and then, South Asia. Jaishankar isn’t the only one talking. Top external affairs ministry officials are holding a parallel global outreach campaign, interacting with foreign envoys posted in New Delhi. The foreign envoys are being told how India is fighting the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen that causes Covid-19.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageIndian diplomats are also taking notes on how other countries have dealt with the virus that has, in just about four months, killed 225,000 people, infected over 3 million, driven countries to go into lockdown mode and threatened to push the global economy into a recession. Diplomacy couldn’t afford to go in lockdown mode. Instead, it went virtual, shifted gears and moved into an overdrive, a foreign ministry official told Hindustan Times.Prime Minister Narendra Modi set the template early in the crisis and has been working the phones to scale up India’s diplomatic engagement with the world. That he had also held a video conference with the heads of Indian missions on 30 March was one step in this direction.In the next 30 days, PM Modi spoke to leaders of 30 countries. Ditto for Jaishankar ,who has kept pace with the prime ministers and reached out to his counterparts even in countries that may have been assumed to be off New Delhi’s radar. Grenada, a tiny Caribbean island - one of the smallest countries in the western hemisphere - has a population of just over 100,000. Comoros, a volcanic archipelago off Africa’s east coast, has a population of 800,000.Many of these calls were to offer support and help.Jaishankar told the G-20 foreign ministers’ conference this week that New Delhi is providing pharma assistance to nearly 85 countries on a grant basis, many of them in Africa, to support their response to the pandemic. There has been at least one occasions on which Jaishankar spoke to his counterparts in Russia, Brazil, the United States, Saudi Arabia and Oman in a matter of 24 hours. This was on April 23.Jaishankar calls it “virtual diplomacy”.“Strong friendships thrive even virtually,” he tweeted after wrapping up his video calls to leaders in five countries. The stepped-up efforts are designed to ensure that the diplomatic machinery doesn’t go into a stall mode but is kept primed for big action, government officials say..India will be moving into a lead role at the World Health Organisation next month when its nominee formally takes over as director general of WHO. Next year, India will get a spot in the United Nations Security Council as one of the 10 non-permanent members. The last time India made it to the UNSC was in 2012; Hardeep Singh Puri, the ex-diplomat in PM’s council of ministers, was then India’s face at the UN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-countries-battle-curbs-india-keeps-up-diplomatic-ties/story-sraX6T805IarFUedXtNVhP.html
01-05-2020||India||Environment ministry on project clearance spree, activists wary||The nationwide lockdown which began on March 25 has coincided with the union environment ministry taking significant policy decisions on several large infrastructure projects across the country,, many of which have been opposed by scientists and activists for their ecological footprint.The environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) held nine meetings only in April through video-conferencing where several industrial, mining and infrastructure projects were considered and cleared.Significant among them is the renovation and expansion of the existing Parliament building (part of the Central Vista) in the capital at at cost of Rs 922 crore. EAC’s decision on the project will be made public next week.The ministry’s Forest Advisory Council (FAC) met twice during the period and deliberated on extremely contentious projects -- the Etalin hydropower project ( 3097 MW )( which will involve clearing of rainforests in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley ) and the clearing of the Nallamala forests in Telangana for uranium exploration. According to the minutes of the FAC meeting held on March 30, three independent expert members only confirmed decisions via email and that only the inspector general and director general of forests were present.The National Board for Wildlife met once on April 7 but considered as many as 34 infrastructure, mining and commercial projects linked or inside wildlife sanctuaries and reserves.Covid-related clearances“All ministries have been active but the environment ministry has been particularly active in expediting clearances for bulk drugs. Seven environmental clearances have been granted, six ECs have been recommended and 10 more drug proposals have been scheduled for EAC meeting on May 11 to 13,” said Manju Pandey, joint secretary (media) based on inputs from ministry officials. Her reference is to the Covid-19-related clearances that the ministry rushed through. Among other decisions, she added that a draft Environment Impact Assessment notification 2020 has been finalised and published for comments from public.She did not comment on the other projects. The environment ministry being in fast-track mode worries experts. Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research, said: “First, it has continued to receive and appraise projects in all sectors and not just those, which fall in essential services. If a project is approved, it will be without any on-site scrutiny. The ministry has also not withdrawn the draft amendment to the EIA notification, despite request early on in the lockdown and stronger demands that followed thereafter.” She added that there is also no clarity on “ how the public facing functions of regulation will operate (now) -- for instance public hearings, monitoring the compliance of safeguards like effluent discharge, pollution, encroachment or illegal operation.”Clearance to minesIn its March 30 meeting, FAC recommended that the validity of forest clearance be extended automatically for government-owned mines whose leases were renewed for 20 years recently. In a separate decision, FAC also issued guidelines that forest clearance of mines whose leases expired on March 31 can be transferred immediately to new lessees to prevent any disruption in mining output. Mining leases of around 40 mines expired on March 31 after they completed 50 years of operations. Experts questioned how previous environmental violations by these mines will be accounted for.Projects in biodiversity rich areasFAC considered two large and contentious projects in its April 23 meeting, the minutes of which are yet to be made public.One of them is forest clearance given to the Etalin hydropower project in one of India’s most biodiverse zones in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley. The project will involve diversion of 1,150.08 ha of forest land and felling of at least 270,000 trees in subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest and subtropical rain forests. Scientists working in Dibang Valley have written at least four letters, seen by HT, on how the project will spell doom for the region’s biodiversity and the Idu Mishmi people.FAC has also considered aN application for survey and exploration of uranium over 83 sqkm of forests in Telangana’s Amrabad Tiger Reserve. Following widespread protests by environmentalists and local people, the Telangana legislative council took a decision to not allow the project. But AN FAC status report shows it was slotted for consideration because the proposal by the Atomic Minerals Directorate for exploration and Research was pending.The National Board for Wildlife held a meeting on April 7 where approval was recommended to coal mining inside the Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve in Assam; maintenance works for a road inside Namdapha Tiger Reserve in Arunachal Pradesh; drilling of boreholes for Sharavathi pumped storage and underground 2000 MW hydropower station inside Sharavathi Lion Tailed Macaque sanctuary in Karnataka; and construction and commissioning of Lakhwar Multipurpose Project (300 MW) in Dehradun and Tehri Garhwal districts by Uttarakhand Jal Vidhyut Nigam Limited .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-ministry-on-project-clearance-spree-activists-wary/story-vv0oGyPPmtPlL6E8mIpZMJ.html
01-05-2020||India||Nine constables from Mumbai’s Wadala police station test positive for Covid-19||Nine police personnel from a single police station in Mumbai’s Wadala have tested positive for Covid-19 in a single day.“Nine policemen of the rank of constables, police Naik and head constables had undergone tests yesterday and their report released on the same evening revealed that nine of them have tested positive for Covid-19,” Shahaji Shinde, senior inspector of Wadala police station said.“All of them have been admitted at Guru Nanak Hospital, Bandra, KEM Hospital in Parel and Bombay Hospital in south Mumbai,” Shinde added.A few of them are in the 50+ age bracket, another officer said.Their close contacts have been identified and have been asked to stay in home quarantine, the officer said.There are seven red zones, including the slums and chawls of Korba Mith Agar and Bangalipura that falls under the jurisdiction of the Wadala police station. The infected policemen were posted at these areas for providing food to needy people, providing fruits for Iftar and Sehri to Muslims observing fast during Ramzan and ensuring social distancing and not letting out people come out on the streets, an officer form the zonal police said.The policemen are suspected to have contracted the disease while doing duty there. Recently, a few of them complained of symptoms similar to Covid-19. Hence the senior officers decided to send them for testing and nine of them were found to be infected, a police officer said.Around twelve Covid-19 asymptomatic patients from Korba Mith Agar slum in Wadala East were on Wednesday hospitalized, two days after they tested positive.In Mumbai so far 106 policemen have tested positive for coronavirus including three police personnel who have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-constables-from-mumbai-s-wadala-police-station-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-wlbKlpDsm3WEgy1UJH5FWO.html
01-05-2020||India||Rajasthan’s Cong MLA says drinking alcohol can kill coronavirus in consumers’ throat||Courting controversy over Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s demand for opening wine shops in Rajasthan amid lockdown, Congress MLA from Sangod, Kota, and former minister Bharat Singh has asserted that when rubbing alcohol can remove coronavirus from the hands then its consumption can also wipe out coronavirus from the throat of wine consumers. He also claimed that it would be better than consuming illicit liquor.Advocating opening of wine shops in the state, Bharat Singh has written a letter to chief minister, Ashok Gehlot. Singh in his letter has written since wine is a defamed product so neither the union government nor the state government will allow its sale during lockdown despite the fact that wine shops closure is breaking the backbone of the state’s revenue.Bharat Singh said that closure of wine shops is leading to increase in manufacturing of illicit liquor which is not only killing people consuming illicit liquor but also leading to huge losses of revenue for the state government.Referring to some media reports published in vernacular media, Bharat Singh wrote in the letter that 2 people in Halena region of Bharatpur have died after consuming illicit liquor on Thursday.He said that the Rajasthan government has also increased excise duty on wine.“Since Rajasthan government has kept target of recovery of Rs 12,500 crore of excise revenue from wine sale in the state in the year 2020-21 which does not appears to be accomplished due to lockdown so it seems the state government has increased excise duty to compensate such loss,” he said.Singh said that it would be better if the state government opens wine shops so that wine consumers will get wine and state government will also get its revenue.In the letter, Singh stated that “When Covid-19 can be killed by rubbing alcohol on the hands then alcohol will also kill the virus in the throat of wine consumers when they will drink it and anyway it is better than consuming illicit liquor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-s-cong-mla-says-drinking-alcohol-can-kill-coronavirus-in-consumers-throat/story-k3BNo1xK4Z0WPehbKA6rvM.html
01-05-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally climbs to 3,515 with 76 new cases, death toll now 59||Delhi reported 76 more cases of Covid-19 and three deaths on Thursday, according to the state health department’s data released late night.The total number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital now stands at 3,515 including 2,362 active cases.A total of 1,094 people have recovered while the three casualties took the death toll to 59.Unlike other days, it did not give the data on the number of tests carried out in the last 24 hours.In another development, the Delhi government’s Disaster Management Authority issued a notification saying screening of all residents living in containment zones will be carried out at least thrice within 14 days under Covid-19 protocol.Earlier in the day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the tag of containment zone was being lifted from Vardhman Apartment in East Delhi’s Mayur Vihar area.“We had implemented Operation SHIELD to prevent the spread of coronavirus in Vardhman apartment. In the last four weeks, no new case has been reported and today the apartment is being de-contained,” Kejriwal said, according to ANI.He also said that his government was making arrangements to bring back the city’s students stranded in Kota in Rajasthan due to the lockdown.The Delhi Police and the state government were also working on modalities of movement of migrant labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-3-515-with-76-new-cases-death-toll-now-59/story-41Cs3N06L1fXNzBVbnLf2N.html
01-05-2020||India||Can’t locate UNSC listed terrorists in Pak, Imran Khan govt tells UNSC panel||The decision by Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government to delete nearly 4,000 names from its terror watch list was part of a well-orchestrated effort to scrub its terror record clean not just at home, but also at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), people familiar with the developments told Hindustan Times.Islamabad has told a visiting team of a UNSC monitoring committee that it had been unable to act against numerous individuals listed in its sanctions list because the UN panel had given “insufficient information”.The UNSC 1267 Sanctions List has 130 names from Pakistan.Islamabad, however, acknowledges the presence of only 19 of them including Lashkar-e-Taiba founder Hafiz Saeed. It has already moved the UNSC to delist 6 terrorists including Matiur Rehman, described in UN records of 2013 as the chief operational commander of terror group Lashkar-i-Jhangvi, a top official in North Block that houses India’s internal security establishment said.The UN analytical support and sanctions monitoring team, which was on a five-day visit to Pakistan in March, was told that the UN Sanctions List did not have the accurate date of birth, nationality, national ID number, passport number or a specific address of the men sanctioned for their terror links.Pakistan had put out a similar set of explanations when it was asked about the deletion of 3,800 names from its domestic terror watch list.In October 2018, Islamabad showed off this list to the counterterror financing watchdog Financial Action Task Force to demonstrate that it was coming down heavily on terrorists. This terror watch list, according to FATF records, then had 7,600 names of terrorists.Indian counterterror officials suggested that the effort to prune Pakistan’s terror watch list is a more recent development.The deletions were first spotted by Castellum AI, a New York-headquartered tech firm that tracks watch lists globally. In a statement in April, the tech firm started by a former US treasury department official said many of the names were removed sometime after October 2018. But there were about 1,069 names in the watch list that were deleted between March 9-27. Another 800 names were removed after March 27.“This means the process to delete the names started the day the UNSC monitoring team landed in Pakistan,” a counterterror operative told Hindustan Times. The UNSC monitoring team was in Pakistan from March 9-13.Indian officials said they had not been able to access the details of the UNSC panel’s visit but had learnt that the UNSC panel did convey, on March 18, that Pakistan could file requests for delisting “inappropriate” names from the UNSC sanctions list.Pakistan hopes to get the support of the Chinese in this endeavour given how Beijing had blocked an international effort to designate Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar as a global terrorist for years. Beijing eventually had to give in last year but started backing Islamabad’s attempts to include Indian professionals working in Afghanistan in the UNSC 1267 list.Also Read : ‘Brief the boss’: The backstory of Masood Azhar’s global terror tagThe exercise to get names of terrorists deleted, a top source in the internal security establishment said, appears to be driven by the desperation to stay out of the FATF’s black list. Pakistan has been on the terror financing watchdog’s grey list since June 2018 and faces the risk of being placed in the black list if it does not demonstrate that it was really acting against terrorists.“By getting rid of half of the proscribed entities, Pakistan authorities attempted to reduce its obligation to freeze the assets of such entities,” the source said.The FATF, which was due to review the status of steps taken by Pakistan, has pushed the meeting by four months in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.In any case, officials said, Pakistan had always kept out the most prominent of the terrorists that it supports out of the watch list.Top terrorist leaders who had been designated by the UNSC such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba’s chief operations commander and 26/11 Mumbai attacks mastermind Zaki ur Rehmani Lakhvi have always stayed out of Pakistan’s terror list. So did Dawood Ibrahim and others such as Mohammed Yahya Mujahid, head of LeT’s media department (sanctioned in 2009) and LeT co-founder and Hafiz Saeed’s deputy Hafiz Abdul Salam Bhuttavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-locate-listed-terrorists-pak-to-unsc-committee/story-KLeSqlJd1186D1B8YGbeUI.html
01-05-2020||India||Cinema left poorer twice in two days: Rishi Kapoor dies||Rishi Kapoor, the versatile and outspoken actor from Hindi cinema’s illustrious first family of the Kapoors, died aged 67 at a hospital in Mumbai on Thursday after a two-year battle with cancer -- the second such death in two days that shook the country’s artistic fraternity and fans alike. Kapoor was admitted to the HN Reliance Hospital on Wednesday night after he complained of breathing problems. Actor Amitabh Bachchan was the first to tweet about Kapoor’s death. “T 3517 - He’s GONE..! Rishi Kapoor..gone.. just passed away.. I am destroyed!” Bachchan wrote. Kapoor’s family issued an official statement, saying: “...He remained jovial and determined to live to the fullest right through two years of treatment across two continents. Family, friends, food and films remained his focus and everyone who met him during this time was amazed at how he did not let his illness get the better of him. He was grateful for the love of his fans that poured in from the world over. In his passing, they would all understand that he would like to be remembered with a smile and not with tears... ” Kapoor was diagnosed with cancer in 2018 and went to New York for treatment. He returned to India after what he called “11 months, 11 days” in September last year and announced that he was in remission. He was cremated at the Chandanwadi crematorium at 4pm on Thursday. Kapoor is survived by wife Neetu, actor son Ranbir and daughter Riddhima Kapoor Sahni. His daughter got special permission to travel to Mumbai from Delhi but couldn’t make it in time for the funeral.Leading the tributes to the veteran actor, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Kapoor was “multifaceted, endearing and lively” and “a powerhouse of talent”. The PM wrote on Twitter that “...He was passionate about films and India’s progress. Anguished by his demise...”Kapoor left behind a rich legacy from a career spanning over 50 years. His first-ever brush with the camera was when he was three years old in his father Raj Kapoor’s Shree 420. He appeared in the iconic song Pyaar Hua, Iqraar Hua featuring Raj Kapoor and Nargis. He had an important role in Mera Naam Joker (1970), for which he received a national award as the best child artist. Kapoor’s big moment of stardom came in his lead role in the 1973 hit Bobby. After that there was no looking back for the man film magazines referred to as the original chocolate boy hero.He starred in successful films such as Khel Khel Mein (1975), Rafoo Chakkar (1975), Amar Akbar Anthony (1977), Karz (1980), Prem Rog (1982), Coolie (1983), Saagar (1985), Nagina (1986), Chandni (1989), Henna (1991), and Damini (1993), among others. In the second innings of his career, Kapoor reinvented himself from a romantic lead to a character actor and essayed memorable parts in Kapoor & Sons (2016) and Mulk (2018). Friends recalled fondly how the actor had great zest for life and never shied away from airing his views.“I’ve had the honour of working with Rishi ji. A larger than life person, so outspoken yet so warm. We have lost a brilliant actor today. Still can’t believe it.. absolutely heartbroken. My prayers are with the family during this tough time,” said Kapoor’s co-star Madhuri Dixit Nene. “My heart is so heavy. This is the end of an era...” actor Priyanka Chopra tweeted, summing up the feelings of many.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cinema-left-poorer-twice-in-two-days-rishi-kapoor-dies/story-uH1zkah4jI4aWIQ3D1Zu3I.html
01-05-2020||India||States prepare to bring migrant workers home||A day after the ministry of home affairs (MHA) announced guidelines for states to bring back their residents — students, tourists, and migrant labourers; mostly the last — many states started work on Thursday on what promises to be perhaps the biggest such exercise seen in India, the return of over 10 million people to at least 25 states and Union Territories.There are multiple challenges involved.One, to do so without trains, which aren’t running now; states have demanded that special trains be permitted to transport migrants back, but the home ministry guidelines have, so far, only permitted movement by buses, on road. There is also no clarity on whether trains will resume after May 3, when the current phase of the nationwide lockdown ends.Two, to do so in the least possible time and maintaining social distancing norms — a travelling salesman problem raised to the nth degree of complexity.And three, to have adequate screening, quarantine, and hospital facilities for those who return, usually to the rural hinterland.Bihar building construction minister Ashok Chaudhary acknowledged some of this. In an interview to ANI, he said: “We have information about 2.5 million migrant labourers (from the state). If we follow social distancing norms, one bus can carry 15-20 people…” According to this calculation, Chaudhary said, up to about 170,000 buses will be needed to bring the workers back at the same time. Then, there are the unregistered labourers and students stranded across the country, he added.Chaudhary’s observations highlight the challenges every state is expected to face, albeit to varying degrees.The Centre, however, has indicated that a careful reading of the home ministry guidelines will reveal that there is an operative word which describes its scope -- stranded. A top government official, who is a part of the decision-making process, said that the order had made it clear that it applied to those workers, pilgrims, students and others who were stranded -- and it was not a “free for all”. “If a worker is at home, in say Delhi or Gurugram, where he works, it should not be counted as stranded.” This reading of the order means that arrangements should be primarily made for around 1.5 million people, who are currently housed in thousands of camps. The official quoted above said that this was conveyed to chief secretaries by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba in a meeting last Sunday. “If the situation appears to be getting out of hand, the Centre can change the rules again,” he warned. But this may be a distinction hard to implement on the ground, for both categories of migrants, those who are in camps and those who are in rented accommodations but want to return, have registered with state governments. Any state will find it difficult to leave its own languishing in other states — especially not when they are restive and want to return.Hence, the planning is being done with an eye on all migrants who want to return, and clamour has grown for special trains with states such as Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Bihar, Punjab and Kerala joining the chorus.“In the prevailing situation, bus journey is not safe. And there is a limit to maintain social distancing in buses. So we want the railways to run non-stop trains for them (workers and others),” Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said special trains will facilitate faster return of the workers and backed the demand. So did Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Modi.The railways ministry so far maintains that it has made no decision on running special trains, but an official said it is considering the proposals and awaiting a final word from the home ministry. “The home ministry will take the call soon. Phase-wise plans will be drafted by each zone based on the expected crowd,” the senior official said on the condition of anonymity.By the end of Thursday, several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, announced that they have already appointed nodal authorities, as instructed by the Centre, to coordinate with others and finalise the protocols. They have also issued directions to district authorities to set up facilities for medical check-up of returnees at the border and housing them at quarantine centres. According to state estimates, about 10 million migrant labourers are stranded across the country, especially in states such as Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The transport of migrant workers alone is estimated to require 500,000 buses if the Centre’s social distancing norms are enforced and they are transported around the same time.Uttar Pradesh announced its own plans to transport a million workers on Tuesday itself, a day before the guidelines were issued. And on Thursday, state officials said they will try to bring back most of the workers within a week. UP, India’s most populous state, has already brought back 270,000 workers from Delhi and Haryana. Its next challenge is transporting 1.5 million workers. Maharashtra, a favourite destination of migrant labourers — especially from eastern India — is housing close to a million workers from other states. The state government issued a notification on Thursday allowing the transportation of stranded workers, pilgrims and students. Other states will have to send buses to take back their residents. While Rajasthan, which has appointed 19 nodal officers to bring back an estimated 700,000 workers, sent a fleet of buses to other states, Madhya Pradesh additional chief secretary ICP Keshri said district authorities have been asked to gear up for the arrival of a large number of workers over the next few days.The mammoth logistical exercise is the result of the lockdown India enforced, with a few hours’ notice, starting March 25. It was originally expected to end on April 14 but was extended to May 3. The lockdown was aimed at slowing the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and giving India time to upgrade its health infrastructure. But it left an approximately 10 million workers adrift, and with no way to return home in the absence of public transport. Many lost their jobs. Some decided to walk back home. State governments set up relief camps to house the migrant workers but many remain restive. On April 13, a day before the first phase of the lockdown ended, following rumours about special trains for migrant workers, thousands descended on Mumbai’s Bandra station. Besides the migrant workers in relief camps, a large number of migrants are stuck in their rented accommodations, and may remain undocumented in the central list. With no sign of a premature end to the lockdown, some states such as UP decided to use buses to transport their workers from neighbouring states. Others, including Punjab and Bihar, sought guidelines from the Union government on this. The issue was also raised in the fourth meeting on the pandemic, in just over a month, between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief ministers of states on Monday. The guidelines were finally issued on Wednesday.The MHA order said migrant workers, students, tourists, pilgrims and other persons stranded in other states should be allowed to move. All states, the order said, should appoint nodal authorities who should register these individuals. The sending and receiving states should then consult and agree with each other about “movement by road”. Those who wished to travel have to undergo screening, and only those who are asymptomatic could proceed. The order said buses shall be used for enabling movement — and these should be sanitised and social distancing maintained in their seating arrangements. The states and Union Territories on the way shall allow the movement of such buses. It is clear that the process could take weeks. A bus can accommodate some 60 people; with social distancing, that comes down to around 20. And a Mumbai-Lucknow journey or a Delhi-Patna one (most migrant workers are from UP and Bihar) will need to cover 1,376 km and 1,085 km respectively.The states will also need to ensure the workers aren’t carrying the virus. And they have started the preparations to this effect. Every worker returning to Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan will be scanned at the borders and quarantined. After 14 days, buses will take them to their home districts only if they don’t have any symptoms of Covid-19. Those having symptoms will be admitted in hospitals. In Odisha and Chhattisgarh, quarantine centres have been set up in government buildings, such as schools and community health centres, in rural areas. “All district collectors have been directed to ensure that no returnee enters a village without being in a quarantine,” said Chhattisgarh chief secretary RP Mandal.Sanjay Jha, Bihar’s minister for water resources and the national general secretary of the Janata Dal (United), said: “The process of registration has begun. And once we bring them into the state, we will provide food, shelter and even utensils and other basic necessities to those in quarantine shelters or in isolation centres if they are found positive.”State officials also said the number of calls to their help lines has significantly increased since the Centre’s decision allowing migrant workers and others to return home.Abdul Rahim, 34, a construction worker stuck in Ranchi’s Lowadih area, called the West Bengal government helpline on Thursday morning. “They assured us that they would take us back very soon,” he said, visibly happy.An official of the Uttarakhand government, who did not want to be named, said: “The MHA guidelines will be followed. We have already started receiving calls from people on the help line that was launched just after the lockdown began.” (With state inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-prepare-to-bring-migrant-workers-home/story-wBQBMX4muFNuQ7kJREZViJ.html
01-05-2020||India||105 Covid patients dead in West Bengal||West Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said on Thursday that 105 Covid-19 patients had died in the state, 33 of them succumbing to the viral disease, and the rest to co-morbid conditions. The state government also reported 37 new cases on Thursday, taking to 795 the number of people who have tested positive for Covid-19.This new figure of fatalities was released six days after the state administration said 57 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 had died, and attributed 18 of the deaths to the disease and 39 to “severe co-morbidity.” Bengal is the only state that has formed a committee of doctors to determine the cause of death among Covid-19 patients.“Today I have received a report from the expert committee conducting audits into the deaths of Covid-19 positive patients. Altogether 105 cases have been examined by them, out of which they have said 33 died of Covid-19 infection. In 72 other cases, death was caused by co-morbid conditions and Covid-19 was only incidental,” Sinha said.Meanwhile, the number of containment zones increased. In Kolkata from 227 on Monday to 264 on Thursday, and in neighbouring Howrah to 70 from 56.A controversy has raged over Bengal’s way of listing Covid-19 fatalities, with opposition parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Congress and the Left accusing the state government of manipulating the number of deaths.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Wednesday said that she and her government did not tamper with the numbers and that an expert committee of doctors was conducting the audit independently. Over the past two days, a new controversy haS been brewing over an official order from the superintendent of Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital asking doctors not to mention Covid-19 in the death certificates of patients who had tested positive for the disease.This government order from the medical superintendent-cum-vice principal of Murshidabad Medical College was dated April 25 and numbered Msd/MCH/MSVP/2006. While top health department officials remained tightlipped, the hospital superintendent, Debdas Saha, was transferred on Thursday.“The administration is trying to make the superintendent a scapegoat. The administration from the top is differentiating between the deceased persons to show a lesser number of deaths. There is a death audit committee for this purpose. The only mistake the super may have done was to put the government’s viewpoints in the writing,” BJP state unit president Dilip Ghosh alleged.Congress’ Lok Sabha leader and Berhampore MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury echoed Ghosh.Chief secretary Sinha, refusing to comment on the transfer, said the death audit committee had nothing to do with death certificates.“This committee was not doing any kind of audit in death certificates; it was auditing the cause of death,” Sinha said.Senior doctor Rezaul Karim, a leader of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, said that he had raised the issue of death audit during the chief minister’s meeting with eight doctors’ associations on Tuesday.“It is possible that a person testing positive for the presence of novel coronavirus in her/his body is not a Covid-19 patient. She/he may have no symptoms of the disease at all and might only be a carrier. But these fine differences could be part of academic debates within the boundaries of academic institutions. We told the chief minister that at the time of a pandemic, deaths of all patients testing positive for coronavirus infection should be attributed to Covid-19 in order to avoid confusion and controversy in the public sphere,” Karim said. On Thursday, senior Left leaders staged a demonstration in Kolkata to protest against the “manipulation in the number of deaths,” and alleged a scam in the public distribution system and mismanagement in reaching relief to the poor. They maintained social distancing while staging the demonstration with placards in their hands and faces covered with masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/105-covid-patients-dead-in-west-bengal/story-UtV5ij5QzdI14tTzrJ4koN.html
01-05-2020||India||25% Gujarat cases from 2 zones in capital||One in every four cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Gujarat has so far been reported from two zones of the Ahmedabad municipal corporation, with a population of 320,000, government data shows.Till Thursday, 4,395 cases were reported, out of which 24.50% cases have been reported from the central and southern zones of Ahmedabad. Of the total 1,713 cases reported from these two zones, most have been from Khadia, Dariapur, Shahpur, Jamalpur, Danilimdi and Behrampur, according to officials.Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said the wards from central and southern zones come under the Walled City of the district and have high population density. “On a scale never seen before in India, we sealed the old Walled City in a single day and surveyed more than 100,000 people. We adopted a strategy of cluster containment early on and were able to moderate the growth of virus in hot spots such as central Ahmedabad. Even at the cost of a rise in figures, we started aggressive testing and surveillance,” he said.An official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the municipal corporation took some time to react after the first case was reported on March 30. “Also, the lockdown norms were not strictly enforced in these wards,” the local government official said.Giving out details of Covid-19 cases in the state, health secretary Jayanthi Ravi on Thursday said the recovery rate considerably improved over the past few days. “We expect to see a lot of improvement in the next week or so,” she said.Following the guidelines of the Union home ministry, the state government has also started the process of identifying people of Gujarat stuck in other states. “Responsibility has been assigned to 16 officers of Gujarat to make arrangements to bring back stranded persons. The process will be carried out in phases,” said Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the chief minister.In Surat, a 50-year-old Covid-19 patient, who allegedly left the Covid-19 ward of a civil hospital two days back, was found dead on a bench outside the medical facility on Thursday morning, police said. Preliminary investigations and CCTV footage of the hospital indicated that the man did not go outside the hospital campus, located in Khatodara area, during the last two days, an official from Khatodara police station said. He was admitted on April 21 and a few days later, his wife also tested positive and was admitted to the same hospital.“As of now, we don’t know why he ran away in the middle of his treatment, where he went and how he died. We are carrying out a thorough investigation into it,” deputy commissioner of police Vidhi Chaudhari said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-gujarat-cases-from-2-zones-in-capital/story-sv0LEgvnJn8nA0UUrnZSmN.html
01-05-2020||India||NIA arrests former panchayat member in ex-Kashmir cop Devender Singh case||In a breakthrough, the National Investigative Agency (NIA) has arrested a former panchayat member from South Kashmir’s Shopian district in the case involving DySP Devender Singh.The arrested person, NIA said was in league with militants and provided them logistical support ; he was also in touch with Singh. Officials said the man was arrested from Baramulla district where he also owns a house.DySP Devender Singh was arrested along with three militants from the national highway at Qazigund on January 11 by a team of J&K police. The team was led by two senior J&K police officers. Police later said that Singh was escorting the trio to Jammu and then to Punjab.After the arrest , the case was handed over to NIA for further investigations; the federal investigating agency carried out a series of raids in different parts of Kashmir, especially in Srinagar and South Kashmir and questioned more than two dozen people. The NIA team also raided the house of Singh in Srinagar , his ancestral home in Tral and seized some documents.A senior NIA officer familiar with the investigations told Hindustan Times that a person by the name of Tariq Ahmad was arrested by NIA. “The arrested person is from Shopian who was also involved in helping militants.’’He added that Ahmad is a former panchayat member who was also in touch with Devender Singh. After his arrest, Singh was shifted from Srinagar to Jammu on a transit remand where he was questioned by senior officials of NIA. At the time of arrest Devender Singh was posted at Srinagar airport and was part of the anti-hijacking wing of Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-former-panchayat-member-in-ex-kashmir-cop-devender-singh-case/story-W9ipISGFhRwarYekGoNSxJ.html
01-05-2020||India||Maha guv asks EC to hold polls to 9 seats||A day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over phone and sought his intervention to end the impasse in the state over the former’s election to state legislature, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari requested the Election Commission of India to hold elections for nine seats to the state legislative council at the earliest with a view to end the political uncertainty in the state. His call came shortly after he three members of the state’s ruling coalition Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress wrote to the EC seeking the same. Council members are elected by members of the state assembly. The impending constitutional crisis in Maharashtra may be resolved if the EC accepts Koshyari and MVA’s request. It also means Koshyari is not keen to nominate Thackeray on the council as his nominee despite a recommendation from the state cabinet and a reminder that he do so. Thackeray was not member of the state legislature when he took oath as chief minister of November 28. As per the provisions under the Constitution, he was supposed to get elected to state legislative assembly or council within six months, that is by May 27. Thackeray planned to contest the election to the council as nine members were retiring on April 24. However the election was postponed by the EC due to the Covid-19 outbreak. On April 9, the state cabinet recommended that the governor nominate Thackeray on the legislative council as two out of 12 seats to the council that are nominated by governor were lying vacant. However Koshyari has not done this. A person familiar with the matter in Koshyari’s office said nominees are usually achievers in art, social service, literature and other fields and the governor doesn’t want to nominate politicians. Koshyari had also indicated that he would seek Center’s opinion on the issue since state cabinet had advised him to nominate Thackeray as a special case considering the current crisis.It was then that Thackeray chose to talk directly to Prime Minister Modi. Following communication between a close aide of Thackeray and an official from PMO, Thackeray dialled Modi on Wednesday requesting his intervention. On Thursday afternoon, two Sena leaders, party secretary Milind Narvekar--who was Thackeray’s intermediary with Koshyari--and urban development minister Eknath Shinde met the governor and handed him letters written to the EC by the three parties. Koshyari then immediately wrote to the EC requesting early election for nine seats to the council. Thackeray’s Shiv Sena fought the election in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party but differences over power-sharing saw the two go their separate ways after the elections. The Shiv Sena partnered with the Natonalist Congress Party and the Congress to form the government. The call is now the EC’s. The election authority is likely to seek union home ministry’s opinion before deciding on the request.“The governor has made the request to the Election Commission to fill the 9 seats in the legislative council, that have been lying vacant from 24th April, with a view to end the current uncertainty in the State,”said a release issued by Raj Bhavan on Thursday evening.In his letter, Koshyari stated that the elections to the council seats can be held with certain guidelines.“Since Chief Minister of Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray is not a member of either house of the State Legislature, he needs to get elected to the the Council before 27th May 2020,”Koshyari said in his letter.In their letters, the three members of the coalition have assured the EC that they would follow all guidelines regarding social distancing and other precautions that are required under the current circumstances.A Sena leader said it is likely that the election will be held unopposed once EC clears it.“The developments have happened in less than a day after Thackeray spoke to PM Modi. If the election to council is held now, it would be clearly following the intervention by Modi. In that case, it is likely that the four parties--three ruling parties and BJP-- informally decide on fielding nine candidates between them so that the entie exercise of getting 288 members of assembly to Mumbai for voting in the middle of Covid-19 outbreak can be avoided,”he added.“Today’s developments mean Governor Koshyari is not accepting state cabinet’s recommendation to nominate Thackeray to council. If the Election Commission holds election for council, the issue would be resolved but what if it doesn’t? Or what if it is legally challenged. The possibility of a constitutional crisis is not yet over,” said political commentator Pratap Asbe. “At the end of the day, these are political moves. Center will play a role in this episode and the outcome would be guided by political motive,”he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-guv-asks-ec-to-hold-polls-to-9-seats/story-SkthZ2R6A8q2JJBfT0c3BK.html
01-05-2020||India||This loss is irreparable: Rakesh Roshan on his friend of 44 years, late Rishi Kapoor||“Chintu (as Kapoor was fondly known as by his friends and family) and I were friends for the last 44 years. So, you can imagine that we have had a really long association – on as well offscreen. But now, within a flash of a second, it has all, suddenly, come to a full stop. Even now, when I think about it, his passing away is something I still can’t believe in. This loss is irreparable – as a human being as well as an artiste. I know that it’s an irreversible situation but I am still in a lot of pain talking and thinking about Chintu. He was a very dear friend and like a brother to me.After being close to each other for so many years, and being through all the ups and downs of life, I am feeling lonely as well as incomplete. We also worked together in so many films, and I don’t have to tell the world as to how wonderful and talented an artiste he was. We have lost an incredible actor. Personally, I don’t know how I will fill the void, especially since this has come as a sudden jolt to me and I am sure, to everyone else too. Everything around us will settle down eventually but may god rest his soul in peace.I last met him on March 15 at his [Bandra] house and had dinner with him without having any inkling that it was the last time I was seeing him, though I was constantly in touch with him on phone even when he was in hospital. He seemed his usual self even then. Not just me, I don’t think anyone expected him to go so suddenly. But the morning of April 30 came as a big shocker to me. I just pray to God that he may give his family all the strength to cope with such a huge loss.”Veteran actor-director Rakesh Roshan and Bollywood star Rishi Kapoor featured in box office hits such as Khel Khel Mein (1975), Jhoota Kahin Ka (1979) and Aap Ke Deewane (1980). Also, Roshan produced Kapoor-starrer Kaun Sachcha Kaun Jhootha (1997) and Karobaar: The Business of Love (2000).(As told to Prashant Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-loss-is-irreparable-rakesh-roshan-on-his-friend-of-44-years-late-rishi-kapoor/story-0UqP6MCJFm9PlGzgWbgkaL.html
01-05-2020||India||65% of Covid deaths in India are men, shows govt’s data||Fewer women are dying of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India as compared to men, and at least half of those who died were over the age of 60, according to data from the union health ministry. Of the 1,074 Covid-19 deaths reported from across the country till April 30 afternoon, 65% are men, which is in line with the evidence so far that Covid-19 kills more men than women.According to an April 22 study published in the peer reviewed American journal, JAMA (Journal of the American Medical Association), an analysis of 5,700 Covid-19 patients hospitalised in 12 hospitals in New York City showed that at least 60% were men, and of the 373 patients who were undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit (ICU), 66.5% were men. The most common co-morbidities were diabetes, hypertension, and obesity among critically ill patients.Age and underlying medical conditions, such as diabetes, hypertension, kidney or heart disease, are also being seen as risk factors for developing a severe form of the disease in Indian patients. As many as 78% of those dead were suffering from some form of chronic health condition, and 51.2% were above 60 years of age.Of the 51.2% of those above the age of 60, 42% are between 60 and 75 years of age, and 9.2% were above 75 years of age.“The data clearly shows that the elderly people and those with underlying medical conditions need to be extra careful as they tend to develop a severe form of the disease,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry.India, however, is much better off as far as case fatality rate is concerned, with 3.2% of the total infected people dying. Globally, the current Covid-19 death rate is at 7.28%, with Italy having the highest at 13.60%. “The reason for older people dying is because most of them suffer from some form of underlying medical conditions that leads to their immune system not being able to fight off the infection as well as it does in younger people with no co-morbidities. They cannot produce quality antibodies,” said Dr Srikant Sharma, senior consultant, department of medicine, Moolchand Hospital, Delhi. With 8324 people of the 33,050 total infected people recovering , India’s recovery rate is 25.19%.The case doubling rate has also seen significant improvement since past two weeks, from 3.4 days to the current 11 days.Seven states have a doubling rate of between 11 and 20 days; these are Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and Punjab.Another five states have a doubling rate between 20 and 40 days: Karnataka, Ladakh, Haryana, Uttarakhand, and Kerala. And four states , Assam, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Himachal Pradesh, have a doubling rate of more than 40 days.“All these states have better parameters than the national average. However, even though these states are performing better, there still may be certain districts in these states that are reporting high number of cases, which is why we cannot afford to let our guard drop,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/65-of-covid-deaths-in-india-are-men-shows-govt-s-data/story-4OiTHnr599KlijnCO4SrhN.html
01-05-2020||India||Interstate travel allowed only for stranded migrants: Official||The Union home ministry order that sanctioned inter-state travel is only designed to let people who are stranded reach home, a top government official told Hindustan Times. “The operative word is stranded”.The home ministry approval is primarily aimed at the 1.4 million people who have been housed in 38,000 relief camps set up by the government and non-profit sector, the official said, referring to reports that millions of people could travel from cities to villages.He said the order made it clear that it was for “migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons” who are “stranded at different places”.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“If a worker is at home in, say Delhi or Gurugram where he works, it should not be counted as stranded,” the official said.The fine print was indicated to state chief secretaries at their video conference with Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba last week. The Centre did not explicitly spell it out in Wednesday’s formal order to give the states leeway to work out the procedures in accordance with the ground situation.But it is important that the states make sure that the situation is not allowed to turn into a free-for-all at any point.“Because if the situation appears to be getting out of hand, the Centre can change the rules again,” the official, who heads one of the empowered committees set up by the central government, said.The warning from the top government official comes after the Union home ministry relaxed its lockdown to permit migrant workers, students, tourists, pilgrims and others stranded in other states to go home.The relaxation came days before the end to the 40-day national lockdown on May 4. In the next phase, the Centre is expected to lay emphasis on revival of economic activity in the country’s green zones that haven’t reported Covid-19 patients, ease restrictions in the orange zone but keep the ban on movement of people intact in the red zones and its containment zones.It was in this context that the Centre decided against running special trains to ferry the migrant workers or others. Instead, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla’s order made it clear that the journey home would have to be made in buses.It is a logistical nightmare to organise the large number of buses that would operate from one state to another. This is particularly the case since a bus can not be allowed to carry more than 20-30 passengers in view of the social distancing norms.In the face of a clamour from states to run special trains, the government is open to revisiting this. The idea of requiring people to travel in buses, a government official said, was to discourage people from travelling long distances.“The lockdown is going to be eased in a few days and the migrant workers should be able to get back to work in the green zones,” the official said.He explained that it would be unrealistic to expect economic activity to restart in the absence of the migrant workersThere was, the official said, an added advantage of letting only migrants in relief camps returning home.“They have been living in the state’s relief camps and have been monitored by state health authorities…. Since there haven’t been any reports of an outbreak of the disease in the relief camps, it is reasonable to expect that workers, by and large, in these camps are free of infection and the chance of the disease spreading through them in the rural belt is minimal,” he explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interstate-travel-allowed-only-for-stranded-migrants-official/story-iO4ilt4JxmEJlzIKCR9RAO.html
01-05-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak brings local shops to the forefront of e-tail sector||The Covid-19 crisis has spurred a new wave of online and phone commerce, powered by millions of kirana stores, or local mom-and-pop shops, small merchants, cycle-riding delivery men, distributors on scooters, even farmers. The coronavirus pandemic has shuttered mom-and-pop shops in the US. In India, these retail stores, rich on legacy business skills, are emerging intact, albeit a little bruised. The dependability, deep trust and unique relationships of these neighbourhood enterprises with millions of middle-class consumers have made them resilient and a darling for big tech. These shops account for 80% of the country’s retail sector.As a punishing lockdown broke the back of big online retail in Indian cities, the country’s 8 million kirana stores have kept supplies going, thanks to their human and often personal network with consumers, suppliers, vendors and distributors. Small stores have been able to home deliver goods profitability, or at least without incurring losses. One analyst, who did a survey for a large firm said on condition of anonymity that this is a surprising discovery. “They have well established rules. For example, no delivery beyond a radius 3 km. Some deliver using cycles. That makes economic sense.” On April 22, social media giant Facebook announced a $5.7-billion investment in Jio Platforms Ltd, owned by Reliance Industries Ltd, aimed at leveraging WhatsApp’s 400 million subscribers to connect small stores and consumers. According to a report by JP Morgan this week, with this, WhatsApp could soon offer a shopping option to users. “Our focus will be India’s 60 million micro, small and medium businesses, 120 million farmers, 30 million small merchants and millions of small and medium enterprises in the informal sector,” Reliance Jio said in a statement. When in January of this year, the world’s richest man, Amazon’s Jeff Bezos, visited India, he too promised $1 billion in new investments to bring small businesses online.“So, how will this work?” asked Delhi’s Mohit Aggarwal, the proprietor of Santoshi Stores, when a surveyor called him this week, seeking to on-board his store on to a bigger online retailing platform. The surveyor was hired by a retail company that Aggarwal did not want to name. Aggarwal says he received an online tutorial that revealed an ambitious plan to bring millions of shops online. A dummy site explained how. The retailer’s site essentially acted like an online aggregator of hyperlocal mom-and-pops. After a shop is on-boarded, its inventories are monitored real time. While the front end connects the small shops to consumers, the back-end connects them to distributors. Consumers can click for orders and also send their shopping list via WhatsApp, which will also act as a payment transaction app. JioMart platform, the e-commerce venture of Reliance Retail, plans to have 5 million digitised mom-and-pop stores by 2023. Its mega deal with Facebook gives it a ready consumer base of 400 million WhatsApp users in India. The platform has started trials for grocery orders on WhatsApp in Navi Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan, according to a report by Credit Suisse Ltd. “The customer initiates the interaction on WhatsApp, checks out the grocery order on JioMart webpage, gets connected with a retail store on WhatsApp and then customer picks up the order from Kirana and pays in cash,”the report added. Analysts see a revolution similar to the one preceding it in the digital payments ecosystem. “On the one hand, JioMart could enable inventory and back-end supply chain for small shops, on the other, the WhatsApp platform could enable ordering and payment providing seamless customer experience,” Edelweiss Securities Ltd said in a report on the deal. Amazon India already features a “Local Shops on Amazon” to take local shops live. Flipkart said it is working with 37,000 kirana shops and ramping up further to “serve the new set of consumers who are more tech-savvy and want personalized services”.According to a report  by Deloitte India and Retail Association of India, India’s e-commerce market is growing at an annual clip of roughly 51%, the highest globally. “As more people join the internet economy (internet penetration is expected to almost double to 60% by 2022) and continue to get accustomed to their new online lives, the e-commerce industry is expected to grow into a 100 billion USD market by 2022,” said Sankalpa Bhattacharya, partner and leader, PwC India. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), a traders’ lobby, and the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) have also decided to launch an e-commerce platform for local retailers and grocery stores, CAIT Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal said. CAIT has often complained about predatory pricing of large e-tailers. Its entry into the kirana game could level the playing field and bring more options to small stores.A federal push to free up agricultural markets, opaque and tightly controlled by layers of intermediaries, has come as a shot in the arm, said Amit Kakkar of Comtrade. He said the biggest upshot of the new push, from a consumer perspective, is quick deliveries and turnaround times because it is a hyperlocal transaction. Under the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act, farmers could previously only sell their harvest at designated markets. This rule has been suspended, giving farmers the freedom to sell to remote buyers.The new e-commerce model plans to get on board farmers and millers too so that it’s actually a farm-to-fork supply chain. Kirana stores have the right enterprising quality and a very loyal customer base. “The only missing thing was technology. This is where we come in to make them more efficient,” said Samarth Agarwal, founder and CEO of MaxWholesale, an online platform for kirana stores to place inventory orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-brings-local-shops-to-the-forefront-of-e-tail-sector/story-zzY4Z7NRHfI9J9YWoyujMN.html
01-05-2020||India||Unique coronavirus mutation in Bengal, experts say too early to know its impact||After Kerala and Gujarat, West Bengal has sequenced the SARS-CoV-2 genome and identified one unique mutation in the S2 domain of the spike protein of the virus in all samples sequenced from the state when compared to those sequenced in the other two states and Wuhan in China. There is one more mutation in S1 domain of the spike protein, which is similar to what Gujarat has found. S1 attaches the virus to the cell membrane by interacting with host receptor while S2 mediates fusion between the virus and cell membrane , according to Uniprot which provides resources on protein sequence.But it is too early to say how these mutations will affect us, said independent experts. The paper, led by CSIR Institute of Chemical Biology, Kolkata, and the Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR) in Ghaziabad, said that five sequences from West Bengal have been deposited on the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID) on April 27. Scientists compared the sequences from West Bengal with other sequences reported in India and with isolates of Wuhan origin.Authors explain in their paper which is yet to be peer reviewed published in Medrxiv, a pre-print server for health research that when a virus tries to adapt to a new environment and population it would change its genetic makeup to utilise the host’s body in favour of virus’s survival and propagation. Broad mutation profile of this protein from extensive genome sequencing from different geographical areas is key to designing effective antiviral therapy or vaccine.While the sequences from West Bengal do tell us they are different from those in Gujarat and Kerala, the knowledge is inadequate in understanding how that can impact virulence or disease.“There appears to be a new mutation in West Bengal, which hasn’t been described previously. Some mutations are important while some are not. It’s too premature to say anything. The spike protein is a hotspot for mutation. We need some real-life studies of how these mutations change the virus. Some of these mutations may affect the way the virus enters the body,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the AIIMS department of virology, who has read the study. “There will be mutations. For example, the Kerala sequence was very similar to the one from Wuhan, the rest were similar to those from Italy. Mutations are critical, depending on where they are happening. For example, the receptor binding area of the RNA is important,” she added.There can be better understanding only though large scale global sequencing studies but for now it doesn’t seem like SARS-CoV-2 is mutating very rapidly or significantly. “The question is whether one vaccine will hit all viruses globally. It might or might not. That is to be studied by several groups globally. There are umpteen examples in case of measles, polio, Japanese Encephalitis where one vaccine managed to hit all mutated viruses globally. In HIV, there was an antigenic shift which is why one vaccine didn’t help. In Influenza, we see antigenic drift, so one vaccine cannot be of help but this paper doesn’t address these questions. The mutations in SARS-CoV-2 are unlikely to affect the critical part of the spike glycoprotein. As of now, one vaccine is expected to protect all,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unique-virus-mutation-in-bengal/story-8E0zPECkt3K72PVCivEkxI.html
01-05-2020||India||Talks on to bring back stranded Indians: Govt||India said on Thursday consultations were on to finalise plans for repatriating citizens stranded around the world even as missions in different countries were arranging essential supplies and looking after the needs of such people.“The matter is receiving the attention of the government. It would be premature for me to spell out the plans for their return at this stage,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual news briefing.Though Srivastava said he didn’t have details regarding the number of Indians stranded around the world or expatriate workers wishing to return to the country, people familiar with developments have said the number is expected to run into hundreds of thousands.Noting that the country has been under lockdown since March 25 and all commercial flights had been suspended, Srivastava said: “In this situation, there are Indians all over the world who have gone to various parts as students, there are deportees or they’ve finished their projects and they wish to return.“We understand that they are naturally inconvenienced and we appreciate their predicament…Consultations are on and discussions are underway [for their return].”Indian missions around the world are taking care of the stranded citizens by arranging food and shelter and addressing issues arising from their unplanned stay abroad, such as the expiry of visas, he added.Officials have already said the repatriation of Indian citizens is expected to begin once the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown eases after May 3. The exercise is expected to involve Air India, the air force and the navy.The air force is expected to use some of its largest transport aircraft, such as C-130s and C-17s, for evacuation flights while the navy has kept three large warships on standby to bring back thousands of Indians from West Asian countries.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday that more than 56,000 people from his state had registered to return after losing their jobs in foreign countries.The external affairs ministry and Indian missions are expected to begin registering Indians who want to return in the coming days, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.Secretaries responsible for various geographical regions in the external affairs ministry have held a series of meetings via video conference with groups of ambassadors based in Delhi during which the repatriation of Indian citizens and their welfare figured in the discussion||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-on-to-bring-back-stranded-indians-govt/story-YTHXpPzw3126PoO0aH9a7L.html
01-05-2020||India||Across states, officials gear up to handle migrants’ return||Several states appointed nodal authorities and kick-started formalities to bring back their residents --- migrant workers, students and pilgrims, among others --- who are stranded in different parts of the country because of the ongoing lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. According to state government estimates, there are close to 10 million migrant workers stranded in different states, who will travel back home by bus, in possibly the biggest such exercise India has ever witnessed. A ground report from 12 states.Uttar PradeshUttar Pradesh (UP), which has already brought back 2.7 lakh workers from Delhi and Haryana, is now gearing up to bring back another 1.5 million workers. Chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, on Tuesday spoke with the chief ministers of several states and asked for their help in the return of migrants to UP. The state has brought back from Kota, Rajasthan, 11,500 students (who had been there to prepare for competitive exams) and sent another 10,000 students to their homes in various districts.The UP government has appointed nodal officers to coordinate with other state government and district administrations to enable the return of migrants and to take care of them at geotagged shelter homes. An UP Revenue Department officer said capacity has been created to house “6 lakh person against the expected 10 to 15 lakh migrants” coming in. A police officer manning a helpline in UP said that the number of calls has increased and they were assuring workers they would be brought back soon. .Shiv Mangal, 28, a migrant worker who is living at a shelter/quarantine camp at Janaki Kund Junior High School in the Pariyar village in Unnao said: “We came all the way to be in our homes, and not to live here.” He, along with 19 others arrived—on their own—came from Telangana on April 19. MaharashtraWhile Maharashtra has a few thousand workers stranded in other states, it has close to a million workers from other states. Of these, around 5.7 lakh labourers are living in 4600-odd shelter homes in various districts of the state. State government officials said 1.7 lakh of them want to return.The Maharashtra government on Thursday issued a notification allowing transportation of the stranded workers, pilgrims, and students after taking permission from district authorities. Respective state governments will have to arrange for vehicles to take back workers. The 14-day quarantine has been made mandatory for the people arriving in Maharashtra. Nitin Kareer, additional chief secretary, Maharashtra, said, “We are not making any arrangements for the logistics, including their travel facilities for the migrant workers, who want to go back to their respective home states.” An official from the relief and rehabilitation department said there was fear of violent reaction after May 3 from these workers, in case the lockdown and restrictions are extended. “In Nashik, Palghar and Jalgaon and other parts of the state, we received complaints of the workers in shelters either boycotting the food or even threatening drastic steps if they are not allowed to go to their states. Some of them even try travel to their states on foot,” the official said.Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh has already brought back 20,000 workers. Additional chief secretary, ICP Keshri, said, “Besides, 7000 more labourers from Rajasthan, 3000 from Uttar Pradesh and 1600 from Goa are expected to reach Madhya Pradesh on Thursday.” Around 30,000 more have enrolled, he said, adding arrangements have been made for their food and accommodation. Naval Adivasi from Sheopur district, who was brought back from Nagaur in Rajasthan along with 50 other labourers said, “We were stranded in Nagaur. The state government has made good arrangements for us here.” There were reports of a few protests from Gwalior-Bind area, where workers were asked to stay in quarantine.Chhattisgarh and OdishaChhattisgarh’s chief secretary, RP Mandal, on Thursday asked collectors to update the figure of migrant labourers of their respective districts, who are stranded in other states and made the Chief Executive Officer of the zila panchayats in rural areas and the municipal commissioner and chief municipal officer in urban areas as nodal officers to coordinate with other states. He also told the collectors that the persons brought back will be kept in quarantine at the village panchayat level and would be tested for Covid-19, if they have symptoms. Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Telangana are transporting the workers from Chhattisgarh by buses to the Chhattisgarh border. From there, Chhattisgarh government will take them to their destination districts. “Till now, about 11 lakh migrant labourers from Chhattisgarh are found stranded in other states,” said a senior IAS officer, who was not willing to be quoted. In Odisha, the officials said arrangements would soon be announced for about 7 lakh workers from Odisha stranded in other states.Punjab and HaryanaPunjab has appointed a state nodal officer to coordinate the movement of migrants from Punjab to other states and vice versa. “An online registration system is also being started today on COVA app (a central app for all Covid-19 related information and management) to register migrant workers who are currently here and want to go back to their home states as well as Punjabis who are stranded in other states,” additional chief secretary, home, Satish Chandra, said.Not too many from Punjab are working in other states. The government estimates that around five million workers from other states are employed in registered industrial units, and brick kilns. Of them, around two million are in Ludhiana. Tarsem Jodhan, President of Punjab Mazdoor Union, said that lakhs of migrants here want to go back after the government’s decision yesterday. Like Punjab, Haryana has over two million workers from other states and officials said a team has been set up to coordinate with other states to send them back. Most of these workers are in National Capital Region towns such as Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Rohtak, officials said.RajasthanThe Rajasthan government has appointed 19 IAS/IPS officers to coordinate with governments of 14 states, district authorities and other agencies. The officers appointed will coordinate with other state governments to resolve issues of Rajasthani workers in these states and with districts officers in Rajasthan to enable workers from other states to return home. Orders have been issued to set up transit camps at the state borders, where quarantine centres will be set up for workers. Till Wednesday afternoon, a total of 23,019 labourers were sent to other states and 4,874 were brought back to Rajasthan.DelhiDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the government will come up with a detailed plan later this week and urged migrant workers in the city to stay indoors till then. “In Delhi, the main chunk of work is focused on sending back people to their own states. To send people back in safe conditions, adhering to social distancing norms, would be the priority if whatever strategy the government drafts,” said a senior official in the chief minister’s office. Delhi government is also making arrangement for bringing back Delhi students who are currently stuck in Rajasthan’s Kota.BiharA day after welcoming the Centre’s guidelines for stranded people, the Bihar government said it won’t be easy to bring back 2.5 million workers. Deputy chief minister, Sushil Kumar Modi, said bringing them back in buses would take several months and the journey for workers would be tiresome, in addition to the huge expenditure involved.Additional chief secretary, Amir Subhani, said the government will receive all the migrants returning to Bihar on its borders. “It is not written in the guidelines that Bihar has to send buses,” he said, citing the guidelines, which said that the sending and receiving states may consult each other and mutually agree to the movement by road. Another official said the other option was to bring them back in trains, which could be cheaper and quicker. Bihar has already appointed disaster management department principal secretary, Pratyaya Amrit, as the nodal officer for stranded people. JharkhandThe Jharkhand government has set up a team of 15 officers to coordinate with other states to bring back stranded workers. Johnson Topno, who is leading the state helpline, said about 9.5 lakh workers from the state are stranded in other states. West Bengal Chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, said the state was working on the protocol for bringing back migrant workers. The district administration has been asked to prepare the list of workers stranded outside the state. She had also promised to give Rs 1,000 to each migrant worker. The state government has already set up 711 camps in various districts where more than two lakh migrant labourers from at least 16 states have been put up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/across-states-officials-gear-up-to-handle-migrants-return/story-SDu7NxMi8KqEl8GVlxNscM.html
01-05-2020||India||Humans provide the conditions for epidemics to flourish: Frank Snowden||In 2019, Frank Snowden, professor emeritus of history and medical history at Yale University, published a book that was a result of four decades of research. Called Epidemics and Society: From the Black Death to the Present, the book is a sweeping and exhaustive look at many centuries of humanities struggles with infectious diseases. And, as it turns out, it was well timed. “Each epidemic is unique, and each one tells us something about the society in which it occurred,” Snowden said in an interview over Skype from Rome, where he has just come out of home quarantine. “They shape history in profound ways.”Snowden termed Covid-19 as the “first pandemic of globalization”, speaking about the things that the disease reveals about societies now, the similarities with past pandemics and the ways in which all these have shaped public health. Edited excerpts:When your book came out last year, did you ever think that pandemic was around the corner?While researching the book, I had been listening to the warnings and I was very aware of the possibility—in the book I say that we have a ticking time bomb, because we live in a world of microbes and we create channels, because of the way our societies are structured, that microbes can exploit. I did think that I would live to see a pandemic like this, though I could not have known it would happen so soon. Anthony Fauci, who needs no introduction now, in a testimony to the US Congress in 2005 said that if you live in the Caribbean, meteorologists can tell you that you ought to prepare because a hurricane is in your future, it’s inevitable, though no one can tell you the date and how strong it will be. He said it’s exactly the same in the field of virology. Epidemiologists can tell you about the inevitability of a pandemic challenge, and that there is no reason to believe it will be less violent than the Spanish Influenza of 1918. We had these warnings but we ignored them to our cost and peril. My book came out in October, Covid-19 began in December. I came to Rome to do research only for the city to be totally transformed by this tragic event.I had a mild case of Covid-19, and as a result I’ve also been quarantined at home for three weeks, and today is the first day I have been released from quarantine. I’ve been daydreaming for days about visiting the market!Before I went into quarantine and I was still going to the market, what seemed interesting was the degree of compliance here in Rome. The lines in the markets were full of people talking about things like, ‘I wonder if this is what it was like in the last war’, or ‘could London in the Blitz have been like this?’ And the local newspaper had an article that said that this is the first time in 3000 years of Rome’s history that Romans have ever been obedient.What do you mean when you say we create channels that microbes exploit?The 19th Century was the era of industrial revolution and it created diseases transmitted via the oral/fecal route, cholera and typhoid, because industrialisation meant the sudden flooding of European cities by populations from the countryside for whom no preparations had been made and who overwhelmed the urban infrastructure. There was no clean water supply, no sewer systems, and huge dangers of contaminated water or food. Society at that time created an environmental niche for diseases like cholera and typhoid to exploit. I would define Covid-19 as the first pandemic of globalization. The niches it exploits are massive population growth, crowding and mega cities; an industrial model that encourages rapacious growth without counting the environmental cost. By destroying biodiversity and animal habitat, we are bringing human beings into relationships with animal reservoirs of disease that humans hardly encountered in the past. Spillover events are becoming more and more common. All the recent epidemics have been caused by it—Avian flu, MERS, SARS, Ebola. Then there is massive, 24-hour transport by air across the world. So, let’s say if there is a new virus in Jakarta in the morning, it can be in Los Angeles by nightfall. These are not vulnerabilities put upon us by god or nature. This is not a random event, not something out of the blue or a Biblical plague. Humans provide the conditions for epidemics to flourish.Can we ever be prepared for an epidemic?The history of the recent century of epidemic diseases is that whenever one has just struck, there is a flurry of responses, of devoting funds on public health. After a while people are tired of spending those funds and amnesia sets in.We have not taken seriously the need to prepare. We did not need to be vulnerable in this way, and the tragedy here is that this is a pandemic that has caught has when we were least ready and much of the suffering and death could have been preventable. South Korea were unusual in that they took the message to heart from their previous experiences, and met the challenge with readiness. We could all have been like South Korea. I have hope for a paradoxical reason. Covid-19 may well become endemic, and we may have to refigure our lives according to this new reality, certainly unless an efficacious vaccine is developed. One of the blows to the vaccine strategy that’s not much talked about is the discovery that people who recover from the disease do not necessarily have a robust immunity to it. The vaccine developers have to teach the body to do something that nature itself doesn’t do. The best vaccines have been for diseases in which those who experience the disease, small pox for example, develop lifelong immunity.If we are unable to take that route, then we have to reconfigure our cities, reconfigure our relationship with the environment, reconfigure our health care systems. None of that will happen soon. In the short term I am not optimistic and I do believe there are waves of the opposite, which is to find scapegoats, to blame immigrants, to put up national barriers. Xenophobia, nationalism…these are pseudo solutions to a real problem. Two of the leaders in the world in this regard, President Donald Trump in the US, and (Jair) Bolsanaro in Brazil—who is to say that they will not be swept aside by the failure of their approach in dealing with the disease? Nature may impose upon us the necessity to think in a coherent and science-based way if we wish our economies and our societies to survive, and I believe we do wish to survive.Is there a lesson in history about the lasting political effects left behind by epidemics? As a necessary measure, governments are exercising sweeping powers right now—what happens when the pandemic passes?It’s not easy to answer because there is no single lesson in history. If you look at the Spanish Influenza of 1918, it was largely forgotten. It was overshadowed by the war, by the Russian revolution, the peace making process afterwards… despite the fact that very strenuous and sweeping measures were taken—governments introduced compulsory masking, assemblages were forbidden—a great deal of what we are seeing now, happened back then, but nowhere did this disease lead to a rise in new authoritarianism. The powers enacted were set aside and life went on again.Sometimes epidemics can lead to liberating movements –Haitian independence and its relationship to yellow fever is an example. I think it’s dangerous to imagine an inevitable reaction or result as a legacy of Covid-19 because that would mean that it would be unplanned, and outside our control. In fact, what happens in the long run depends on us. It is possible to imagine the democratic or environmental consequences as being positive, but they won’t happen unless people put their heads together and insist that they happen. A crisis can also be a stimulant for necessary reforms. What effects do epidemics have on public health policies?One silver lining in the dark cloud of epidemics is the profound legacy it leaves behind on public health. The Bubonic plague shaped public health in Europe. If a Florentine from the 15th century were to come forward in a time machine to now, many of things we are doing would be familiar to him. There were plague costumes—gowns coated with wax and masks that doctors wore then. They had rods to keep people at a distance for social distancing. Also, the plague hospitals – overcrowded and struggling, with doctors and medical personnel being at great risk. He would have known all about quarantine, which was introduced back then.Or let’s talk about an English person with enormous influence in this regard — Edwin Chadwick, who brought in a sanitary revolution in England to counter cholera in the 19th century, retrofitting British cities with sanitary features – sewers, running water, the water closet – it transformed daily life. Regulation building codes we follow now are also gifts of the 19th century coming to terms with epidemic diseases.And we are all waiting right now with bated breath for a vaccine. Would we even have had the concept if it was not for Edward Jenner in the 18th Century developing the small pox vaccine?The word “unprecedented” is applied to what’s happening now quite liberally, but it seems to me that it has precedence going far back in history. The tools we are using, we would not have them without this history. Nor are the effects unprecedented – that people are losing some of their religion, and that religion may be a belief in rapacious global capitalism, or nationalism. A lot of belief systems are likely to be transformed, and this is not the first time it’s happened, and undoubtedly won’t be the last.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/humans-provide-the-conditions-for-epidemics-to-flourish-frank-snowden/story-u9sTv3lMa3IuWj5gNsgwwN.html
01-05-2020||India||India describes as ‘propaganda’ posts on ‘targeting of Muslims’||India on Thursday described a flurry of social media posts in West Asia on the treatment of Muslims in the country as “propaganda” and said countries in that region were keen to work with New Delhi for economic recovery after the Covid-19 crisis.Over the past few weeks, several commentators from West Asia and a member of the royal family of the United Arab Emirates have called out what they said were Islamophobic social media posts by a handful of Indians working in the Middle East. They have also criticised what they said was the targeting of Muslims in India.As the issue gained prominence, external affairs minister S Jaishankar reached out to many of his counterparts in West Asian countries, especially members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) to address the matter and also to discuss the welfare of some 8 million expatriates in the region.Responding to a string of questions on the issue during a virtual news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava described much of the material on social media platforms as “propaganda by interested parties”.“Stray tweets cannot be used to characterise our bilateral relations with these countries, and the real picture of these relations is very different. The prime minister and external affairs minister have been in regular touch with their counterparts from the region, and spoken to them over the past few days,” he said.The West Asian states, he said, also want a “priority discussion with India on the post-Covid-19 economic recovery”.Srivastava added: “So what comes out clearly in these discussions is that these countries are deeply committed to friendly relations with India. They also don’t support any interference in the internal affairs of India. It is, therefore, important the friendly and cooperative nature of our relations is accurately recognised and the misuse of social media is not given credence.”The West Asian states have also made requests for India to send medicines and medical teams. “There’s a request to send doctors and nurses from India,” Srivastava said, adding that so far, a medical rapid response team had been deployed in Kuwait for a fortnight.India has also made special efforts to ensure uninterrupted supply of food and essential commodities required by these countries during the holy month Ramzan.Responding to a report that Oman, which is home to 770,000 Indians, has launched a drive to replace expatriates working in the government sector, Srivastava said this was a decades-old policy that isn’t “specific to India and doesn’t target Indians in any way”.Countries such as Oman “greatly value relations with India and also value the large and important role that our diaspora has played in contributing to the economic prosperity of that region”, he said. Oman has also been taking special care of Indians amid the Covid-19 crisis by providing them free testing and treatment, he added.Oman’s finance ministry recently issued a circular calling for expatriates employed in the government sector to be replaced by Omanis, with proposals in this regard to be submitted by July. The circular also said the replacement of expatriates should be done in a speedy manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-describes-as-propaganda-posts-on-targeting-of-muslims/story-0HUYZOF8mDwTumjaf6SOjM.html
01-05-2020||India||Ayush ministry to study Ayurveda for boosting immunity||The ministry of Ayush (ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy) has started an observational study to establish immunity boosting effects of some Ayurvedic herbs and minerals on Thursday. The ministry will initially put Delhi police personnel on the experimental medicine for the study. “We have tied up with the Delhi Police to put their 80,000 personnel deployed in the field on this experimental medicine mix containing Giloy Ghan Vati and Chyawanprash as part of an observational study to see its prophylactic effects by altering a person’s immune response,” said Rajesh Kotecha, secretary, Ayush ministry.Giloy Ghan Vati contains extract of Giloy (botanically known as Tinospora Cordifolia), which in Ayurveda is known to be a potent immuno-modulator (immunity booster) herb.Chyawanprash is an Ayurvedic health supplement which is made up of a concentrated blend of nutrient-rich herbs and minerals. It is meant to preserve strength, stamina, and vitality.“As part of the study, this combination will be given to them on a daily basis for about three weeks. The dosage will be two tablets of giloy ghan vati in the morning, and two tablets in the evening, along with one spoon of Chyawanprash, in a day. In some cases we can also extend the period of study,” Kotecha said.Delhi-based All India Institute of Ayurveda will be the nodal medical centre for the study, he said, adding that the centre will also monitor the health of all study recruits.“We are not claiming it to be effective against Covid-19, all we are saying is that it is known to be effective in building a person’s immunity and we are conducting this large scale trial to see if it can provide some protection against this particular disease also. Another arm of this study is to see if taking this medicine will have any effect on the severity of the disease in case any of these personnel are exposed to the virus in future,” said Kotecha.“We want to generate adequate scientific evidence given criticism Ayush stream of medicines receive, and are collaborating with ICMR and CSIR in this regard. Like other observational studies taking place in the country with allopathic medicines, this study will focus on the effects of Ayush medicines,” said Kotecha.In next 10 days, the Ayush ministry will be collaborating with its regional institutes to expand the scope of the study to involve more people who are given these immunity boosters. “We are looking at covering about one million people including field staff, those in quarantine centres etc. especially in high-risk areas,” he said.The Union health Harsh Vardhan also said that the government was looking at using Ayush medicines to boost the immunity of people. “The Ayush ministry and ICMR are working closely, and about 125 proposals were received from various organizations that are being short-listed to conduct clinical trials so that their efficacy is proven in a scientific manner. We are open to making use of Ayush medicines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayush-ministry-to-study-ayurveda-for-boosting-immunity/story-aIZ96hgzUgJfDjJmbBDB9O.html
01-05-2020||India||Indigenous tests kits to be ready by mid-May: Centre||Indigenous antibody-based rapid test (blood test) kits and real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) swab-based kits for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) developed by laboratories running under the ministry of science and technology will be ready around the middle of May, said health miniser Dr Harsh Vardhan.“The next couple of weeks are going to be crucial as we will get to see results of some of our research and development work by scientists working under the ministry of science and technology. Around mid May we will have indigenous development of good quality antibody test kits, and also kits for detection of the virus (RT-PCR kits). All of this will come in May; thanks to our scientists,” said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan.The institutes and companies collaborating on these projects include Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, Thiruvananthapuram, Sri Ramchandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, Porur, Chennai, Central University of Kerala, and Dhiti Life Sciences Pvt.Ltd. The minister, along with Amitabh Kant from Niti Aayog, reviewed the work of various non-government organisations (NGOs) and civil society members involved in helping the government in managing the Covid-19 situation in the country on Thursday.The science and technology ministry is working on a number of other projects in the field of diagnostics, therapeutics or vaccine against the novel viral infection.“There is a varied range of projects, be it discovery of the new drugs or repurposing of the old or existing drug molecules for finding out solutions to Covid-19, or even looking at vaccine development, which our scientists are working on. We already have half a dozen vaccine candidates, of which four candidates are in a significantly advanced stage,” said Harsh Vardhan.Harsh Vardhan is also the minister for science and technology in the government. There are various laboratories under the department of biotechnology and council of scientific and industrial research that are into genetic sequencing of the Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.“The viral sequencing is happening at about 1000 labs across the country functioning under the department of biotechnology and at about 500 labs under the council of scientific and industrial research. A lot of things are happening; we are also supporting many new start-ups who have shown promise in the field,” said Harsh Vardhan. “The virus is going to stay with us for long, so we need to prepare accordingly,” he added.Experts feel it is high time India starts focusing on make in India products by encouraging domestic manufacturers.“…why should we depend on Chinese or products from any other country when we have the capability to manufacture indigenously? We should encourage Indian manufacturers by protecting their investments and creating a market for them. India has the capability. All we need is help in scaling up our capacity. This is the time to consolidate our resources and work like a single unit. It should be a consortium approach and not a competitive approach then we might even be able to export stuff,” says Dr T Jacob John, former head of virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigenous-tests-kits-to-be-ready-by-mid-may-centre/story-AoLiPzIiECeweofegZyqbO.html
01-05-2020||India||PM discusses investment models to boost economy||In the backdrop of the contraction in the economy due to the coronavirus pandemic and the national lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a “comprehensive” meeting to discuss strategies to boost the economy, with an eye on enhancing investment. The meeting took place even as the government is in the middle of finalising the first round of economic measures to provide relief to different sectors. This, officials aware of development said, may be made public next week.In a statement, the Prime Minister’s Office said that the meeting discussed strategies “to attract more foreign investments into India as well as to promote local investments in order to give a boost to the economy against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic”. Hindustan Times reported on Tuesday that the government plans to aggressively push the “Make in India’ programme by offering domestic and foreign manufacturers policy and fiscal incentives to manufacture locally. PM Modi, in his public speeches, has also spoken of increasing self-reliance at all levels within India. The statement on Thursday said: “Various strategies to bring investments into India in a fast-track mode and to promote Indian domestic sectors were discussed [in the meeting].” The meeting was attended by home minister Amit Shah, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, commerce and industries minister Piyush Goyal, minister of state for finance Anurag Singh Thakur and other senior bureaucrats. While there was no official word on the announcement of a stimulus, which has been demanded by various industry bodies, officials have indicated that the government will continue to take fiscal and policy decisions as and when the situation warrants, and the first set of measures could come next week as the lockdown eases. An official familiar with the proceedings of Thursday’s meeting said that the idea was to make India a global manufacturing hub, at a time when supply chains have broken down and the world is looking for alternatives to China to shift production bases. “The PM has always, from his first term, emphasised the need to improve India’s ranking in the ease of doing business. This has indeed happened. We now have to make a push to be able to leverage the opportunities that exist. This will also be our way to revive economic momentum.” He added that the government is working on relaxing regulatory norms, removing bureaucratic hurdles and providing fiscal incentives to both domestic and foreign investors.According to a second official, the government has been approached by many developed economies to prepare India as an alternative manufacturing destination because many multinational companies are looking to exit China. India’s main attractions, he said, are its vast domestic market, cheap labour, and a stable and decisive political regime.  The statement said, “It was discussed that a scheme should be developed to promote more plug and play infrastructure in the existing industrial lands/plots/estates in the country and provide necessary financing support.” During the meeting, the PM also, according to the statement, directed that the action should be taken for a more proactive approach to handhold the investors, look into their problems and help them get all the necessary central and state clearances in a time bound manner. Detailed discussions were also held on guiding states to evolve their strategies and be more proactive in attracting investments, it added.Industry bodies called it an apt policy at the right time and said India should strategically target each company which is relocating from China.Confederation of Indian Industry director general Chandrajit Banerjee said, “We suggest that these [investment zones] should be large zones with a special purpose vehicle to provide approvals and clearances, along with world-class urban infrastructure such as roads, worker housing and facilities, sewerage and low-cost power. Land and labour regulations can also be specifically instituted for these zones to ensure large scale employment.” Commenting on the possibility of boosting India’s domestic production capabilities, N Venkatram, CEO at Deloitte India said, “Swadeshi 2.0 is about manufacturing from India. This will happen if our own industrialists have the ability to invest in India, in turn encouraging foreign investment as well as manufacturing by foreign companies in India. We also need to look at changes needed in regulation and get the industrialist mindset back. We need to build our economy to its export potential based on our competitive advantages and generate employment.”Mithun V, partner at the law firm, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said the move is “reassuring” for the global and local investor community. “This is also a very good time for the government to focus on encouraging infrastructure and manufacturing sector investments, especially given the ongoing global backlash against our land border sharing neighbour,” he said, in a reference to China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-discusses-investment-models-to-boost-economy/story-e1eoHeS2rIDjmcljVXOeCN.html
01-05-2020||India||The four quarantines of Praveen Burathi||A 25-year-old man took nearly two months to reach his home in the Champawat district of Uttarakhand from Tehran, capital of Iran amid the Covid-19 outbreak. In the process, he was quarantined once in Iran and twice in Rajasthan. And on Tuesday, when he reached Champawat, it was only to be quarantined again. Praveen Burathi, a resident of Khatoli, a village 40 km from Champawat works as a navigation officer at a shipping company in Tehran. He was sanctioned two months’ leave by his company but the flight he was to take on February 28 was cancelled.“ When I reached Tehran airport on February 28, I was informed that flight for Delhi was cancelled due to Covid-19 outbreak . I was told there was no certainty when the next flight would leave for India,” said Burathi.He contacted the Indian embassy in Tehran. “ I was advised by officials that I would be quarantined in a hotel till the next flight was available. I remained in quarantine till March 14 and my sample was taken by Iranian officials, which tested negative on March 16.”The quarantine was necessary because Iran was among the earliest to be hit hard by the viral pandemic. One he cleared the quarantine, he was put on the next flight to India. “Finally I boarded an Air flight for Delhi with r 195 other Indians on March 18 from Tehran. After we reached Delhi we were taken to Jaisalmer in Rajasthan through two domestic flights and quarantined there for 14 days,” Burathi said.Every Indian flown in from countries ravaged by the virus -- China and Iran, for instance -- were placed in manatory quarantine. After completion of the quarantine period, their samples were taken again for Covid-19 testing on March 31. “The report was received on April 5, which showed two people tested positive for COVID-19. So we all were quarantined again for 14 days at the same centre. We completed the second quarantine period on April 19, when samples were again sent for the testing”, Burathi said.That report came in negative on April 23; he and the others were free to go. “But it took me three more days to obtain a movement pass from the authorities in Jaisalmer. Then, I hired a taxi for Rs 30000 and left for Champawat,” said Burathi.Burathi reached Champawat on Tuesday and went to the local police station to inform them about his arrival as is the practice during the lockdown. Once he told them about his travel history, he was quarantined again in a local hotel for 14 days.The chief medical officer of Champawat district Dr RP Khanduri said: “Though we are quarantining (all) people who come from outside the state, given this man’s travel history we are being extra cautious. After he completes his quarantine period, his samples will be sent for testing. If they come negative, he will be sent home and advised to stay there.” In Uttarakhand, where 57 people have tested positive for COVID-19 so far, 11,120 people have been home quarantined and 2,218 have been quarantined in various institutions . “I so badly want to go home,” said Burathi. “This is the longest and most tiresome journey I have taken so far in my life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-four-quarantines-of-praveen-burathi/story-WvXJDVfppl0MXKb8STR5BO.html
01-05-2020||India||Covid 19 update: Empowered panels reshuffled after bureaucratic rejig||The recent bureaucratic reshuffle in which about 30 senior officials were either shifted or promoted, has resulted in a mini-rejig in the 11 empowered groups formed to give policy inputs to the Prime Minister’s Office on Covid-19.Senior government officials, familiar with the matter, said many members of the groups will be replaced with new faces as a result of the reshuffle. “When the groups were formed, specific bureaucrats were assigned tasks under various heads. But now, secretaries who have replaced them will take over their responsibilities from there,” said a secretary-level official on condition of anonymity.Pawan Agarwal, the former consumers affairs secretary, was a member of the panel on economic and welfare measures. He, however, has been shifted as special secretary logistics. Similarly, former rural development secretary Rajesh Bhushan, now OSD in health ministry, has been replaced by the new rural development secretary Nagendra Nath Sinh, who will be a new member in the economy panel.An official added that while the panels are tasked with several aspects of the pandemic, they will continue to function even after the lockdown is eased till the virus subsides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/empowered-panels-reshuffled-after-bureaucratic-rejig/story-2kO2ZQqwBNHdQ89uqJJ5fO.html
01-05-2020||India||60,000 foreigners evacuated; UK to fly back 2k citizens||About 60,000 foreign nationals from 72 countries have been evacuated from India on special flights amid the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, with the UK on Thursday announcing plans to fly back another 2,000 stranded British travellers.Secretaries in the external affairs ministry have been interacting via video conference with groups of ambassadors based in Delhi to discuss ways to fight the pandemic, the welfare of stranded Indians around the world and the evacuation of foreign nationals from India.The ambassadors have thanked the ministry for its role in helping the evacuating of foreign nationals from all parts of India despite challenges of logistics during the lockdown, said external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. “About 60,000 foreign nationals from 72 countries have been evacuated,” he told a virtual media briefing.The UK said there would be seven charter flights in May to take more than 2,000 stranded British travellers home. These flights will take the total number of chartered flights so far to 59 and once they are completed, more than 15,000 British travellers will have been evacuated from India.A statement from the UK high commission said the seven flights would be operated from Amritsar to London on May 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11.The UK minister of state for South Asia and the Commonwealth, Tariq Ahmad, said: “Our charter programme has already helped more than 10,000 British travellers return home from India by ensuring flights to the UK have run every day since April 8…I would like to thank the government of India for their help in making it happen.”This is the fifth round of charter flights organised by the UK for Britons stranded in India. The UK government allocated £75 million for special charter flights to priority countries such as India, with the focus on helping the most vulnerable people....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-000-foreigners-evacuated-uk-to-fly-back-2k-citizens/story-Mtvnf3Cfw4mhcOOqWIeH2J.html
01-05-2020||India||MHA tells states to aid plying of trucks||The Union home ministry on Thursday wrote to all states and Union territories directing them against stopping the movement of trucks and other goods carriers even if they are empty. The direction was issued amid reports that trucks were still not allowed to move freely and there were disruptions in the movement of essential items.In the letter, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla said that local administrations “should not insist” on separate passes from the truckers and that field agencies be informed about these instructions so that there is no ambiguity at the ground level. Bhalla said free movement of trucks through interstate borders “is essential for maintaining the supply chain of goods and services across the country during the lockdown period”.This is Bhalla’s third such letter citing Covid-19 lockdown guidelines that say all goods traffic be allowed to ply. The previous two letters were written on April 3 and 12 and asked local authorities to follow the orders in letter and spirit.Clause 12 of the revised consolidated guidelines issued on April 15 allows “the movement of all trucks and other goods/carrier vehicles with two drivers and one helper subject to the driver carrying a valid driving licence, an empty truck/vehicle will be allowed to ply after the delivery of goods, or for pick up of goods”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-tells-states-to-aid-plying-of-trucks/story-MuRLqHQZPCOP4C6haoDNMI.html
01-05-2020||India||States get to work to bring back students, migrant workers home||Several states have set in motion the process of compiling data and coordinating efforts to bring home stranded migrant workers, tourists and students, a day after the ministry of home affairs issued guidelines on the protocol to follow for their transportation.Even as there is pressure from several states such as Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Rajasthan to start special trains for transporting people, the centre for now has allowed movement only in buses.Though the ministry of railways has said it has made no decision on running special trains thus far, an official said the ministry is working out plans on deploying special trains, contingent on the decision by the home ministry.“The Home ministry will take the call soon. Phase-wise plans will be drafted by each zone based on the expected crowds,” a senior official said on condition of anonymity.Bihar, which had insisted on a central guideline on the movement of people during the lockdown, has appointed the secretary of its disaster management authority as the nodal officer to coordinate with other state governments.The state too has made the request for starting special trains to make the process of transportation easier.Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar on Thursday also appealed to Centre for special trains to bring back migrants. “I appeal GOI to allow special trains to bring migrants from distant places,” he tweeted.The Bihar administration has announced that it will enforce quarantining for migrant workers at facilities set up at the block level across the state. Students and tourists will be screened and allowed to quarantine at home if they are found asymptomatic. “The process of registration has begun. And once we bring them into the state we will provide food, shelter and even provisions such as utensils and other basic necessities to those in quarantine shelters or in isolation centres if they are found positive,” said Sanjay Jha, minister of water resources and the national general secretary of JD(U).The minister also said that the state will take penal action against anyone, willfully breaking protocol and entering the state without following the due process.The state, which has received about 28 lakh requests from workers stranded outside Bihar for getting Rs 1,000 transferred by the state government through direct transfer, will develop an app to create a data bank of those who need to be transported back from across the country.In Uttarakhand, where officials have received the most calls from stranded persons in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat; efforts are underway to organise buses for their transportation.“The MHA guidelines will be followed. We had already been receiving calls from people on the helpline that was started just after the lockdown began; but now we will start taking requests afresh,” said an official of the Uttarakhand government.Though states such as UP and MP had begun the process of bringing back stranded domiciled residents, Bihar and Jharkhand had insisted that the Centre should draft a common guideline for all states to follow so that the provisions of the disaster management act that is in force are not violated.In UP, an official said arrangements are nearly ready to set up a quarantine facility and a community kitchen for 10 lakh people. “Between March 28 and 29 we brought 4 lakh people from Delhi, nearly 50,000 from Haryana and Rajasthan; we also brought back students from Kota. The state chief secretary has written to all other states to inform us about our residents there and what kind of help is needed so that we can make arrangements,” said an official in UP.UP chief minister, Yogi Adityanath has also urged migrants not to undertake their journey on foot and said that the UP government is preparing an action plan for the safe return of all.On whether the state will wait for the special trains to start before bringing back people, the Uttarakhand official said the administration will “stick to the MHS guidelines” and start the process of transportation using buses. As part of its internal brain-storming exercise, some railway officials have also drafted a paper titled ‘Facilitating Migrants Travel’, suggesting free-of-cost travel, ensuring social distancing, close coordination with states, movement of migrants in phases using a cluster-based approach.A meeting was held by senior home ministry officials with the railway board and RPF officials Thursday according to an official aware of the development. A decision on running special trains may be taken following home ministry and the Prime Minister’s nod.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-get-to-work-to-bring-back-students-migrant-workers-home/story-GuBlI0ySB7Qw8HQvXa6pCL.html
01-05-2020||India||In Centre’s 2-page order on letting migrants travel, there is 1 operative word||The Union home ministry order that sanctioned inter-state travel is only designed to let people who are stranded reach home, a top government official told Hindustan Times. “The operative word is stranded”.The home ministry approval is primarily aimed at the 14 lakh people who have been housed in 38,000 relief camps set up by the government and non-profit sector, the official said, referring to reports that millions of people could travel from cities to villages.He said the order made it clear that it was for “migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons” who are “stranded at different places”.“If a worker is at home in, say Delhi or Gurugram where he works, it should not be counted as stranded,” the official said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe fine print was indicated to state chief secretaries at their video conference with Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba last week. The Centre did not explicitly spell it out in Wednesday’s formal order to give the states leeway to work out the procedures in accordance with the ground situation.But it is important that the states make sure that the situation is not allowed to turn into a free-for-all at any point.“Because if the situation appears to be getting out of hand, the Centre can change the rules again,” the official, who heads one of the empowered committees set up by the central government, said.The warning from the top government official comes after the Union home ministry relaxed its lockdown to permit migrant workers, students, tourists, pilgrims and others stranded in other states to go home.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakThe relaxation came days before the end to the 40-day national lockdown on May 4. In the next phase, the Centre is expected to lay emphasis on revival of economic activity in the country’s green zones that haven’t reported Covid-19 patients, ease restrictions in the orange zone but keep the ban on movement of people intact in the red zones and its containment zones.It was in this context that the Centre had decided against running special trains to ferry the migrant workers or others. Instead, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla’s order made it clear that the journey home would have to be made in buses.It is a logistical nightmare to organise the large number of buses that would operate from one state to another. This is particularly the case since a bus can not be allowed to carry more than 25-30 passengers in view of the social distancing norms.But in the face of a clamour from states to run special trains, the government is open to revisiting this condition. It hasn’t, however, taken a decision yet. One challenge would be to prevent people from pulling the chain between stations and getting off closer to their home.The idea of requiring people to travel in buses, a government official said, was to discourage people from travelling long distances.“The lockdown is going to be eased in a few days and the migrant workers should be able to get back to work in the green zones,” the official said.He explained that it would be unrealistic to expect economic activity to restart in the absence of the migrant workers who constitute. It was a point that had been underlined by Prime Minister Narendra Modi also when he had, during one of his many interactions with chief ministers, asked them to take care of the migrant workforce who may be natives of another state.There was, the official said, an added advantage of letting only migrants in relief camps returning home.“They have been living in the state’s relief camps and have been monitored by state health authorities…. Since there haven’t been any reports of an outbreak of the disease in the relief camps, it is reasonable to expect that workers, by and large, in these camps are free of infection and the chance of the disease spreading through them in the rural belt is minimal,” he explained.This is why the central government did not order the state governments to place the migrants in state quarantine facilities but allowed home quarantine. Besides, given the awareness of the disease in all parts of the country, it is reasonable to expect that there would be social pressure on the migrant returnees to stay in self-isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-centre-s-new-order-on-letting-migrants-travel-there-is-one-operative-word/story-e0WZuNMAJVqsGqVc25BWiN.html
01-05-2020||India||Pak spies could use Aarogya Setu-like app to target Indian military personnel, Army issues warning||The Indian Army has issued a warning to its personnel against Pakistani agencies’ nefarious designs to hack the phones of Indian military personnel through a malicious application similar to the Aarogya Setu app.“Inimical intelligence agencies have developed a malicious app by the name Aarogya Setu.apk. Such apps were found to be sent by Pakistan-based Pakistani Intelligence Operatives to WhatsApp groups of Indian Army personnel,” the Army has stated in its warning.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicSenior Army sources told ANI that Pakistani agencies are using social media accounts with Indian names to target the Indian personnel.“Known Pakistani Intelligence Operative account under the fake name of one ‘Anoshka Chopra’ also found sending the malicious application to Indian Army personnel,” the sources said.The Army in its warning has asked personnel about the need to be sensitised about the Pakistani spy agencies’ designs while downloading the application.The Army has also told its men and women that the Aarogya Setu application must be downloaded only from the Indian government website (mygov.in) or Android Play Store or iOS Apple Play Store.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakAll forces personnel have been asked to download the Aarogya Setu application to help in the detection and checking the spread of COVID-19. The application has been developed by government agencies and is being used by almost all government employees.Recently, Army Chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane had stated that while India is busy fighting coronavirus both internally and globally, Pakistan is busy in exporting terrorism in India and other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-spies-use-aarogyasetu-app-to-target-indian-military-personnel-army-issues-warning/story-cho7X9CK5ZqCA8un3OatrK.html
