02-05-2020||India||PM Modi discusses financial sector, structural measures at meet to spur India’s growth||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a meeting to discuss strategies and interventions in the financial sector as well structural reforms to spur growth and welfare in the current context of coronavirus outbreak.At a meeting with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and officials, PM Modi discussed strategies and interventions to support MSMEs and farmers, enhance liquidity and strengthen credit flows. PM Modi also discussed ways and means to ensure financial stability in the wake of Covid-19 and measures taken to enable businesses to recover quickly from the impacts. Dwelling on the issue of welfare of workers and the common man, PM Modi pointed out the need to generate gainful employment opportunities by helping businesses overcome difficulties due to disruptions caused by Covid-19.The Prime Minister also stressed on the need to strengthen major structural reforms undertaken in the past. New structural reforms in the areas of corporate governance, credit markets and infrastructure sectors were also discussed in the meeting.Prime Minister stressed the need to take speedy measures to commence work on new infrastructure projects and speed up works in the infrastructure sector so as to make up for the time lost in Covid-19. He wanted the projects taken up under the National Infrastructure Pipeline be reviewed at the highest level frequently so as to avoid time delays and enable creation of jobs. It was also discussed that the reform initiatives undertaken by the various Ministries should continue unabated and action should be taken in a time bound manner to remove any obstacles to investment flows and capital formation.The meeting was attended by the Home Minister Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Secretaries of the Ministry of Finance along with senior officials of the Government of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-discusses-financial-sector-structural-measures-to-spur-india-s-growth/story-GQy1EqCSY5irW9pKYZEyKI.html
02-05-2020||India||Two migrant workers on way home aboard special bus from Surat killed as vehicle overturns||Two migrant worker travelling from Surat to Ganjam district of Odisha in a bus carrying 65 workers died when the vehicle overturned at a hilly road in Kandhamal district on Saturday evening.Police officials said the bus carrying the migrant workers from Surat had started on Thursday night and was about to enter Ganjam district when the driver lost control at Kalinga Ghati on the borders of Ganjam and Kandhamal district.Sub divisional police officer Jaykrushna Behera said the driver was over speeding on the hilly road when he lost control of the vehicle and dashed against concrete pillars and iron railing on the hilly road. “As soon as the bus hit the pillars and iron railing, the driver slammed the brakes. Several people were thrown off leading to the death of one. The firemen and police managed to rescue 64 people,” said Behera. State transport minister Padmanabha Behera said an inquiry would be done into the accident.In the last 2 days, 325 migrant workers from Gujarat’s Surat town have already arrived in Odisha’s Ganjam district in 7 buses. Apart from them 70 students taking coaching for engineering and medicine courses in Rajasthan’s Kota town have already arrived in Odisha in a special bus while another 1,000 students are on their way. More than 6 lakh Odia migrant workers are expected to throng Odisha this month either through bus or by special trains arranged by Indian Railways.To avoid the possibility of migrants spreading the infection around, Odisha plans to keep all migrants returning to villages in institutional quarantine while those in urban areas would be kept in home quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-worker-on-way-home-aboard-special-bus-from-surat-killed-as-vehicle-overturns/story-AbRnBFaque6CxV8R1tTOEJ.html
02-05-2020||India||Over 200 million women Jan-Dhan account holders to get Rs 500 for May from Monday||The government has asked both private and public sector banks to keep their systems and processes ready to disburse Rs 500 to over 200 million women Jan-Dhan account holders each from Monday, which is part of the Rs 1.7 lakh crore Prime Minister Jan Kalyan Yojana package announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26, officials said.In order to help the poor in this difficult time when livelihoods of most of them have been disrupted due to teh lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, the government had decided to give an ex-gratia of Rs 500 per month for three months from April.The money will be released by the ministry of rural development (MoRD) directly in the bank accounts of over 200 million accounts, hence banks have been asked to provide for enough cash in their branches and ATMs so that the beneficiaries should not face any hassle and social distancing is maintained, the officials said requesting anonymity.In order to avoid rush it is suggested to disburse money on the basis of last digit of individual accounts in a particular day, they said. The first Monday is fixed for account numbers ending with 0 and 1. Likewise for account numbers ending with 2-3 on Tuesday, 4-5 on Wednesday, 6-7 on Friday and 8-9 on the next Monday. Based on the plan, banks are advised to inform account holders through SMS, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-200-million-women-jan-dhan-account-holders-to-get-rs-500-for-may-from-monday/story-IqMb310GEha01X9ZMsbaxK.html
02-05-2020||India||2 militants killed in encounter with security forces in J&K’s Pulwama district||Two unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, while another anti-militancy operation is underway in Kupwara, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Dangerpora area of the south Kashmir district in the wee hours of Saturday following specific information about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. He said as the forces were conducting searches in the area, militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated, ensuing an encounter in which two militants were killed, the official said. He said identity and group affiliation of the slain ultras was being ascertained. Meanwhile, another encounter broke out in Handwara area of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Saturday, the official said. He said the security forces launched a search operation in Chanjmulla area of Handwara on Friday. However, contact with militants was established on Saturday evening, the official said, adding that the area was under cordon and the operation was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-militants-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-j-k-s-pulwama-district/story-Kae5GzGA9pp1KjzrKTmwYL.html
02-05-2020||India||Encounter between terrorists and security forces in J-K’s Handwara underway||An encounter has started between terrorists and security forces at Chanjmullah area of Handwara, Jammu and Kashmir, said Kashmir Zone Police on Saturday.More details are awaited. Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir Police said that two unidentified terrorists were neutralised in the encounter which broke out between militants and security forces in Pulwama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-handwara/story-GgwCT1mOJqHfYFCB8TJrYN.html
02-05-2020||India||IAF’s plan to shower petals over Kolkata hospitals not approved by West Bengal govt||The Indian Air Force’s plan to shower petals over two hospitals in Kolkata on Sunday as part of a military initiative to show gratitude to the country’s Covid-19 warriors has not been approved by the West Bengal government, IAF sources said.The hospitals are the ID&BG hospital and the Eastern Command Hospital.Tensions grew between the Centre and the West Bengal government after the former sent special teams to the state to take stock of the Covid-19 ground situation. The Centre is also worried about the low rate of testing for the coronavirus in Bengal.The Indian Air Force helicopters are showering petals at hospitals across 23 locations in the country which include Delhi, Leh, Chandigarh, Dehradun, Mumbai, Jaipur, Dispur, Itanagar, Trivandrum and Chennai.Apart from Delhi-NCR, the IAF’s fighter jets will carry out fly-pasts over Mumbai, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Guwahati, Patna and Lucknow. Also, transport aircraft will fly in formation over 10 cities including Delhi, Srinagar, Chandigarh, Jaipur, Mumbai and Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-s-plan-to-shower-petals-over-kolkata-hospitals-not-approved-by-west-bengal-govt/story-0jopOJfOzPl5jyDQs3fQAK.html
02-05-2020||India||135 CRPF troopers in Delhi test positive for Covid-19, set off alarm bells in MHA||Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) officials claimed on Saturday that 135 of its troopers from the 31st battalion have tested positive for coronavirus which is worrying for the paramilitary force.Four hundred and eighty troopers of the battalion have been quarantined. The test results of 22 more troopers are awaited while the rest have been cleared.The high numbers of troopers getting infected has alarm bells ringing at the ministry of home affairs (MHA) which oversees all internal security and law and order duties in the country. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.According to an official, the ministry has sought a reply from the paramilitary force on how the disease has spread to such a level. Troopers of the CRPF battalion are currently admitted at a Delhi government isolation facility in Mandoli after their colleague - a Sub Inspector from Assam, died on Tuesday at Safdarjung hospital due to the infection. It is suspected that the deceased jawan and others in the battalion got infected through a nursing assistant. The CRPF faced the brunt of the virus due to an order issued by the medical wing of the battalion saying that asymptomatic officers can join the work in five days. This was in violation of government mandated 14- day quarantine period for everyone. “The test results are gradually coming. So far, in almost 10-12 days, 135 personnel have been tested positive. However, most of them are asymptotic,” said an official who didn’t wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/135-crpf-troopers-in-delhi-test-positive-for-covid-19-set-off-alarm-bells-in-mha/story-8yTxmHT4SKNtkDyD75oIUM.html
02-05-2020||India||Ganderbal district of Jammu and Kashmir declared Covid-19 free||Ganderbal district of Jammu and Kashmir was on Saturday declared coronavirus-free as all 14 patients recovered from the infection and were discharged from hospital, officials said. “Ganderbal district is coronavirus-free today as all the earlier 14 coronavirus positive cases have recovered,” Deputy Commissioner RS hafqat Iqbal told PTI. Iqbal said all the 14 patients were discharged from the District Hospital Ganderbal, in central Kashmir, 22 kms from here. “All of them have been put under quarantine for 14 days and have been asked to take all necessary precautions,” he said. The deputy commissioner said the test results of samples taken on Thursday and Friday have returned negative. “Reports of 31 samples taken on Thursday were negative, while reports of 36 samples taken on Friday have also been received and all are negative,” Iqbal said. The Union Health Ministry has classified Ganderbal district as Orange zone. The government has classified districts across states and union territories into Red, Orange and Green zones. Districts with zero confirmed cases till date or districts with no confirmed cases in the last 21 days fall in the Green zone, while those under the Red one, popularly known as ‘‘Hot Spots’‘ are based on number of active cases, doubling rate of confirmed cases and extent of testing and surveillance feedback. Districts falling neither under Green or Red zones come under the Orange zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganderbal-district-of-jammu-and-kashmir-declared-covid-19-free/story-WOJ5LaJ0FBJc2mVoKDmoTM.html
02-05-2020||India||India clears travel of 88 healthcare professionals to UAE, emirates send 7 tonnes of medical supplies||The Indian government on Saturday permitted 88 doctors and healthcare professionals to travel to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to support efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic even as the West Asian state sent a plane with seven tonnes of medical supplies to New Delhi.The foreign ministers of several West Asian countries had raised the issue of return of Indian doctors employed in their healthcare facilities during recent telephone conversations with external affairs minister S Jaishankar. They had also sought medicines such as hydroxychloroquine from India.A statement from the UAE embassy said Indian authorities had allowed the first batch of 88 specialists, doctors and nurses to travel to the UAE within a short period to support efforts to fight Covid-19. It did not say when the batch would leave for the UAE.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the batch included healthcare professionals employed in the UAE who were at home on leave when Covid-19-related travel restrictions were put in place, and those were recently recruited by the emirates to bolster efforts to counter the pandemic.The batch is expected to fly out of India after the completion of certain formalities as the matter had been cleared by the external affairs ministry, the people said.In a separate development, the UAE sent a special flight carrying seven tonnes of medical supplies to India to bolster efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19. “The aid will assist approximately 7,000 medical professionals as they work to combat the virus,” said a statement from the UAE embassy.UAE ambassador Ahmed Al Banna said: “The UAE is committed to extending critical support to nations seeking to bolster their fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The UAE assistance to India comes in recognition of the profound and brotherly ties our two countries have shared throughout the years.The UAE has provided more than 348 tonnes of aid to nearly 35 countries, supporting nearly 348,000 professionals. The Indian consulate in Dubai thanked the UAE for the aid in a tweet and said: “We are also happy that we have been able to send medicines to UAE to fight Covid-19 and more medical personnel should come to UAE soon.”India has earlier deployed a medical rapid response team to Kuwait for two weeks to provide technical expertise and train that country’s medical personnel.The UAE is home to more than 3 million Indian expatriates, and tens of thousands of them work in the healthcare sector. The people cited above said nearly 30,000 Indians had so far registered with the missions in the UAE to return home once travel restrictions are eased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-clears-travel-of-88-healthcare-professionals-to-uae-emirates-send-7-tonnes-of-medical-supplies/story-iJ9HvvdiB6RbKOFCPgOh0H.html
02-05-2020||India||Amid lockdown, Andhra Pradesh allows manufacture of liquor in state||The Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday decided to allow manufacturing of Indian Made Foreign Liquor and beer in the state with immediate effect, subject to the conditions imposed by the Central government.An order to this effect was issued by Commissioner of Distilleries and Breweries of Andhra Pradesh government D Vasudeva Reddy.The liquor and beer manufacturers situated in the rural areas and that are outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities have been allowed to function. The orders would be applicable to all the liquor and beer manufacturers located in green, orange and red zones subject to guidelines. There are 21 big and small breweries and distilleries in the state.The state government has decided to follow the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on the further extension on lockdown and the subsequent relaxations it had given in the green and orange zones.There are five districts in AP which are in red zone: Krishna, Guntur, Chittoor, Nellore and Kurnool and seven districts in green zone: Anantapur, Kadapa, Prakasam, East Godavari, West Godavari, Visakhapatnam and Srikalulam, while Vizianagaram is the only district which is in the green zone.At a review meeting on Saturday, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered the officials to identify the containment zones and prepare a procedure to be followed besides issuing Standard Operating Procedure at the permitted shops to avoid public gatherings and maintain social distance.Meanwhile, the industries department is also gearing up to allow more industries to resume their operations outside the red zones. At present, more than 120 industries, including over 30 industrial units in Sri City Special Economic Zone and another 25 industries in Visakhapatnam industrial area, are operating.“After Monday, more than 50 per cent of the industrial activity is likely to resume,” an industry department official said.An official notification said all the industrial units have been asked to see that the premises must be disinfected, special transportation facilities be arranged for workers without depending on public transport and vehicles must be run only with 30 to 40 per cent passenger capacity.All vehicles and machinery must be disinfected, thermal scanning for workers entering or exiting is mandatory and provision of hand wash and sanitisers must be made at all entry and exit points. The workplaces must have a gap of one hour between shifts and staggering of lunch breaks to ensure social distancing.Large gatherings are to be discouraged and strict ban on consumption of gutka, tobacco etc and spitting is strictly prohibited. There should be a complete ban on non-essential visitors at the work sites.Meanwhile, the Telangana cabinet will meet on May 5 to discuss the Centre’s decision to extend lockdown till May 17 and relaxations announced in various zones. Any decision of the state government will be known only after the cabinet meeting, a CMO spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-andhra-pradesh-allows-manufacture-of-liquor-in-state/story-8YKJfQy8kLcMPg8QOEy2gM.html
02-05-2020||India||Fighter jets to fly over Delhi-NCR in aerial salute to Covid-19 warriors||Fighter jets will perform a fly-past over Rajpath, Delhi and the national capital region (NCR), while helicopters will shower petals over several hospitals in the capital on Sunday morning, as part of an elaborate military plan to show gratitude to the country’s Covid-19 warriors, an Indian Air Force spokesperson said on Saturday.The plan, announced by the chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Friday, involves several activities such as illuminating warships and band performances outside Covid-19 hospitals across the country.The fighter jets featuring in the fly-past over Delhi-NCR, or what the IAF is calling an “aerial salute,” will include the Sukhoi-30s, MiG-29s and Jaguars. The fly-past is planned between 10 am and 10.30 am. The aircraft will be flying at a height of 500 to 1,000 metre and will be visible to the residents of Delhi from their rooftops, the spokesperson said.The fly-past by the fighter jets will be followed by the C-130J special operations aircraft flying over Delhi-NCR in a formation.The IAF spokesperson said helicopters will shower petals over the National Police Memorial and Delhi hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. These include the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, GTB Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital, Sri Ganga Ram Hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Apollo Indraprastha Hospital and the Army Hospital (Research and Referral).Wreaths will be laid at the police memorial on the behalf of the three service chiefs.Fighter jets and transport planes will carry out fly-pasts across the length and breadth of the country, from Srinagar to Thiruvananthapuram and Dibrugarh to Kutch, as reported by Hindustan Times on Sunday.The Indian Navy will illuminate its warships at anchorage from 7:30pm to midnight at Mumbai, Porbandar, Karwar, Vizag, Chennai, Kochi and Port Blair, a navy spokesperson said. He added that naval helicopters will shower petals over Covid-19 hospitals in Mumbai and Goa. Also, 46 Indian Coast Guard ships will be lit up at 25 locations along the country’s eastern and western seaboards, the defence ministry said. Ten coast guard helicopters will shower flower petals over Covid-19 hospitals in Daman, Mumbai, Goa, Chennai and Port Blair.The tributes to Covid-19 warriors will see army bands perform outside several hospitals and locations across the country including the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Sri Ganga Ram Hospital, the Army’s RR Hospital and the Base Hospital in Delhi Cantt, an army spokesperson said.Dal Lake in Srinagar is also among the locations where the army bands will perform to honour Covid-19 warriors.“The armed forces have always stood as a wall against all threats to the country and every time our citizens have come out in large numbers and showered their blessings and appreciation towards us. This time, it is our turn to applaud the sacrifice of our Corona warriors,” the army spokesperson said. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe military’s plan to honour the frontline workers was finalised at a meeting chaired by the defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday. The meeting was attended by the national security adviser, the CDS and the three service chiefs.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fighter-jets-to-fly-over-delhi-ncr-as-military-honours-covid-19-warriors/story-8Jbygqk70IgopQ3YJhX2ZI.html
02-05-2020||India||India can conduct 1.25 lakh Covid-19 tests a day, says ICMR official||Indian Council of Medical Research deputy director Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar on Saturday said the country has evolved a strong Covid-19 testing regime in the last three months and it is now in a position to conduct 1.25 lakh tests a day.“After starting from scratch three months back, we conducted 72,000 tests today. This is a significantly high number. We are in a position to ramp up testing up to 1.25 lakh a day”, he said responding to queries from media persons in an online interaction organized by the Kerala Health Department.He lauded Kerala’s containment strategy for Covid-19 and said it was a role model for many other states.On Saturday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala stood at 499 out of which 96 are active cases. A total of 403 people have recovered and have been discharged.When asked about the alleged delay on the part of regulatory bodies in giving sanctions to some of the indigenously developed testing kits especially the one by Sree Chithira Institute for Science and Technology he said there was no delay on the part of the ICMR. Earlier Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor had questioned the delay in approving indigenously developed testing kits.Referring to the general demand for antibody tests, Dr B Ekbal, who heads an expert panel that advises the Kerala government on prevention of the coronavirus, said antibody test was not for individual diagnosis but was employed to probe whether the disease reached the stage of community transmission.Across the globe, antibody test is the tool that decides community spread of the disease. “For that to be held in Kerala, we need to devise statistical modeling. Also, one has to validate the antibody test by testing the blood sample of the patient who has recovered,” Dr Ekbal said, in reply to another question.He said the ICMR is yet to endorse the Chinese equipment for antibody tests and a validation exercise is currently on for three indigenously-developed kits for the purpose. They are ones produced by Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology, Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology and by HLL Lifecare bought by the State Medical Services Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-conduct-1-25-lakh-covid-19-tests-a-day-says-icmr-official/story-SB9N42d9Ffh3dTKQTcPa1K.html
02-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India clocks one million RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India clocks one million RT-PCR tests for Covid-19India achieved a major milestone on Saturday of conducting one million RT-PCR tests so far to detect coronavirus, an official of the empowered committee that is tracking India’s Covid-19 response said. Read more 20-day-old Jaipur infant may be world’s youngest Covid-19 victimAn eerie silence has already descended on Jaipur city with the long absence of people from the streets due to the extended lockdown to curb the Covid-19 pandemic. Only the shrill sirens of ambulances passing through empty streets break the gloomy silence at times. Read more  Covid 19 lockdown fallout: Bihar legislative council to become headless on May 7Come May 7 and the Bihar legislative council will become headless since the position of the chairman of the council will fall vacant with the working chairman Haroon Rashid’s six-year term ending a day earlier, on May 6. Read moreBuffett’s Berkshire posts nearly $50 billion loss on coronavirus, operating profit risesWarren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc on Saturday posted a record net loss of nearly $50 billion as the coronavirus pandemic pummeled its common stock investments, but operating profit rose even as Covid-19 hurt its businesses. Read moreICAI CA foundation, intermediate, final exams 2020 postponed, check new datesIn view of the coronavirus pandemic, the Institute of Chartered of India (ICAI) on Saturday further postponed the CA exams to July-August. The decision has been taken as a precautionary measure and a notice regarding this has been uploaded on the Institute’s official website. Read moreIn UP, Noida has the most Aarogya Setu downloads: See how the other cities fareUttar Pradesh’s Gautam Budh Nagar, or as it is more popularly known - Noida, leads the list of Aarogya Setu downloads in the state. Ghaziabad comes in second and Lucknow follows third with Meerut at the seventh spot. Read more John Cena shares Irrfan Khan and Rishi Kapoor’s photos on Instagram, fans ask if he watches Bollywood moviesWWE wrestler and Hollywood actor John Cena recently paid tribute to late actor Rishi Kapoor on Thursday by sharing his photo on his Instagram page. Now, he had shared a photo of Irrfan Khan as well. Read moreDoctor returns home after treating Covid-19 patients, neighbours fill the air with thunderous applause. WatchA video involving a doctor and her reaction to the welcome she received after returning home will tug at your heartstrings and for all the right reasons. Shared by BJP Karnataka’s official Twitter account, the video is of a doctor who returned home after treating Covid-19 patients. Read moreCan Covid-19 be transmitted through breast milk?Coronaviruses (CoV) are a family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV). Read moreWatch: Remdesivir, world’s first drug to treat coronavirus disease gets approved||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-clocks-one-million-rt-pcr-tests-for-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-AlA8DqKe9To8HUbmYuQhYL.html
02-05-2020||India||3 more Indians in UAE face action for Islamophobic social media posts||Three more Indian expatriates in the United Arab Emirates have either been sacked or suspended from their jobs for Islamophobic social media posts days after the Indian ambassador cautioned citizens against posting inflammatory material online.Chef Rawat Rohit, storekeeper Sachin Kinnigoli and a cash custodian whose identity was withheld by his employer are the latest additions to a list of about 10 Indians who have faced action for their social media posts, Gulf News reported on Saturday.On April 20, Indian ambassador Pavan Kapoor had warned Indian expatriates against such behaviour after the issue of Islamophobic social media posts, especially content showing Islam in a poor light in conjunction with the Covid-19 pandemic, was highlighted my people in several West Asian countries.“India and UAE share the value of non-discrimination on any grounds. Discrimination is against our moral fabric and the Rule of law. Indian nationals in the UAE should always remember this,” Kapoor had tweeted, quoting another tweet from Prime Minister Narendra Modi that said Covid-19 doesn’t “see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or borders before striking”.A spokesperson for Azadea Group, which operates a chain of Italian restaurants in Dubai, said chef Rawat Rohit had been suspended and is facing a disciplinary probe, according to Gulf News.Sharjah-based Pneumics Automation suspended its storekeeper Sachin Kinnigoli and withheld his salary. “The matter is under investigation. We have a zero tolerance policy. Anyone found guilty of insulting or showing contempt for someone’s religion will have to bear the consequences,” the firm’s owner said.Dubai-based Transguard Group said it sacked an employee who posted anti-Islamic messages on his Facebook page using the name Vishal Thakur. The employee was handed over to authorities and is in the custody of Dubai Police, a Transguard spokesperson said.The issue of inflammatory posts by Indian expatriates has been in the limelight since it was raised on several occasions by Princess Hend al-Qassimi, a member of the UAE’s royal family.Former Indian ambassador Navdeep Suri has also cautioned Indians about the UAE’s hate speech laws and similar warnings have been issued by Indian missions in other Gulf Cooperation Council states.UAE’s anti-discrimination and anti-hate law prohibits all acts “that stoke religious hatred and/or which insult religion through any form of expression, be it speech or the written word, books, pamphlets or via online media”.Last month, Sharjah-based businessman Sohan Roy had to apologise for a video depicting Islamic clerics leading blindfolded men in skull caps in an adaptation of his poem on religious bigotry, while three other Indians were fired for derogatory social media posts. A police complaint was filed against Sameer Bhandari, CEO of Future Vision Events & Weddings, after he told an Indian job-seeker to “Go back to Pakistan” in a text message.In March, chef Trilok Singh was fired from a restaurant in Dubai for an online threat against a student in Delhi over her views on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-more-indians-in-uae-face-action-for-islamophobic-social-media-posts/story-CfMXIzBOeD7zFqYjWoC6JN.html
02-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand minister wants India’s Covid-19 fight to be taught in schools||Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj on Saturday wrote to the Union human resource development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, demanding the inclusion of the lessons leant from India’s fight against Covid-19 pandemic in the school curriculum. The state cabinet minister said that doing so will teach the children how to fight such a pandemic and ‘become a Covid warrior’. Maharaj said he sent the request to Pokhriyal on Saturday morning and hopes that his request is accepted.“I decided to write to the Union minister, as in my opinion, adding lessons on the fight against the pandemic in the curriculum will help the children understand what sort of measures were taken to contain the spread of the deadly virus in a country of a billion-plus people,” said Maharaj. He added that the lessons for the children in the junior classes may be interactive in nature, teaching them the benefits of social distancing, face masks and sanitisers. “This is necessary, because such precautionary measures will become a part of our regular life in the future due to this pandemic,” Maharaj said.He added that the students of higher classes could be given a case study on the containment efforts.For Coronavirus Live Updates“Debates could also be organised on the issue so that students can understand the pandemic in a much better way, and learn how a country of India’s size fought it while setting an example for the world,” Maharaj said.Maharaj feels this initiative, if approved, will educate the coming generations about the pandemic and prepare them for any such threat in the future.“If the fight against this pandemic is added to the school curriculum, then, I think India would be the first country to do so in the world,” he added. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-minister-wants-india-s-covid-19-fight-to-be-taught-in-schools/story-eMyXxjNxRwtRHP1dnC96DM.html
02-05-2020||India||‘Staying positive can help us pass through troubled times’||Celebrity jewellery designer Farah Khan Ali believes that staying positive is the only way to tide over the tough days like the one being currently faced by the humanity.“I am an absolute positive person and strongly feel that nothing is forever. When diseases like Spanish Flu, SARS ended so will this Corona pandemic. The only thing we have to do is to hold on and be cautious,” said Khan, who happens to yesteryear’s Bollywood actor and film maker Sanjay Khan’s daughter.Khan and her family members had been recently tested negative for coronavirus after one of her in-house staff members had tested positive for Covid-19. However, she was in quarantine till April 29. “In life I don’t fear anything because I believe that whatever has started will end too. My brother (Zayed Khan) keeps telling me ‘zyada brave mat bano…’ but I cannot change myself. I am like this. It was a relief to be tested negative but more than me it was for my kids I was worried about. When my staff member fell sick I had to check on him so in a way neither I was too far from him nor too close so test was a must. But I can’t leave my staff to fend themselves in times of trouble as they are like an extended family,” she said over the phone.She is now keeping herself busy with fasting and praying in the holy month of Ramazan. “I have blood pressure issues and the last time when I kept a fast I felt as if my soul was about to leave my body. But now after 15 years I have resumed fasting. And it’s more because I wanted to really feel the hunger. Imagine the plight of daily wage migrants who are walking hundreds of miles on foot and that too empty stomach. I hope and pray that government measures do reach them as soon as possible,” Khan said.Khan has been very vocal on social media and has been in the eye of storm. “I cannot sit back and take wrong statements made by anyone without thorough investigation and proof. How can we sitting in our drawing rooms blame any person, group or community for any issue without being sure about it. Social media is there to connect people easily and not to be judgmental and hurt others. And trust me I will be so always,” she said.Waiting for lockdown to end, Khan is utilising this time to create new designs. “I and my team are busy designing some brilliant stuff for the upcoming season. Also I am caught up completing a lot of legalities related to business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/staying-positive-can-help-us-pass-through-troubled-times/story-RHxMWMkFHH2uaYj2G9gqrI.html
02-05-2020||India||Making Aarogya Setu app mandatory can lead to legal challenges: Experts||The Government’s move to make Aarogya Setu application mandatory for everyone, particularly for private companies and individuals, may have legal complications and misuse of its data for monitoring activities other than Covid-19 cannot be ruled out, according to experts.Pavan Duggal, one of the top cyber law experts in the country, told HT that – “First of all, the intention of the government to do contract tracing through Aarogya Setu app is indeed noble. However, there is no law passed by the Parliament authorizing the creation and making mandatory of this app which is in contravention of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and Act and rules and regulations. So, while it could be used as an emergency measure (in this case for tracing Covid-19 patients), it could open up a Pandora ’s Box of legal challenges for the government.”Duggal pointed out that when this application was launched, it had uploaded both terms and conditions and privacy policy, but now terms and conditions that stated that ‘government won’t be responsible for any unauthorized leakage of data’ have been removed, at least from Apple store.ALSO READ | ‘To track citizens’: Rahul Gandhi on compulsory use of Aarogya Setu app“The privacy policy also doesn’t give any clarity on how secure your data is. There is no mention of any cyber security parameters and it doesn’t explain how it complies with the IT Act 2000 and IT Rules 2011. The app still doesn’t tell us who all might be able to access my data in terms of governmental agencies. So, the chances of this data being used for monitoring people cannot be ruled out,” he added.Tarun Wig, co-founder of Innefu - data analytics and cyber security company, said “Aarogya Setu app can definitely be made a little less intrusive but I personally feel that in such times, privacy can somewhat take a back seat.”Around 45 organisations and more than 100 individuals on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad against the mandatory use of the Aarogya Setu app for workers in both private and public workplaces, as mentioned in the ministry of home affairs order. “While the government initially claimed that the use of Aarogya Setu would be purely voluntary, downloading the app was soon made mandatory for all Central Armed Police Forces personnel and employees of Prasar Bharati,” the letter signed by the groups stated. The move could also violate privacy laws as well as the Puttaswamy privacy judgement, the letter says. The government representative, however, denied that there were privacy issues.Abhishek Singh of MyGov termed the concerns as non-issues and said that the app is mandatory only till the pandemic exists. “Till the epidemic law is in force, only those who are travelling to offices will have to download the app. Once the epidemic is over, a user can delete the app,” Singh said. He said that due to demand from all quarters to open business, which brings in the possibility of contamination, offices were asked to ensure that the app is downloaded. “Commercial organisations have not raised the issue, neither have industry bodies like FICCI, ASSOCHAM or NASSCOM,” said Singh.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi too called the app intrusive. He tweeted – “The Aarogya Setu app is a sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a private operator, with no institutional oversight -- raising serious data security and privacy concerns. Technology can help keep us safe; but fear must not be leveraged to track citizens without their consent.” In a directive issued on Friday as part of the third phase of lockdown, which begins from Monday with graded easing of curbs, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) stated that “use of Aarogya app shall be made mandatory for all employees, both public and private” and that “head of the respective organizations to ensure 100% coverage of this app among the employees”. For containment zones, which are high risk areas sealed in a particular district, the local authorities have been asked to ensure 100% coverage of the app among all residents.The government order states that anybody violating the latest guidelines could face action invoking the Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code. Eight crore people, including almost all government officials had downloaded the government app till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/making-aarogya-setu-app-mandatory-can-lead-to-legal-challenges-experts/story-gJz7fcUxamEwtAbtiI0fnI.html
02-05-2020||India||India clocks one million RT-PCR tests for Covid-19||India achieved a major milestone on Saturday of conducting one million RT-PCR tests so far to detect coronavirus, an official of the empowered committee that is tracking India’s Covid-19 response said.“Today, India crossed one million RT- PCR tests... a great achievement in this lockdown period,” he said.The milestone came on a day when the number of Covid-19 cases in the country climbed to 37,776 and casualties rose to 1,223. A total of 10,017 have recovered from the deadly infection.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has ramped up testing to more than 75,000 samples per day.“Now there are 419 labs testing for coronavirus in the country. There are 14 mentor institutions like AIIMS, PGI Chandigarh, CMC Vellore, JIPMER Puducherry, SGPIMS Lucknow, AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, etc holding hands of these medical colleges/ labs/ hospitals in carrying out tests,” the official said.There are 15 institutions spread in the country working as depots for supplying testing kits/ material to these labs in the country.He said sourcing material/ testing kits/ regents/ chemicals/ equipment is a herculean task and that the government has engaged Indian missions in foreign countries to source material.A number of ICMR labs/ institutes testing/ evaluating these kits/ testing material.Lots of Indian companies are coming up with their products to be used in testing, the official said.The country has been importing testing kits from China and South KoreaLast month, the ICMR had asked states to put on hold for two days antibody testing for Covid-19 using rapid testing kits or RTKs citing huge variations in the results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-clocks-one-million-rt-pcr-tests-for-covid-19/story-4BsqNJw8P52OhCI68u5ByJ.html
02-05-2020||India||75-yr-old woman beggar in Odisha donates Rs 5,000 for fight against Covid-19 pandemic||A 75-year-old woman in Odisha who begs for a living has donated Rs 5,000 of her savings to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund in their fight against Covid-19 pandemic.Sarojini Das, resident of Ekatala village in Rajkanika block, went to the BDO’s office on Tuesday and donated her savings to BDO DS Subhadarshi Joshi as her contribution to CMRF for the fight against corona pandemic. Das, a widow, also donated Rs 2,000 to the local press club that is providing cooked food to the poor and destitute people in the locality.The BDO (Block Development Office) said Das has set an example for other people of the state by her selfless act. “She said she was moved by the plight of several other people going hungry during the lockdown. After she came to know about the state government’s appeal to people to donate money to fight the pandemic, she decided to donate the money,” he said. The woman lost her husband a decade ago.Incidentally, in October last year Das had donated Rs 50,001 from her old age pension and savings to the Jagannath Temple corpus at Puri. The BDO said that she had a patch of land which she had sold off 5-6 years ago and kept the money. “As she has no children, she did not use the money. She probably donated the money to the Jagannath temple from that amount,” he said.When asked what the state government would do for Das, the BDO said the government would think about it.Das has no children and ekes out her living by begging in the locality and sleeps in a room of the Jagulaipada grampanchayat office. Incidentally, after the grampanchayat office was turned into a quarantine centre, the woman was forced to look for shelter in other places.Subhransu Sutar, a member of the local press club, said Das always remains happy even during adversity. “Even when she has to beg for food, she thinks of others going hungry,” said Sutar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75-yr-old-woman-beggar-in-odisha-donates-rs-5-000-for-fighting-against-covid-19-pandemic/story-sZH0hUnpOwNnTR4NBddQLK.html
02-05-2020||India||‘To track citizens’: Rahul Gandhi on compulsory use of Aarogya Setu app||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the compulsory use of the Aarogya Setu app, with no institutional checks, is bound to raise data and privacy concerns for the citizens. He added it is akin to spying on citizens.“The Arogya Setu app, is a sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a pvt operator, with no institutional oversight - raising serious data security & privacy concerns. Technology can help keep us safe; but fear must not be leveraged to track citizens without their consent,” tweeted Gandhi this evening.Soon after the Congress leader’s tweet, IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, dismissing the snooping charge, underlined how the app helps protect people in their fight against the coronavirus.“Daily a new lie. Aarogya Setu is a powerful companion which protects people. It has a robust data security architecture. Those who indulged in surveillance all their lives, won’t know how tech can be leveraged for good!,” tweeted the minister.The government, on Friday, made the Aarogya Setu App mandatory for people living in the coronavirus Containment Zones inside the 130 districts identified as the Red Zones. The government considers the App to be a handy coronavirus containment tool which can be used to assess the level of risk an individual is exposed to vis-a-vis Covid-19 infection. The App, developed by the ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY), uses cell phone tracking technology to put individuals in low-risk, moderate and high-risk categories by tracing if the person came in contact with a virus-infected patient or a person suspected to be infected.Around 45 organisations and more than 100 individuals on Saturday wrote to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad against the mandatory use of the Aarogya Setu app for workers in both private and public workplaces.“While the government initially claimed that the use of Aarogya Setu would be purely voluntary, downloading the app was soon made mandatory for all Central Armed Police Forces personnel and employees of Prasar Bharati,” the letter signed by the groups stated. The move could also violate privacy laws as well as the Puttaswamy privacy judgement, the letter says. The government representative, however, denied that there were privacy issues.Abhishek Singh of MyGov termed the concerns as non-issues and said that the app is mandatory only till the pandemic exists. “Till the epidemic law is in force, only those who are travelling to offices will have to download the app. Once the epidemic is over, a user can delete the app,” Singh said. He said that due to demand from all quarters to open business, which brings in the possibility of contamination, offices were asked to ensure that the app is downloaded. “Commercial organisations have not raised the issue, neither have industry bodies like FICCI, ASSOCHAM or NASSCOM,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tracking-citizens-without-consent-rahul-gandhi-on-aarogya-setu-app-order/story-WDphVPSIBmKclV4WUcou0L.html
02-05-2020||India||Covid 19 lockdown fallout: Bihar legislative council to become headless on May 7||Come May 7 and the Bihar legislative council will become headless since the position of the chairman of the council will fall vacant with the working chairman Haroon Rashid’s six-year term ending a day earlier, on May 6.This is the third time, when there will be no chairman or deputy chairman to reconvene the upper house of the state legislature. The house was adjourned sine die on March 16 due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, much ahead of its scheduled adjournment on April 4. “As the house is not in session, it can’t elect its leader as of now,” said a Patna high court lawyer, YB Giri.The complications deepened when the Election Commission of India (ECI) deferred the biennial elections to the house for 17 seats, which were due to be filled by May 7, owing to the pandemic and subsequent lockdown.Noted constitutional expert Subhash Kashyap said that there would be no chairman of the council, as there is no established convention to guide the state legislature to tide over such an impasse.“The post has remained vacant in the past twice. Unlike the case of the chief minister or a minister, who can continue in their position for a period of six months without being a member of either house, one has to be a member of the house before being elected as the chairman or the speaker,” said Kashyap.Rashid, who is heading the council as the acting chairman for the past two years after his predecessor Awadhesh Narayan Singh’s term expired, said he would demit the office once his term expired. “It is now up to the ECI to set the election process in motion,” he said.A senior officer of the council claimed that there was still a chance to retain Rashid as the working chairman by nominating him to any of the two seats vacated by Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh and Pasupati Kumar Paswan, both of whom got elected to the Lok Sabha. “The term of the two seats will expire on May 27. Before the expiry of the term, Rashid may be reelected or nominated again,” the official quoted above said.Officials said there would not be any significant impact on the functioning of the legislative council in the absence of a chairman or a deputy chairman.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIn case of an emergency, the governor may nominate any member as the working chairman for the purpose of convening the house following which the house could elect a chairman with due process.The post of the chairman of the legislative council has remained unoccupied for a total of 30 days in the past since it was established 83 years ago—between May 7- June3 in 1980 and January 13 to January 17 in 1987.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-fallout-bihar-legislative-council-to-become-headless-on-may-7/story-wxcBN2QQbuGeIx8UQ1gTQO.html
02-05-2020||India||‘Planned by Congress’: Bengal minister on arson at ration dealer’s home||Hundreds of villagers dragged out furniture from a ration dealer’s house and set those on fire outside the house in the Salar area of Bengal’s Murshidabad on Saturday morning, alleging irregularities in disbursement of free ration.Indranil Mahanto, officer-in-charge of Salar police station, rushed to Punisha village as tensions simmered. Ration dealer Halim Sheikh’s house was ransacked in the incident.The villagers alleged that they were getting much less rice than what the government had promised. Later, senior officers from the district administration also went there to restore order. They assured the villagers that action would be taken against Sheikh.Rahim Sheikh, a villager, said, “Taken together, all members of my family are entitled to get 17.5 kg flour and 35 kg rice a month but the dealer gave us only 3 kg rice and 7 kg flour. He is hoarding rations meant for poor people.”The villagers also alleged that Sheikh was giving them poor quality ration. Two days ago they staged an agitation.The agitation started again on Saturday outside Sheikh’s house. “Till Saturday action has been taken against 263 ration dealers in Bengal and many of them have been suspended. However it is the opposition that is instigating people to reap political benefit during this crisis. The arson at Salar in Murshidabad was planned by the Congress,” said state food and supplies minister Jyotipriyo Mullick.Bharatpur-II community block development officer Paritosh Majumder refused to comment on the incident. Other officials who spoke on condition of anonymity said the process of suspending the ration dealer had started and he has been detained by the police.Congress legislator from Bharatpur (the village is part of the constituency) Kamalesh Chatterjee said, “People in this village were not getting adequate ration for a long time. They kept quiet fearing reprisal from local Trinamool Congress leaders. They flared up on Saturday.”In a similar incident, hundreds of villagers on Saturday staged agitation outside the local ration dealer’s home at Jashoitala village in the Lalgola police station area of Murshidabad. They alleged that Manowara Bibi and her husband Rabiul Hasan, the ration dealer, are giving poor quality food grain to villagers.“The ration dealer is giving very poor quality rice and that too in less quantity. He is also selling kerosene at a higher price,” said Abdus Samad, a villager.Officers from Lalgola police station reached the village and brought the situation under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/planned-by-congress-bengal-minister-for-arson-at-ration-dealer-s-home/story-qZVIhqT7sTovbTVeiH46zL.html
02-05-2020||India||‘Congress involved in ugly politics amid Covid-19 crisis’: BJP||The Congress has no suggestion to offer on the COVID-19 crisis and is merely interested in doing “ugly politics” on it, the BJP said on Saturday, while asserting the entire nation except the opposition party understands that the Narendra Modi government has extended the lockdown to save people’s lives.BJP spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain accused the Congress of raising “irrelevant questions” over the issue of the pandemic.“The Congress has no suggestion to offer and merely wants to do politics on coronavirus. It is doing ugly politics on the issue. The lockdown has been extended to save the lives of people. The entire country understands it, except the Congress,” he said.The Congress had asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address citizens on the way to deal with the coronavirus crisis and economy reeling under it.Asking when will the lockdown be finally lifted, the Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the prime minister must also lay out an exit strategy and spell out the goal in dealing with the issue.Hussain wondered whether the Congress will say anything constructive or will it merely criticise every day what the government is doing.He said the government has already taken a number of welfare measures, including giving ration to the poor and transferring money to the accounts of farmers and poor women among others.Hussain noted that the government has cut down on all its expenses, and even salaries of the president, prime minister and MPs have been reduced by over 30 per cent. The government will spend whatever is necessary to take the country forward, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-involved-in-ugly-politics-amid-covid-19-crisis-bjp/story-2pEvcPNjgQFhO0sMjXoFGO.html
02-05-2020||India||J&K reports 27 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally climbs to 666||Twenty-seven more people, including eight members of a family in Srinagar, tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 666, officials said. Officials said 25 new cases were reported from Kashmir where the number has risen to 606 while two more people tested positive in Jammu division, where the tally stands at 60. A government spokesperson said, “27 new cases reported in J&K—two from Jammu and 25 from Kashmir division. Also, seven more patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals in the Valley.”The fresh cases were reported from Srinagar, Anantnag, Baramulla , Shopian and Samba districts.After weeks, Srinagar saw the biggest jump in coronavirus cases with 15 new patients, including eight members of the family of an 80-year-old woman who had died of the disease on Tuesday. Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Iqbal Choudhary tweeted: “Random sampling of more than 1,500 in last one week. Focus on red zones, vulnerable groups. 10 new cases in Srinagar include eight of a family, one traced in Narwara and a staffer. Exercise caution, #StayHome and cooperate with surveillance teams.”. Later, he said five more people tested positive in Batpora, who are close contacts of the family whose eight members tested positive.So far, 254 patients—203 in Kashmir and 51 in Jammu division–have recovered from the disease while eight have died. There are 396 active cases in Kashmir while eight are in Jammu.Till date, 74,083 people have been enlisted for observation—9,816 in home quarantine, 404 in hospital isolation, 188 in hospital quarantine, 7,174 in home surveillance—and 56,493 have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-reports-27-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-climbs-to-666/story-g7f8uzODiHwcIzzV6KPHkI.html
02-05-2020||India||African swine fever detected in pigs in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh||Amid the lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh are faced with a new problem as African Swine Fever (ASF) has been detected in pigs in both the states.Samples from the two states sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal have tested positive for ASF virus, the institute said.Following deaths of nearly 2,000 pigs in 6 districts of Assam last week, 17 samples were sent to the Bhopal institute for tests. Similarly 62 samples were sent from two districts in Arunachal Pradesh.“All 17 tissue samples from Assam were positive for ASFV genome by real time PCR and nucleotide sequencing analysis. Eleven out of 62 samples from Arunachal Pradesh were positive for ASFV genome,” according to the NIHSAD test results.According to the World Organisation for Animal Health, ASF is a severe viral disease affecting both domestic and wild pigs. It can spread by live or dead pigs and pork. The disease does not transmit from animals to humans.Transmission can also occur via contaminated feed and objects such as shoes, clothes, vehicles, knives and other equipment, says World Organisation for Animal Health. Unlike Classical Swine Fever (CSF), there is no vaccine for ASF.“We were providing vaccine for CSF, but we have stopped giving that vaccine in those districts where ASF has now been detected. There is no vaccine or medicines available for ASF. The disease doesn’t get transmitted to humans,” Assam agriculture Atul Bora said on Saturday.Bora said that there is no possibility of getting infected by ASF due to consumption of pork and pork products. He said that the state government would take measures to ensure that the disease doesn’t spread to other areas.Assam had earlier banned the sale of pigs and pork in the six affected districts where many pigs had died recently.“ASF, which is epizootic (epidemic) has reached northeast India. We need to be extra vigilant and follow bio-security,” said Manoj Kumar Basumatary, president of North East Progressive Pig Farmers Association (NEPPFA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/african-swine-fever-detected-in-pigs-in-assam-and-arunachal-pradesh/story-IonDAhnHJMuoUCTiGzNUtN.html
02-05-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir registers 27 new Covid-19 cases, overall tally at 666||Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) reported 27 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases on Saturday, including eight members of a family in Srinagar, as the overall tally in the Union Territory rose to 666.State government officials said that 25 Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Kashmir valley, where the total count stands at 606. While two persons tested Covid-19 in the Jammu division, where the overall tally has risen to 60 cases so far.“Seven more Covid-19 patients have recovered and discharged from various hospitals of Kashmir,” the government said in its latest statement. So far, 254 Covid-19 patients – 203 and 51 in Kashmir and Jammu, respectively – have recovered and eight have died, it added.The new Covid-19 cases were reported from Srinagar, Anantnag, Baramulla, and Shopian in the Kashmir valley and Sambha in Jammu division.The summer capital Srinagar, which saw a lull in Covid-19 positive cases over the past few weeks, saw the biggest spike, as 15 new cases, including eight members of the family of an 80-year-old woman, who had died on Tuesday of SARS-CoV-2 that causes the disease, were reported on Saturday. “Random sampling of over 1,500 people was conducted over the past week. We’re focusing on Red Zones and vulnerable groups. There have been reports of 10 new Covid-19 positive cases, including eight of a family in Srinagar. One Covid-19 positive case has been traced to Narwara and another person is a government employee. I urge everybody to exercise caution, comply with strict social distancing norms and lockdown restrictions. Everybody should cooperate with survey and surveillance teams,” said Shahid Iqbal Choudhary, deputy commissioner, Srinagar, earlier on Saturday.Later in the day, he clarified that five more tested Covid-19 positive in Batpora after they had come in contact with the eight infected members of the Srinagar family.Neighbours drew the authorities’ attention to the Narwara patient, who had recently come back home from outside the Kashmir valley and forcibly made to undergo the test, which proved Covid-19 positive.Jammu division and Kashmir valley had recorded its first Covid-19 positive case on March 9 and 18, respectively.The government statement said that 74,083 people have been enlisted for observation of which 9,816 are quarantined at home, including in government-run facilities, 404 in hospital isolation, 188 in hospital quarantine, 7,174 surveillance at home and 56,493 have completed their mandatory 14-day quarantine period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-registers-27-new-covid-19-cases-overall-tally-at-666/story-Cq7lomeot6Wz4KIiwVDm9O.html
02-05-2020||India||India’s coronavirus cases climb to 37,776; 1,223 deaths recorded||India’s coronavirus positive cases climbed to 37,776 on Saturday with the death toll rising to 1,223, data from the Union Health Ministry indicated.There are 26,535 active Covid-19 cases across the country while 10,017 have recovered from the deadly infection so far and have been discharged from hospitals. At least one person has migrated.Maharashtra, which has been the worst-hit by the Covid-19 pandemic reporting a large number of cases daily, breached the 10,000 mark earlier this week.On Friday, the state recorded 1,008 new Covid-19 cases, the state’s highest single-day spike so far, taking the coronavirus positive patients’ tally to 11,506, the state health department data said.On Friday, at least 26 people succumbed to the disease in Maharashtra taking the death toll to 485.To build on the gains garnered during the earlier duration of lockdown and to curb the spread of the infectious disease, the Centre on Friday extended the nationwide lockdown imposed in March for another two weeks. The earlier lockdown was set to end this Sunday on May 3.The MHA also issued certain new guidelines to regulate activities during the extended lockdown, based on Red (hotspot) Zones which have a high concentration of Covid-19 cases, Orange Zones which have fewer cases and Green Zones which have reported no coronavirus cases for 21 days.The guidelines have permitted considerable relaxations in the districts falling in the Green and Orange Zones.According to the new guidelines by the home ministry, released a day earlier, the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm and 7 am during the lockdown. Educational, training, coaching institutions and hospitality services including hotels and restaurants will also remain closed irrespective of zones till the extended lockdown is in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-coronavirus-cases-climb-to-37-776-1223-people-dead-so-far/story-0EkaHAQuLg4Wsm702doGqN.html
02-05-2020||India||ED files fresh charge sheet linked to 2016 demonetisation scheme in Patna||The Enforcement Directorate has field a fresh charge sheet in a money laundering case linked to the alleged misuse of the 2016 demonetisation scheme, the agency said.In the same charge sheet, the ED has also sought permission and moved a Patna court for confiscation of over Rs 8 crore worth assets, including a factory and an office premise. The assets belong to the accused involved in the case.It said a supplementary prosecution complaint (charge sheet) has been filed against accused Rajan S Shah of V S Healthcare Mumbai and 11 others early this week before a special PMLA court in Patna, Bihar after some new facts came to light.The ED case, filed under criminal provision of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), is against a Gaya-based businessman, Motilal, promoter of MTI Cotton Mills Pvt Ltd, and others linked to him.He has been chargesheeted by the agency earlier and is in judicial custody at present.The businessman has been accused by the agency of being hand in glove with Bank of India (GB Road branch in Gaya district) for laundering illegal funds post the demonetisation declared by the central government on November 8, 2016.The accused made illegal cash deposits worth Rs 44.79 crore in various bank accounts, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) alleged.“Some of these cash deposits were fraudulently transferred to the bank accounts of different entities without the knowledge or consent of the account holders,” it said.  The state police had filed an FIR against the accused and others in December, 2016, which became the basis for the ED’s PMLA case.The ED alleged that during the demonetisation period, Motilal “illegally deposited the cash in 17 accounts held in his name, in the name of his firm, relatives and friends and five other accounts in the name of complainants Rajesh Kumar, Shashi Kumar, their firms and relatives”.“These cash amounts were handed over to him by Dhiraj Jain, a businessman of Gaya, and Delhi businessman Bimal Jain.” “On the direction of Dhiraj Jain and Pawan Jain, Motilal subsequently transferred the amount on the same day or the next day to the bank accounts of certain Delhi and Kolkata-based firms,” it said.It was found that Motilal had carried out these illegal transactions “with the connivance” of bank officials.  This cash is proceeds of crime under the PMLA and its transfer to other accounts represents the process of integration of the tainted money with the mainstream economy, the ED said.The agency has sought the court’s permission to confiscate assets like bank balance, fixed deposits, a factory and an office premise, which it had attached earlier and is valued at Rs 8.12 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-files-fresh-charge-sheet-linked-to-2016-demonetisation-scheme-in-patna/story-6rETCDmAPO1YI0fCVW4FrJ.html
02-05-2020||India||Baby dies of Covid-19 in Jaipur, Rajasthan’s infections tally now at 2,720||A 20-day-old infant died of Covid-19 in Jaipur on Saturday in the first instance in Rajasthan a newborn succumbing to the viral infection. Three other deaths were reported in the state, taking the total to 65, the Rajasthan health department said.The baby girl was born in the Gangauri hospital in Jaipur’s walled city last month and was suffering from diarrhoea and vomiting for the past few days. She was admitted to the JK Lon hospital on May 1, Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health, said.Singh said no one in the child’s family has Covid-19 neither does the family have a travel history. Doctors have put 10 members of the family in quarantine.A 55-year-old man from Ramganj was brought dead on May 1 to SMS hospital while a 65-year-old man from Jodhpur passed away on April 30. He was admitted to the MG hospital on April 30 and was suffering from coronary artery disease, said Singh.Meanwhile, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state rose to 2,720 with 54 new cases.Singh said 30 of the cases were reported from Jodhpur, 17 from Jaipur, three from Ajmer, one each from Kota and Chittorgarh and two from Alwar.Meanwhile, health minister Raghu Sharma said labourers returning home from other states will have to strictly abide by the quarantine protocol.“The chief minister has issued orders to collectors to ensure that all workers who are returning are screened and kept in home quarantine or at a government facility for 14 days otherwise there is danger of the infection spreading,” he said.Sharma said the health department has developed the capacity to carry out 10,000 tests per day. “From March 2 when the first Covid-19 case was reported and we had no testing facility to May 2 when we are in a position to carry out 10,000 tests per day, our health department staff has worked hard to develop this capacity,” he said.He said the rising number of positive cases is not a worry as aggressive testing has helped to bring the real situation to the fore so the government can take measures to contain the spread of the virus.He said in sampling too Rajasthan is among the top states in the country and has taken over 1 lakh samples so far. “The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the state is also very good,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baby-dies-of-covid-19-in-jaipur-rajasthan-s-infections-tally-now-at-2-720/story-K598tbgkYVyFrEQqVpY8YJ.html
02-05-2020||India||Golden Temple sees 20% surge in online offerings amid lockdown||The Golden Temple has witnessed a 20% surge in online offerings amid the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown that has prevented devotees from making a journey to the famed Sikh shrine.The shrine, also called Harmandar Sahib, has been deserted since curfew was imposed in Punjab on March 19. Since then, the regular collection of offerings witnessed a record dip.From an average collection of Rs 23 lakh a day as offerings (or a total of Rs 85 crore annually, including online offerings) during 2019-20, the figure plunged to between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000 a day, according to officials of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC).As regular collections declined, online offerings surged.“On normal days earlier, online offerings ranged from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh a month. In the last month, collections through online modes increased by 20% as per an estimate,” said Mukhtiar Singh, chief manager of the Golden Temple.Another official privy to the shrine’s financial matters said: “The online offerings do not include few major offerings recently made by some devotees. For instance, a devotee from Amritsar offered Rs 5 lakh through online payment. This data is only of the routine online offerings.”Asked about the average amount of money offered digitally every day, the official said on condition of anonymity, “Actually, the banks have not given us full details yet, citing the lockdown.”Since the lockdown hit collections of all gurdwaras, they are finding it difficult to manage their finances, and the SGPC is promoting online offerings on its website and encouraging devotees around the world to contribute online, especially for the Golden Temple’s langar ghar, considered the world’s largest community kitchen.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal personally appealed to devotees to contribute from home through this method. An icon appears for online donations when people visit the SGPC’s website. This icon appeals to devotees to contribute to the Golden Temple’s community kitchen that feeds the needy in Amritsar. These people include migrant workers stranded in the city and the poor.The surge in online offering has provided relief to the SGPC, which runs scores of educational, medical and sports institutions and manages historic gurdwaras in the northern part of the country.“The SGPC is extending help to every needy person in the crisis, so the devotees should come forward to contribute to these services,” said Longowal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/golden-temple-sees-20-surge-in-online-offerings-amid-lockdown/story-G2w9yXOViBcxzLVms32OXN.html
02-05-2020||India||Assam to open borders with NE states from tomorrow, except Sikkim||The Assam government will open its borders with other states in the northeast from Sunday as part of efforts to facilitate the return of residents stranded in other parts of the country.The move follows the state government’s exercise to transport people stranded within Assam by allowing inter-district movement. Since April 25, nearly 100,000 people have travelled in their own vehicles or buses to reach their homes and workplaces.“From Sunday, anyone from Assam who is at present in other northeastern states [except Sikkim] can return to the state. The state’s borders are open for them. They don’t have to register or seek permission to return,” state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday.People can use their own vehicles to enter Assam. They will be screened at the borders of their home districts and placed in home or institutional quarantine.“For those who don’t have own means of transport, we will send buses to pick them up within a few days. A notifications in this regard will be issued soon,” Sarma said.Assam has also launched the helpline no 7428159966 to help the return of residents of the state stranded in other parts of the country.“Those interested should give a missed call on the number. A link will be sent to them within 48 hours, which they will have to fill and send back. They will be intimated about details of their return by our teams,” Sarma said.Nearly 600,000 stranded workers from Assam who had earlier made a similar missed call to receive Rs 2,000 as financial aid will not need to call again. A link will be automatically sent to their numbers.Those who can arrange their own vehicles to return have been asked by the state government to send an email to assamtransportrelief@gmail.com to get a return pass.“There are nearly 20 lakh residents of the state who are outside at present. Those who don’t need to return now can delay their travel by a few months. We won’t put any restriction on anyone wanting to return, but bringing back so many people is a tough task and can take several weeks,” Sarma said.The state government will continue providing Rs 2,000 a month as aid to workers from the state stranded outside. Till Saturday, 255,000 stranded people had been provided this aid.The government is setting up five quarantine facilities at Kokrajhar, Guwahati, Tezpur, Jorhat and Silchar for people returning to Assam. Hotels are being included as quarantine facilities for those who don’t want to stay at state-run facilities and want to avail of paid quarantine.Sarma said the government’s move to fly back 852 patients from Assam undergoing treatment outside the state hit a roadblock after two cancer patients in Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19.The government plans to tie-up with private laboratories to boost testing for those returning to Assam.Assam has recorded 42 Covid-19 cases. One patient has died, 32 have recovered and nine are being treated. Nearly 11,000 tests were conducted till Saturday.In an interaction with a small group of journalists, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said his government will decide on Sunday how it will implement regulations in the red, orange and green zones.Unlike the Union home ministry’s guidelines allowing the movement of people and economic activities between 7 am and 7 pm, Assam is considering permitting these activities between 6 am and 6 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-open-borders-with-ne-states-from-tomorrow-except-sikkim/story-s3JKKUju4RuQl0nifOJAQI.html
02-05-2020||India||‘Can’t insist on Covid-19 test before admission’: Odisha govt to hospitals||The Odisha government has warned private hospitals of stern action if there is delay in providing critical services - dialysis, transfusion and chemotherapy - to patients for fear of contracting coronavirus infection. It also advised hospitals to not insist on a Covid-19 test for all the patients coming to their hospitals.“This is not acceptable. All private hospitals and clinics are directed that every non-Covid hospital should keep a designated isolation unit to accommodate critically ill, suspected Covid patients, until their condition is stabilised for transfer to Covid hospitals after testing. The hospitals can’t insist that the patients get tested for Covid-19 before coming to their facilities,” read the order from the directorate of health services.The State health department asked every non-Covid hospital to keep a designated isolation unit to accommodate critically ill suspected Covid-19 patients until their condition is stabilised for transfer to a Covid Hospital post-testing.“In this crisis it is necessary to provide essential services. It is important not only to maintain people’s trust in the health system to deliver essential health services, but also to minimise an increase in morbidity and mortality from other health conditions,” the order added.Earlier this week, the Orissa High Court had asked the State government to ensure that no person is denied treatment for any ailment by any hospital of the government or private if such facility is available with the hospital.The HC order came following a PIL into the death of a 70-year-old Muslim man of Cuttack who died on April 10 allegedly due to denial of dialysis at a private nursing home in the city during the Covid-19 lockdown.The man was asked to procure PPE set for the doctors during dialysis and even then he could not get dialysis.Similarly, a man from Bhubaneswar died on April 27, after he was allegedly denied treatment by some private hospitals in the city. Later, the wife and daughter of the deceased spent a night on the road after their landlord reportedly did not allow them to enter.Health department officials said the order would ensure that people in Odisha do not face problems in seeking critical health services during the nationwide lockdown in place till May 17.Odisha has so far reported 156 Covid-19 cases, but officials apprehend a steep hike in the numbers once the over 6 lakh migrant workers start arriving in the state from Covid-19 hotspots like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi.Earlier, the Ministry of Health had asked States to ensure continuity of service delivery mostly to pregnant women, infant and children under five and treatments for chronic diseases, communicable diseases like TB, leprosy, vector-borne diseases, requiring treatment for dialysis, cancer, blood transfusion and other special needs during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-insist-on-covid-19-test-before-admission-odisha-govt-to-hospitals/story-0A8d0vxFhQ3uEmfgPHcGvN.html
02-05-2020||India||Lockdown may hit sale of First Flush, Darjeeling’s premium tea, fear planters||First Flush, Darjeeling’s most premium tea may be hit by the worldwide economic slowdown and the impact of lockdown on the production of quality tea, fear planters in the famous hill district of West Bengal. With 87 gardens, the Darjeeling tea industry depends largely on the premium quality First Flush tea for sustenance, as it fetches the highest price in domestic and foreign markets. The industry employs 55,000 permanent workers, who annually produce around 8 million kilograms of different varieties of Darjeeling tea, a fraction of which is harvested in spring and comprises the First Flush. Thirty-five to 40 percent of the industry’s annual revenue is generated from the sale of First Flush, which is produced mostly between March 15 and April 15, planters said.Depending on the quality and demand, First Flush tea can fetch anything between Rs 1200 to Rs 20,000 a kg, industry insiders said.Production of First Flush requires the plucking of the finest two leaves and a bud of the tea plant. But the lockdown, which started on March 25 and was lifted for the tea industry only on April 12, resulted in the overgrowth of plants. Some tea gardens are located at lower elevations, where leaves and buds appear first. Most others are located at middle and high elevations, which witness the last harvesting subsequently; only the lower estates were able to produce their First Flush on time. “Lifting the lockdown for the tea industry, while keeping other sectors under lockdown, resulted in stockpiling of all types of tea that are produced,” Rishi Saria, Director of Gopaldhara and Rohini tea estates said. The closure of courier services meant that plantations could not send samples to their main offices which are mostly in Kolkata. So they simply harvested their varieties and stored them in warehouses. “Transporting the tea is still a problem, as courier services are not fully operational,” Saria said. Ashok Lohia, Chairman, Chamong Tea Exports Pvt Ltd, said, “There will be substantial revenue loss that comes from First Flush.” The group has 13 gardens in Darjeeling.The industry has also missed the best climatic conditions required for the premium quality First Flush, Lohia said.“We are keeping our fingers crossed. We hope the demand for First Flush tea in foreign countries remains the same,” said Lohia. Germany is one of the major buyers among European countries, he added. Binod Mohan, Chairman, Darjeeling Tea Association is worried about the consequences of the industry being unable to produce premium First Flush this season.“In the coming days, this may affect the demand for First Flush in the international market as there can be high economic recession. This may lead to distress sale. Also, we ensured quality in the past, but the lockdown has affected that too,” Mohan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-may-hit-sale-of-first-flush-darjeeling-s-premium-tea-fear-planters/story-0Vk7Ho15fo1dpAaU43x15J.html
02-05-2020||India||In PM’s push for farm reforms, a role for Kisan credit cards, PM-KISAN scheme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a meeting with ministers and government officials to discuss ways to boost the agriculture sector in India as the country looks to rebound from the economic setback dealt by coronavirus outbreak. The government’s focus is on making strategic interventions in the existing marketing eco-system for the farm sector and bringing appropriate reforms in the context of rapid agricultural development.A government release said that this would be achieved by further strengthening Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) and by developing ‘Brand India’ in the sector that would contribute to boosting agricultural exports.“PM Narendra Modi holds a meeting to discuss ways to boost the agriculture sector; emphasises on the dissemination of technology till the last mile and making farmers more competitive in the global value chain,” said a release by the government.The prime minister has been stressing on boosting exports to aid economic growth. The meeting also discussed ways to make several government instruments for the sector including the Kisan Credit Cards, PM-KISAN and e-Nam even more effective and increase their contribution to farmer welfare.Kisan Credit Cards offer short-term credit limits for crops and term loans to holders by participating banks including cooperatives. This initiative grants farmers access to formal banking networks. KCC credit cardholders are also eligible for personal accident insurance for death and permanent disability.Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) is a scheme started by the Narendra Modi government in 2018 that provides income support of Rs.6000/- per year to all farmer families across the country. The sum is paid in three equal installments of Rs.2000/- each every four months.National Agriculture Market or eNAM is another initiative to modernize the farming sector with a tool that helps farmers in discovering the best price for their produce. It (eNAM) is an online trading platform for agricultural commodities that brings farmers, traders and buyers at one place.Saturday’s meeting, which also discussed ways to invigorate the agriculture sector with modern technology, comes in the backdrop of appeals by the prime minister for self-reliance in a post-coronavirus world and for attracting foreign investments by offering a favourable environment aided by government policy, infrastructural and technological advancement.India readies to enter the third phase of nationwide lockdown from May 4, which will see a graded resumption of economic activities across the country. The government has given total exemptions to the agriculture sector in all zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pm-modi-s-push-for-agricultural-reforms-a-role-for-kisan-credit-cards-pm-kisan-scheme/story-uSV3GuPoxHOCvV7mzXAMXK.html
02-05-2020||India||2 men booked for escaping from isolation centres in Sangrur||The district police have booked two men quarantined in separate isolation centres for allegedly escaping from there, said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg on Saturday.The SSP said that Naib Singh of Ahmedgarh was found missing from Sandaur isolation centre on April 30, but his wife and daughter were in the centre.“The accused has returned to the centre, but will have to face the law,” added Garg.Bhawanigarh police station house officer (SHO) Ramandeep Singh said that one Harpreet Singh of Gurdaspur went to his home from Batriana isolation centre without completing his quarantine period.“Health department officials wrote for action against Harpreet and he has been booked for escaping quarantine. The police have started investigation,” the SHO said.Both Naib and Harpreet have been booked under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act at Sandaur and Bhawanigarh police stations respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-men-booked-for-escaping-from-isolation-centres-in-sangrur/story-amnbaSHyLtLMQWxeCYX9fM.html
02-05-2020||India||Srinagar: Two soldiers, injured in shelling along LoC, succumb at base hospital||Two soldiers, who were critically injured in a ceasefire violation along the Line of Control (LoC) at Uri in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Friday, died at an Army hospital on Saturday. Four civilians and three soldiers were injured in the indiscriminate firing of shells from across the LoC on Friday, the army said.Army spokesman Colonel Rajesh Kalia said that the two soldiers, who were injured in a ceasefire violation in the Rampur sector on Friday, died on Saturday. “Army salutes the sacrifice of the soldiers,” he said.The injured four civilians, including a four-year-old boy, are undergoing treatment in two hospitals in Uri and Baramulla.Locals said no fresh shelling was reported in their area since Friday night. A couple of houses were also damaged, when shells and mortars landed close to the houses at Churunda village on the LoC in the Haji peer sector. This is the second time in the last fortnight when Indian and Pakistani troopers exchanged fire on the LoC in the Uri sector amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Indian Army has been using heavy artillery to respond to Pakistan’s recent ceasefire violations. In April, three civilians were killed in two villages in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, when shells fired from across the LoC landed close to an army camp in Panzgam.In March, Indian and Pakistani troops had exchanged fire in the Uri sector in which one house was damaged. The mortar shells had landed in Mothal, Silikote, Hatlanga, and Churunda villages on the LoC.Indian Army has blamed Pakistan for ceasefire violations in a bid to help militants infiltrate into Kashmir since the revocation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019. Top army officials have warned that militants are waiting at various launch pads across the LoC to sneak into Kashmir.Villagers living on the LoC have been demanding the construction of underground bunkers, where they could take refuge during shelling that has intensified in the past year.Pakistan has violated the ceasefire around 1,400 times this year to date. While the corresponding figure for 2018 and 2019 was 1,629 and 3,168, respectively.Defence minister Rajnath Singh last week had urged the top military commanders to ensure the country’s adversary is not allowed to exploit the ongoing healthcare emergency due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-two-soldiers-injured-in-shelling-along-loc-succumb-at-base-hospital/story-4NbnsJuvQprom9cWr3TCNN.html
02-05-2020||India||Rajasthan man beaten to death on suspicion of an affair with a minor||A 28-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death in Rajasthan by seven to eight persons on suspicion of having an affair with a minor related to the accused, police said on Saturday.Dholpur superintendent of police (SP) Mridul Kachawa said that the deceased has been identified as Ashok Gurjar, 28, a native of Dhindh village.“As per the complaint filed by the brother of the deceased on April 24, Gurjar was kidnapped by Bunty Meena, Rasiningh Meena and some other residents from Khokhla village, where he was badly thrashed with sticks and iron rods. The deceased sustained multiple injuries including on the head,” said Kachawa.The accused dumped Gurjar, after thrashing him, in an isolated place near Angai police chowki.“On April 25, the villagers spotted Gurjar lying in the open in an unconscious state and informed his family members, who, then took him to a local hospital from where he was referred to Dholpur district hospital, which referred him further to a private hospital in Gwalior,” added Kachawa.On April 30, Gurjar succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment at the private hospital. Following his death, the family members lodged a complaint against the accused at Sarmathura police station.“Police has visited the spot and the statements of the family members of the deceased have been recorded. Preliminary probe suggests that the man had an affair with a minor girl, who was a relative of the accused. Further investigation is on,” Kachawa stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-man-beaten-to-death-on-suspicion-of-an-affair-with-a-minor/story-CVpEuH5DmVL6uomOhmuMXM.html
02-05-2020||India||More than 800 workers head home to UP from Nashik on special train||More than 800 workers from Uttar Pradesh who were stranded in Nashik in Maharashtra, boarded a special train for Lucknow on Saturday, UP’s Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi“The first special train for Uttar Pradesh has started from Nashik (Maharashtra) today morning & around 845 labourers and workers have boarded the train. They will reach Lucknow tomorrow,” Awasthi said according to ANI.On Friday, the government allowed the railways to run special trains to ferry students, migrant workers stranded in various parts of the country due to nationwide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus.The decision to allow special trains came following the requests of several states to evacuate migrant workers. Earlier this week, the Union home ministry while relaxing the guidelines, allowed the evacuation of stranded people only by buses.On Thursday, the Uttar Pradesh government had said that it would launch a massive evacuation drive to bring back migrant workers from Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan in the next few days.Awasthi had then said that chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed senior officers to prepare a plan to evacuate migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan who have been stranded due to the lockdown.Earlier this month, the UP government had evacuated over 10,000 students from Kota. It also evacuated thousands of workers from Delhi NCR in the first week of the lockdown towards the end of March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-800-workers-head-home-to-up-from-nashik-on-special-train/story-McuaS6DQCEcG85RqlDwU3M.html
02-05-2020||India||Did novel coronavirus strain change form in India? ICMR to study mutation||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is planning to study whether the novel coronavirus strain in India has undergone mutation while spreading within the country over the last two months.According to a senior scientist of the country’s apex health research body, determining whether or not the SARS-CoV2 strain has changed form will help in ensuring the effectiveness of a potential vaccine. “The study will also indicate whether it has become more virulent and increased transmission capability.” Samples will be collected from COVID-19 patients to study whether the novel coronavirus strain has mutated or not, he said.However, the study can begin once the lockdown is lifted since currently there are difficulties involved in transportation of samples from different states and Union Territories, scientists said.As per Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID), so far the maximum difference in the novel coronavirus strain in India has been found to be between 0.2 to 0.9 per cent as compared to the strains in other countries, another scientist said.GISAID, which promotes international sharing of all influenza virus sequences and related clinical and epidemiological data, has over 7,000 complete genome sequences of SARS-CoV2 deposited by various laboratories across the world where they have classified the virus based on their mutations.There are chances that people arriving in India from different countries are bringing various strains of the virus.Three strains of the virus have been traced in India so far. One was from Wuhan, and the other two from Italy and Iran. The sequence of the coronavirus strain from Iran was similar to that of China.“It will take some time for us to know the predominant quasi-species of the novel coronavirus in the country. But mutations are not likely to make potential vaccines ineffective, as all sub-types of the virus have the same enzymes. Also, it has been in India for three months and it does not mutate very fast,” Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at ICMR Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar had said earlier.Six Indian companies are working on a vaccine for COVID-19, joining the global race to find a preventive for the deadly infection spreading rapidly across the world.Nearly 70 ‘vaccine candidates’ are being tested and at least three have moved to the human clinical trial stage, but a vaccine for the novel coronavirus is unlikely to be ready for mass use before 2021.India has also collaborated with WHO’s multi-country “solidarity trial” for developing potential treatments and drugs for COVID-19.The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,218 and the number of cases climbed to 37,336 in the country on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 26,167, while 9,950 people have recovered and one patient has migrated. PTI PLB NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-novel-coronavirus-strain-change-form-in-india-icmr-to-study-mutation/story-8ap6mzIMBIvkxUxtYefY8K.html
02-05-2020||India||‘Injustice’: CM Soren on Rs 50 extra charged per migrant on special trains||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren expressed his disappointment with the Railways’ decision to charge Rs 50 per passenger travelling in the special trains being run for migrant workers.“This is really sad. The central government should reconsider this decision. In this hour of disaster, it is an injustice to the labour colleagues returning back home,” tweeted the CM.The Indian Railways are running “Shramik specials” to ferry stranded students, migrant workers stuck in various parts of the country due to the coronavirus outbreak and nationwide lockdown in place. The ticket fare on these trains includes the price of regular sleeper class tickets plus superfast charges of Rs 30 and an additional charge of Rs 20.“This includes meals and drinking water for long-distance trains. State governments will coordinate and can pay on passengers’ behalf,” the ministry clarified.The railway ministry said that trains would operate from point-to-point on the request of the concerned state governments. Senior officials would be appointed as nodal officers. “The passengers have to be screened by the sending states and only those found asymptomatic will be allowed to travel,” the ministry added. It would also be the responsibility of the sending governments to bring such individuals to the designated stations in sanitised buses, following social distancing norms. All passengers will have to mandatorily wear masks while undertaking the journey.Five such trains operated on Friday. It was the first time any passenger rail services operated in the country since they were suspended on March 22.The government emphasised that this was being done on May 1, the Labour Day. Millions of migrant workers have been struggling after the lockdown was announced, facing a shortage of food and income, and have been seeking to go back home hundreds of kilometres away, including by foot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/injustice-cm-soren-on-rs-50-extra-charged-per-migrant-on-special-trains/story-mlsYdMiPrXuxfUDMVCnKgK.html
02-05-2020||India||Covid-19 +ve woman gives birth, breastfeeds baby wearing gloves, masks, PPE||A 24-year-old woman from Howrah district who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 13 and gave birth to a son on April 20, has recovered and was discharged from the hospital on May 1.She lost her father-in-law to Covid-19, the day she herself tested positive. Her brother in-law, who too, had tested positive, is still in hospital. The nursing staff and doctors named the child Armaan, which in Arabic, means hope.At the time of discharge on Friday, all staff at the hospital gave the mother and the child a standing ovation and sang ‘Ami Bhoy Korbo Na’ (I won’t be scared), an iconic song composed by Rabindranath Tagore for them.The mother and the child were kept in the same room, to help build the bond, but at a distance of six feet to prevent any infection from spreading to the child. At the time of breastfeeding, the nursing mother wore masks, sunglasses, gloves and her whole body was sanitized. She wore Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) whenever the baby was brought to her. “Doctors and nurses took extraordinary care of my child and me. I was very worried that breastfeeding could spread the infection to the child, but doctors and nurses kept assuring me, that all necessary care had been taken,” said the woman. “Thoughts of my children kept me strong,” she added.She was released after her test reports dated April 27 and 30 indicated negative. She has been told to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. State health department officials will monitor the family’s health periodically. Her husband, a 30-year-old, lost parts of both of his hands during an accident while working on a machine at an industrial unit in 2017. Her first child, a four-year-old son, has been in an institutional quarantine centre along with her husband, because the woman and her father-in-law tested positive. “It feels great to finally reunite with my family. In the hospital, the thought of my baby kept me strong, even though my father-in-law’s death caused panic and worry. How the man who hardly stepped out of home, got infected by the virus, remains a mystery. I was keen to watch my newborn all day, but at the same time concerned about his well-being,” she said after reaching home on Friday evening. According to a doctor at the hospital, the expected date of her delivery was May 7, but labour pains set in suddenly on April 20. The child was delivered normally and has fared well since birth. Subhashis Mitra, director of Sanjivani Hospital at Uluberia in Howrah district, says that the case of the Covid-19 positive expectant mother was carefully dealt with, given the unprecedented situation of a baby needing protection from its mother’s disease. “Protecting the baby from the infection was a challenge, and a great deal of care was taken in this regard. Our message to the world is that we need to beat coronaphobia with corona-awareness,” Mitra said. Sanjivani is a private hospital that has been designated a Covid-19 hospital by the Bengal government, which is also bearing the expenses of the treatment of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-ve-woman-gives-birth-breastfeeds-baby-wearing-gloves-masks-ppe/story-Gkj7ixXSA3hnqBp74YJZdP.html
02-05-2020||India||India’s richest temple in Tirupati lays off 1300 contractual employees||India’s richest Hindu temple of Lord Venkateshwara in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district decided to let go off 1,300 contractual workers citing the suspension of work and inability to renew contracts during the ongoing nationwide lockdown.The discontinuation of service was announced on Friday by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, the trust managing the temple.The nationwide lockdown enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus pandemic has resulted in several companies sacking their employees to reduce the overhead expenses.The 1300 workers were employed in the sanitation and hospitality departments in the three guesthouses run by the temple trust – Vishnu Nivasam, Srinivasam and Madhavam – for several years.“The contract entered into by the TTD with the manpower agency which supplied workers ended on April 30. Normally, fresh tenders would have been called by now for awarding of the contract to the agency which bids the lowest amount for manpower supply. Because of the lockdown, the TTD trust board could not meet and finalise the tender,” TTD official spokesman T Ravi told HT.The board says since the last contract ended on April 30, the services of all the 1,300 contract workers were also terminated from May 1. “Everything was done as per the rules. Moreover, there is no work for these workers now, because of the lockdown, all guest houses are closed,” Ravi said.It may be mentioned that the Union ministry of labour had issued an advisory before enforcing the lockdown on May 24, asking all employers not to terminate employees, particularly casual or contractual workers, and also not to reduce their wages.The decision of the TTD came as a rude shock to the contractual employees, who gathered at the temple trust board’s head office in Tirupati to protest.“It is not our fault that the lockdown was imposed. The TTD should continue with us on humanitarian grounds,” a woman refusing to identify herself, said.TTD trust board chairman Y V Subba Reddy had a talk with the terminated employees and assured to look into the issue on humanitarian grounds. He told HT that the board would recommend to the prospective manpower agency to take the outgoing contract workers on rolls.He said even the regular employees of TTD had no work since the lockdown was announced and only skeletal staff was attending to the essentials.The famous Lord Venkateshwara temple in Tirumala is closed for pilgrims since March 20, but the daily rituals are going on as per the temple traditions.Interestingly, the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh launched Andhra Pradesh Corporation for Outsourced Services (APCOS) in November last. It would act as a placement agency for the supply of manpower to various public and private sector companies.The terminated outsourced workers of the TTD are planning to approach APCOS shortly, a senior employee in the TTD familiar with the development said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-richest-temple-in-tirupati-lays-off-1300-contractual-employees/story-ESt1VPo3ImwT7cj7tYp6iI.html
02-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 7 UP migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra test positive for Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.7 UP migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra test positive for Covid-19Seven migrant workers in Uttar Pradesh’s Basti, who came back from Maharashtra recently, have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reports said on Saturday. Read more Telangana man slits 4-yr-old daughter’s throat; cites poverty, lack of liquor due to lockdownThe police in Telangana’s Sangareddy on Friday arrested a 35-year-old tribal man who allegedly killed his four-year-old daughter by slitting her throat, out of depression stemming from poverty and also non-availability of liquor due to lockdown in the state. Read moreWoman intern at AIIMS Rishikesh tests positive for Covid-19A 23-year-old healthcare intern working at the emergency department of Rishikesh-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Friday late night, as the overall tally in Uttarakhand rose to 58. Read more The art of re-emergence: Kim Jong Un appears after long gapWhen North Korea broke a three-week silence on leader Kim Jong Un’s public activity on Saturday, it offered no clue where he has been during a period of intense global speculation about his health and whereabouts, or why he was hidden from the public for so long. Read more100 Hours, 100 Stars: A non- stop tribute to Covid-19 warriors, entertainment with a causeFever Network, the home of Fever FM, Radio Nasha and Radio One and one of India’s leading radio networks, and has recently announced the nation’s biggest digital carnival ‘100 Hours, 100 Stars - A Non- Stop Tribute to COVID warriors’. Read more Irrfan Khan, Sridevi’s Pakistani co-star Adnan Siddiqui apologises after a TV show host jokes about late actorsPakistani actor Adnan Siddiqui, who has worked with Sridevi and Irrfan Khan in Bollywood films, recently found himself in an uncomfortable situation. During an appearing on a television show its host cracked a distasteful joke about the death of two late actors. Read more He helped me master my rhythm: Ashwin credits former India cricketerFor all his variations, different actions and trickeries with the ball, Ravichandran Ashwin is incredibly accurate. The fact that he has become more successful in Test cricket has got a lot do with his accuracy and precision as a spinner. Read moreParents send kids for tuitions, cops spot them on the street. Here’s what happened nextIt’s hard not to be won over by the naivete of kids. And this kid in Punjab leading policemen to the home of his tuition teacher where he was sent for classes amid the lockdown is a case in point. Read more Watch: Can India become a wrestling powerhouse? WWE Champion Drew McIntyre answers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-7-up-migrant-workers-who-returned-from-maharashtra-test-positive-for-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-c3k3Ch7LQhNJ7u29hbRTtL.html
02-05-2020||India||After CM declares state ‘coronavirus-free’, Tripura records two new Covid-19 cases||Two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Tripura on Saturday, less than two weeks after chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb declared the state “coronavirus-free”.Deb wrote on his Facebook page: “Alert! In Tripura two persons from Ambassa #BSF unit found #COVID-19 positive. Total #COVID-19 positive cases in Tripura stands at 4. (Two already discharged, so active hospital cases: 2)” Out of Tripura’s eight districts, two – Gomati and North district – are in the orange zone. Ambassa is in Dhalai district, which was not in the orange zone. A senior BSF official, who declined to be named, said a head constable was admitted to a hospital in Dhalai on March 25 with complaints of stomach ache. He was recently shifted to the GBP Hospital in Agartala after short spells in the sub-divisional and district hospitals.During a check-up at GBP Hospital, the head constable and another constable, attached to him as an attendant, both tested positive for the virus on Saturday, the BSF official said. The state had earlier recorded two Covid-19 cases and both recovered last month.The first patient tested positive on April 6 after she came to Tripura from Assam. She was released from hospital on April 16. The second patient, a personnel of the Tripura State Rifles who travelled with the first patient on a train, tested positive on April 10. He was released from hospital on April 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-cm-declares-state-coronavirus-free-tripura-records-two-new-covid-19-cases/story-OMR5uXZjc4gLcupzEPsoaO.html
02-05-2020||India||As migrants return, Bihar faces new challenges of Covid-19 spreading to 30 districts||Thirty of the 38 districts in Bihar have reported Covid-19 cases ahead of the planned return of tens of thousands of migrant workers from across the country in special trains, adding to the challenges being faced by the state government.At the end of the first spell of the lockdown on April 14, only 12 districts had reported Covid-19 cases. By the end of the second spell of the lockdown, this figure increased to 30 districts even as the number of infections grew rapidly in the past 10 days.The number of infections in Bihar was just 66 on April 14, and it increased to 475 on May 2, with 243 cases reported between April 25 and May 1.“This shows the challenging phase for the state may have just begun, with more and more people returning to their hometowns and we have to be prepared for it,” said a senior state government official who declined to be named.The state government has already curtailed all leave for doctors, health officials and contractual employees of the health department till May 31 in view of growing need for surveillance and screening. But officials admit the challenges for Bihar might grow.Over the next few days, tens of thousands of migrant workers are expected to return to the state in special trains from different parts of the country.Officials are also worried because many new infections reported during the second phase of the lockdown were those of migrant workers, who managed to reach Bihar and unknowingly took the Coronavirus to new areas as they were largely asymptomatic.Also read| ‘Injustice’: CM Soren on Rs 50 extra charged per migrant on special trainsDistricts in north Bihar such as Madhubani, Darbhanga, Sitamarhi and Purnea had remained free of infections until the last week of April, but now they all have reported cases. Madhubani, with 13 cases reported on Friday alone, has emerged as the district in north Bihar with highest number of 18 cases.Neighbouring Darbhanga has five cases, while Sitamarhi has six. East and West Champaran have five cases each, while Seemanchal region too has reported cases – one each in Purnea and Araria and two in Katihar. Madhubani and Darbhanga are both in the orange zone.Madhubani’s district magistrate Nilesh Ramchandra Deor, a doctor, said all 13 cases in the district were migrant workers who returned from Delhi, Mumbai and Lucknow. Five earlier cases were traced to a woman who travelled by car from Delhi.“Due to her, another woman who also travelled in the car, and two children got infected,” he said.Also read: After CM declares state ‘coronavirus-free’, Tripura records two new Covid-19 casesMadhubani shares a border with Nepal and the inflow of migrant workers from the neighbouring country too is likely to increase. This has led to greater concerns for officials of the district, famous for its exquisite paintings and rich cultural heritage, and surveillance, screening and quarantine facilities have been expanded.“There is lockdown in Nepal till May 7. People are not coming from that side and if anyone tries to sneak in, it is immediately detected due to heightened surveillance. All outsiders have to spend the required time in quarantine. The administration is on its toes,” Deor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-migrants-return-bihar-faces-new-challenges-of-covid-19-spreading-to-30-districts/story-grMnHyiO28bBDi9wNXIyDP.html
02-05-2020||India||PM Modi switches gear, steps up focus on reviving economy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a series of meetings with key ministers, including Home Minister Amit Shah and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to take steps to revive the economy.The prime minister held discussions with Shah and Sitharaman and would have follow up meetings with ministers of key economic ministries such as Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME), sources said. The finance ministry, which deferred release of monthly GST collection numbers on Friday, is also scheduled to make a detailed presentation to the prime minister later in the day on the state of economy and several initiatives that it plans to undertake to stimulate Indian economy. The prime minister already had meetings with different ministries including civil aviation, labour and power on Friday. He had detailed deliberation with commerce and MSME ministries among others on Thursday with focus on attracting both domestic and overseas investment and revival of small businesses in the country so that the recovery process is hastened. During these meetings both the home minister and the finance minister were present. To mitigate hardships faced by the bottom of the pyramid, the government in late March had announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore stimulus package comprising free foodgrains and cooking gas to poor and cash doles to poor women and elderly. Sources said the government is considering to announce a second dose of relief measures for the segment and a stimulus package for India Inc shortly. The government had first imposed a 21-day nationwide lockdown beginning March 25 and later extended it till May 3. The lockdown shut businesses, stopped air and rail travel and restricted movement of people and goods. Beginning May 4, the government has decided to ease certain restrictions including opening of industries for green and orange districts which either have nil or low number of cases. The easing of restriction in specified districts is till May 17 with strict vigil by local administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meets-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-amit-shah-for-2nd-economic-stimulus-package-report/story-MHKG5YJOvqwFm7iH9oGaiM.html
02-05-2020||India||Telangana man slits 4-yr-old daughter’s throat; cites poverty, lack of liquor due to lockdown||The police in Telangana’s Sangareddy on Friday arrested a 35-year-old tribal man who allegedly killed his four-year-old daughter by slitting her throat, out of depression stemming from poverty and also non-availability of liquor due to lockdown in the state.The incident happened at Gonglur tribal hamlet of Pulkal revenue block under Jogipet police station’s jurisdiction late on Thursday night. The accused was identified as Ramavath Jeevan, an agricultural labourer, who has been living with his wife Renuka and his three children – two daughters aged six and four , and a son aged less than three years.Jogipet inspector B Srinivas told reporters that Jeevan had been without work ever since the lockdown was enforced all over the country to contain the spread of Covid-19, resulting in severe financial crisis.Jeevan was also used to consumption of alcohol and since he was not able to get liquor due to lockdown, he was in a state of depression. On Thursday night, he had a quarrel with his wife over financial issues and the fight went on till late night.“After Renuka and her children went to sleep, Jeevan picked up a kitchen knife and slit the throat of the younger daughter. Sometime later, he started shouting saying somebody had killed his daughter,” Srinivas said.On Friday morning, Renuka lodged a complaint with the police suspecting that her husband himself might have committed the crime. “We have taken Jeevan into custody and upon questioning, he admitted to the murder,” the inspector said.A case of murder was registered against Jeevan, who was remanded to judicial custody for two weeks, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-man-slits-4-yr-old-daughter-s-throat-cites-poverty-lack-of-liquor-due-to-lockdown/story-st2XUCuxCMUSehF6ilFmvO.html
02-05-2020||India||7 UP migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra test positive for Covid-19||Seven migrant workers in Uttar Pradesh’s Basti, who came back from Maharashtra recently, have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reports said on Saturday.Basti’s district magistrate Ashutosh Niranjan said the seven labourers had travelled from Maharashtra via Jhansi in government buses to Basti, according to news agency ANI.Reports also said the labourers have now been shifted to a local hospital after being quarantined at a college after their return earlier this week. Hundreds of thousands of migrant workers were stranded across the country after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide shutdown on March 25 to check the spread of the coronavirus disease. Many of these daily wage labourers were left without jobs and were seen travelling on foot to their homes as buses and trains were stopped from operating.Uttar Pradesh was one of the first states to send buses to bring back migrants.The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has also issued fresh guidelines for interstate movement to allow stranded migrant labourers, tourists and students to return to their homes. However, the movement of migrants, tourists and students will be restricted to non-containment zones, MHA said on April 29.Uttar Pradesh has 2,328 Covid-19 cases, including 654 people who have been cured, discharged and 42 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-up-migrant-workers-who-returned-from-maharashtra-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-mYSBPj7aRRcftXWPqZrz5K.html
02-05-2020||India||Special trains: Around 9,000 stranded students set to return to Bihar from Kota||Kota: Around 9,000 students from Bihar studying at coaching centres at Kota in Rajasthan are set to return home on special train that will be run during May 3-6.Unlike Bihar, other states and union territories such as Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli had sent buses to take back their students from Kota.Despite mounting pressure from opposition parties and families of students, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar hadn’t taken any steps so far to bring back students from his state. The students from Bihar had even observed a fast and protested on the streets to pressure the state government.Kota’s district collector Om Kasera said on Saturday: “The decks have been cleared for the return of around 9,000 students of Bihar from Kota and they will be sent through special trains between May 3 and May 6.”A total of 1,000 students from Jharkhand left Kota in a special train on Friday night and more students from the state will be sent back on another special train on Saturday night, he said.Reacting to the development, Rishu Raj, a 21-year-old from Bihar’s Navada district who plans to appear for the NEET, said: “I am feeling very relieved after the decision to send students of Bihar through trains”“Had the decision been taken earlier, it would have benefited both students and government,” he said.Another teenage student from Bihar’s Betiya district, who didn’t want to be named, said, “I am feeling very delighted after hearing the news that we can pack our bags to go home. Sending the students from Bihar by train is better than sending them back on buses as it will take less time.”Hostel owner Yogendra Gupta, whose facility has many students from Bihar, expressed his pleasure at the decision.More than 28,000 students from 12 states and four union territories have left Kota in the past fortnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-trains-around-9-000-stranded-students-set-to-return-to-bihar-from-kota/story-KqRP32Q9YilOVBKtrlaOeN.html
02-05-2020||India||Shiv Sena says Raghuram Rajan’s ‘10 crore Indians to go jobless’ claim ‘concerning’||Expressing deep concern over the long-term economic repercussions of the COVID-19 crisis and the lockdown, the Shiv Sena on Saturday said that all political parties should stop playing communal politics in future and instead work towards bringing the economy back on track.The party said the talks held between Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan recently over the impact of the COVID-19 shows how grave the crisis is for the economy. It said time has now come to grow wiser.“Congress leader Rahul Gandhi held talks with economist Raghuram Rajan through digital medium. Rajan said that the government needs to spend Rs 65000 crore to help the poor facing hardships due to the coronavirus lockdown. He said the entire country will have to face the economic consequences of lockdown,” the Sena said.“Rajan said the government’s present definition of the poor will change after lockdown. Middle class and upper middle class will also become poor and start demanding certificate of economic backwardness. Even a developed nation like the US is staring at a grave problem of unemployment.“In the US, there is system of unemployment allowance, which India doesn’t have. Rajan’s observation is that 10 crore people in India will become jobless, which is a matter of concern,” the party said.Through their talks, one thing became clear that continuing lockdown for indefinte period will prove costly for the economy. The government will have to work beyond the set norms. Power and authority to take decisions cannot remain limited with only a couple of people, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said.As far as Maharashtra is concerned, the 2019-20 revenue income is Rs 3.15 lakh crore, while the expenditure is Rs 3.35 lakh crore. But due to lockdown the revenue deficit will grow and it would become difficult to run the state, it added.“The central government will have to take everyone along. It will have to take into account others’ views and chart out the road ahead,” it said.“In India, all political parties should work towards bringing the economy back on track, instead of playing politics of India-Pakistan, religion and caste. The prime minister should take a lead and the entire country will stand behind him,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-says-raghuram-rajan-s-10-crore-indians-to-go-jobless-claim-concerning/story-OAJShmzRCIu7prq4WuaYfK.html
02-05-2020||India||Hog deer poached in Bihar’s Valmiki Tiger Reserve area, case registered||Forest officials at Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in Bihar recovered a mutilated carcass of a hog deer from a field at a village in state’s West Champaran district on Friday late evening. According to the officials, the carcass was recovered from a field of Nayagaon Rampur village which falls under Laukariya police station area of Bagaha subdivision in West Champaran district. “We have identified three accused so far and the search for them is on,” said Awdesh Kumar Singh, range officer (in-charge) of Madanpur forest range of VTR. The matter came to the fore after the forest officials acted on a tip-off and raided the village at around 9 pm on Friday. The officials seized the carcass lying in a pool of blood with its head and three legs chopped off. “Prima facie, it appears that the animal was first caught and killed to extract the flesh. The head of the animal could not be traced,” said the range officer, adding that the carcass has been sent for postmortem. Also read: Patna with 44 Covid-19 cases among Bihar’s 5 districts in red zoneHK Rai, wildlife conservator and field director, VTR on Saturday confirmed the registration of a case against unidentified persons under the Wildlife Protection Act. He said hog deer, which has a population of about 600 in VTR, often live on the fringe of forests and spend sizeable time in the nearby fields along the Gandak river. “We have already formed a flying squad in some blocks to keep tab of the movement of animals from the forest areas. We are looking forward to forming more squad because of the rising number of animals in VTR,” said Rai. Spread over an area of 900 square kilometres, the VTR is broadly divided into two divisions which is home to a large number of wild animals namely tigers, leopards, bears and rhinoceros among reptiles and other animals. Forest officials believe tigers, leopards and bears are vulnerable to poaching, forcing them to tighten the security around.“We believe tigers, leopards, deer and bears are most vulnerable to poaching. However, taking nothing to the chance, we have pressed 40 home guard jawans, around 500 local personnel, five rangers to keep a tab on the activities in the forest area, besides this, 17 wireless stations have also been set up to raise alarm, if required,” said a forest official. Past incidentsOn August 20 last year, a man with about five kilograms of deer flesh was held from Sirisiya Jarlahiya village in the Madanpur forest area of Valmiki Tiger Reserve.On January 22 last year, the forest officials of Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) rescued a wild bear from a trap and later released the animal in deep forests.In 2018, a bear was found killed in the forests of Raghiya in VTR.In 2014-15, two bears were poached in the forest of Haranatand forest areas of VTR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hog-deer-poached-in-bihar-s-valmiki-tiger-reserve-area-case-registered/story-uegm7GaQyKMfm0reAnSEDK.html
02-05-2020||India||‘Other health services must not be affected due to Covid-19’, Chhattisgarh collectors told||Chhattisgarh has directed all district collectors to ensure routine health services, including immunisation, are not affected in the state due to the focus on containing the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Chhattisgarh’s health secretary Niharika Barik Singh, in her letter to the collectors, said the state health machinery has been giving priority to the prevention of Covid-19 and protection of people from the pandemic.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here But other routine health services like maternal and newborn care, institutional deliveries, immunisation, tuberculosis (TB) and HIV control programme, prevention of non-communicable diseases, dialysis process, voluntary blood donation, emergency service and others are being affected and is not appropriate, she said.“Doctors and other medical personnel who provide essential health services, should not be deputed for full time at quarantine centres so that non-COVID activities should also function smoothly,” she said.The letter further stated that a fixed schedule of visit for the doctors at quarantine centres should be maintained and they should be deputed in an emergency situation so that they can also handle routine health services in the remaining period.Officials of the health department said the quarantine centres were being run by the health department but now it is the duty of the collectors to run the centres.TS Singhdeo, the state’s health minister, said on Saturday that containing the spread of coronavirus disease is the department’s priority but the routine health services are also important for the people.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “We are constantly instructing the collectors to no health services should be affected in the state and a letter in this regard has been sent to collectors,” Singhdeo said while speaking to HT.Chhattisgarh has 79 people who contracted the coronavirus disease, out of which 36 have been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/other-health-services-must-not-be-affected-due-to-covid-19-chhattisgarh-collectors-told/story-AZNOSOK71YLQLZWwGMpIBM.html
02-05-2020||India||‘Criminal waste’: Congress attacks Central Vista project after it got clearances amid coronavirus lockdown||The Congress party on Saturday launched a fresh tirade against the Central Vista project after it emerged that it received two key clearances in the last few days despite suggestions to shelve the costly project in view of the economic challenges presented by coronavirus pandemic outbreak.Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to halt the project for now, along with the proposed mega central secretariats in 17 state capitals, calling it a “criminal waste” of public money in the times of coronavirus pandemic.“Urging PM to shelve the wasteful Central Vista project & proposed mega Central secretariats at 17 state capitals. Spending over Rs 25,000 crore on grand buildings at a time of unprecedented national crisis will be a criminal waste of public money,” a tweet by Sharma said.The Central Vista project includes a new parliament building that alone is estimated to cost in excess of Rs 900 crores. It also involves makeover of the three km stretch housing government offices between the Rashtrapati Bhavan and the India Gate.The opposition parties have sought the scrapping of the project citing the economic burden placed by the coronavirus outbreak.In the past few days, the project, however, received two key approvals, including from the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee and the Central Vista committee, taking it a step closer to reality.Several external experts on the Central Vista committee had requested for a deferment in the meeting to grant approval to the project, however, the government went ahead citing its importance and the time-scale for its implementation as reasons.Raising his objection, Sharma said India needed to commit resources to building of hospitals right now.“We face severe resource crunch and accepting World Bank and ADB loans. India needs hospitals and commit the resources there,” he advised.Another senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi questioned the two clearances for the project when a second fiscal relief package to mitigate the hardships faced by several sectors of economy and individuals was yet to be announced. “The lockdown has been extended for a second time and a new parliament building has been approved, but there is still no sign of a second financial package to support industries. Does the BJP Govt care at all?”The Congress party has opposed the Central Vista project from the very beginning and has repeatedly questioned the rationale for revamping the iconic structures dating back to the British rule. “We have a direct question, whose stamp will this project bear? Whose legacy does this project want to establish? Whose identity is being sought to be immortalized by this?,” a tweet from Congress’ twitter handle attributed to AM Singhvi said. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The Central Vista committee, in the minutes of its meeting held on April 23, explained its decision to go ahead with the deliberations. “…Keeping in view the importance of the project in the nation’s interest and time scale for its implementation, the meeting was held as per issued meeting notice”.SC is hearing two petitions filed by citizens questioning the manner in which the public hearing was conducted to facilitate the project and challenging the legal validity of the land-use change process. The land use of the 9.5-acre plot has been changed from “recreational” to “Parliament” by the Delhi Development Authority in March.ALSO READ: Key hurdles cleared for new Parliament building, Oppn fumes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criminal-waste-congress-attacks-central-vista-project-after-it-got-clearances-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-6BXJLDKkEJKx4hhYhLXYtJ.html
02-05-2020||India||Karnataka govt to charge one way bus fare from migrants returning to state||Karnataka will take only the usual one way fare from the migrant workers returning to the state who opt to travel by the state transport buses to reach their villages, even as the number of passengers in the vehicles will be half the usual numbers to maintain social distancing norms amid Covid-19 lockdown. The decision was taken at a meeting that chief minister BS Yediyurappa held on Saturday with the district ministers, MPs, MLAs and district collectors of selected districts to review the current Covid-19 situation in the state, according to ANI.“In the meeting today, government has decided to take only one way fare from the migrant workers coming from outside and travelling by Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation buses to reach their respective villages,” said a statement from the chief minister’s office.The meeting was held through video conferencing.  In the meeting today, Government has decided to take only one way fare from the migrant workers coming from outside and travelling by Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation in the state to reach their respective villages: Karnataka Chief Minister's Office https://t.co/dT4fWrc3YcA large number of people gathered at Bengaluru’s Majestic bus terminal on Saturday to board state run buses to different districts in the state, a day after the Yediyurappa government allowed a one-time movement of stranded persons in the state to their native places.A KSRTC official said that they are planning to operate around 100 buses to ferry the migrant workers to their native places.“Today we are planning to operate around 100 buses depending upon migrant labourers coming to the bus station. Our passenger capacity is 55 but we are operating with 30 passengers only after health checkups, Central Traffic Manager, Operations, KSRTC, Bengaluru, told ANI.On Friday, announcing the Cabinet decision to allow inter-state and inter-district movement of people, which came a day after the Centre issued guidelines for the process, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy said this will be a one-time measure and the government would arrange buses for those in need but they should bear the expenses.The opposition Congress had protested the government decision, saying the government should bear the travel cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-to-charge-one-way-bus-fare-from-migrants-returning-to-state/story-wnjXZY608B46P2S2uyn5eJ.html
02-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Varanasi shops to open from May 4, follow roster-based system||Grocery shops and other outlets selling essential items will open from Monday in the city according to a roster system, said District Magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma.This comes after the lockdown was extended beyond May 4 amid surging Covid-19 cases in the country.According to an official release, Sharma said that a roster will be released dividing the city into some zones and only selected shops will open on a particular day. He said that there will some police stations in every zone.The decision regarding the timings of opening of these shops is yet to be taken.Click here for Covid-19 coverageThe district magistrate said that the wholesale medicines market will also open from May 4 following the demand by many retail shopkeepers of the city and from many districts of the Purvanchal region.Traders and their association have been asked to provide the roster for these shops, he said. “All shops will not open daily, only a few shops will be open every day so that the supply of all essential items is maintained smoothly and social distancing is also strictly implemented,” Sharma said.The district magistrate also said medicine stores will be allowed to open from 11 am to 3 pm till May 3. Milk shops will continue to be open for an hour between 7 am and 8 am.“Selling of milk, vegetables, ration and other essential commodities from vehicles in all street neighbourhoods will be allowed till 6 pm. And home delivery of these items is also allowed till 6 pm,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-varanasi-shops-to-open-from-may-4-follow-roster-based-system/story-Ev6Xr8nwFmdPaQIUUHtGdM.html
02-05-2020||India||Worst of Covid-19 is over but people should follow precautions: Javadekar||Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday that the worst phase of coronavirus epidemic in India appears to be over, but people should continue to follow all precautions and guidelines.”I think the worst is over. But till the time the disease is not completely contained, we should continue to follow all precautions and guidelines,” he told ANI.Javadekar said India took various timely initiatives, including a countrywide lockdown, and its management of Covid-19 has been better than other countries.“That is why it (lockdown) has been extended for two weeks. The various zones are well-defined. Following the social distancing norm of ‘do gaz ki doori’ will be a new normal till the time a vaccine is developed for Covid-19,” he said.The minister said the lockdown has brought us success in containing the Covid-19 pandemic. “Now that the restrictions in third phase, practically half of the country will be fully operational from May 4,” said Javadekar.On March 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of Covid-19. It was later extended till May 3.On Friday, the Ministry of Home Affairs issued an order under the Disaster Management Act 2005 to further extend the lockdown by two weeks till May 17.With 2,293 new cases in the last 24 hours, the highest number of cases in a single day, India’s Covid-19 tally reached 37,336 on Saturday, including 1,218 deaths, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. As many as 71 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.Out of the total number, 9,951 people have been cured, discharged or migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worst-of-covid-19-is-over-but-people-should-follow-precautions-javdekar/story-yX41S2QOeFjSUdm11QAxTN.html
02-05-2020||India||3 injured in tiger attack in Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit||Two tigers attacked six people, injuring three of them, on Friday in two separate areas in Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit district, officials said on Saturday.Ram Bahadur, Ujagar Singh and Lalta Prasad were attacked and injured by a tiger in Lalpur village of the district, which is under the Mala Range of the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve.Villagers recorded the video of the attack which went viral on social media. In the video, the tiger can be seen climbing the forest department’s tractor and trying to attack the people.“Three persons have suffered injuries in the attack. The tiger was spotted sitting near our house in the morning and while people were passing by the tiger attacked them. The police came here after we informed them about the incident but the forest department officials came after four hours,” Milap Singh, Lalpur village’s head, said.Singh and police officials who reached the site of the incident sent the injured villagers to the district hospital and informed the forest department.When the team of the forest department team reached the spot to capture the big cat by tracing his location, the angry tiger climbed on its tractor and attacked the officials. No one was injured.The tiger came down from the tractor as it saw the crowd and ran towards the forest. Top officials of the forest department are trying to track the animal in a bid to capture it.“The forest officials did not pay heed to our request and left. No fences has been constructed to confine carnivores within national parks and therefore the wild animals enter in the residential areas and attack people,” Singh said.“It’s risky for the children and labourers working in the field. The forest officials are not working in this direction of constructing fences,” he added.Reports said Gurpreet Singh and Hardeep Singh, both brothers and resident of Zari Village in Gajraula, were also attacked by a tiger. They were on a motorcycle when a tiger lurking in the nearby field lunged at them on the link road near Shiv Nagar Marg.The two, however, escaped unhurt.Before this, three attacks were reported in the Kheri region which houses the Dudhwa National Park in April. Officials of the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve say the sugarcane, wheat and rice fields happen to serve as breeding territories and are stocked with livestock and deer which make tigers venture out into the fields for an easy kill. Humans also enter the tiger reserve to gather fodder and fuelwood, they said making them vulnerable to such attacks.The Pilibhit Tiger Reserve is among the wildlife habitats in India that has reported the highest number of human casualties. Twenty-seven people have been killed by tigers since November 2016 in and around the 730 square kilometre reserve, home to up to 70 tigers.The tiger population inside the horseshoe-shaped reserve is at the saturation level, prompting 10 of the big cats to make their home in the sugarcane fields in the vicinity. The PTR has now mooted a proposal, which is awaiting the government’s nod, to relocate 10 tigers that have made the sugarcane fields outside the reserve their home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-injured-in-tiger-attack-in-uttar-pradesh-s-pilibhit/story-GUlKBqRAdPTNnXU1kahcaI.html
02-05-2020||India||Nearly 10,000 recover across country; over 1000 from Delhi, TN: Covid-19 state tally||The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 37336 on Saturday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 26167 active coronavirus cases in the country, 9950 patients have been cured or discharged while 1218 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have crossed the 11,500-mark and now inch toward 12000 while Gujarat, the second worst-affected state, has over 4500 Covid-19 cases.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraMaharashtraWith 11506 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra inches towards another grim milestone - of 12000 cases. It already has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 485 deaths so far while 1879 patients have recovered.GujaratThe state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 4721. While 236 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 735 recoveries so far.DelhiAs many as 3738 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 61 people have died from the infection while 1167 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 2719 positive cases of coronavirus. 145 people have died from Covid-19 here while 524 have recovered.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 2666 on Saturday. The state has reported 62 fatalities, and 1116 patients have recovered from the infection.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 2526 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 1312 recoveries and 28 Covid-19 deaths.Uttar Pradesh2328 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 654 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 42 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1463 positive Covid-19 patients and 403 cases of recovery. 33 people have died.Telangana1039 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 441 people have made a recovery from the virus while 26 people have died from Covid-19.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 795 on Saturday. There have been 33 deaths and 139 recoveries in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 639. Eight people have died from the infection while 247 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 589 Covid-19 cases and 22 deaths. 251 people have been cured and discharged.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 497 coronavirus cases on Saturday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 392 people have successfully recovered.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 360 and 480 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 19 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen 4 deaths. 227 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 90 in Punjab.In Bihar, 471 people have tested positive for coronavirus, three people have died while 98 patients have recovered. Odisha has 149 Covid-19 positive patients, 55 have recovered while one person has died. Jharkhand has 111 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 20 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 58 coronavirus patients, 36 patients have recovered from the infection. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 30 have recovered. Assam has reported 43 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 32 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 43 cases of coronavirus and 36 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 88 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 17 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, 16 have recovered.Ladakh has 22 patients, 17 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported eight cases, 5 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur and Tripura had two coronavirus cases each, all patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-10000-patients-recover-across-country-over-1000-from-delhi-tamil-nadu-covid-19-state-tally/story-EXvce3BTid4cofmndq8d0K.html
02-05-2020||India||Non-Covid patients in Bengal suffer as most doctors stop private practice||An excruciating toothache and swollen gums have been giving Nilanjan Chakraborty, a resident of Gariahat in south Kolkata, sleepless nights. On Friday, he called up a dental surgeon and tried his best to describe his symptoms. But the medicine prescribed by the surgeon did not work and Chakraborty had to ring another doctor.From Kolkata to remote areas in north and south Bengal, people suffering from chronic diseases or sudden ailments are having a tough time, as a large section of private practitioners have stopped seeing patients.“In a town like ours, people depend on traditional doctors’ chambers,” said veteran folk singer Swapna Chakraborty, a resident of Suri town in Birbhum district, using a term common in Bengal for private clinics. “Most are closed. Luckily, a few doctors from a clinic are attending to house calls,” she said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged all doctors to continue with private practice while maintaining social distancing norms. Doctors, however, say this may expose more people, including themselves, to danger.“The Medical Council of India has prescribed consultations over the phone and via videoconference for a good reason. The problem with opening small clinics and doctor’s chambers in the districts is that most of these facilities are small and have little or no infrastructure to ensure social distancing, screening of patients, recording travel history and no availability of personal protection equipment (PPE), N95 masks etc for doctors. The state government has itself issued an order saying PPEs are a must for doctors in non-emergency wards at hospitals,” said Dr Koushik Chaki, secretary, West Bengal Doctors Forum.“We mentioned these before the chief minister at a meeting on April 28. Doctors are ready to continue their private practice, but who will ensure that it does not lead to a social pandemonium? Also, who will bear the additional cost of PPEs, etc?” Dr Chaki added.Among doctors, dental surgeons and eye and ENT specialists feel the most vulnerable, as they come closest to a patient’s face.“The Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons of India has said in a guideline, that surgeons and their staff have to use protective gear and sanitize the operation theatre after every procedure. Also, there has to be a restriction on appointments to avoid crowding. As a doctor, my conscience does not allow me to pass the additional expenditure on to my patients, but how long can I bear it?” said Dr Rajarshi Banerjee, a dental and maxillofacial surgeon. In the absence of an adequate number of PPE kits, ENT surgeon Dr Atri Banerjee, who visits a private clinic in south Kolkata, has been wearing three gowns while seeing patients. “The eye protection gear available in the market is more like the ones worn by the bikers. Face covering headgear is in short supply. I undertook only three operations since the lockdown began, and non-emergency procedures were postponed. We cannot continue like this for long,” said Dr Banerjee.Big private hospital chains, too, are facing problems. “Around 40 per cent of our doctors are visiting the outpatient departments (OPDs) in rotation. Patients have been given the option of consulting doctors via video conference. Those coming to our hospitals are being spread across different lounges and waiting rooms in the hospital, to ensure distancing,” said a spokesperson of AMRI Hospitals where the state’s first Covid-19 death was recorded. “People who live in Kolkata, at least have several options, despite the restrictions. We in small towns, however, are primarily dependent on private practitioners and they have stopped seeing patients,” said Dipankar Ghosh, a resident of Midnapore town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/non-covid-patients-in-bengal-suffer-as-most-doctors-stop-private-practice/story-Aak84dSq19SsvvS3E9R0qM.html
02-05-2020||India||Centre permits 193 Pak nationals to return on May 5, asks states to help them||Over 190 Pakistani nationals stranded in India due to the Covid-19 lockdown across 10 states have been allowed to exit the country via the Attari-Wagah crossing next week, the external affairs ministry has told state police chiefs and asked them to facilitate their travel.The Pakistani nationals have been told to reach the Attari-Wagah border by early Tuesday, May 5, when formalities for their return would begin at the immigration and border checkpoint.People familiar with the development said the Pakistan high commission had requested India to help to facilitate movement of their nationals from different parts of the country.This is the second large group of Pakistani nationals to exit the country amid the Covid-19 lockdown. The last group that returned to Pakistan in April was much smaller and comprised people staying in Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.The repatriation exercise on Tuesday covers 193 individuals living in 25 districts of 10 states: Maharashtra, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Delhi.Most of them would begin their road trip to Punjab’s Attari on Saturday or Sunday.Some of them would be on the road for the next two days. Like the small group that will begin the 1,700 km road trip from Bengal’s Kolkata on Sunday morning.“It is requested that all returning Pakistan nationals may be screened as per international norms and existing provisions of the Government of India and only asymptomatic individuals may be allowed to return,” Dammu Ravi, additional secretary at the external affairs ministry said in his communication to the state governments.Government officials, however, explain that the health screening is not enough to determine the Covid-19 status of a person.In March, some customs officials and security personnel at the Attari-Wagah crossing were placed in quarantine after reports in the Pakistani media that two of a five-member group, allowed to cross the border as a special case, had tested positive.In April again, some officials posted at the border were again quarantined after similar reports emerged after the return of 41 Pakistani nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-permits-193-pak-nationals-to-return-on-may-5-asks-states-to-help-them/story-eKagOZaa3RQLplFjglN9KO.html
02-05-2020||India||Palghar lynching case accused tests positive for Covid-19, 43 others to be screened||A 55-year-old accused, one of the 114 suspects, in the Palghar lynching case has tested positive for the coronavirus disease, Dr Dinkar Gavit, Medical Superintendent, Rural Hospital (RH), Palghar confirmed on Saturday.The accused is a resident of Divshi-Wakipada in Dahanu town of Palghar district, Maharashtra. He was arrested by the Kasa police on April 17. He was lodged in the Wada police lockup along with 20 other accused in the murder case. He was produced before the Dahanu court and is remanded in police custody till May 14 along with other 114 accused. The other accused are lodged in the lockups at Wada, Dahanu, Kasa, Vikramgadh, Talasari and other police stations to avoid overcrowding due to the coronavirus outbreak.The swab test of the accused was taken on April 28 which tested negative. On Saturday morning, another test was done which turned out positive for Covid-19, Dr Gavit said. He was admitted at RH, Palghar but after taking permission from higher authorities the patient is being transferred to the prison ward of JJ hospital, Mumbai, said Dr Gavit. “The accused did not show any symptoms of the virus till now but we are not taking any chances,” Dr Gavit said.Meantime, around 43 people including 20 accused and 23 cops on escort duty for the accused, are being tested for the virus and samples have been taken.Till now, Maharashtra’s Palghar district has reported 170 positive cases of coronavirus with 10 deaths including in Vasai-Virar corporation areas while 59 have been discharged after undergoing treatment. Till now, 2691 patients have tested negative and the reports of 188 patients are awaited said an official of the District Information Office (DIO), Palghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-palghar-lynching-case-accused-tests-covid-19-positive-43-others-to-be-tested-for-covid-19/story-opNja5iuVrJjik7bzxQUmN.html
02-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Will boost morale’, says Amit Shah on armed forces thanking corona warriors and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Will boost morale’: Amit Shah on armed forces thanking corona warriorsHome minister Amit Shah on Saturday welcomed the decision of the armed forces to plan a series of events to thank doctors, paramedics and policemen engaged in the country’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Read more here. Mumbai man supplied methamphetamine during lockdown, held with drugs worth Rs 35 lakhA 36-year-old Mumbai resident was arrested after seizure of 340 g of methamphetamine drug worth Rs 35 lakh from his car on Thursday, said an official.If I bat for an hour, you’ll see a big one: How Rahul Dravid’s words became a nightmare for Pakistan in Rawalpindi TestIndia’s tour to Pakistan in 2003-04 was a landmark for many reasons. It marked the resumption of cricketing ties between the neighbours and gave India’s promising cricketers a chance to leave their mark and become greats of the game and they did not disappoint. Read more here.Living in the times of coronavirus: Here’s what is keeping the chefs busy during lockdownFrom taking charge of home kitchens to spending quality time with families, from recipe development to planning their personal diet regimes, from working towards new trends most chefs keep busy when their restaurants are shut. Read more here. Tempering the tampering ruleWhen cricket resumes in a post COVID-19 world, extraordinary importance will be given to ensure a hygienic environment where the virus isn’t passed on through bodily fluids. Which means the only legal route that bowlers have to encourage the ball to swing—using sweat and saliva to shine one side of the ball—may now be banned. Read more here. These netizens are feeding strays in this new #PassTheFood challenge. WatchThe Internet is full of trends and challenges that provide entertainment to netizens. However , this new challenge taken up by some netizens is something that will let you help some innocent souls, the dogs – and make you feel good along the way too. Read more here. US allows emergency use of antiviral drug remdesivir to treat Covid-19 patientThe US has allowed the emergency use of the experimental antiviral drug remdesivir to treat Covid-19 based on early clinical data that shows it helps coronavirus disease patients recover faster. Watch here. ICSI CS June 2020 revised schedule released, check new datesInstitute of Company Secretary of India (ICSI) has released the revised date sheet for CS June session 2020 examination. Find out more here. Naseeruddin Shah remembers Irrfan Khan, says he had ‘a quiet menace and a unique enigma that was the envy of many less hard-working actors’Veteran actor Naseeruddin Shah has written a piece on Irrfan Khan, who died in a Mumbai hospital earlier this week after being diagnosed with a neuroendocrine tumour. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-will-boost-morale-says-amit-shah-on-armed-forces-thanking-corona-warriors-and-all-the-latest-news/story-KrS2t0QoQPnWTlecBYndTL.html
02-05-2020||India||‘Can I visit a friend? Are housemaids allowed?’: Lockdown 3.0 FAQs answered||The government has extended the lockdown by two more weeks beginning May 4, while also giving certain relaxations. Limited activities and businesses will be allowed in metro cities such as Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata, which fall in red zones (in simple terms, areas with a high number of Covid-19 cases). Here’s how life will be in these cities till at least May 17.Am I allowed travel for non-essential activities within the city?A government order issued on Friday says movement of persons for non-essential activities is strictly prohibited between 7pm and 7am across the country. On the flip side, an interpretation of this is such travels are allowed between 7am and 7pm. The federal order, however, empowers states and Union Territories to issue area-specific restrictions to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) whenever and wherever they deem fitSo does that mean I can take a walk/go for a run between 7am and 7pm?Technically, yes. But it will also depend on your state-, city-specific guidelines, if they have been issuedIs my domestic help allowed to come to work?Another interpretation of the order banning non-essential travel between 7pm and 7am is that domestic helps are allowed during the dayAm I allowed to visit a friend?Again, an interpretation is such a visit is not banned between 7am and 7pm. However, it will depend largely on city-specific guidelines. Importantly, the central order separately bans social, religious and political gatherings across the countryAre private vehicles allowed in my city?In red zones, the government says, the movement of vehicles is allowed for “permitted activities”, but with just two passengers besides the driver. Pillion-riding is not allowed for two-wheelersWhat about public transport?If you are living in a red zone, you won’t get a bus. Cycle rickshaws and auto-rickshaws, too, are not allowed. Plus, metro trains are banned across the country. In orange zones, inter- and intra-district bus operations are banned, but movement is allowed in private vehicles with just two passengers besides the driver. In green zones, buses can operate with up to 50% of seating capacityAre app-based cab aggregators allowed?Service providers such as Ola and Uber are not allowed in red zones. Taxis and cab aggregators (with one driver and two passengers) are allowed in orange zones. The services are allowed in green zonesAre malls and restaurants open?No. There is blanket ban on malls, dine-in restaurants, gymnasiums, theatres, bars and swimming pools across the countryWhich are the shops that are open?All malls and market complexes within city limits will be closed, but those selling essential items are exempt. All standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes --- irrespective of whether they are selling essential or non-essential items --- are allowed, but social distancing is a mustWhat about online shopping?The government order says e-commerce is allowed in red zones for essentials alone. In orange and green zones, even non-essentials will be allowedCan I go to a salon?No, if you are in a red zone, where barber shops, spas and salons are prohibitedI live in a red zone. Am I allowed to go to office?Private offices can operate with up to 33% staff strength even in red zones. Government offices will function with officers of the level of deputy secretary and above; the remaining staff can operate with 33% strength. This restrictions will not apply to defence and security services, fire and emergency services, and customs and municipal services, among othersAre liquor and tobacco products allowed?Yes. According to a home ministry official, liquor shops will open across all three zones --- red, orange and green. But only standalone liquor shops will function; such shops in malls will continue to be closed. Also, shops selling liquor and tobacco products will ensure six-feet distance between two people and not allow more than five people at a time. Consumption of liquor, paan, gutka and tobacco in public places is not allowedIs Aarogya Setu app a must for everyone?Private and public sector employees will have to use Aarogya Setu app. It is the responsibility of the head of the organization to ensure “100% coverage of this app among the employees”. The app is a must for all living in containment zones, which are earmarked pockets inside red and orange zones and do not have any of the relaxationsIs construction work allowed in cities?In red zones, construction activities in urban areas are restricted to places where workers are available on site, and to renewable energy projects. The guidelines do not talk about any restrictions in orange and green zonesWhat about industrial activities within city limits?In red zones, industrial activities in urban areas are limited to Special Economic Zones, Export Oriented Units, and manufacturing units of essential goods and pharmaceuticals, among others. Manufacturing of IT hardware and the jute industry are allowed with staggered shifts and social distancing. No restriction has been specified for orange and green zonesRED ZONES: These are also known as hot spots and are areas with a high number of Covid-19 cases. The government takes into account the total number of active cases and case doubling rate, among others, before declaring an area a red zone. At present, there are 130 in IndiaORANGE ZONES: Places that are neither in red nor in green category. They may have fewer cases. At present, there are 284 such zonesGREEN ZONES: Places with no cases or where no case has been reported in 21 days. At present, there are 319 green zones in the countryCONTAINMENT ZONES: Places in red or orange zones with several cases. These areas have stricter perimeter control and the movement of only essential services personnel is allowed. Even outpatient department services in health facilities are not allowed here(States are allowed to add districts in red and orange zones, but not permitted to lower the classification of any district)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-i-visit-a-friend-are-housemaids-allowed-lockdown-3-0-faqs-answered/story-ognzhLbeWIiXM0yyAZRNlL.html
02-05-2020||India||Tripura to conduct exams in degree, diploma and engineering colleges in July but with a caveat||Government degree, diploma and engineering colleges in Tripura will hold final examinations in July end if the situation remains normal, said state education minister Ratan Lal Nath. The decision was made following a meeting between vice chancellors and registrars of Maharaja Bir Bikram University (MBB), only state government-run university of the state, and Tripura (Central) University on Friday. “We have decided to conduct the examinations for the 2nd, 4th and 6th semesters in government-run degree and diploma engineering colleges and 2nd, 4th, 6th and 8th semesters for degree engineering colleges in July end. The decision on the new schedule was taken in accordance with the UGC guidelines. The examinations will be conducted if the situation is normal like now,” Nath told the reporters at state’s civil secretariat on Friday late evening.Besides, an integrated master degree course in commerce and chemistry would be introduced in the MBB University. Introduction of other courses, like a diploma course in retail, social management, GST and Spanish language is also in consideration. There are 22 general degree colleges and seven technical institutes under the higher education department. Online classes for these degree and technical colleges including MBB University have already started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-to-conduct-exams-in-degree-diploma-and-engineering-colleges-in-july-but-with-a-caveat/story-Ghsnqe2JvczxVFCk5BrmTN.html
02-05-2020||India||Venkaiah Naidu bats for farmers again, asks govt to ease produce transportation in lockdown||Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday asked the Centre and state governments to ensure there is hassle-free transportation of agricultural produce to markets during the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown pointing to reports about farmers’ distress.This is the second time in a month that Naidu has asked authorities to look into problems and issued faced by farmers during the lockdown and advised them to facilitate the smooth conduct of farming activities and transportation of produce during this period.“There have been some reports of farmers’ distress, particularly horticultural growers not getting remunerative prices for their produce owing to lack of transportation facilities to markets,” Venkaiah Naidu tweeted on Saturday.Naidu said he has spoken to Union home minister Amit Shah and railways minister Piyush Goyal on the need to ensure timely delivery of agriculture produce to markets and mitigate the hardship faced by farmers.The vice president pointed out a solution as he put in a word of praise for the Indian Railways.“In this regard, the decision of Indian Railways to resume goods and parcel services is welcome. It will provide much-needed relief to farmers to transport the perishables in time,” he said.“State governments and district authorities must step in to make optimum use of these services by Railways so that farmers do not incur losses. They must ensure smooth connectivity between the farm and the nearest railway facility,” the vice-president tweeted.Naidu said he was confident that the Centre and states will “effectively coordinate and implement various measures to address the concerns of the farmers”.In his interaction with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar last month, the vice president had laid stress on safeguarding the interests of both producers and consumers.Naidu had called for more focus on perishable agro-produce such as fruits and vegetables and said that special care must be taken of storage and marketing of these perishables.The vice president had asked the authorities to ensure that there is no hindrance during such transportation as he had laid stress on the need to ensure smooth transportation of farm produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-bats-for-farmers-again-asks-govt-to-ease-produce-transportation-in-lockdown/story-68dqCaxfivNDr2SVnW8xRM.html
02-05-2020||India||‘Will boost morale’: Amit Shah on armed forces thanking corona warriors||Home minister Amit Shah on Saturday welcomed the decision of the armed forces to plan a series of events to thank doctors, paramedics and policemen engaged in the country’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The minister underlined that the nation stands united in thanking the frontline health workers. “I am sure this decision of Armed forces will greatly boost the morale and confidence of our doctors, healthworkers, sanitisation staff, security and media personnel. We as a nation stand united to thank our Corona warriors in these testing times,” tweeted Shah.The Indian armed forces will conduct fly-pasts, light up ships at sea, display military bands and shower flower petals on hospitals on Sunday in a grand display of gratitude to lakhs of “corona warriors” like doctors, paramedics and police personnel.The announcement was made by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat at a press conference on Friday in presence of Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria.“The nation stood together and showed resilience in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. On behalf of the armed forces, we want to thank all the corona warriors -- doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, police, home guards, delivery boys and media,” Gen Rawat said.Amit Shah praised the forces for their decision to thank the health workers. “Who else can understand the importance of keeping our motherland safe than our Armed forces. Kudos to the CDS and our Armed forces for their decision to thank the Corona Warriors, who are working relentlessly to keep our nation safe against the menace of COVID-19,” siad Shah in another tweet. Earlier, in a series of tweets, Prime Minister Modi said India has waged a strong fight against Covid-19 due to courageous frontline warriors who have cared and cured many.“They are spectacular. India applauds them and their families,” he said.India’s armed forces have always kept the nation safe. Even in times of disasters, they are out there helping people, the PM said.“Now, our forces are, in a unique way, saying a big thank you to our frontline COVID-19 warriors for their endeavour towards making India COVID-19 free,” he said.The decision to go for the thanks-giving activities was taken at a meeting chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and attended by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and the three service chiefs.In the press conference, Gen Rawat also asserted that no operational task has been affected or will be affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-boost-morale-amit-shah-on-armed-forces-thanking-corona-warriors/story-8cAfR8bwWDELfyTzopVMML.html
02-05-2020||India||Hyderabad’s Covid-19 warriors come together to feed starving street dogs amid lockdown||Earlier this month, while B Manohar, a senior bureaucrat in the Telangana government was on his morning walk on the campus of Osmania University closer to his residence, he noticed carcasses of a few stray dogs along the walking path.“It was a pathetic scene. I realised that these canines are dying of starvation as no food was available to them due to the closure of university hostels and canteens on the account of the lockdown to avoid the spread of Covid-19,” Manohar, managing director of Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation, said.These dogs used to survive on the leftover food from the canteens and even university employees and students in the hostels used to provide them with food. Now, there is no such facility, resulting in their starvation, he pointed out.From the very next day, Manohar and others who take a morning stroll at the campus started carrying leftover food from their homes to feed the dogs. “Somehow, it has given me immense satisfaction,” Manohar said.Like Manohar, several animal lovers in Hyderabad have been taking care of street dogs that have been starving during the lockdown period.“For poor people and daily-wage workers who are suffering due to the lockdown, the government is supplying food one way or the other. Several NGOs are also working round-the-clock to supply food for them. But not many are bothered about street dogs which are not getting any food due to the closure of restaurants and hotels,” R Vasantha, a scientist from Prof Jayashankar Agricultural University, Rajendra Nagar, said.Vasantha, an animal lover associated with the Kindness Club at Attapur, has also been supplying food to nearly 250-300 dogs every day, along with her friends in the club, during the lockdown period. “Many people brought to my notice that scores of dogs and puppies are dying due to lack of food. So, we have been supplying nutritious feed to these dogs,” she said.The food for dogs is made of cooked rice mixed with milk, dog-food power, eggs and soya granules. “Our volunteers carry the food in buckets and place it in earthen or cement bowls at around 8 pm and sometimes during the early hours of the day. We are happy to see these street dogs developing a lot of attachment to all of us,” Vasantha said.The dog lovers also visit far off places after duly taking permission from the police to supply food to the dogs in those areas.“We have three vehicles – two for carrying food to street dogs and another to provide medicines for dogs which have fallen sick during the lockdown period. We also collect dog feed from good Samaritans, including rice, soya, breads and biscuits,” said Dattatreya Joshi, convenor of People for Animals, a voluntary organisation working on animal welfare.He said, like humans, street dogs too have emotions. “In situations like the present lockdown, they too are suffering and starving without food like the poor people. We cannot ignore their sufferings and let us do whatever we can to mitigate their hunger,” Joshi said.According to him, there are more than a lakh street dogs within GHMC limits. Since the NGOs cannot reach out to all parts of the city, he appeals to the people to take care of the needs of the dogs in their respective areas.The Cyberabad police have also joined hands with these NGO activists in serving street dogs. According to the Society for Cyberabad Security Council, a joint initiative of the Cyberabad police with the IT industry, the police and NGO activists are feeding 1500 street dogs daily in one part of the city or the other. They also purchased 300 pots which are placed in different areas and filled with water for the street dogs.Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar said dogs become aggressive due to the lack of water and food. “We need to shower the same affection on beings who cannot speak. A total of 100 volunteers are working for the cause,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-s-covid-19-warriors-come-together-to-feed-starving-street-dogs-amid-lockdown/story-0xaFScNmXR3M4h1sH2ZvwM.html
02-05-2020||India||During coronavirus lockdown 3.0, people can’t step out for 12 hours||The government has extended the current nationwide lockdown due to end on May 3 by another two weeks and issued a new set of guidelines for the “well being and safety” of people in the red, orange and green zones.The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has said several activities, including travel by air, rail, metro and inter-state movement by road, schools, colleges and other educational and training or coaching institutions, hospitality services other than those used for housing health, police and government officials won’t be permitted “irrespective of zone”.However, it said rail and road movement will be allowed for “select purposes”, and for purposes as permitted by it. An official clarified planes or trains could be allowed for carrying medical officers or an air ambulance or if troops have to be ferried etc.“The new guidelines also prescribe certain measures for well being and safety of persons. Hence, movement of individuals, for all non-essential activities, shall remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm to 7 am,” it also said.The MHA has directed local authorities to issue orders under appropriate provisions of law—such as prohibitory orders [curfew] under Section 144 of CrPC—for this purpose, and ensure strict compliance.However, senior citizens above 65 years of age, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years, in all zones will have to to stay at home. The only exception to this rule is for meeting essential requirements and health purposes.In containment zones, out-patient departments (OPDs) and medical clinics shall not be permitted to operate. However, these may be permitted to operate in red, orange and green zones.The decision to extend the lockdown by two more weeks after May 3, when the second phase of these restrictions was scheduled to end, came amid a continuous rise in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across states, including in major metropolitans, with the nationwide tally crossing 35,000. The death toll has crossed 1,100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/during-lockdown-3-0-people-can-t-step-out-for-12-hours/story-sNLtp9M7EXswU74YdtrYHJ.html
02-05-2020||India||Palghar lynching accused tests positive for Covid-19||One of the accused in the Palghar lynching case, who was locked-up at Wada police station, has tested positive for coronavirus. The accused was first admitted in an isolation ward of Palghar rural hospital and is being shifted to a prisoner ward at JJ Hospital.He is believed to have contracted the infection in a lock-up where nearly 20 other accused were reportedly lodged with him in a single cell. The accused is one of the more than 100 suspects who have been arrested in the case including nine minors.This comes after the Maharashtra Criminal Investigation Department (CID) said it had arrested five more accused including two senior citizens in the case on Thursday night.So far a total of 115 people, including 9 minors who have been sent to the children’s remand home in Bhiwandi, have been nabbed in the case. Irrfan Shaikh, deputy superintendent of police, CID, said the accused were produced before the Dahanu court on Friday and have been remanded in CID custody till May 13.Two sadhus - 70-year-old Kalpavriksha Giri Maharaj and 35-year-old Sushil Giri Maharaj of the Juna Akhara - and 30-year-old driver Nilesh Telgade were travelling in a car from Kandivli to Surat to attend the funeral of a senior Sadhu when near Gaddchinchale village a huge mob of 500 lynched them to death. The trio was attacked on the suspicion of being child-lifters.The Maharashtra Crime Investigation Department (CID) is probing the case on the orders of the Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/palghar-lynching-case-accused-contracts-coronavirus-while-in-lockup/story-ApjVwpiaBAlx0tqZw9P8TL.html
02-05-2020||India||Manipur black rice gets Geographical Indication tag||Manipur black rice, popularly known as ‘Chakhao’ by the locals, has bagged the Geographical Indication (GI) tag, according to official sources.The Geographical Indications Registry website also confirmed the report of registering Chakhao in the name of ‘Manipur black rice’ on their official website.The application for Chakhao was filed by the Consortium of Producers of Chakhao (Black Rice), Manipur and was facilitated by the Department of Agriculture, Government of Manipur and the North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Limited.It took more than a year for the registration process including documentation by the team members of the state agriculture department, according to officials. The GI status is an indication that identifies goods as produced from a particular area which has special quality attributable to its geographical origin. GI has great potential to play a major role in trade and there is a possibility of preserving many traditional skills.On getting the registration, project coordinator MS Khaidem of Manipur Small Farmers’ Agri-Business Consortium said, “Now we can sell seeds as well as grains to any parts of the globe. We will get loyalty if anyone wants to do trading.”At some point of time, some farming communities of the state had expressed their concern over the reports of cultivating and harvesting the rice variety in other parts of the country after the seeds were transported for various purposes.Chakhao, a scented glutinous rice which has been in cultivation in Manipur over centuries, is characterised by its special aroma. It is normally eaten during community feasts and is also served as Chakhao kheer.Chakhao has also been used by traditional medical practitioners as part of traditional medicine. It is sold at Rs 100-120 a kilogram on an average in the Imphal market.“Now we are targeting to take up the GI process for a high protein content local pea variety-Hawai-Tharak Makhyatmubi,” MS Khaidem added. This local pea variety is sold double the price of other pea varieties in Manipur markets.In March 2015, Kachai Lemon(Citrus jambheri Lush), a unique lemon variety which contains 45-51 mg/100 ml ascorbic acid - the highest so far available in the realm of citrus - has been accorded GI registration tag. The lemon grows at Kachai village in Manipur’s Ukhrul’s district. Other lemon varieties have only 45-51 ascorbic acid mg/100 ml of juice||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-black-rice-gets-geographical-indication-tag/story-Y3ua6KUzRewrFilcu1823L.html
02-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Pune district records 100th death||Maharashtra’s Pune district recorded its 100th coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related death after a 68-year-old man died early Saturday morning. The district also reported 13 new Covid-19 positive cases and the overall tally stood at 1,828 till 10 am on Saturday.On April 21, the 68-year-old man showed symptoms of Covid-19 and was admitted to Pune’s Sassoon General Hospital on April 24. He tested Covid-19 positive on the same day, and died on Saturday at around 2am from acute respiratory failure.Follow latest update for coronavirus here Of the 100 Covid-19 Covid-19 related deaths reported from Pune district, 62 occurred at Sassoon General Hospital, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (4), Aundh Government Hospital (5) and the rest at Dr. Naidu Hospital and other private hospitals under the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) jurisdiction.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pune-district-records-100th-death/story-8r9nxMtacdDB8LwmBLEzBI.html
02-05-2020||India||Liquor shops owners prepare for ‘contactless’ sales as stores open from May 4||The Centre on Friday allowed the sale of liquor in standalone wine stores as well as the sale of paan/gutkha and other tobacco products across the country from May 4 except in Covid-19 containment zones. The government has categorized all 733 districts across the country in three zones – red (hotspots), orange (having a limited number of Covid-19 cases) and green (no cases). There are, however, strict social distancing norms in place. People going to such stores/shops will have to maintain at least six feet distance from each other and ensure that not more than five persons are present at a shop at any given time. Spitting in public places will be punishable.Liquor and paan shops inside malls or marketplaces are not allowed to operate yet. Containment zones are those areas in red and orange zones that have been sealed due to a high number of Covid-19 infections. Only essential activities are permitted in these areas.The government order on lockdown on Friday stated that any person violating the lockdown measures or directives could be prosecuted under the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code.The government had prohibited sale of liquor and paan/gutkha since March 24, when the first phase of lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Since then, several states including Kerala, West Bengal and Punjab had repeatedly urged the central government to lift the ban on sale of liquor citing depletion of state revenues. Liquor is one of the major contributors to states’ coffers.The International Spirits and Wines Association of India (ISWAI), which has Diageo India, Pernod Ricard, Beam Suntory, Bacardi and others as members, had asked the union consumer affairs ministry to allow shops to sell the alcoholic beverages for some hours during the day.Another body, the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverages Companies (CIABC), had also asked the government to allow sale of liquor citing huge losses.ISWAI chairman Amrit Kiran Singh told Hindustan Times, “We have committed to the government that social distancing will be maintained at the liquor vends. As soon as the latest guidelines come into force, we will begin a programme called ‘Safe Shield’ under which signs will be put outside all shops about social distancing, sanitisers would be placed, there will be ‘contactless’ sales through trays kept at the counter.”Singh added that the second phase of ‘Safe Shield’ is to use services of online delivery platforms like Swiggy and Zomato for delivery of bottles for which, he said, ISWAI is trying to convince the state governments. “This will release the load off the retail stores”.75% percent of India’s liquor market size is in retail while 25% is in bar sales, which stands prohibited. Last year, liquor sales brought in Rs 2.84 lakh crore revenue to state governments, according to Singh. “Covid-19 is going to stay for some time so we have to institutionalize ‘Safe Shield’ and home delivery measures into liquor retail sales. If we do this properly, 75% of revenue to states can come back,” he added.A senior home ministry official, who didn’t want to be named, explained on Friday that “the decision to reopen standalone liquor stores across all three zones has been taken as part of resuming economic activity which is directly linked to the revenues of the states. The state governments are free to decide where they want to open the liquor stores/paan shops”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-sale-of-liquor-tobacco-shops-to-resume-from-may-4-conditions-apply/story-cv3nZUuTi2QNhdXrYW8ZJL.html
02-05-2020||India||Railways to charge for ferrying migrants in special trains amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Indian Railways has decided to charge for tickets for operating special trains for stranded migrant workers amid coronavirus lockdown. The fare includes the price of regular sleeper class tickets plus superfast charges of Rs 30 and an additional charge of Rs 20.“This includes meals and drinking water for long-distance trains. State governments will coordinate and can pay on passengers’ behalf, “ the ministry clarified.The Centre on Friday gave its nod for migrant workers, students and others stranded in different parts of the country to return home by special trains that will be run by the Indian Railways, expanding the scope of an earlier order that said such transportation can happen only by buses.On the occasion of Labour Day on May 1, the government decided to run “Shramik Special” trains to transport migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and others stuck across the country due to the lockdown triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the ministry said.The ministry will designate nodal officers to coordinate with states and Union territories, the Home Ministry said. Soon after, the railways ministry released detailed guidelines on social-distancing norms to be followed at stations and inside the trains. The guidelines on the sale of tickets are expected soon.The railways said six special trains had been scheduled to run on Friday as per the demands received from various state governments. The scheduled trains on Friday are Lingampally, Telangana to Hatia, Jharkhand; Aluva, Kerala to Bhubaneswar, Odisha; Nasik, Maharashtra to Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh; Nasik to Bhopal, Jaipur to Patna and Kota to Hatia.State officials in Kota, Rajasthan issued an instruction that said that students needed to carry identity cards and seats will be allotted on a first-come-first-serve basis. Messages from the district magistrate allowing travel will be considered as a valid ticket.“Please clarify to the public that these special trains are planned for nominated people identified and registered by state governments. No one under any circumstance should come to Railway Stations looking for trains. We will not issue any tickets to any individual or entertain any request from any group or individual. We will allow only those passengers to board whom state government officials bring to the railway stations,” the railway ministry clarified.Students from all 24 districts of Jharkhand who are in Rajasthan were to be accommodated in two special trains leaving Kota and Jaipur around 9 pm on Friday.The Centre has been under pressure from states for operating special trains to rescue stranded migrants and students. States including Punjab, Bihar, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Kerala had asked the Centre to run special trains. Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar on Thursday appealed to the Centre for special trains to bring back migrants, the stand was reiterated by National Democratic Alliance government ally JDU as well.Thousands of migrants were stranded in places across the country since the nationwide lockdown was enforced on March 25. On Wednesday, the MHA allowed states to ferry their migrants back in buses, even as many chief ministers requested that special trains be allowed to run. States have also reached out to the Centre to seek monetary support for operating buses.The decision that incidentally comes on Labour Day, was taken following a meeting held Thursday by senior officials from the home ministry, including the secretary, with the railway board and officials from the Railway Protection Force (RPF), officials said. The home ministry issued an official order on Friday evening allowing movement of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons, stranded at different places by the railway ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-charge-for-ferrying-migrants-in-special-trains-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-Mtwwss3sXlVsBhMfFXAghO.html
02-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Migrant worker dies midway while cycling to UP from Maharashtra||A migrant worker, who was going back to Uttar Pradesh, his home state, from Maharashtra on a cycle, died midway in Madhya Pradesh’s Barwani on Friday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe man collapsed after peddling for hours and had started his journey from Bhiwandi town in Maharashtra.“He was found in an unconscious state and was taken to a hospital. He passed away during the treatment. The postmortem report is awaited,” said G Dhangar, SDM.Click here for Covid-19 updatesEver since the lockdown was announced in March, migrant workers have been left stranded in various states and have been forced to undertake long journeys back home, some of which have been fatal.Meanwhile, the central government has allowed special trains to take the migrants back to their respective home states.The lockdown, which was scheduled to end on May 3, has been extended by another two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-migrant-worker-dies-midway-while-cycling-to-up-from-maharashtra/story-wFqvlrsaSu0rirj4h44V7H.html
02-05-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Maharashtra nears 12000-mark, cases cross 3500 in Delhi||The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 37336 on Saturday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 26167 active coronavirus cases in the country, 9950 patients have been cured or discharged while 1218 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have crossed the 11,500-mark and now inch toward 12000 while Gujarat, the second worst-affected state, has over 4500 Covid-19 cases.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraMaharashtraWith 11506 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra inches towards another grim milestone - of 12000 cases. It already has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 485 deaths so far while 1879 patients have recovered.GujaratThe state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 4721. While 236 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 735 recoveries so far.DelhiAs many as 3738 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 61 people have died from the infection while 1167 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 2719 positive cases of coronavirus. 145 people have died from Covid-19 here while 524 have recovered.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 2666 on Saturday. The state has reported 62 fatalities, and 1116 patients have recovered from the infection.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 2526 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 1312 recoveries and 28 Covid-19 deaths.Uttar Pradesh2328 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 654 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 42 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1463 positive Covid-19 patients and 403 cases of recovery. 33 people have died.Telangana1039 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 441 people have made a recovery from the virus while 26 people have died from Covid-19.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 795 on Saturday. There have been 33 deaths and 139 recoveries in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 639. Eight people have died from the infection while 247 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 589 Covid-19 cases and 22 deaths. 251 people have been cured and discharged.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 497 coronavirus cases on Saturday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 392 people have successfully recovered.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 360 and 480 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 19 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen 4 deaths. 227 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 90 in Punjab.In Bihar, 471 people have tested positive for coronavirus, three people have died while 98 patients have recovered. Odisha has 149 Covid-19 positive patients, 55 have recovered while one person has died. Jharkhand has 111 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 20 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 58 coronavirus patients, 36 patients have recovered from the infection. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 30 have recovered. Assam has reported 43 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 32 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 43 cases of coronavirus and 36 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 88 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 17 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, 16 have recovered.Ladakh has 22 patients, 17 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported eight cases, 5 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur and Tripura had two coronavirus cases each, all patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-maharashtra-near-10500-mark-cases-soar-beyond-3500-in-delhi/story-GkbHwCSEuVlFAQK3ZLiuQO.html
02-05-2020||India||India records 2,293 new Covid-19 cases, 71 deaths in last 24 hours||With 2293 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 71 deaths in the last 24 hours, India’s tally now stands at 37,336, according to the health ministry data on Saturday morning.According to the Union health ministry’s dashboard at 8am, India has 26167 active cases and 1218 deaths related to Covid-19. There are 9950 people who have been cured or discharged.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here India had seen its highest single-day spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Friday. The countrywide spike in the number of Covid-19 cases was largely led by Maharashtra, which also saw its highest one-day jump.The government also extended the lockdown for another two weeks from May 4 but with relaxations, in varying degrees, across India’s red, orange and green zones and enhanced the scope of surveillance and treatment measures in containment zones.The Union ministry of home affairs issued guidelines for the range of activities which will be permitted and prohibited in different administrative jurisdictions.It said the ban on regular air and rail travel and interstate transport would continue and educational institutions would remain also closed. Hospitality services and public places such as cinema halls and malls will also remain shut.The Union health ministry had also released a list of 130 red zones across India—40 fewer than two weeks ago. The number of green zones, or districts with no new Covid-19 case, has also decreased from 356 to 319, suggesting the virus is spreading but with reduced intensity to previously unaffected areas despite a nationwide lockdown. The number of orange zones has increased from 207 to 284.According to the Covid-19 dashboard by Johns Hopkins University’s Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE), 3,343,777 people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, and 238,650 have died across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-2293-new-covid-19-cases-71-deaths-in-last-24-hours/story-g3vzlLoeyoykYAzjZF0dhO.html
02-05-2020||India||2 cops probing Tablighi Jamaat case test Covid-19 positive||Two policemen of Delhi Police crime branch associated with the probe into the allegations of negligence by the members of Tablighi Jamaat and its chief Maulana Saad have tested positive for the coronavirus (COVID-19). A member of the crime branch provided this information to IANS on Friday on the condition of anonymity.According to police sources, the two policemen tested positive for the virus two-three days ago. Following this, at least 10-12 other policemen have also been kept in home-quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-cops-probing-tablighi-jamaat-case-test-covid-19-positive/story-0DamMneIFWD5aHfs7BMrWN.html
02-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Counter terror ops in J-K increase in Covid-19 lockdown and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Counter terror ops in J-K increase in lockdownThe nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic did not affect counter-insurgency operations in Jammu & Kashmir. The operations were rather intensified and resulted in the killing of the highest number of terrorists belonging to different Pakistan-based outfits in April. In fact, April has been the most successful month for security forces in the last year, according to official data.Read MoreNorth Korea’s Kim Jong Un makes first appearance in nearly three weeksNorth Korean leader Kim Jong Un has made his first public appearance since speculation about his health began last month, cutting the ribbon at the opening of a fertilizer factory, KCNA reported Saturday.Read MoreDelhi Minorities Commission chairman booked under sedition chargesThe Delhi Police’s special cell on Thursday booked Delhi Minorities Commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan under sedition charges, two days after he allegedly made “provocative” remarks in his social media posts.Read MoreIrrfan Khan’s son Babil shares old video of actor gorging on pani puriRemembering his father, Irrfan Khan’s son Babil has shared an adorable throwback video on Instagram. Irrfan died on Wednesday after a two-year battle with neuroendocrine tumour. The video shows the late actor gorging on pani puri at a fancy restaurant.Read More‘Don’t plan to go home after lockdown, target is Tokyo Olympics’: Javelin thrower Annu RaniJavelin thrower Annu Rani, who was part of a contingent of Indian javelin throwers, who were training in South Africa and Turkey in March, was recalled to India as the coronavirus pandemic led to travel restrictions all across the globe. Serving her quarantine at the national camp in Patiala, Rani, the national-record holder, does not plan to go home but to continue working on her sport as her main target is just the Olympics. Read MoreGoogle Messages app hits 1 billion installs on Play StoreGoogle Messages which is Google’s native messaging app for Android, has hit 1 billion installs on Play Store. This is quite a feat considering that Google Messages does not come pre-installed on all phones like its sibling apps.Read MoreMario Miranda: An artist who breathed magic and imagination into Goan life and landscapeMário João Carlos do Rosário de Brito Miranda, better-known as Mario Miranda, is best-known for some of the most memorable characters and fine pieces of art depicting life in what he knew of Bombay (now Mumbai), Goa and the other parts of the world that he was invited to showcase his work in. Today is his 94th birth anniversary.Read more about Mario Miranda‘After IMCT’s arrival, Covid situation in WB has improved’: Guv DhankarWest Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar has praised the Inter-Ministerial Central Team ( IMCT) that recently visited the state to assess the situation arising out of Covid-19 outbreak. He said, “Nation fighting against Covid-19, we should have received IMCT with red carpet. Situation has improved after the arrival of IMCT.”Watch the video for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-counter-terror-ops-in-j-k-increase-in-covid-19-lockdown-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4pqdwXK6YgkOmDfITxQP3N.html
02-05-2020||India||Over 1,000 industrial units resume operation in J-K after Centre announces lockdown relaxation||Over 1,000 industrial units have resumed operation in Jammu and Kashmir after the Centre announced relaxation of the lockdown for certain categories, an official spokesperson said.Click here for Covid-19 updates The Department of Industries and Commerce has permitted 1,007 industrial units to operate during the lockdown period in Jammu and 468 units in Kashmir as per provisions of the Standard Operating Procedure, he said.“Corresponding to the above, 786 units have resumed their operation in Jammu whereas 455 units have become operational in Kashmir,” he added. In order to mitigate the hardship to the public in the backdrop of Covid-19, the Department of Disaster Management, Relief, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction (State Executive Committee) notified Standard Operating Procedure for regulating activities of industries, industrial, commercial and private establishments  in pursuance to measures being taken up during the lockdown, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-000-industrial-units-resume-operation-in-j-k-after-centre-announces-lockdown-relaxation/story-OgSyuZHNbeeejwId5WSbqO.html
02-05-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 lockdown, religious rituals, ceremonies take digital avatar||In the wake of the nationwide lockdown due to coronavirus, many religious places have gone online to stay connected with their devotes.Those who used to start their day with a visit to the temples are now performing online darshan to start their day. Most of the temples in Uttar Pradesh are webcasting artis, darshans and other rituals.“We’re under complete lockdown, but we’re trying to stay connected with devotees who keep on calling us for performing pujas inside the temples like before. We just tell them to wait for some more time. They can go online to our Facebook page where evening arti is webcast,” said Mahant Divya Giri, head priest of Mankameshwar temple.The devotees of the Golden Temple, a famous Sikh shrine in Punjab, who are not able to physically visit the holy site have turned to live streaming of kirtan on Facebook to stay connected with the age-old rituals that have been traditionally performed there.Keepers of the faith, including granthis (Sikh priests), ragis (traditional Gurbani singers) and sewadars (persons who render their services in performing rituals), begin their day as early as 2 am for the Amrit vela (the pre-dawn) ceremony that starts with the opening of the kiwars (doors of darshani deori). The rituals continue till 11.00 pm.Earlier, the kirtan was broadcast for a few hours in the morning and evening on a private channel which also used to share it on its Facebook page. Ever since the lockdown is imposed, the kirtan is telecast the whole day on a newly-created FB page, enabling the devotees to listen to the kirtan at home while being locked down.Chief secretary of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), Roop Singh, said, “Crores of devotees listen to kirtan through online live streaming across the world”. The SGPC, which manages the affairs of the shrine, has been providing non-stop audio live telecast of kirtan on its official website for many years.In Uttarakhand, after the portals of three of the Char Dham shrines opened amid the lockdown, priests said they would opt for digital worship/webcasting if required, especially in case the lockdown continues and pilgrims are unable to attend.The Char Dham yatra, which continues for six months, attracts lakhs of pilgrims and tourists to the state from across the world. Portals of the Gangotri and the Yamunotri shrines opened on April 26 while portals of the Kedarnath shrine opened on April 29. Portals of the Badrinath shrine will open on May 15.Deepak Semwal, secretary of the Gangotri Dham Committee said even without pilgrims, the rituals will continue as per the tradition.Semwal said, however, pilgrims will have the option of booking slots for online prayers in these difficult times when they cannot come for the pilgrimage to the Char Dham shrines. He said digital and online methods are some of the safest options these days.“If the pilgrims are not able to reach the shrines and want to offer prayers, then they can book slots online and see the ritual and prayers being offered here. We have facilities for digital worshipping and we will use them if needed. We will not be able to telecast rituals being performed in the sanctum sanctorum as photography or videography is not allowed but pilgrims can see other rituals,” said Semwal.In Himachal Pradesh, the Baba Balak Nath Temple, Deotsidh trust webcasts live arti twice a day. Temple official OP Lakhanpal said that the number of viewers varies and on an average, there are 2,000 to 3,000 attendees daily.  “Offerings and donations during the lockdown period were negligible. The month-long Chaitra fairs were also cancelled which will result in the downfall in the overall annual income,” he said.  At Chamunda temple in Kangra, Suman Dhiman said that earlier the temple trust had roped in a private firm for webcasting the arti which is performed twice a day. However, the same has now been stopped as the cost was high. However, a TV channel webcasts the arti daily on its own. In the south Indian states of Kerala, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, no live streaming of any rituals in important temples like Guruvayur, Sabarimala and Sree Padmanabha Swami temples is being carried out.Even when there was Chandanotsavam, an important religious ritual at the famous Simhachalam temple in Visakhapatnam on April 27, no webcast was done. It was attended only by few priests and the trust board chairman.Rituals are quite different in south and north India. In the south, only priests are allowed to the inner precincts of the sanctum sanctorum.Not only temples but Islamic Centre of India Darul Uloom Farangi Mahal is also live streaming evening Taraweeh (prayer). Head of Islamic Centre of India Darul Uloom Farangii Mahal Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali said, “Yes we started webcasting the namaz on our Facebook page because It is not right for people to congregate at one place. It’s for the first time we are not allowing any gatherings at the Idgah mosque, that’s why we decided to webcast evening prayers.”Meanwhile, churches in Uttar Pradesh are also organizing Sunday Mass on Facebook pages. “Technology is a blessing from God and we are using it to reach out to our church members. Even during Good Friday, the sermons were delivered in the absence of any gathering,” said Father Donald De Souza, parish priest St Joseph Cathedral Church, Hazratganj.The webcast of rituals and practices has also led to a fall in the revenue of the religious places like the Golden Temple in Amritsar. From an average collection of offerings of Rs 23 lakh a day (Rs 85 crore for the year, including those received online) in 2019-20, its collection during the curfew has dipped to between Rs 10,000-15,000 a day, said an SGPC official who did not want to be quoted. The Golden Temple sees an average daily footfall of 1 lakh devotees which has now dipped to around 1,000 a day, with devotees mostly coming in from areas near the shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-lockdown-religious-rituals-ceremonies-take-digital-avatar/story-U9awtF1OwYUTcKDwBfOxRL.html
02-05-2020||India||Lockdown extended; special trains ferry stranded migrants home: Covid-19 news today||India decided on Friday to extend the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for another two weeks, but announced a range of relaxations. The move came on the day the country saw its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 2,364 fresh infections. Earlier, the home ministry allowed trains to ferry migrants, students and others stranded in different parts of the country to their home states, expanding the scope of an earlier order that initially permitted such travel by buses.Graded easing of curbs over 2 weeksWith India’s extended 40-day lockdown drawing to an end on Sunday, the Union government has decided to extend the lockdown for another two weeks. But this has been accompanied with a range of relaxations, in varying degrees, across India. Read MoreIndia records 2,364 cases in a day, more than 1K in MaharashtraIndia recorded the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections with 2,364 cases on Friday, the first time the country has reported more than 2,000 daily cases of the disease that first showed up in Kerala more than three months ago.Read MoreSpecial trains ferry stranded migrants home Amid demands by states and a recognition of the logistical challenges involved in transporting millions of people back to their home states, the Centre on Friday decided to allow special trains — called Shramik Specials — to enable stranded migrants to return home.Read More130 districts identified as Covid hot spots home to nearly 400mn The Centre on Friday listed 130 districts as hot spots of Covid 19, down from the previously designated 170 “red zones”, even as the number of “green zones” – areas that largely remain outside the spectre of the pathogen – decreased from 353 to 319, an announcement that came hours before the national lockdown was extended by two weeks, but with some relaxations.Read MoreCovid-19: What you need to know todayThe ministry of health’s latest zoning document — the country is divided into red, orange and green zones — shows that around a third of the country’s population (according to the last census) lives in the so-called red zones, the most affected by the pandemic -- and even in these, there has been a significant relaxation of lockdown restrictions. Read MoreIn a first, auto firms post nil sales in AprilIndian automakers have for the first time reported zero local sales in April as factories and dealerships across the country remained shut to comply with a stringent lockdown. For comparison, nearly 250,000 vehicles were sold in the domestic market in April 2019. Indian automakers count the dispatch of vehicles from factories to dealers as sales.Read MoreDoes concept of open offices still make sense?Covid-19 may have finally killed the concept of the open office. As the coronavirus pandemic spread across the globe in February, most workplaces around the country (and the world) began to implement rules among employees to avoid clusters, maintain physical distance, wear masks, sanitise hands. and avoid biometric entry. Many put in place strict deep cleaning protocols. And finally, all suddenly discovered the merits of WFH (work from home).Read MoreLit up warships, fly-pasts to honour Covid-19 warriorsIndia’s chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Friday said that the armed forces will show their gratitude to the country’s Covid-19 warriors on May 3 by performing a raft of activities including fly-pasts, flashing warship lights, and displays by Indian Army bands.Read MoreAfter curbs lift, air journeys in India may become quickerWhen flying starts post lockdown, flying times may come down significantly with passenger airlines set to get access to defence airspace. Senior aviation officials have confirmed to Hindustan Times that Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a meeting with Department of Military affairs allowed the use of this hitherto segregated airspace.Read MoreSC yet to frame post-lockdown plans, decide on summer breakIndia’s apex court, the Supreme Court of India hasn’t put in place an exit plan for return to normalcy as the government relaxes lockdown restrictions, prompting comparisons with the Delhi High Court, which has created a committee to come up with a plan on this and also asked all district, sessions, and family courts to do so in anticipation of a flurry of filings post-lockdown.Read More‘Focus has been on containment, situation is constantly improving’:Shivraj Singh ChouhanMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said his state is now on the right track in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic even as his government has drawn flak for mismanaging the situation. Read MoreWill follow ICMR norms to audit deaths: West BengalThe West Bengal government has divested an expert committee of doctors of its primary duty -- to audit deaths among Covid-19 patients and figuring out whether they had succumbed to the virus or due to co-morbidities.The Opposition had alleged that the committee had been formed to suppress the number of Covid-19 deaths.Read MoreTrump blames lab in Wuhan lab for coronavirus outbreakUS President Donald Trump has claimed to have seen evidence to substantiate the unproven theory that the coronavirus originated at the Wuhan Institute of Virology, despite the conclusion by American intelligence agencies that the pathogen was “not man-made or genetically modified”.Read MoreTempering the tampering ruleIn a 21-Test career spread across 10 years, England left-arm seamer John Lever could never relive the high of his stellar maiden series against India. He kicked that off with a 10-wicket haul on debut in Delhi in 1976-77. Lever’s menacing swing was one of the reasons England quickly went 2-0 up in the series, but his soaring stock crashed abruptly in the third Test in Chennai.Read MoreMobility to recreational and retail places drops by 86%India saw an 86% drop in people visiting retail and recreational places, while those visiting parks, transit stations, and grocery and pharmacy units dropped by more than 50% each during the national lockdown imposed to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to the latest community mobility data released by Google.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-extended-india-reports-over-2-300-fresh-cases-covid-19-news-today/story-6CgSALvdEz9KbltYfgwZ0I.html
02-05-2020||India||Supreme Court yet to frame post-lockdown plans, decide on summer break||India’s apex court, the Supreme Court of India hasn’t put in place an exit plan for return to normalcy as the government relaxes lockdown restrictions, prompting comparisons with the Delhi High Court, which has created a committee to come up with a plan on this and also asked all district, sessions, and family courts to do so in anticipation of a flurry of filings post-lockdown.The Delhi High Court has also passed a resolution to work through June , when it is supposed to be on summer break. The apex court hasn’t said anything on this count. The Supreme Court suspended its regular functioning on March 23 and began hearing cases through video conferencing a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the national lockdown in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Since then, the court has functioned in a limited manner hearing only those cases which it deems extremely urgent.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Up until April 24, the top court sat for hearing on 17 working days with a total of 34 benches hearing cases through video conferencing. It heard a total of 593 cases and delivered 41 judgments. These numbers are far less when compared to the SC’s functioning in normal times when at least 500 to 700 cases are heard on a single day. On a typical day, 10 benches or more hear cases, with exception of Constitutional benches.Senior advocate and President, Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), Dushyant Dave said doors of justice cannot be shut and steps should be taken to ensure normal functioning. “We have virtually shut down our judicial system. Even countries like England are facing serious challenges but haven’t shut their judiciary.”Dave added while physical hearing might not be possible, the court should invest in functioning virtually and all its benches should sit on all days to ensure more cases are heard through video conferencing. “The Supreme Court should work fully through video conferencing. All sixteen courts should sit on all days and list as many cases as they can. It would not be difficult to list before each bench at least 25 to 30 cases for admission and five cases for final hearing daily,” Dave said.Senior counsel Rebecca John echoed this sentiment. “The Supreme Court is (currently) sitting like a vacation bench. It should work all days of the week like trial courts and Delhi High Court. There should be more benches hearing the matter. The endeavour should be to increase number of cases that can be heard,”John said. “The Delhi High Court keeps sending out fresh notifications and instructions to trial courts and lawyers almost every day. That kind of conversation is not happening in the Supreme Court,” she added.Dave also pointed out that thousands of cases are piled up in the apex court for admission. “I would request the chief justice and colleagues in SC to increase number of cases for hearing, increase the number of hours of the hearings. They may consider working on Saturdays,” Dave said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage However, senior advocate and former additional solicitor general Maninder Singh felt there is no pressing need for the apex court to revert to normal functioning. “I have not come across public pressing for opening courts. I have not seen any news on print or electronic media about people saying their case is not being heard. This is also because all industrial and economic activity has come to a standstill and crime rates have also reduced”, he said.Attorney General KK Venugopal too defended the SC and said it reverting to normal functioning through physical hearings during Covid may not be desirable. But if it does, and an open hearing is necessary, abundant precaution should be taken, he said. “Open court hearing in a regulated manner is a solution. There could be an annex room with screens for live streaming from each court room,” the AG suggested. This will help curb the crowding in Supreme Court’s corridors and inside courts, he added. “But this would require co-operation from lawyers. There should also be 12 to 13 screens streaming proceedings.”He added he hasn’t faced any issues with the current video conferencing facility but Dave said technological improvements are necessary and suggested SC explore private softwares. “Proceedings at Supreme Court are open. There is nothing wrong in using technology including Zoom, etc.,”, Dave suggested.He also did not hide his disappointment over the fact the apex court has not announced any decision yet on whether it will cancel its summer break. “The executive committee of SCBA had passed resolutions twice and requested the chief justice to scrap the summer vacation but I don’t know what is holding them back. I am personally deeply disappointed they have not cancelled summer break,” said Dave.Maninder Singh disagreed pointing out the top court takes vacation during the summer for around 6 to 7 weeks every year and addition of another 4 to 5 weeks to this year won’t make a difference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-yet-to-frame-post-lockdown-plans-decide-on-summer-break/story-I5i3CExIXNnYaE0RY0Q7nJ.html
02-05-2020||India||Assam: Upset with governor’s rule in BTC, BPF looks for alternatives||Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi’s decision to place the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) under his rule this week has riled the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) - an alliance partner of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state.Mukhi had placed the BTC, which covers four districts collectively called the Bodoland Territorial Area Districts (BTAD), under governor’s rule on Monday after the state election commission expressed inability to hold polls there due to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. BTC’s tenure expired on April 27.In a series of tweets on Thursday, former BTC chief and president of BPF, Hagrama Mohilary, opposed the decision to impose governor’s rule in the BTC and informed that his party has filed a petition in the Gauhati High Court against Mukhi’s order.“Due to the Covid-19, the elections of the BTC have been postponed. In this time of emergency, people here need our government more.” Mohilary tweeted.“But instead of extending the term, the Honourable Governor has given the charge of the BTAD to the Principal Secretary of Assam. We strongly oppose this decision and filed a petition in Gauhati High Court against this order,” he added.The BPF was in power in the BTC since 2003 when the BTAD was formed. Former rebel turned politician Mohilary was the chief of the BTC for the past 17 years. The party is part of the BJP-led ruling coalition in Assam of which Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) is also a part.“Though we are in an alliance with the BJP in the state, we are forced to reconsider our understanding. We are looking at other alternatives. I request Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP president JP Nadda and Home Minister Amit Shah to look into the matter,” Mohilary said in another tweet.Elections to the BTC council were due on April 4, but the state election commission deferred it indefinitely on March 20 because of the Covid-19 crisis.With the lockdown continuing, the state election commission informed Mukhi about its ability to conduct polls to the BTC general council while adhering to social distancing and other restrictions because of Covid-19.The Governor appointed Rajesh Prasad, IAS, principal secretary to the Assam government as the administrator of the BTC areas.“The Governor decided to bring the BTC under his rule as per provisions of the 6th Schedule of the Constitution. It is for the BPF to decide whether they want to continue in the ruling alliance or take some other measures,” said a senior BJP state office-bearer requesting anonymity.Even if the BPF pulls out of the ruling alliance, it won’t threaten the government. The BPF has 12 MLAs in the 126-member assembly while the BJP-AGP coalition has 74-well over the half-way mark of 64. Elections to the Assam assembly is due in April next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-upset-with-governor-s-rule-in-btc-bpf-looks-for-alternatives/story-2AzsJgcEMBF5K1KjtHJOtI.html
02-05-2020||India||2 soldiers succumb to injuries after Pak violates ceasefire in J-K’s Baramulla||Two soldiers of the Indian Army, who were injured during the ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Friday, have succumbed to their injuries, officials said on Saturday. “Unprovoked CFV (ceasefire violation) by Pakistan in Rampur sector on 1 May 2020. Unfortunately, Two soldiers succumbed to their injuries. Army salutes their supreme sacrifice,” a defence spokesperson said.They were among the three soldiers who were injured as Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire along the LoC on Friday afternoon.“On 01 May 2020, at about 1530 hours, Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation (CFV) along the LoC in Rampur Sector, District Baramulla,” defence spokesperson Colonel Rajesh Kalia had said in a statement on Friday.“Indian Army is retaliating befittingly,” he added.Pakistan had initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation on April 30 by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along the LoC in Poonch district. A day before that, the neighbouring country had violated the ceasefire along the LoC in Mankote and Mendhar sectors of Poonch.Pakistan’s army has violated the ceasefire more than 1,400 times this year. The total number of ceasefire violations by it stood at 3,168 in 2019 and 1,629 in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-soldiers-succumb-to-injuries-after-pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-baramulla/story-oR8u8g4ArFgcMVV4bvhDoN.html
02-05-2020||India||Major relaxation for industries, no FIR against owners for Covid-19 cases: State govt officials||Industries would get a major fillip from May 4 with most state governments deciding to do away with the condition that an industry owner will be booked if a worker tests positive for Covid-19 and permitting to transport goods, said officials in multiple states.According to government estimates, not more than 5% of the industries started operations after April 20, when they were allowed to operate for the first time since the lockdown started on March 24.Factory owners cited tough Covid-19 conditions for not opening factories. The two conditions of concern for them were booking of factory owners for Covid-19 cases in their factories and mandatory in-situ boarding facilities for workers. Some factory owners have also complained of trucks carrying good being stopped on highways by the police.On Thursday, the Union home ministry issued a guideline exempting permits for all transport vehicles, which factory owners see as a major relief from harassment on roads. As per the guideline, police cannot check these vehicles during the lockdown.State government officials said on Friday the new industry guidelines to be issued in the next two days would see major relaxation in the norms for green and orange zones.“In green and orange zones, the industries would be almost back to normal,” said a government official. The officials, however, said industries could be allowed in red zones with tough conditions but not in the containment zones. Uttar Pradesh’s industrial development minister, Satish Mahana, said industry owners have been told that no first information report (FIR) will be lodged against them in case an employee tests positive for coronavirus. “We have also proposed to some more relaxations for the industry,” Mahana said.A Rajasthan government official said they have told industry owners to scan workers and no punitive action will be taken against them, if a worker tests positive. “We have told factory owners to maintain an everyday health record of workers,” the official, who was not willing to be named, said.A government official in Maharashtra said they have assured industry owners that they will not need any permission from the district collectors to operate, including for vehicles to bring workers and transportation of goods. Only 5% of total industries creating employment for 130,000 workers have started operations. The state’s principal secretary (industries) Venugopal Reddy said, “The government is trying to maximise the re-opening of industries and reduce the hurdles. The spread in Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune Metropolitan Region has been very high which has caused major problems in the industrial sector.” Just 1.5% of the 252,000 industries resumed operations in Punjab, the most industrialised state in northern India.“As there are issues related to supply chain, demand and working capital due to the nationwide lockdown, it is not as though everyone is getting back to work,” Vini Mahajan, additional chief secretary (ACS), industries and commerce, said.She said since this is a calibrated sort of opening up, one of the issues flagged by the industry owner is that cottage and tiny units located in urban areas should also be allowed to resume.In Himachal Pradesh, where the industries are mostly on the borders of Punjab and Haryana, factory owners want the government to allow inter-state travel of workers.“This is just shifting of the virtual borders and solve the dual purpose of making manpower available to the industry as well as containing the spread of Covid-19 in Himachal,” Shailesh Pathak, chairperson of Confederation of Indian Industry’s Himachal Pradesh chapter, said.“The state government would take all necessary steps for smooth movement of workforce besides strengthening the supply chain of raw material and furnished goods from the industries,” said chief minister Jairam Thakur.Pankaj Kumar, national president, Indian Industries Association, said if the government is able to address major concerns of the industry then from coming Monday (May 4) onwards there would be a resumption of some industrial activity.“Most states have withdrawn the FIR clause in the guideline. But the availability of workers, who are not returning, will remain,” said he said.The industry owners are seeking no penalty for delay in completing the projects, waiving fixed energy charges and minimum charges for lockdown period and relaxation in norms for paying provident fund and other benefits to workers.However, many states such as West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha are waiting for the central government guidelines to give a fillip to factories to resume operations.“We are waiting for detailed guidelines from the Union government on relaxations after May 3,” an official of the West Bengal government, who was not willing to be named, said. Once that happens, he said, the state will give more relaxation to industries. Only about half of 5452 applications in the state has got permission to run factories and only 25 of the 100 major jute mills have been allowed to run with 15% of workers. (With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/major-relaxation-for-industries-no-fir-against-owners-for-covid-19-cases-up-govt-officials/story-iK6u8KqT70022WnE6w6DCM.html
02-05-2020||India||Retired Odisha ANM donates her pension money for Covid-19 fight||A 60-year-old retired auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) in Odisha has donated her two month’s pension to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund and PM CARES Fund to fight the coronavirus pandemic.Kusumlata Sahu of Bhadrak district, one of the Covid-19 red zones in Odisha, on Thursday walked up to the tehsil office in Dhamnagar area to handover a cheque of Rs 50,000 as her donation to the chief minister’s relief fund. Sahu, who retired as an ANM worker in Ganjam district in March last year, gets Rs 25,000 as a pension.“PM Modi and CM Naveen Patnaik have been hailing our community as Corona warriors. But we too have some responsibilities. So, I thought of contributing something to the CM relief fund,” said Sahu. Click here for full Covid-19 updatesA few days ago, she had donated Rs 10,000 through online to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund).Sahu also plans to distribute dry ration packets with cooking oil, flour, flattened rice, potato, onion and biscuits to 150 poor families in her locality from Saturday.“While people like us have a pension to fall back upon, what do poor people have? So, I have decided to distribute the dry ration packets that would help them in the lockdown period,” said Sahu.The dry rations would cost her Rs 30,000.Bhadrak is among the top four Covid-19 hotspots of Odisha with 19 cases. Till Friday evening, Odisha has reported 149 cases.ANMs in rural and urban areas perform antenatal care and post-natal care, conduct immunisation sessions, counsel for family planning and delivery of contraception, follow-up visit for chronic illnesses, including diabetes and hypertension and support special outreach camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retired-odisha-anm-donates-her-pension-money-for-covid-19-fight/story-OIQhX50oxuElMQw3OSjxZK.html
02-05-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh couple ties knot observing social distancing norms||A couple entered into wedlock in Gautampura, Indore on Friday amid the lockdown after groom’s father, a cancer patient expressed his desire to see his son getting married.Santosh Chauhan, father of Ayush Chauhan took permission from the district administration two days ago, to get his son married. Following which the administration granted permission to organise the event win presence of only five guests. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageS Chauhan, elder brother of the groom, Ayush said, “My father is a cancer patient, it was his wish to see his younger son getting married. We were granted permission by district administration”.“We talked to the bride’s family and also held discussion with our family members, following which we decided to arrange this event. We also informed and took permission from the district authorities for the wedding. We followed social distancing, wore masks and used sanitizer during the wedding,” he added. Ayush was already engaged to Babli, who is also a resident of Gautampura. Their marriage was scheduled for later this year. Groom’s 85-year-old grandmother also wanted to see his grandson tying the knot in front of her. Local administration officials also attended this wedding and ensured that lockdown rules are being followed by everyone and along with the envelope, they gifted masks and gloves to the couple. One of the guests told ANI, “Many weddings were cancelled amid lockdown this year. This wedding was organised today because Ayush’s father is very ill and he is also suffering from cancer. He wanted to see his son getting married so he took permission from the authorities. This wedding took place following all the norms of lockdown.” The temple where the wedding was organised, was first sanitised by the municipal authorities. When Ayush along with her wife, Babli was returning home after getting married, the locals here showered flower petals from their terrace while some of them welcomed the couple by clapping and banging plates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-couple-ties-knot-observing-social-distancing-norms/story-cNxSBe9Xw8IaPPugjQe1zI.html
02-05-2020||India||Jamia Millia Islamia asks hostellers to vacate rooms and return home amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Jamia Millia Islamia on Friday directed hostellers to vacate their rooms and return home, after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) allowed the use of trains for ferrying people stranded due to the nationwide lockdown to their respective states. The university was shut owing to the coronavirus pandemic and would reopen in August for regular students, while the new academic session would commence from September. The examination schedules slated for July 2020 will be notified in due course, the university said. The resource materials for exams and research are accessible online, it said. “The students stranded in the hostels who could not go back to their homes earlier and stayed back are hereby directed to vacate the hostels as per the arrangements of transportation and travel protocols of the state governments,” it said. The areas in proximity of the university have been declared hotspots and sealed and the university said that it will become difficult to maintain logistics and manpower requirements in future. The hostels are needed for maintenance and for contingent quarantine facilities, the university added. “Therefore, the hostels are to be vacated completely with no exceptions. The provosts (boys and girls Hostels) are requested to initiate the process urgently,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamia-millia-islamia-asks-hostellers-to-vacate-rooms-and-return-home-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-Ix4SHdeyxRKjUcJLhlQLRI.html
02-05-2020||India||Delhi HC adjourns petition seeking Centre, State Govt to conduct swift testing of Covid-19||The Delhi High Court on Friday adjourned to May 4, a petition seeking directions to the Centre and State government to conduct swift testing of Covid-19 and expedite the process of declarations of its results.A Division Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Yogesh Khanna said that matter should be listed on May 4 before another bench of which Justice Sanghi is not a member.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe court noted that Additional Solicitor General Maninder Acharya has been briefed in the matter but Advocate Acharya did not appear before the bench.The Court was hearing a petition filed by Advocate Rakesh Malhotra, who has cited news reports relating to delay in declaring the result of the test.Malhotra has sought directions to the governments to expedite the testing process to avoid community spread of the coronavirus and to commence immediate treatment of infected patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-adjourns-petition-seeking-centre-state-govt-to-conduct-swift-testing-of-covid-19/story-2UM13Y83agRq7IyRyvJtdI.html
02-05-2020||India||Assam welcomes lockdown extension, to review relaxations notified by MHA||The Assam government on Friday welcomed the Centre’s decision to extend the coronavirus- induced lockdown by two more weeks from May 4, but said it will review the relaxations notified by the Ministry of Home Affairs, according to an official release.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA “limited” lockdown which includes suspension of air, train and inter-state road travel will continue to remain in force for two more weeks from May 4 across the country, but some activities would be allowed after classifications of districts into ‘Red’, ‘Orange’ and ‘Green’ zones based on Covid-19 risk profiling, the government announced on Friday. Educational institutions; all social, political, cultural and other kinds of gatherings; hospitality services; and religious places or places of worship for public will also remain shut across the country, a central government order said and added that movement of persons by air, rail and road would be allowed for select purposes as permitted by MHA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-welcomes-lockdown-extension-to-review-relaxations-notified-by-mha/story-0zC0XHkMqLogHBYpeL8aBP.html
02-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||How much time have you lost because of Covid-19? Your company, if you work in one? Your business, if you own one?How much time has the economy lost on account of Covid-19? The country?Hint: the answer to none of these questions is 54 days.That — 54 days — is, of course, the duration of the lockdown till May 17 (it was supposed to end on May 3 but the home ministry on Friday extended the lockdown by two more weeks, although the expanded range of activities allowed in this period suggests that this is more a gradual and graded exit from the lockdown rather than a hard extension). The ministry of health’s latest zoning document — the country is divided into red, orange and green zones — shows that around a third of the country’s population (according to the last census) lives in the so-called red zones, the most affected by the pandemic -- and even in these, there has been a significant relaxation of lockdown restrictions. An analysis by Hindustan Times shows that 14 of the country’s 15 most densely-populated districts, including all of Delhi, parts of Mumbai, and Chennai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, and Chandigarh are in the red zone.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageSome of the smart people I have spoken to — one of the benefits of being a journalist is that you have access to a lot of smart people, without being smart yourself — say the question on lost time can’t be answered now simply because there is as yet, no cure for Covid-19, no vaccine, and no telling how much worse things could get. The general consensus is that if the doubling rate — the number of days it takes for the number of infections to double; this is currently at 11.5 days in India — stays the same, and the central government as well as the state governments, and local administrations follow the home ministry’s guidelines and allow what is allowed (without making a fuss about it), then, things should start returning to normal by the end of May, perhaps June. Except, everyone admits, it will be a new normal.The infection will flare up, from time to time, and, hopefully, in specific areas, necessitating their containment but people will get used to the new normal of wearing masks, perhaps even gloves, social distancing, restricted travel, working from home, and the almost ritualistic cleansing that has to follow any excursion.Most people also said they’d like to think that India has dodged the bullet — that things won’t get as bad here as they did in Italy, the US, and the UK — but that they are not sure.So, assuming that this is indeed the scenario that plays out, let us return to the question about time.For even businesses that will bounce back almost immediately after the crisis — essentials and consumables, for instance — this financial year, 2020-21, will effectively be only nine months long.For many others, it will be even shorter. And the expectation, even among IT services companies, which get most of their revenue from servicing businesses in other parts of the world is that however long the year is, it will also be a very bad year.In temporal terms, that means that a company can consider itself fortunate if it ends 2021-22 (next financial year) where it would have ended 2019-20 (the last financial year), provided the last month had not been locked out because of Covid-19.In simple terms, that means a loss of two years.Personal finances, for those who have investment portfolios, could take just as long to recover, maybe longer, except for survivalists who invest in gold and nothing else.But this is at the level of large businesses and the salaried working class, although many of the former will now focus sharply on reducing costs and at least some of the latter will lose their jobs.Many small businesses will go under, years of hard work wiped out by one Black Swan event. And many people who stopped being poor — India’s big achievement in the years between 2006 and 2016 was to lift 271 million people out of poverty, according to a United Nations report — will slip back into poverty. We have no idea how many yet.An April working paper by the United Nations spoke of poverty “levels similar to those recorded 30 years ago” in some countries, and the possibility of the overall number of poor people in the world increasing by 420-580 million.It will be a new world post-Covid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-KoHo9RDPIiZ95A3tbCagMK.html
02-05-2020||India||Lockdown dog days for CISF’s canine squad||It’s a dog’s life for members of the Central Industrial Security Force’s (CISF) dog squad. They no longer get to go out in groups, or play with each other; their workout sessions are now restricted to their kennels; and their diets have become fat-free . On the flip side, they get to play fetch, and also spend more time with their humans. Officers who handle these dogs said that instead of their routine workout, the dogs play fetch with a ball, in their kennel area itself, and practice their mandatory tactical training. Because they don’t report to work due to the lockdown, and are kept away from each other to ensure social distancing, their handlers are now spending more time with them so they do not get irritated or depressed. .CISF secures airports, important government buildings, monuments and Delhi Metro in the Capital. The force’s unit in Shastri Park, which looks after the security of the Metro has a total of 62 dogs. These canine commandos are experts at sniffing out explosives, weapons, drugs and can even pin down a person if the situation demands. A majority of these are German Shepherds, Cocker Spaniels and Labradors.“Earlier, all the dogs were taken out together every morning and evening to our parade ground within the Shastri Park unit premises for hours of exercise, tactical training on sniffing (out) explosives and for obedience training. But because of the social distancing norms, we now only bring one or two dogs at a time. Their movement is also restricted so we make them run within the premises, which is a vast open area with individual kennels built all around, facing the ground” said a CISF officer who asked not to be named.Following their exercise sessions, the dogs get into training, sniffing out explosives and weapons. Senior commandant, CISF, Jitender Rana said because the dogs are away from work these days, as both Delhi Metro and the airport are shut, they might forget their training. And with the dogs no longer invlved in rigorous physical work, their diet has been accordingly changed. “We avoid fat in their diet these days. Mutton, as its supply is also hit, has been stopped. To match their protein requirements, we have increased portions of eggs and milk in their diet. Chicken is served on some days,” said another officer who supervises the dog squad.But to ensure that social distancing , and playing or exercising alone, doesn’t affect any of these dogs mentally, their handlers are now spending more time with them. “Our men wear masks, wash their hands and apply sanitisers before entering the kennel. They groom these dogs, give them a bath, feed them and spend time talking to and walking with them. In a way, our handlers are getting more time to bond with their dogs and at the same time the dogs, who are less active on the field, are also getting to interact with us in such isolated times,” the second officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-dog-days-for-cisf-s-canine-squad/story-UF7cj259TEWNPVHd3g4PUN.html
02-05-2020||India||States finalise plans; buses, trains to take stranded home||State governments were on Friday putting in place protocols and guidelines to receive millions of migrant workers who were likely to take trains back to their hometowns after the Centre allowed their movement in a controlled manner amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The Union home ministry allowed on Friday interstate movement of labourers, students, pilgrims and others stuck across the country by special trains, widening the scope of a previous order that said such transportation can happen only by buses.Following demands of the state governments to run special trains, the Indian Railways said it decided to run ‘Shramik Special’ trains to move stranded migrants. The railways said the Shramik Special trains were meant for “nominated people” identified by state governments.The first train from Lingampally in Andhra Pradesh was expected to reach Jharkhand’s Hatia station late on Friday after it departed from its origin station earlier in the day. The other special trains to run on Friday were from Aluva in Kerala to Bhubaneswar, Nasik to Lucknow, Nasik to Bhopal, Jaipur to Patna and Kota to Hatia. These trains were scheduled to run non-stop and cover the distance to the destinations in 12 to 24 hours.According to the railway ministry, it is the responsibility of the state governments to arrange transport for stranded people to reach railway stations. Similarly, at the destination station, the local administration will have to arrange for medical check-ups of passengers and their onward travel.On arrival at Hatia, where the first train was expected to reach late on Friday, the passengers were to be first scanned for body temperature and then taken in sanitised buses to their villages, where they will be quarantined at home or government schools and primary health care centers.“On their arrival in respective districts, all of them would go through medical screening. Depending on their condition, they will be put in home quarantine or institutional quarantine accordingly,” a state government official said on condition of anonymity. He added that all passengers will be served packed dinner at Chakradharpur station after entering Jharkhand.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren welcomed the Centre’s decision to allow trains to ferry workers and said that such a decision should have been taken earlier. “At this point, I will say better late than never. We should look forward rather than fight over the past,” he said.Bihar’s minster of building construction department, Ashok Kumar Chowdhary, said on Friday that the Centre heeded the demand of the state government. “We thank the government of India for heeding our request and a strategy is being finalised to give shape to their (migrants) return,” he said.The minister maintained that the state was fully prepared to take care of migrants, close to 250,000, who were willing to come back. The state government appointed principal secretary, Pratyaya Amrit, as the nodal officer to facilitate the return of migrant workers.Kerala, from where a special train was to leave late on Friday from Aluva in Ernakulam district to Odisha, has asked district collectors to prepare a list of priority workers. There are around 360,000 stranded migrants in Kerala, mainly from Wet Bengal, Assam and Odisha. The railways could be looking at running five special trains from Kerala every day. A government spokesperson said the workers have been told not to leave the camps to prevent overcrowding at the stations.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to run special trains to bring back workers of Chhattisgarh stranded in other states. “In the present situation, point-to-point special trains could be run to ensure safety, convenience and hygiene of these workers,” the CM said, adding that the state’s request for special trains was pending with the home ministry.Uttar Pradesh, which was the first state to bring back stranded students from Kota and then workers from Haryana in government buses, has earmarked special quarantine centres near major railway station for workers coming back.“Nothing new is being done. We have already set up quarantine centres in major cities for stranded workers who are being brought back in buses. More, if required, will be created,” said a UP government official who asked not to be named. He said buses have been arranged to take the passengers to their villages.Maharashtra, where about half a million workers from other states are housed at 4,600 shelters, has started allowing workers to go back and has appointed nodal officers to facilitate their travel. “We have no information about the places from where the special trains will run,” said a state government official, who was not willing to be named. “The number of Maharashtrians stuck in other states is too little compared to the people from other states in Maharashtra. We have started taking the requests in stipulated formats from the migrants stuck in Maharashtra. District collectors in rural areas and police commissioners in urban areas will issue the passes,” said IA Kundan, secretary, Maharashtra government.The first special train to take back students was to leave Kota on Friday night, taking around 1,000 coaching students to Jharkhand. Till now, 27,000 students of 11 states and four Union territories have been taken back by their respective states in the past month, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-finalise-plans-buses-trains-to-take-stranded-home/story-sTwcSGUZJZQQVmxkHeNRfJ.html
02-05-2020||India||Eleven empowered groups reshuffled||The Narendra Modi government on Friday reshuffled the eleven empowered groups set up to control the Covid-19 outbreak in the country. The decision comes after the recent mega reshuffle of bureaucrats. While some groups will be headed by new secretaries, at least two have been pruned, indicating a shift in focus as the Centre extended the lockdown for the second time.The secretary of the department of economic affairs, Tarun Bajaj, will lead the group on economy and welfare affairs, replacing his predecessor, Atanu Chakraborty, who retired. New rural development secretary NN Sinha has also been made a part of the group. Amit Khare, the new I&B secretary, will lead the panel on information communication and public awareness. He was earlier heading the panel on public grievances and suggestions, which has been pruned. It will now be headed by administrative reforms and public grievances secretary K Shivaji. The panel earlier had three officials from the Prime Minister’s Office, and now there will be just two PMO representatives. The terms and references of the panels remain the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eleven-empowered-groups-reshuffled/story-meZ7B0ydBhD1mAtxSwX4FP.html
02-05-2020||India||Supreme Court grants Prashant Bhushan relief from arrest for Ramayana post||The Supreme Court on Friday granted interim protection from arrest to lawyer and civil rights activist Prashant Bhushan in a case registered against him in Gujarat for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. A retired soldier in Rajkot lodged a criminal case against Bhushan on April 12 over his tweet on March 28 which said: “As crores starve and walk hundreds of miles home due to the lockdown, our heartless ministers celebrate consuming and feeding the opium of Ramayana & Mahabharata to the people.” He was referring to a Union minister’s tweet that he was enjoying Ramayana and Mahabharata since the lockdown was imposed.A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and Sanjiv Khanna was critical of Prashant Bhushan’s comment. “Anybody can watch anything on TV. How can you say people cannot watch this or that?” It ordered the Gujarat police against any coercive action till the next date of hearing. It listed the matter after two weeks.Prashant Bhushan said he was replying to minister Prakash Javadekar’s tweet that he was watching Ramayana. He said he borrowed the word “opium” from the “oft quoted expression of Karl Marx that religion is the opium of the masses”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-grants-prashant-bhushan-relief-from-arrest-for-ramayana-post/story-mg6Pvk5XUuZ47XIjZXYWaO.html
02-05-2020||India||Govt rushing Central Vista project: Cong||The Congress on Friday accused the government of fast-tracking the ~20,000 crore Central Vista Redevelopment Project in New Delhi to avoid the Supreme Court’s scrutiny while urging it to scrap the ambitious plan or keep it last on its priority list given the Covid-19 crisis.“At this stage, when the future in terms of economic recovery and activity looks bleak, the government should have shown magnanimity and guts to announce scrapping of this project,” Congress spokesman Abhishek Manu Singhvi said. Singhvi urged the Supreme Court to give precedence to petitions against the project.The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to stay the project for the time being, saying there is no pressing urgency for granting one because the country is in a state of lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19. The redevelopment plan includes a Parliament building, and a common secretariat for central government offices. Congress president Sonia Gandhi last month wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to suspend the project and utilise the money allocated for it for constructing new hospital infrastructure along with equipping frontline workers with personal protection equipment and better facilities.Singhvi called the project somebody’s hobby horse. “It is not only for a Modi Mahal, which includes a new prime minister’s house, it is the intention to leave somehow in a personal manner, your own stamp by littering the whole of green verdant landscape of Rajpath with new buildings in name of convenience and modernisation. A more horrible attack on the heart and psyche of Delhi cannot be imagined.”He said when the nation is fighting the coronavirus, it is quite astonishing that the government is holding meetings on the project. “It just shows the warped, distorted, completely absurd priorities of this government. Bang in the middle of coronavirus crisis, they are fast-tracking, hot-footing this project,” Singhvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-rushing-central-vista-project-cong/story-QtcccOAqzq1DcAqYtOBtuJ.html
02-05-2020||India||EC to decide on RS polls, Bihar next week||The Election Commission (EC) will next week decide whether elections can be held to fill 17 vacant seats in the Bihar Legislative Council and 18 in Rajya Sabha (RS). The number of voters likely to participate in the election will in Bihar be a major consideration while deciding the poll schedule, said an official aware of the matter.The 17 seats in Bihar include eight under the teachers’ and the graduates’ constituencies for which over four lakh voters have registered so far. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic that has prompted a national lockdown, the EC last month announced an indefinite deferment of polls.The 18 vacant Rajya Sabha seats are: Four each in Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, three each in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, two in Jharkhand and one each in Manipur and Meghalaya. Gujarat and Rajasthan wrote to the EC asking it to postpone polls. An EC official said discussions were underway andeach state will be assessed first. “In the case of Maharashtra, the state government states that it will ensure elections will be held as per the stated health protocols.”On the Rajya Sabha elections, Samajwadi Party MP Javed Ali Khan said the decision is the EC’s prerogative. “The situation in Maharashtra was unique. There was a constitutional requirement for the CM [chief minister] to get elected [before he completes six months in office]. But there is no such compulsion to fill the RS seats,” he said. In Bihar, a state government official said the EC will be apprised about the challenges that will be faced in ensuring social distancing and sanitation protocol for the polls. “We are looking at a large voter participation. Polling stations for these eight seats will be set up at every block across districts and it will not be easy to ensure proper distancing and health protocols.”Bihar’s opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal lawmaker Manoj Jha said holding the election to the legislative council is different from assembly elections. “There has to be a universal policy for all.” he said. In UP, 11 legislative council seats are vacant and an official said there has been no discussion on when elections will be held for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-to-decide-on-rs-polls-bihar-next-week/story-AxOGCk84Cwi3F44egtCVwM.html
02-05-2020||India||Patna with 44 Covid-19 cases among Bihar’s 5 districts in red zone||Patna figures among Bihar’s five districts under the red zone, finishing hopes of an early end to restrictions imposed due to coronavirus.A 54-year-old man from Motihari, infected by Covid-19, and suffering from cancer of the oesophagus died at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital in the state capital on Friday in what was the third fatality in the state due to the fast spreading contagion.Munger with 95 cases, Rohtas (52), Buxar (51) and Gaya (6) are the other districts, along with Patna (44), in the red zone, as per the zone-wise classification of districts pan India, released by the health ministry on Thursday for focussed management of Covid-19. Twenty other districts of Bihar are under the orange zone and the remaining 13 in green zone. This classification will come into effect from May 4 and will last for around a week after which it will be revised. Bihar accounted for 3.84% of the total 130 districts under the red zone in India. Similarly, the state contributed 7.04% of the total 284 districts under orange zone and 4.07% of the remaining 319 districts under green zone in the country.“The classification is multi-factorial and takes into consideration incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback to classify the districts. Based on field feedback and additional analysis at state level, states may designate additional red or orange zones as appropriate. However, states may not relax the zonal classification of districts classified as red/orange as communicated by the ministry,” said Preeti Sudan, secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, in her letter to chief secretaries of states and union territories.It is a dynamic list and would be revised on a weekly basis or even earlier, she said.“A district will be considered under green zone, if there are no confirmed cases so far or there is no reported case since the last 21 days in the district,” said her letter of April 30.Bihar’s cases are now doubling in less than six days as against nine days previously. The number of cases had gone up from 43 to 85 between April 8 and 17. The same went up from 85 on April 17 to 170 on April 23, as per information shared through a tweet by Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s principal secretary, health, on April 24.Four days later, the cases had doubled, crossing the 340-mark.The state health department has not shared any more information on Covid-19 case doubling in number of days. It has not shared information on zone-wise classification of districts ever since the first Covid-19 case was reported in Bihar on March 22.Efforts to reach Kumar proved futile as he did not respond to phone calls or text messages. Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey was also not available for comments despite repeated attempts.Bihar’s 466 cases are spread across 30 of its 38 districts, with Munger topping the list at 95. It was followed by Rohtas (52), Buxar (51), Patna (44), Nalanda (36), Siwan (30), Kaimur (24), Gopalganj, Madhubani (18 each), Bhojpur (12), Begusarai (11), Aurangabad (8), Gaya, Sitamarhi, Saran (6 each), Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, East Champaran, West Champaran, Madhubani (5 each), Lakhisarai, Nawada, Arwal, Jehanabad (4 each), Banka, Vaishali (3 each), Madhepura, Katihar (2 each), Purnia, Araria Sheikhpura (1 each).According to government data, Bihar had reported 282 Covid-19 cases during the last one week between April 23 and 30.The total number of active Covid-19 cases is 365, after three deaths in the state capital and 98 patients having recovered and discharged from different government facilities in the state so far.ZONE WISE CLASSIFICATION:RED ZONE: Munger, Rohtas, Buxar, Patna, GayaORANGE ZONE: Nalanda, Kaimur (Bhabua), Siwan, Gopalganj, Bhojpur, Begusarai, Aurangabad, Madhubani, East Champaran, Bhagalpur, Arwal, Saran, Nawada, Lakhisarai, Banka, Vaishali, Darbhanga, Jehanabad, Madhepura, PurniaGREEN ZONE: Sheikhpura, Araria, Jamui, Katihar, Khagaria, Kishanganj, Muzaffarpur, West Champaran, Saharsa, Samastipur, Sheohar, Sitamarhi, Supaul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patna-with-44-covid-19-cases-among-bihar-s-5-districts-in-red-zone/story-am1klfLSOzdrNrxWZC2ZZK.html
02-05-2020||India||Bengal’s controversial Covid-19 death audit committee virtually shelved||In a significant development, the West Bengal government has decided to virtually shelve the expert committee of doctors auditing deaths among patients testing positive for the novel coronavirus infection. The committee had triggered a great deal of controversy, with the state’s opposition parties alleging that the committee had been formed to suppress the number of deaths.“The committee will continue doing academic and research work. Death declaration will no longer require its vetting. It will be declared as per protocols set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” a top official of the state health department said on Friday.New Delhi-based ICMR is the nodal body for Covid-19 treatment and procedures in India. The state government will henceforth declare Covid-19 deaths as per the death certificates, which will mention the immediate cause of death, antecedent cause of death and underlying cause of death. The Covid-19 death audit committee, comprising doctors, was set up on April 3 by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who also holds the health portfolio. As of April 30, the committee assessed deaths of 105 patients who had tested positive for Covid-19 and attributed 33 deaths to the coronavirus infection and another 72 deaths to ‘severe co-morbid conditions’.“The committee examined all the relevant documents, including bed-head tickets, treatment history, laboratory investigation reports, death certificates and other documents sent by the hospitals concerned to determine whether Covid-19 or pre-morbid conditions were the immediate cause of death,” according to a government document dated April 24, and signed by Bishwa Ranjan Satpati, who heads the expert committee.This very role of differentiating between deaths of patients on the basis of pre-existing ailments had triggered a massive political controversy. Even an inter-ministerial central team, in its letter to the state on April 22, had asked the state to clarify the basis on which such a decision to differentiate between deaths had been taken.However, the state government’s change of stance on the role of the committee seems to have happened after leaders of different doctors’ associations raised the issue during their meeting with the chief minister on April 28.“We had told the chief minister that such differentiation was necessary for academic purposes only and the debates around identifying the immediate cause of death should remain confined within the boundaries of academic institutions. We are very grateful to the government for listening to the suggestion of the doctors. We expect the government would henceforth list deaths of all Covid-19 patients as Covid-19 deaths,” Rezaul Karim, a leader of West Bengal Doctors’ Forum who attended the meeting with the chief minister said.Explaining the new role of the committee, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said, “All death cases will no longer be referred to the committee. They will pick up random cases, fetch details from hospitals, and then give recommendations to the state.”A top health official said the state was likely to consider only those deaths as Covid-19 deaths in which the death certificate would mention Covid-19 as the immediate cause of death. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party state unit president Dilip Ghosh filed an online petition before the Calcutta high court on Thursday evening, seeking the court’s intervention in ensuring clarity on Covid-19 death figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-controversial-covid-19-death-audit-committee-virtually-shelved/story-0zH3IsFWycP8zY29rZHVcI.html
02-05-2020||India||I&B ministry may ease norms for live broadcasts by non-news channels||The Information and Broadcasting ministry is planning to simplify the norms related to live broadcasts for general entertainment TV channels that may now have to only register online than seek prior permission.The ministry on Thursday released its draft policy guidelines for uplinking and downlinking TV channels.According to the new guidelines, general entertainment channels will also be able to carry live broadcasts by registering at the Broadcast Sewa online portal of the ministry.“The idea is to simplify the process. Earlier, non-news TV channels had to seek prior permission of the ministry to make live broadcasts. These included religious and sports channels,” a senior official said.However, the aim is to make the functioning of these channels easier under the government’s ease of doing business drive, the official added. Therefore we have only kept the requirement of registering in the portal for holding live telecasts, the official said.Among other things, the new draft guidelines also propose no increase in annual permission fees. The ministry had released uplinking and downlinking guidelines in 2011. It has sought responses from stakeholders on the draft suggestions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-b-ministry-may-ease-norms-for-live-broadcasts-by-non-news-channels/story-uIBc34YV4CUbFtXbKOUc3M.html
02-05-2020||India||Expect three days of heavy rain, hailstorms from tomorrow: IMD||Delhi and all of northwestern India can expect thundershowers, hailstorms, lightning, and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) over three days starting the evening of May 3, courtesy the first western disturbance of the month, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast. IMD has issued an orange alert for most parts of northwest India between May 3 and 6. The warning is for Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and parts of Rajasthan, where thunderstorms, dust storms and gusty winds are expected due to the fresh and intense western disturbance, according to the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi.There were seven western disturbances -- cyclonic condictions originating in the Mediterranean -- in April that brought rain and thundershowers to different parts of the country and kept temperatures lower than normal.“The approaching western disturbance will be intense because an area of low pressure will form and on the night of May 3, a cyclonic circulation is likely to develop over west Rajasthan; there will be moisture incursion from the Arabian Sea. The disturbance will bring rain, thunderstorms, squally winds of 40 to 50 kmph speed over the entire north western region for three, four days. There may be snowfall in the upper reaches of Western Himalayas,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi.Meanwhile, this season’s first cyclonic storm, Amphan is developing over the south Andaman sea. On Friday, a low-pressure area formed over south Andaman Sea and adjoining south-east Bay of Bengal. Its intensification is expected to be slow and delayed, IMD said in its Friday bulletin. “Accordingly, it is likely to become more marked over the same region during next 48 hours, concentrate into a depression over Andaman Sea and adjoining south-east Bay of Bengal during subsequent 48 hours and intensify further thereafter.” The depression or storm is likely to move north-northwestwards gradually till May 5. Under its influence, there is likely to be heavy rain and thunderstorms over south Andaman Sea and adjoining south-east Bay of Bengal and Andaman and Nicobar Islands over the next five days.Sea condition will be very rough over south Andaman Sea and south-east Bay of Bengal from May 1 to 5, according to the bulletin, which has advised fishermen not to venture into south-east Bay of Bengal on May 1, south Andaman Sea and south--east Bay of Bengal on May 2 and 3, and Andaman Sea and adjoining south-east Bay of Bengal on May 4 and 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expect-three-days-of-heavy-rain-hailstorms-from-tomorrow-imd/story-CrEaTW5A9hokxjANSm2vwN.html
02-05-2020||India||Key hurdles cleared for new Parliament building, Oppn fumes||The plan to build a new parliament building has received two key approvals, including from the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee, taking a crucial but controversial government project a step closer to reality.The opposition Congress said the decision reflected the government’s “absurd priorities” at a time when the country was battling an epidemic, and independent experts who were meant to be part of one of the clearances that were issued late last month said the decision was taken despite their requests to delay deliberations.In addition to the approval by the EAC, which assesses a project on whether its environmental impact is acceptable, the proposal for the new building was cleared by the Central Vista committee. Both approvals came around the same time -- towards the end of April. The second committee has representatives from the government and developers, as well as independent experts who protested the decision saying they sought a deferment because of the restrictions on movement due to the lockdown in force to check the spread of the coronavirus disease.“They went ahead without any external member in attendance. It includes two members from the Institute of Town Planners (ITP) and two from Indian Institute of Architects (IIA). Only government officials were there, this is clearly a conflict of interest. Even the Supreme Court on Thursday said ‘there is no hurry to hear the matter on Central Vista’ then what was the urgency in holding this meeting despite our requests to postpone it? We had several concerns, we had informed adequate arrangements should be made for us to attend but we got a notice on April 21 that the meeting will be held,” said Balbir Verma, member IIA.The Central Vista committee, in the minutes of its meeting held on April 23, explained its decision to go ahead with the deliberations. “…Keeping in view the importance of the project in nation’s interest and time scale for its implementation, the meeting was held as per issued meeting notice”.In meetings held between April 22 and 24, the other government committee – the EAC -- cleared the proposal with certain conditions, among them being the outcome of the legal challenge filed with courts as well as the requisite scrutiny by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), according to the minutes published on the environment ministry’s Parivesh website.The new parliament building is a part of the Centre’s larger plan to give a makeover to the Central Vista, the 3-km stretch between the Rashtrapati Bhavan and the India Gate that is flanked by government offices built decades ago. The parliament building itself will cost an estimated cost of Rs 922 crores. The project has been criticised by urban planners and civil society groups for spending hundreds of crores on renovating a heritage structure in the midst of an economic slowdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Activists have also criticised the manner in which the Central Vista renovation is being cleared: it has been split up into smaller projects that makes it easier to obtain requisite environmental approvals, they said. SC is hearing two petitions filed by citizens against the way public hearing was conducted to facilitate the project and challenging the legal validity of the land use change process. The land use of the 9.5-acre plot has been changed from “recreational” to “Parliament” by the Delhi Development Authority in March.One of the petitioners moved the Delhi high court on Friday. The matter has been adjourned.The EAC minutes addresses concerns raised by activists such as LokPATH and other residents groups by answering each concern. For example, civil society groups said the parliament is structurally a part of the composite notified heritage precinct, the Central Vista. “The application completely disregards the historical, cultural and social importance of the existing Parliament by treating its “expansion and renovation” as any other regular construction project,” they said. To which, the EAC said: “The project proponents are aware of the heritage value of the Parliament Building. It is precisely because of the need to protect its heritage value, besides other practical aspects such as seating more members for the future and providing them with necessary infrastructure, that the project has been conceived.”Experts said it was a “fait accompli” situation where the land use changed and clearance has been recommended before the outcome of the SC case. “All the concerns of building-by-building approach to impact assessment of the Central Vista project remain. The cumulative impacts of the entire central vista redevelopment over a much larger area are very different from that of one new Parliament building. What gets even more questionable today is that a ₹922 crore new Parliament is approved when the country is dealing with a severe economic, humanitarian and environmental crisis,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-hurdles-cleared-for-new-parliament-building-oppn-fumes/story-CJ7kWyhED8zjNcOVT28idJ.html
02-05-2020||India||Special trains ferry stranded migrants home||Amid demands by states and a recognition of the logistical challenges involved in transporting millions of people back to their home states, the Centre on Friday decided to allow special trains — called Shramik Specials — to enable stranded migrants to return home. States have welcomed the government’s decision. Five such trains operated on Friday. This is the first time any passenger rail services operated in the country since they were suspended on March 22, three days before the national lockdown. The railways will charge fares for tickets on these trains. It has, however, categorically clarified that these trains are only meant for individuals who are nominated and registered by state governments, and not for regular travel. In a new order that expands the scope of an earlier order which allowed the movement of migrants only in buses, the ministry of home affairs said, “The movement of migrant workers, pilgrims, students, tourists and other persons, stranded at different places, is also allowed by special trains to be operated by the ministry of railways.” The order said that the railway ministry would designate nodal officers for coordinating with states and Union territories, and issue guidelines for sale of tickets and social distancing norms to be observed. The government emphasised that this was being done on May 1, which is marked as the Labour Day. Millions of migrant workers have been struggling after the lockdown was announced, facing a shortage of food and income, and have been seeking to go back home hundreds of kilometres away, including by foot. The Centre came up with a protocol for road movement on Wednesday, after persistent demands by states and a looming humanitarian crisis. But when the scale of the movement was assessed — there were close to ten million migrants registered with state governments — states asked for special trains.On Thursday evening, officials from the home ministry, including the home secretary, met with the railway board and officials from the Railway Protection Force (RPF), which led to the order. Later in the day, the railway ministry said that trains would operate from point-to-point on the request of the concerned state governments. Senior officials would be appointed as nodal officers. It clarified, “The passengers have to be screened by the sending states and only those found asymptomatic will be allowed to travel.” It would also be the responsibility of the sending governments to bring such individuals to the designated stations in sanitised buses, following social distancing norms. All passengers will have to mandatorily wear masks; while meals and drinking water are to be provided, according to the ministry, by the sending government. The railways will charge passengers for the journey, which will include the price of regular sleeper class tickets, a superfast charge of ₹30 and an additional charge of ₹20. “This includes meals and drinking water for long distance trains. State governments will coordinate and can pay on passenger’s behalf, “ the ministry stated. It will also ensure social distancing norms in trains. Aout 1,000-1,200 passengers are expected to travel in each train. Each coach has a capacity of seating 72 passengers and only 54 passenger per coach will be allowed. In coupes, six passengers have been allowed instead of eight.The ministry statement also defined the role of the receiving governments. “On arrival at the destination, passengers will be received by the state government who would make all arrangements for their screening, quarantine if necessary and travel from the railway station.” State governments have put in place new protocols for medical check-up and quarantine for workers expected to return in the special trains. Trains operated between Lingampally in Telangana to Hatia in Jharkhand; Aluva in Kerala to Bhubaneswar; Nasik to Bhopal; Jaipur to Patna; and Kota in Rajasthan to Hatia on Friday. A train between Nasik and Lucknow got rescheduled in consultation with state governments, according to an official familiar with the development. The first train was the one between Telangana and Jharkhand, which had about 1,200 migrant workers on board. Passengers expressed happiness at the opportunity to return home, finally. Santosh Kumar Singh, 27, a worker from Jharkhand’s Daltongunj, said over phone that they were allowed in the train after proper screening. “We are being provided food on time and have faced no problem.”Amid apprehensions that the announcement of special trains could lead to crowding in stations, the railway ministry also reiterated these were special trains planned for nominated people identified and registered by state governments. “No one under any circumstance should come to railway stations looking for trains. We will not issue any tickets to any individual or entertain any request from any group or individual. We will allow only those passengers to board whom state government officials bring to the railway stations,” it clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-trains-ferry-stranded-migrants-home/story-GwWtxnZz43RrAlYaH75eYN.html
02-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown 3.0: Graded easing of curbs over 2 weeks||With India’s extended 40-day lockdown drawing to an end on Sunday, the Union government has decided to extend the lockdown for another two weeks. But this has been accompanied with a range of relaxations, in varying degrees, across India’s red, orange and green zones to gradually allow businesses and individuals to resume their normal life -- even while protecting the most vulnerable. In a detailed order on Friday evening, the ministry of home affairs issued guidelines for the range of activities which are to be permitted and prohibited in different administrative jurisdictions; reiterated that there would be a ban on regular air and rail travel and interstate transport; said educational institutions would remain closed, as would hospitality services and public places such as cinema halls and malls; and enhanced the scope of surveillance and treatment measures in containment zones. The guidelines also stipulated that individuals engaged in non-essential activity shall not move out between 7pm and 7am; and the elderly, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and young children would stay home. It also had detailed instructions on the precautions to be taken in workplaces and public places, with an emphasis on social distancing and use of face masksThe government, however, did not announce any simultaneous economic and fiscal package to manage the costs of the lockdown and provide relief to businesses, as demanded by industry bodies, which have praised the calibrated opening of the economy but re-emphasised the need for an immediate stimulus.  Experts too argued that while the easing of restrictions was welcome, this should have been greater in scope and states should have been allowed more leeway in determining zones and activities. Industry bodies welcomed the easing of the restrictions, but reiterated their call for a support package. Chandrajit Banerjee, director general of the Confederation of Indian Industries, said that the government’s guidelines were well considered; the opening up of private officers will enable the resumption of service sector organisations; and permission to industrial activities is on the lines of what industry bodies had demanded. But Banerjee added that with restricted economic activities, the imperative for a quick and forceful economic support package for industry was even more compelling now. “CII has suggested instituting a government spending package equivalent to 3% of GDP which would add ₹6 lakh crore to the available firepower. Enhanced debt to GDP ratio can be a way out for adding fiscal space at a time when the debt to GDP ratio is modest in India.”The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) said that the order will allow for a “calibrated opening up of the economy”. Sangita Reddy, FICCI’s president, said that a regular assessment is required of the zones and activities to further open up the economy. “It is also now an opportune time for the government to come up with a financial package, especially for the MSMEs and the industry as a whole.” The order comes five days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, in an interaction with chief ministers, asked for a detailed study of the impact of the lockdown and restrictions on red, orange and green zones — and said that life and economic activity in green zones will become a model. On Thursday, the health ministry did a fresh categorisation of these zones, which is subject to regular review. There are now 130 red zone districts, which according to a data analysis by Hindustan Times, are home to one-third of the country’s population and include major metros; 284 orange zones; and 319 green zones. The home ministry order first provides a detailed definition of these different jurisdictions. A district is considered a green zone if there is no case of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), or if no confirmed case has been reported in the last 21 days: red zones are categorised on the basis of total number of active cases, doubling rate of cases, extent of testing and surveillance feedback. All other districts are considered orange zones. While states and Union territories are allowed to upgrade a green zone to an orange zone, and orange to a red zone, they cannot downgrade the classification from red and orange to green zones. Containment zones shall be defined on the basis of mapping of cases and contacts, their geographical dispersion, areas with well demarcated perimeter and enforceability — and could range from a mohalla (neighbourhood) to a town in the case of urban areas, and from a village to a block in the case of rural areas.Health protocol will become more strict in these containment zones. According to the order, 100% residents in these zones should have the Aarogya Setu App. There will be also be continued contact tracing, home and institutional quarantine based on risk assessment; testing of all cases with severe acute respiratory infection, influenza like illness and other symptoms; house to house surveillance; no movement of individuals in and out of these zones except for medical emergencies and supply of essential goods and services; and recording of details of people moving in and out of the perimeter. The order then stipulates the range of activities that remain prohibited across the country. These include domestic and international air travel, all passenger movement by train, metro rail services, interstate movement of individuals, educational institutions, hospitality services, cinema halls, gyms, malls, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, and all social, political, and religious gatherings. All places of religious worship will remain closed. It also prohibits movement of individuals between 7pm and 7am for non-essential activities, restrictions on activities of those segments of the population considered more vulnerable to the infection. This will apply to all zones. According to the order, here is what is not allowed in red zones — taxis, cab aggregators, cycle and auto rickshaws, barber shops and salons. But there are also now a range of activities that are allowed in red zones, which is a departure from past norms, when activities were more severely curtailed. Now, individuals and vehicles can move for permitted activities (in a vehicle, two people can travel besides the driver). A range of industrial establishments in urban areas — special economic zones, export oriented units, industrial estates and townships with access control; manufacturing units of essential goods and IT hardware; among others — can operate, while all industries in rural areas can function. Construction activity is now allowed, as long as workers remain on site. All standalone shops, neighbourhood shops, and shops in residential complexes — without any distinction between the essential and non-essential — can also function. E-commerce will, however, be confined to essential goods. Private offices can also now function, up to 33% of their strength, while all government offices will function up to the level of 100% above the rank of deputy secretary and 33% below that in red zones. The order then defines the range of activities permitted in orange zones. While intra- and inter-district plying of bus transport will not be allowed, unlike the red zones, taxis and cab aggregators will be allowed to function here with one driver and two passengers. Inter-district transport in vehicles will also be allowed for permitted activities, with a maximum of two passengers and a driver in a four wheeler. All activities will be allowed in green zones. Buses, too, can operate here at 50% capacity. Experts believe that the government could have adopted a more nuanced approach and there should have been further easing of restrictions. Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, said that the added value of restrictions had been diminishing for some time. “As cases increase, it is important to allow people to seek care promptly and my concern is that a lockdown could hinder health care access. There are still a high number of districts which are in red and orange zones, the categorisation of which is are based on how far testing has reached. This is not a reliable measure.”Suyash Rai of Carnegie India said that while the relaxations were welcome, the approach was still too centralised, with the Union government essentially determining which districts fall under which zone and also deciding on the list of permitted activities. “Given the diversity among the states, it would have been better to decentralise such decisions, especially after six weeks of a nationwide lockdown. The Union government should have issued an advisory and left it to the states to decide.” Rai also pointed out that with most of the major commercial centres in the red zone, economic activity will continue to be substantially restricted. “We need to learn to get back to work while managing the risks around Covid-19. Government action needs to be supplemented by individual responsibility, community based prevention, and adaptation by firms and other establishments. Lockdown is not a sustainable response.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/graded-easing-of-curbs-over-2-weeks/story-ILnzlu9uYI6LbYlL8u2VNM.html
02-05-2020||India||Does concept of open offices make sense in a post-pandemic world?||It is a concept that has been around since the 1950s when it originated in Germany (although some put its year of origin even earlier); in the decades since, there has been enough research to show that its cons far exceed its pros; yet it has lingered on. It, of course, is the open office, and the coronavirus disease, Covid-19, may have finally killed it. As the coronavirus pandemic spread across the globe in February, most workplaces around the country (and the world) began to implement rules among employees to avoid clusters, maintain physical distance, wear masks, sanitise hands. and avoid biometric entry. Many put in place strict deep cleaning protocols. And finally, all suddenly discovered the merits of WFH (work from home). Once the lockdown is lifted and at least some employees look to rejoin work -- many will work from home; for instance, India’s largest software services firm Tata Consultancy Services has said that up to 75% of its global workforce will work from home by 2025 -- one of the most important questions facing organisations is simply this: Can the open office plan, marked by a lack of cubicles such that all employees are required to sit or work in clusters, still make sense in a world ravaged by the ongoing pandemic?The straightforward answer? NoThe open office was aimed at improving collaboration and proficiency among employees. By the turn of the century, and after a few decades of cubicles, the open office became the norm. Different types of furniture, which demarcated different spaces of work, was a distinct feature of the open office floor plan: hubs for private meetings, longer tables around which larger groups could gather for meetings or scribbles, single or two-seater sofas for more private conversations and glass-walled meeting rooms that also offered the same transparency that marked the rest of the office. Work desks became workstations where clusters of employees would be seated, often sharing resources such as lamps and telephones, and that great luxury of the modern workplace -- coffee machines. In a post-Covid-19 world, this translates into zero social distancing, not to mention multiple shared surfaces. In other words, heightened risk of transmission of Sars-Cov-2. Sorry, but that’s how everyone thinks now. “We are looking at a complete 180-degree shift [in offices]. The whole premise of how offices have been designed has been about collaboration and people coming together. Now the premise about people coming to office is about social distancing. So the whole focus will be on how to get people to interact in such a way. The communal spaces that the open office plan allowed for will not be possible anymore. It won’t be possible for three people to sit on a sofa and have a discussion,” said Aparna Piramal Raje, author and columnist on business and design.Neetish Sarda, founder of Smartworks, a firm that offers co-working spaces across nine cities in India, said that his company instituted workplace measures on March 20 itself, five days before the nationwide lockdown was announced. The measures, which included disinfecting all surfaces and floors, temperature checks using an infrared thermometer at entry points, placement of sanitizer bottles at “high touchpoints” and emphasis on hand wash/sanitization while entering office spaces,mandatory masks , sanitising packages, physical distancing , and preventing sharing of dishes or drinks and eatables, will also be enforced once the lockdown is lifted, he said.Will companies redesign the office space altogether? US-based furniture maker Steelcase recently released a report-cum-catalogue titled Navigating What’s Next: The post-Covid workspace has some thoughts on that. “Planning for now also means retrofitting the workplace, based on a common-sense approach that adheres to governmental and global health guidelines, including physical distancing, adding barriers, cleaning and safety measures,” it said. “Work environments in the future will require reinvention as science-based evidence and emerging technologies offer new solutions. Planning paradigms of the past were driven by density and cost. Going forward they need to be based on the ability to adapt easily to possible economic, climate and health disruptions,” the report added.Some of the more immediate suggestions it offers includes reconfiguring desks, or pulling them apart to reduce face-to-face orientation, which can be achieved for instance, by turning workstations through 90-degree angles which would prevent workers from working directly across or behind one another. It also suggests using open spaces for meetings of more than five people as well as leveraging flexible furniture with movable whiteboards and screens to create boundaries.Shields between people — such as those made of material like plexiglass or plastic — will make a comeback, Carol Bartz, former CEO of Yahoo! Inc., recently told a magazine. “I think people are going to want protection, plexiglass or whatever. There will also be more teleconferencing, absolutely less flying — you will teleconference with customers,” the longtime Silicon Valley chief executive told Marketwatch in an interview.Bimal Patel, director of Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management Private Limited — the architecture firm mandated to develop New Delhi’s Central Vista — said that it was too early to think of lasting design changes.“The most interesting thing that has emerged out of the present crisis is not so much this idea that we may need to make lasting [design] changes in the long run but that a lot of people, particularly in the service industries like our own, have discovered the potential of working online. We [at HCP] have discovered that there is quite a lot of stuff that we can manage to do (without coming into the office). [Of course,] when we do come, it will be because we need to sit around a table, and draw on the same drawing, or stand around a drawing and discuss it. There is work that we all need to do that will bring us close together.”In the short run, he said, the important thing for firms to figure out is how many people can actually stay away from the office so as to reduce the number of people coming in to work.Though Patel may not agree with this, his remark highlights a larger question -- forget open offices, do we even need offices? Around the world too, organisations are beginning to rethink work schedules of employees to stagger their return, and enable more people to work from home. Global commercial real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield is testing a design concept called the Six Feet Office to help employees stay six feet apart. This includes signage that helps people recognise distance, usage of disposable desk covers, and ensuring that people walk only clockwise through the office space to minimize bumping into each other.A PricewaterhouseCoopers pulse survey among 305 US companies published on April 27, found that more than three-quarters (77%) were putting new safety measures in place, while others said they were taking steps to promote physical distancing, such as reconfiguring workspaces (65%). More than half the companies (52%) were planning on changing shifts and alternating crews to reduce exposure, while 49% of the companies said they were planning to make remote work a permanent option for roles that allow it. Indian furniture maker Godrej Interio has a four-person team, called the Ergonomics and Workspace Research Cell, whose mandate is to study issues commonly faced in offices — like noisy colleagues — and publish findings that eventually guide their product design team. When the global pandemic hit and offices around the globe and India began to close down, it began to study the challenges of working from home. “Our aim is to reach 10,000 [respondents] so the research is still ongoing. We asked questions like, what are the issues people face; how can we help them stay productive? Our focus is on the health and well-being of people,” said Sameer Joshi, an associate vice president in the marketing division of Godrej Interio who leads the team. Based on the findings, a “work from home” range of 40 furniture items will be rolled out once factories open, Joshi said.“We are getting a lot of interest from corporates to supply furniture for home. So we’re taking these learnings and quickly adapting [them] to reconfigure [existing] home furniture [models]. Indian homes are denser, there’s often no space for a separate office. Same piece of furniture is used by multiple users, unlike the office. The solution has to be flexible enough so that it adapts to different users,” Joshi said.At a time when the world stares at yet another economic recession, it is crucial to ask whether firms will make such additional investments in office spaces or infrastructure to enable people to work from home. Raje said it would be in their own interest to do so. “For the first time, many organisations will have to think of their employees being in a kind of life and death situation [inside the office]. In most industries, you don’t think about this, unless you’re in the manufacturing space or in the armed forces. So, if you view it from that perspective, then certain investments have to be made. [Of course] somebody has to bear that cost. Maybe that cost may come out of employee salaries,” she said.Or they may simply come out of the savings companies hope to make from rent payments. (With inputs from Abhishek Behl)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-concept-of-open-offices-make-sense-in-a-post-pandemic-world/story-6DKWDwJ5bSVeOlzupKAlZI.html
02-05-2020||India||Centre to offer cheap grains to 3.9 million more people||The Centre will offer cheap grains to an additional 3.9 million people, who qualify for subsidized ration under the National Food Security Act 2013 but are out of the public distribution system due to inclusion errors, Union consumer affairs, food and public distribution minister Ram Vilas Paswan has said. Paswan said his ministry is on a mission to ensure no beneficiary is left behind and has asked all states to issue ration cards to those excluded and send the data so that foodgrains could be allotted to them. Bihar alone has 1.4 million such people, Paswan said.Once states send their lists, the beneficiaries would get additional ration under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, a welfare package announced on March 26 to deal with the Covid-19 crisis.“We have asked states to send us the list. We are ready to meet all additional foodgrain requirements. We have enough stocks. Our aim is to ensure everybody has food,” Paswan said. Federally held food stocks currently stand at 56 million tonnes, while 6 million tonne are needed for the next three months, he added.Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, beneficiaries are being given double their current food entitlement free of cost for the next three months.Nearly 810 million qualify for subsidised foodgrains under the food security law, under which beneficiaries get 5kg of wheat or rice covers per person per month. The Act applies to 67% of the population (75% in rural areas and 50% in urban pockets). According to the minister, 3.9 million of these 810 million are still outside the ration system due inclusion and enumeration errors. “State governments have to give them ration cards so that we can release their ration,” he said.The Right to Food Campaign activists have said the government should universalize the country’s public distribution system. This implies that nobody is excluded, but the rich automatically exclude themselves.Paswan said food allocation to beneficiaries was in accordance with the National Food Security Act. A revision of the number of beneficiaries could be done only during the next Census slated for 2021, according to section 9 of the Act.The Covid-19 lockdown announced on March 24 pushed thousands of internal migrants, especially in cities, into a food crisis. During the initial phase of the lockdown, they were virtually outside the country’s public (grains) distribution network or PDS that offers that offers cheap grains. Many states have now set up community kitchens to serve them. Subsidized grains are only available to beneficiaries who have eligible ration cards. “Most migrants in cities either do not have them or have with their families back in their home states,” said Deepa Sinha, who teaches at Delhi’s Ambedkar University.Paswan has also approved the on-boarding of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu the “One Nation One Ration Card” plan. Twelve states are already on board an interstate cluster under the plan. These are Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Karnataka Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Telangana and Tripura. Reviewing the progress of the implementation of national portability of ration card holders under the “One Nation One Ration Card” plan, Paswan monitored the technical readiness of these new states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-offer-cheap-grains-to-3-9-million-more-people/story-WRSyZxCh31WhnClRAZZg6H.html
02-05-2020||India||Will take years to transport migrants by buses: Congress||The Congress on Friday lashed out at the Centre’s plan to transport stranded migrant workers home by buses and said the “ill-conceived plan” will take many months to see through to its completion.Congress’s reaction came aday after the Union government released guidelines for transporting workers, students and others who are stuck away from their home states because of the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease.The plan to transport them by bus is a “cruel joke,” the Congress said, adding that it doesn’t take into account the requirements of either states or the migrant workers.The party demanded that the Centre run special trains to take stranded people home and also provide a financial package to states to handle the crisis. Indian Railways has announced that it would run special trains to take migrant workers to their home states.Senior Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi said, “You have no idea of the stated facts and the number of migrant labourers, when you issued this Tughlaqi Farman on April 29.”Sighvi estimated that millions of migrant workers were stuck in different parts of the country. He said; “Any estimate of these figures means that you take up to two or three years to transport them by buses. How many buses, how much petrol, how much diesel, how many roads, how many road blocks, we don’t know and what is the rationale behind this, I am not able to understand; the country is not able to understand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-take-years-to-transport-migrants-by-buses-cong/story-MnTLeNwpJcLK6zBBwxDtsJ.html
02-05-2020||India||Focus has been on containment, situation is constantly improving: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said his state is now on the right track in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic even as his government has drawn flak for mismanaging the situation. In an (email/telephone) interview with Ranjan, Chouhan spoke about how he has faced the pandemic challenge from day one since taking office last month. Edited excerpts: Covid-19 was the challenge you faced after taking office. How is the situation a month later?..it is a challenging time not only for the state but for the whole country. Right from the moment when I was sworn in, my full focus has been on preventing the Covid-19 spread and safeguarding lives and making sure we have all the arrangements to combat the menace. The situation is constantly improving. A large number of infected patients have recovered and are recovering. We have distributed ayurvedic, herbal and yunani medicines among people to improve their immune system. Today, our medical system is much stronger against this infection. Tests are being conducted in 11 laboratories. We have also used IT at its optimum level...for monitoring the situation and running the state machinery and maintaining social distancing. ...the wheat procurement is going on in the state. You have blamed the previous Congress government for doing nothing in fighting Covid-19. What did you expect it to do?It could have taken preventive measures that we did as soon as taking over. There were fewer medical facilities. If the Congress government was aware of this impending crisis as its leaders claim, what did it do? Nothing. They were involved in their internal party conflicts instead of taking care of the state and its people.The Congress has alleged the Bharatiya Janata Party was focused on toppling its government and did not understand the situation... They are making such comments to hide their failure. Why did not the Congress government take early preventive measures? They are doing what they do best: blaming us and levelling false allegations. We have taken quick decisions... It is the timely implementation of the lockdown, which has helped in controlling the infections. This is not the right time to make political moves and hurl allegations. They [Congress] should contribute in fighting the pandemic.What went wrong in Indore and Bhopal that they have emerged as major hotspots and Madhya Pradesh as one of five worst-hit states by Covid-19?Initially, there were fewer cases primarily in Jabalpur. There was a rapid increase in the number of cases around major cities like Indore and Bhopal. Members of Tablighi Jamaat [who attended a congregation at the group’s Delhi headquarters that later emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot] came back... They are also the reason for this sudden rise as they responded reluctantly and did not come forward willingly and thus indirectly spread the virus. Indore is also a prime commercial centre and densely populated. A number of people from Indore travel abroad. Initially such people hid their travel histories and somehow came into contact with others and this resulted in spreading the infection. Over 100 employees of the health department have also got infected. Has the responsibility been fixed and action taken in this regard?We are fighting a terrible epidemic. Our officers, health workers and administrative personnel have been at the forefront of fighting this war. They were ready like warriors in the service for the public risking their lives. Unfortunately, they got infected. However, taking cognisance of the infection among them, I have asked for a detailed report. Without knowing the facts, it would not be right to say what went wrong. Their contact history is being investigated and we are trying to find out about the cause of their infection.What is your response to a central team’s visit to Indore and its suggestions?The team has appreciated Madhya Pradesh for its efforts. The death toll has been brought under control and special care is being given to Indore. The team has suggested some measures based on their nationwide experience. Its guidance will definitely help.What is your strategy to contain the disease and are there special plans for boosting economic activities?I have instructed authorities that there should be effective implementation of the strategy to identify, isolate, test and treat. The strategy is simple and involves following lockdown guidelines and social distancing. It involves staying at home, staying safe and no entry, no exit from containment zones. It is a question of life and death. Safety and security of the common man is our top priority. As soon as the situation comes under control, the lockdown will be lifted and normal life will be back on the track.We have to let small economic activities across the green zones. We have also allowed small businesses to run but with safety measures. Many industries are operating from April 20. All protective measures should be followed at workplaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-has-been-on-containment-situation-is-constantly-improving-mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-q7eqiTgkYGAU8TxnOeLn7N.html
02-05-2020||India||Gujarat: 22 new deaths raise toll to 236; plans afoot to return migrants||Twenty-two people died of Covid-19 and 326 more cases were reported in Gujarat on Friday, as the government of chief minister Vijay Rupani came to grips with the task of sending home migrant workers stranded in the state.The new deaths and cases took to 236 the number of fatalities claimed by the coronavirus disease and 4,721 the number to have tested positive for Covid-19 in Gujarat to date. Ahmedabad, the principal city of Gujarat, bore the brunt, reporting 267 new cases. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health), said 26 new cases were reported from Surat, 19 from Vadodara and the remaining from other districts. On Friday, the worst five affected districts of were Ahmedabad (3293 total cases), Surat (640), Vadodra (308), Rajkot (58) and Bhavnagar (47).“The health staff in Gujarat is on their toes 24x7 to cure Covid-19 patients, especially those with co-morbid conditions. In such a scenario, the health experts are provided online guidance to treat crucially ill patients. Around 24 children, three pregnant women and 68 senior citizens who were critically ill due to Covid-19 have availed of the benefits of tele mentoring program and recovered successfully,” Ravi said.With 49 positive cases reported from Gandhinagar and 21 from Botad, chief minister Rupani appointed two senior civil servants to supervise measures being taken for curbing the transmission of the virus in the two districts and guide their administrations.Rajeevkumar Gupta, additional chief secretary (forest and environment), and Sanjeev Kumar, managing director, Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation, have been appointed to oversee Gandhinagar and Botad, respectively, said a government statement.Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM, said the process of sending back stranded labourers from other states had started with launch of a helpline number --- 1070. “The stranded people are required to file an online application on Digital Gujarat Portal,” he said.“The CM has made it clear that only asymptomatic people will be allowed to enter the state. All those with cough, fever, cold and other such symptoms will not be permitted to enter Gujarat. Similarly, all those who are completely healthy will be allowed to return to their home state from Gujarat,” Kumar said.He added that all the migrants wishing to return home from Gujarat will undergo a medical examination and those who are healthy will be provided a certificate to that effect. The CM directed district collectors to use primary and community health centres for conducting the medical examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-22-new-deaths-raise-toll-to-236-plans-afoot-to-return-migrants/story-O10VXvJps59NEbFQ2i2RyJ.html
02-05-2020||India||After curbs are lifted, air journeys in India may become quicker||When flying starts post lockdown, flying times may come down significantly with passenger airlines set to get access to defence airspace. Senior aviation officials have confirmed to Hindustan Times that Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a meeting with Department of Military affairs allowed the use of this hitherto segregated airspace.”This is a reform suggestion that has been pending for several years,’’ said the senior official. “It means that you can fly in straight lines instead of avoiding defence areas. It will significantly bring down costs.’’To be sure, it still doesn’t mean the airlines will be allowed to fly over strategically important defence assets and areas. Due to social distancing norms necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic, planes will not be allowed to fly to full capacity. The access to defence airspace will help bring down fuel costs. A statement from the Prime Minister’s office said: “The Indian Air Space should be effectively used in such a manner that the flying time is reduced, benefitting the travelling public and also helping airlines save costs in close co-operation with the Department of Military Affairs.’’A spokesperson for air carrier GoAir said: Overall, this initiative will benefit the industry, with less flying time for the passengers, and also enable better emissions. However, the exact benefits can be known only after the routes are published.””Usually, there are height restrictions over defence areas and populated areas. But if they agree, then that means that civil airlines will be able to use their airspace too,’’ said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur, Addl Director General, Centre for Air Power studies.``It could make substantial difference. For instance, If you go from Delhi to Chennai, you would avoid ammunition depots like Jabalpur. With this decision, you don’t have to do that anymore,’’ said Group Captain VP Singh. That means a shorter flying time. While this will help ailines cut costs, what will help even more, a pilot said on the condition of anonymity, would be to reduce the tax on aviation turbine fuel.At the meeting, the Prime Minister also cleared the handing over of six more airports on a public private partnership basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-curbs-are-lifted-air-journeys-in-india-may-become-quicker/story-oCoZkt339qPiPh4CJj90QO.html
02-05-2020||India||Lit up warships, fly-pasts to honour Covid-19 warriors||India’s chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Friday said that the armed forces will show their gratitude to the country’s Covid-19 warriors on May 3 by performing a raft of activities including fly-pasts, flashing warship lights, and displays by Indian Army bands.Briefing reporters at South Block in the presence of the three service chiefs, Rawat said military helicopters will shower petals over hospitals dedicated to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients and the armed forces will lay wreath at the police memorial to show support for Covid-19 warriors, including doctors, nurses and police personnel, who have been at the forefront of the battle against the outbreak.Rawat said the Indian Air Force’s fighter jets and transport planes will carry out fly-pasts across the length and breadth of the country, from Srinagar to Thiruvananthapuram and Dibrugarh to Kutch. The United States is also carrying out fly-pasts over several of its cities as a tribute to people leading the fight against the pandemic that has killed at least 235,000 people across the world.Rawat said the show of gratitude will involve switching on Indian warships’ lights near the shores and mounted band performances outside Covid-19 hospitals in every district of the country.General Rawat acknowledged the contribution of health care workers, policemen, home guards personnel, sanitation workers, delivery boys and the media amid the outbreak of the highly contagious disease.He said: “We also cannot forget the people of the nation who have adhered to government guidelines on social distancing, wearing masks, ensuring proper hygiene… And when the government gave a call for ringing bells or lighting [candles and lamps], our nation stood together.” Rawat added that the country demonstrated the resilience to overcome the public health crisis.The military’s plan to honour front-line workers on May 3 was finalised at a meeting chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday, a government official said. The meeting was attended by the national security adviser, the CDS and the three service chiefs.The armed forces are working on a war footing to handle the pandemic -- setting up dedicated hospitals, flying medical supplies, operating quarantine facilities and playing a key role in evacuating Indian nationals from other countries.Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said the government has asked the navy to stay ready to evacuate Indian nationals from Gulf countries. He said warships were ready to carry out the evacuation and will swing into action after getting the go-ahead.As reported by Hindustan Times on April 29, the navy has kept three warships on standby to bring back thousands of Indian nationals stuck in the Gulf countries as New Delhi works towards implementing a challenging evacuation plan that will also include special flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lit-up-warships-fly-pasts-to-honour-covid-19-warriors/story-CUPYVxcSqaGChBySLT9yCL.html
02-05-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Delhi containment zones reduced to 97, three areas exit list on Friday||One more residential complex in East Delhi’s Patparganj area was taken out of the list of Containment Zones in Delhi on Friday evening to bring down the total number of hotspots in the capital to 97. A total of three localities were “de-contained” on Friday, the day revised guidelines for the third phase of national lockdown were issued by the Union ministry of home affairs, which also notified strict protocol for the Containment Zones including the necessary use of Aarogya Setu mobile application.The total number of Containment Zones in Delhi had reached 100 a couple of days ago, before the de-containment of a few areas again brought it under the 100-mark.223 new Covid 19 cases were reported in the national capital on Friday including two deaths. The total number of positive cases has now reached 3738, said a health bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.Full list of Delhi’s de-Contained Zones1. Mansara Apartnments, Vasundhra Enclave, Delhi – 31.03.20202. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi – 12.04.20203. Vardhaman Apartments , Mayur Vihar, Phase I , Extension, Delhi- 02.04.20204. Mayurdhwaj Apartments , I P Extension, Patparganj, Delhi - 03.04.2020Full list of Delhi’s Containment Zones:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shop No. J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki Village, New Delhi.5. Jain Moholla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi6. Boundary Start from B-4/200 and cover the whole locality till backside of humayupur lane includes, Ashiana complex & B-4/206 Safdarjung Enclave, New Delhi7. H. No. 50, Hauz Rani, New Delhi, from Mother Dairy to back corner of Raja Ram Mohan School, Hauz Rani, New Delhi.8. Entire effected area around H. No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar, New Delhi9. H.No. 153/B, 4th Floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi10. Gali No. 2, 3 & 4 Devli Extension, Delhi11. F-313, Near Shiva Mandir Lado Sari and F-274, 2nd Floor of Lado Sari, New Delhi12. F-258, Campa Cola Gali Lado Sarai, New Delhi13. Entire affected area of Samshi Talab, Mehrauli including A-3, lake of view apartment, Mehrauli, Delhi 14. Entire affected area including-Nirankari Gali, Nakshtra Gali, Nala Boring Gali, Ravan Wali Gali, Jameela Masjid Baoli, Dargah Gurudwara wali Gali, Thane wali Gali and Terminal Wali Gali in South Delhi15. Shahajahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka.16. Dinpur Village17. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Benagli Colony, Mahavir Enclave, New Delhi18. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No. -119 19. Plot No.-1294, Sonu Yadav Ka Makkan, Theke Wali Gali, Opposite DC Office Kapashera, Delhi20. RZF-756/7, Gali no 1 Band, Raj Nagar II Dwarka New Delhi21. South-East Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti22. South-East Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas.23. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar ( Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone24. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension , Part-II, Delhi25. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension , Part-II, New Delhi26. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi27. MehelaMohalla, MadanpurKhadar, Delhi28. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi29. South-East E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi30. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash, Delhi31. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash, Delhi32. House no- 152 to 162 in Block D of Shaheen Bagh33. Gali No 1, 2 & 3, Block-D, SangamVihar, House No. 112B, Gali No.2, New Delhi34. Entire Gali starting from H.No. G-54 to F-107 & Entire Gali starting from H.No. CN-854 to H.No. 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlakabad Village, Delhi35. South-East Gali No. 6, A Block, Abul Fazal Enclave, Shaheen Bagh, Delhi36. Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 & Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 , Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi37. (Whole Gali H. No. 48 to Chaupal), A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony, Delhi38. Gali No. 24 to 28 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi (Core Area){Added in Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 & Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 , Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi} 39. H. No. F-138 & F-139, Gali No. 1 (Shiv Mandir Wali Gali), Harsh Vihar, Hari Nagar Extension, Delhi 40. Whole Kumhar Gali (H.No. 1751 to 1815) to Chaupal Chowkm Kotla Mubarakpur Delhi41. B Block Jhangirpuri42. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri43. 1100 WaliGali (H. No. 1181-1200), 1200 WaliGali (H. No. 12381268), 1300 WaliGali (H. No. 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi44. G, H and I Block, Police Colony, Model Town, Delhi45. H.No.716 to 785, H. No. 786 to 860, H. No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jhangir Puri, Delhi46. G-Block, Jahangirpuri , Delhi 47. Flat No.-265 to 500 Sanjay Enclave, Jahangirpuri, Delhi48. Gali No. 3, 4 & 5 Majlis Park, Adarsh Nagar, Delhi49. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri Delhi50. 3 Galis of Khichirpur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichirpur Delhi51. East Gali No 9, PandavNagar , Delhi 11009252. A-97, 98 & 99 Near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park, Delhi53. Block No. X, from H. No. 303/6, Gali N. 1 to H.No. 289 Gali No. 3, Yadav Villa, Delhi 54. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108( towards Anarwali Masjid Chowk), KishanKunj Extension, Delhi 55. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension Delhi. 56. Gali No. 5, A Block (From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar Delhi 110092. 57. H. No. 34/156 to H. No. 34/189 (Resettlement Colony), Block-34, Tirlok Puri, Delhi 110091. 58. H. No. 300, Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi to H.No. 739/16 Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi59. Shahdara E-Pocket, GTB Enclave, Delhi60. Shahdara J & K , L and H pockets Dilshad Garden, G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri 61. Shahdara F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony62. Shahdara Pratapkhand ,Jhilmil Colony63. Shahdara Gali no 3,4 and 5 East Ram Nagar, Shahdara64. Shahdara H. No. 15 to 101 Dayanand Vihar, Delhi-9265. Shahdara Gali No. 18, H.No. 701/23 to 500/36B, Vijay Park, Maujpur, Delhi66. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh 67. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi. 68. Israel Camp, Rangpuri Pahari, New Delhi & its adjoining area of Buffer Zone69. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri, New Delhi & its adjoining area of Buffer Zone70. EA Block, Inderpuri, New Delhi71. H. No. P-65 and H. No. P-184, Pillanji Village, New Delhi72. Sadar Bazaar, Central District73. Chandni Mahal, Central District74. l Nabi Karim, Central District. 75. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi76. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi 77. NawabGanj Area, Delhi 78. Oberoi Apartments79. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar New Delhi 110015 80. n and around area of B- 1/2, PaschimVihar , New Delhi81. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar , New Delhi 82. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden , New Delhi 11.04.2020 83. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, PaschimVihar , Delhi84. In and around area of A-280. J.J. Colony, Madipur, Delhi 110063. 85. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi86. In and around area of C-105, Hari Nagar, New Delhi87. West In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar, New Delhi. 88. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No. 2, Nangloi, Delhi89. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar, Delhi90. In and around area of G-1, 2nd Floor, Mansarover Garden, Delhi91. Tilak Vihar area in Tilak Nagar, Delhi92. Entire AF Block, Shalimar Bagh, Delhi93. Entire Street No. 9, Shalimar Village, Delhi94. Entire Gali No. 3, Shalimar Village, Delhi95. H.No,-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi 96 E-51, Main Road, Shastri Park, Delhi & E-21, Gali No.-8, Shastri Park, Delhi97. T-606, Gali No. 18, Gautampuri, DelhiFor Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-update-delhi-containment-zones-reduced-to-97-three-areas-exit-list-on-friday/story-ip7a5NLhIB2GJ1bmgsoq6K.html
02-05-2020||India||States to issue zone-specific norms for extended lockdown||Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh said state specific guidelines based on home ministry’s directive extending the lockdown by two weeks to May 17, even while expanding the range of activities permitted in this period , will be issued on Saturday. “There will be no restrictions for activities within districts in green zones, while in orange zones too large scale relaxation can be given barring the hot spots. We are also thinking about relaxations to some extent in big cities such as Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nagpur, barring the containment zones,” said Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope.The home ministry’s guidelines prescribe the range of activities allowed in containment areas, and red, orange and green zones. They also empower states to make changes as they deem fit -- as long as the ministry’s restrictions are not diluted. Kerala and Rajasthan welcomed the Centre’s decision to allow more industrial activity and opening of liquor vends in green and orange zones from May 4. Government officials in the two states said they would come up with social distancing norms for alcohol sale and specific rules for industries on Saturday.“We welcome concessions given in green and orange zones. The state government will take an appropriate decision according to the new directive,” said Kerala’s revenue minister E Chandrasekharan.A senior West Bengal government official said a committee of experts has already submitted its recommendations on the lockdown guidelines to the cabinet committee headed by finance minister Amit Mitra.“The cabinet committee met today to discuss the recommendations. It is expected to brief chief minister on Saturday after which she will announce the lockdown guidelines for the state,”this person added on condition of anonymity. However, the state was also upset at an increase in the number of red zones. State health secretary Vivek Kumar wrote a letter to union health secretary Preeti Sudan questioning the classification of districts into red, green and orange zones.“With regard to the presentation made in the Cabinet Secretary’s video conference with the states on April 30, 2020 at 3 pm, as many as ten districts of West Bengal were shown in the red zone. This is an erroneous assessment. Based on the current parameters of the government of India for categorisation of areas for Covid-19, the districts in the red zone are only four… You are requested to kindly bring this to the attention of the officials concerned,” Kumar wrote.Union health ministry on Thursday released a new list of districts arranged as red, orange and green zones according to the extent of the spread, and the possibility of further spread, of novel coronavirus infection in each of them. Except Bengal, all other states have accepted the reclassification.Of the 23 districts in the state, Kolkata, Howrah, North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore had so long been tagged as ‘red zone’. The new list elevated six more districts from orange to red zone – Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Malda, South 24-Parganas and West Midnapore. Eight districts remained in the green zone.Over the past four days, Bengal has witnessed a spike in the number of containment zones, mostly in Kolkata, Howrah and North 24-Parganas. Of the state’s 444 containment zones as of April 30, 406 are in these three districts. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha repeatedly said that these three districts were the state’s biggest concern and that Kolkata alone accounted for 80% of the state’s total cases of novel coronavirus infection. The state has recorded 795 cases of Covid-19 positives as on April 30.The Centre has said in the statement issued on May 1 that the classification of districts as ‘red zone’ will take into account the total number of active cases, doubling rate of confirmed cases, extent of testing and surveillance feedback from the states.“Centre’s decision has been unilateral and arbitrary. They are whimsically changing the criteria. We in the state would make our planning considering four districts as red zone,” said TMC Rajya Sabha MP Santanu Sen, himself a doctor.BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha said that the Centre’s list had exposed how the Mamata Banerjee government ‘was failing the people of Bengal.’(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-to-issue-zone-specific-norms-for-extended-lockdown/story-cmrkQCVPZbgtiJnzQIpVoI.html
02-05-2020||India||Medical supplies’ production scaled up, domestic manufacturers in focus||The central government has scaled up production of medical equipment in response to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and ordered 60,884 ventilators, of which 59,884 will be manufactured in India, an official said on Friday as he detailed the country’s preparedness to tackle the infectious disease.The Centre has projected a demand of about 75,000 ventilators till June to manage critically ill Covid-19 cases in the country, said PD Vaghela, secretary, department of pharmaceuticals. He is the chairman of one of the empowered groups formed to control the outbreak in the country.Presenting the government’s projections and procurement plans at the 4pm news briefing, Vaghela said the Centre has ordered 22.2 million personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, of which about 14.2 million will be procured from domestic manufacturers and the rest imported.Currently, 19,398 ventilators are available, and orders for 60,884 have been placed. About 1,000 of them will be imported.“The HLL Lifecare Limited, a PSU under the ministry of health and family welfare, is acting as the central procurement agency. Most of the orders are being placed domestically and the government has worked hard to encourage domestic manufacturers to start producing, including the raw material as even raw material is in short supply globally. About 15,000 ventilators are already manufactured and testing is currently being done,” Vaghela said.Considering the increased global demand and shortage of essential medical supplies, the government is promoting domestic manufacturing and is resorting to imports only if necessary.The total projected demand of PPE kits till June has been estimated to be 20.1 million. Against the same, orders for 22.2 million kits have already been placed.From importing about 50,000 PPE kits annually to putting in place a system to domestically manufacture about 200,000 kits in a day, India has ramped up its capacity to deliver on the need for medical equipment in the past two months, officials said.“Earlier, we didn’t manufacture PPE kits or N-95 masks in India. All these supplies were imported, and there was not much demand for it also. In just about a month, we have identified from two manufacturers to the current 111 manufacturers domestically. In just about 15 days, we established nine labs that could do the quality testing of kits,” said Vaghela.The total projected demand for N-95 masks till June has been estimated to be 27.2 million. Against the same, orders for 24.9 million have already been placed. Of these, 14.9 million orders have been placed with domestic manufacturers and about 10 million N-95 masks are being imported.There are four major domestic manufacturers in the country and more are in line, which have been identified and facilitated. The daily domestic production was about 230,000 on April 30, according to the official.The production of oxygen is also being ramped up. “In India, we don’t need too many ventilators; what is required is adequate supply of oxygen as most of the severely ill patients need oxygen support,” he added.The total manufacturing capacity of oxygen is 6,400 metric tonne, of which around 1,000 mt is used for medical oxygen. There are five big and 600 small manufacturers of oxygen, and about 409 hospitals have their own oxygen generation units.About 438,000 medical oxygen cylinders are available for supply, and orders for 103,000 new medical oxygen cylinders have been placed. 500,000 industrial oxygen cylinders have also been identified for conversion, if required. Orders for the conversion of 60,000 cylinders have already been issued.“It doesn’t take much in converting industrial oxygen to medical oxygen; if required we also have that option open,” said Vaghela.The government is also keeping a close watch on the drugs supply to tackle shortages, if any. Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) production has increased from 122.3 million to 300 million tablets per month. The country has released about 160 million tablets of HCQ to the Centre as well as state hospitals, and pharmacies against the requirement of about 25 million.“We are managing well, and like we exported HCQ, we should be able to export other supplies also in the future after obviously meeting our own demands,” said Vaghela.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-supplies-production-scaled-up-domestic-manufacturers-in-focus/story-mtmxaTCnYEBP6YtXbe05TM.html
02-05-2020||India||130 districts identified as Covid-19 hotspots home to nearly 400 million||The Centre on Friday listed 130 districts as hot spots of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), down from the previously designated 170 “red zones”, even as the number of “green zones” – areas that largely remain outside the spectre of the pathogen – decreased from 353 to 319, an announcement that came hours before the national lockdown was extended by two weeks, but with some relaxations.The Union health ministry removed 92 districts from the 170 it classified as Covid-19 hotspots on April 15 and added 52 new districts to the list, leaving 130 red zones in the total 733 districts in the country. These 130 districts are home to a third of the country’s population and cover a fifth of the geographical area, an analysis of the 2011 Census data by Hindustan Times shows. Nearly 400 million people live in these hot spots, which are spread across 22 states and Union territories (UTs), but only four states are home to more than half of them.In the fresh classification, which will be followed by states and Union territories for a week from May 3, 284 districts have been identified as orange zones, up from 207 districts. All major metropolitan cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad have been designated as red zones because of high caseloads and clusters of infections.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe zones were initially divided on the basis of total cumulative cases and the rate of doubling of cases: red zones were those where the numbers of Covid-19 infections and doubling rate were high; orange zones had fewer cases and greater doubling rate; and green zones were those where no case was reported in 28 days. The new list, however, was prepared by including other factors such as incidence and level of testing, and population density.“This time, we have broadened the criteria. The areas have been labelled also keeping in mind the fact these should not become potential hot spots if relaxations are given as per the green zone criteria. Some places may be in green zone but their proximity to areas where case load is high makes them vulnerable, so those areas have also been designated as red or orange zones in the new list,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.Red zones will now be defined by taking into account the total number of active cases, the doubling rate of infections, the extent of testing and the surveillance feedback. To qualify as a green zone, an area would have had to report no new infections for three weeks. The classifications will be “dynamic” and updated at least weekly as conditions change, according to a letter by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan.There are significant differences between the list of red zones shared on April 15 and the latest advisory. Even as the total number of red zone districts has decreased by 40, seven states have seen a rise in the number. West Bengal saw the highest rise, from four to 10. Tamil Nadu saw the biggest fall in the number of such districts – out of the 22 districts earlier classified as red zones, 13 have now been removed while three new districts have been added to the list, making the new tally 12.  The 400 million people in the 130 red zones live in more than 83 million households across nearly 2,500 towns and 120,000 villages. These comprise a third of all towns and a fifth of all inhabited villages in the country, according to the Census data.To be sure, this is a close approximation for present times because the population figures would have changed since the Census was last conducted, and some district boundaries have also changed since then.Among all states and UTs, Delhi is the only one fully classified as a red zone, other than Chandigarh which is a single district Union territory. After Delhi, West Bengal has the highest share of districts in red zones – 10 out of the total 23 districts, or 43%. Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh follow with nearly 39% districts being red zones. In terms of absolute numbers, Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of red zone districts – 19 out of 75 – followed by 14 districts in Maharashtra (out of 36 districts) and 12 districts of Tamil Nadu (out of 37 districts).Faridabad, Gautam Buddha Nagar and Meerut have been classified as red zones, while Gurugram and Ghaziabad are designated as orange zones.The 14 most densely populated districts in India, according to the 2011 Census, have been classified as red zones. These include eight districts of Delhi, two districts of Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Hyderabad and Chandigarh, all big urban clusters. Out of the 50 districts that have the highest population density, 25 have been classified as red zones.Although the red zones are spread across large geographical areas, cutting across state boundaries, more than half of the people living in these red zones are in just four states – Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. Put together, 215 million people live in red zones in these four states, which is 54% of the total 400 million people in the red zones in India.Also, there are no red zone districts in 14 states and UTs. These include 10 states – Goa, Himachal Pradesh and all eight states of the northeast – and four Union territories – Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Ladakh and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.The revised list of Covid-19 hot spots was released ahead of the Centre’s announcement of the extension of the national lockdown to break the chain of infections. While the red and orange zones will continue to have intensified contact tracing, doorstep surveillance and restrictions on movement, other areas will see considerable relaxations.Sudan’s letter to states and UTs read: “It is further highlighted that based on field feedback and additional analysis at state level, states may designate additional red or orange zones as appropriate. However, states may not relax the zonal classification of districts classified as red/orange as communicated by the ministry.”“It is important to ensure that we identify pockets of critical interventions for a focused management of Covid-19 at the field level,” Sudan added.Infectious disease experts say that lockdown has helped and now is the time to consolidate the gains. “It is useful if we are to utilise the time gained in identifying infected individuals isolating them, tracing contacts and quarantining them to interrupt the chain of transmission. We should be able to identify cluster transmission as people are confined to homes. Mathematical models have shown how extended periods of lockdown can decrease the peak. But if infected individuals are not identified and contained, then as soon as the lockdown is lifted, there would be a spurt of cases,” said Dr Lalit Kant, infectious disease specialist and former head of the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/130-districts-identified-as-covid-hot-spots-home-to-nearly-400mn/story-mBc30ah41ddAAKoa9fAfiK.html
02-05-2020||India||Counter terror ops in J-K increase in lockdown||The nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic did not affect counter-insurgency operations in Jammu & Kashmir. The operations were rather intensified and resulted in the killing of the highest number of terrorists belonging to different Pakistan-based outfits in April. In fact, April has been the most successful month for security forces in the last year, according to official data.Out of 60 terrorists killed so far this year, 46% (28) were in April. The last time the Jammu and Kashmir police, army and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) eliminated so many terrorists in a month was in May 2019 (28).Eighteen terrorists were killed in January while seven each in February and March. While 20 belonged to Hizbul Mujahideen, eight were from Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), six from Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), three from Islamic State in Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK) while 20 were unidentified. Some of those killed were top commanders – Jahangir Wani (HM), Sajjad Nawab Dar (JeM) and Muzzafar Ahmed Bhat (LeT). Most of them were traced to Pulwama (16) and Shopian (12) and killed in gunbattles.An official involved in counter-insurgency operations, who did not wish to be named, said, “Pakistan-based terrorists have tried to take advantage of India’s national lockdown to foment trouble in the Valley. In fact, there were reports in 36-37 days, since lockdown was announced, that terrorists have come out of their bunkers, from inside the jungles as they were asked to intensify attacks against security forces.”Zulfiqar Hassan, special director-general, CRPF (Jammu & Kashmir), said, “Terrorists have tried to take advantage of the lockdown but intelligence-based counter-terror operations are continuing in full swing and there is great synergy among all the forces.”Last year, 152 terrorists were killed in Jammu & Kashmir, with 11 in April, according to official figures.In 2018, the security forces killed 215 terrorists including 22 in April. The maximum number of terrorists killed in a month-- 39-- was in November 2018.Pakistan has also resorted to continuous ceasefire violation in March and April to help terrorists sneak into Jammu & Kashmir. It has been trying its best to fuel terrorist activities while the world is focused on fighting the pandemic, army officials said.Pakistan has violated the ceasefire around 1,400 times this year. This number was 3,168 in 2019 and 1,629 in 2018.Defence minister Rajnath Singh last week asked India’s top military commanders to ensure the country’s adversary is not allowed to exploit the Covid-19 situation.The army has been dealing with an increase in infiltration attempts by Pakistan-backed terrorists looking to stir trouble since the Centre’s move to revoke Jammu & Kashmir’s special status in August last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/counterterror-ops-increase-in-valley-in-april/story-urVSEknFJAft37twr2oX4O.html
02-05-2020||India||Explained: India’s lockdown 3.0 in one chart for red, orange and green zones||The central government has extended the 40-day national lockdown by another two weeks but this extension has been accompanied with many relaxations. These relaxations will not apply to containment zones where a hard lockdown shall continue to remain in force.In its order issued on Friday evening, the Union home ministry, however, imposed a 12-hour ban on movement of people between 7 pm and 7 am for non- essential activities. The prohibition on cinema halls, places of worship, shopping malls also continues throughout the country irrespective of the zone.Here are the complete details of the home ministry order in one chart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-india-s-lockdown-3-0-in-one-chart-for-red-orange-and-green-zones/story-64r6uIu77tKH2b26Rf00DN.html
02-05-2020||India||Decoded in 9 points: India’s lockdown 3.0 restrictions, red zone and travel||The government has announced a two-week extension of the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), but has also allowed several activities and businesses in certain areas. Here’s a primer:What changes in lockdown 3.0?As indicated by the government earlier, guidelines for lockdown 3.0 are area-specific. Authorities have classified Indian districts into three zones (red, orange and green). Curbs will vary from one zone to the other — maximum in red and minimum in greenAre there new curbs on movement?Movement of people for all non-essential activities is prohibited between 7pm and 7am in all three zones. It’s not applicable to containment zones, which are earmarked pockets inside red and orange zones, because of stricter guidelinesAre there some activities banned across all three zones?Yes, quite a few of them. For example, domestic and international air travel of passengers; passenger movement by trains, except those cleared by the government; interstate buses for public transport; Metro rails; schools, colleges and educational institutes; and hospitality services other than those for essential employees and those strandedAll cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools will be closed. All social, political, cultural and religious gatherings are not allowedAlso read: National lockdown extended by 2 weeks but restrictions eased. What it meansWhat’s allowed in green zones?All activities except those banned nationwide. Even buses can operate with up to 50% seating capacity; and bus depots with 50% capacityWhat about orange zones?The curbs become stricter here. Inter- and intra-district buses are not allowed, in addition to activities restricted countrywide. Taxis and cab aggregators (with one driver and two passengers); and inter-district movement of individuals and vehicles (for permitted activities) are allowedWhat’s banned in red zones?Cycle rickshaws and auto-rickshaws, taxis and cab aggregators, inter- and intra-district buses, and barber shops and salons are not permittedAnd what’s allowed in red zones?* The government order lists certain activities allowed with restrictions. The movement of vehicles is allowed in certain cases, but with just two passengers besides the driver. Pillion-riding is not allowed for two-wheelers* Industrial activities in urban areas are limited to Special Economic Zones, Export Oriented Units, and manufacturing units of essential goods and pharmaceuticals, among others. Manufacturing of IT hardware and the jute industry are also allowed with staggered shifts and social distancing* Construction activities in urban areas are restricted to sites where workers are not needed to be brought from outside, and to renewable energy projects* All malls and market complexes within city limits will be closed, but those selling essential items are exempt. All standalone shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed, but social distancing is a must* Commercial and private establishments, such as print and electronic media, and IT and IT-enabled services are allowed; e-commerce activities are permitted for essential goods * Private offices can operate with up to 33% strength. Government offices will function with officers of the level of deputy secretary and above; the remaining staff can operate with 33% strength. This rule will not apply to defence and security service, and fire and emergency services, among others.* In rural areas, all industrial and construction activities, including MGNREGA work, are permitted. All shops outside city limits, except those in malls are allowed. All agriculture and animal husbandry works are allowedWhat are the activities allowed across the country?Essential services such as health care and policing will continue to function. Friday’s order also says all states and Union territories will allow interstate movement of goods. No fresh permit is needed for activities already permitted. Outpatient departments (OPDs) and medical clinics are permitted, except for in containment zonesWhat else do I need to know?Private and public sector employees will have to use Aarogya Setu app. In all zones, people above 65 years, persons with underlying health conditions, children and pregnant women shall stay at home. Also, shops selling liquor and tobacco products will ensure six-feet distance and not more than five people at a time. According to an MHA official, standalone liquor shops will open in all zones (except for containment areas). Liquor shops in malls not allowedRED ZONES: These places are also known as hot spots and are areas with maximum number of Covid-19 cases. The government takes into account total number of active cases and case doubling rate, among others, before declaring an area a red zone. At present, there are 130 in IndiaORANGE ZONES: Places that are neither in red nor in green category. They may have fewer cases. At present, there are 284GREEN ZONES: Places with no cases or where no case has been reported in 21 days. At present, there are 319 in IndiaCONTAINMENT ZONES: Places in red or orange zones with a cluster of cases. These areas have stricter perimeter control and the movement of only essential services personnel is allowed. Aarogya Setu app is mandatory for people living here(States are allowed to add districts in red and orange zones, but not permitted to lower the classification of any district)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-lockdown-3-0-restrictions-red-zone-and-travel-decoded-in-9-points/story-sOpDy1zkSdL3SetlJpOaQJ.html
02-05-2020||India||In video conversation with Rahul, Rajan suggests Rs 65k-crore aid for poor||Former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan has suggested that the government transfer cash directly to the poor and supply food through the public distribution system (PDS) to as many people as possible to help them tide over the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and the consequent 40-day lockdown,estimating the effort will cost Rs.,65,000 crore.The money is small given that India’s gross domestic product is to the tune of about Rs 200 lakh crore, Rajan said in a video conversation with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on how to deal with the crisis caused by the disease.Copies of the video were released to the media by the opposition party. Rajan’s suggestions do not go far enough to address the need to revive and reboot the economy, which has been battered by the public health crisis, economists and industry representatives said. Industry bodies have called for a Rs.16 lakh stimulus package. “We need to find ways of getting both money as well as food through PDS to as many of these people as we can,” said Rajan, whose sint as RBI governor between September 4,2013 and September 4,2016, was spread across the terms in power of both the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance and the Bharatitya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) Rajan said the poor must get food, and if they don’t have ration cards entitling them to subsidized grains,a temporary solution should be put in place. “Most immediately, keep people well and alive. Food is extremely important. Places where the public distribution system doesn’t go. (Economists) Amartya Sen, Abhijeet Banerjee and I have talked about temporary ration cards,” the former RBI chief told Gandhi in the first of the video conversations the latter plans to hold with public intellectuals.Rajan has effectively endorsed the NDA government’s response to the pandemic in the form of the Rs 1.7 lakh crore welfare package unveiled in March, two officials at economic ministries said. The package, announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharman, provided food items such as rice, wheat and pulses; three free cooking gas cylinders till June this year and direct cash transfers to the accounts of the poor.“Although Dr Rajan did not mention whether the Rs 65,000 crore should be over and above Rs 1.7 lakh crore already announced on March 26, it is assumed that he must be aware about the package. The package was an initial response and more funds will be released to protect lives and livelihood of the poor,” one of the officials said, requesting anonymity.Spokesperson of the two economic ministries declined to comment on the conversation between Gandhi and Rajan. Ram Singh, a professor at the Delhi School of Economics ,said Rajan’s suggestions seemed to be aimed at the 130 million extremely poor households of India.“If Rs 5,000 direct cash is transferred to each family, it will come to around Rs 65,000 crore. This seems to be the maths. It will certainly help. But it is not enough to stimulate the economy as a whole.”The PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry wants the government to provide a stimulus package of Rs 16 lakh crore, around 7% of GDP, sooner than later to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on the economy “through various relief measures and benefits,” said DK Aggarwal, president of the industry association.Such a package will help the economy grow around 5% in the current financial year and rejuvenate businesses , he said. India’s economic growth had already been slowing because of a decline in private investment and household consumption when Covid-19 hit. The International Monetary Fund has estimated India’s economic growth at 1.9% in the current fiscal year, the slowest pace in three decades.Rajan said India should be lifting the lockdown, which is due to end on May 3, and open up its economy in a “measured way;” a prolonged lockdown can lead to social distress, he warned. “We have to be cleverer about opening up...We need to open up in a measured way but as fast as possible so that people start having jobs. We don’t have the capacity to support people across the spectrum for too long,” he said.“It is all too easy to have a lockdown forever, but obviously that is unsustainable for the economy,” he said.India is has been in lockdown since March 25, confining residents indoors, shutting industrial production, halting flights and passenger railway services and taking public transport off the roads in an attempt to enforce social distancing and break the chain of infections.“I don’t think we have to aim for 100% success and have zero cases when we open up... What we have to do is to manage the reopening so that when there are cases, we isolate them,” said Rajan, according to whom aggressive testing should be at the core of efforts for the management of Covid19 .Rajan evaded a direct response to a question from Gandhi on “centralisation of power” and the “authoritarian way of governance” in India.“I do believe that decentralisation is important both for bringing more local information to work but also about giving empowerment to the people. What you see across the world is a great sense of disempowerment. Decisions are being made elsewhere, but not by me (was the feeling among the people),” he said.Taking a swipe at Gandhi, BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra tweeted, “RahulG complains to Raghuram Rajan of an ‘Authoritarian Model’ But of course those who had put in place an ‘Accidental Model’ for them any other model that has ‘Decisiveness’ & ‘Determination’ as it’s basic ingredients will be passed off as ‘authoritarian’!!”In the conversation with Gandhi, Rajan stressed the need for social harmony, saying India cannot afford to be a house divided in challenging times. “Social harmony is a public good. Having everyone believe that they are a part of this system, an equal part of the system is essential,” he said.Rajan was cautious when Gandhi asked him if India could take advantage of the situation thrown up by the pandemic. “These kinds of incidents rarely have positive effects for any country, in general. There are ways countries can take advantage of (it). What I think we can say is that there will have to be a rethinking of everything in the global economy once we are out of this,” he said.“India can find opportunity for its industry and supply chain in the world. It can also help make its voice heard in the global order,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-video-conversation-with-rahul-rajan-suggests-65k-crore-aid-for-poor/story-CtrtvW6HErR16L9m1t9wHP.html
