03-05-2020||India||Javadekar attacks press index, says Indian media has freedom||Asserting that the media enjoys absolute freedom in India, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said on Sunday that surveys that tend to portray a negative picture of press freedom in the country will be exposed.On World Press Freedom Day, Javadekar said in a Twitter post that the media has the power to inform and enlighten people. “Media in India enjoy absolute freedom. We will expose, sooner than later, those surveys that tend to portray bad picture about ‘Freedom of Press’ in India,” he wrote.The minister’s comments come in the backdrop of an annual Reporters Without Borders analysis released last month, which showed that India dhad ropped two notches on a global press freedom index to the 142nd place out of 180 countries.A government official, who requested anonymity, said that while the media in the country was free and even social media was abuzz because of the liberty they received, some surveys did not do justice to the independence the media enjoys in India.“In fact, there are questions about how these surveys collect their evidence on the basis of which they draw conclusions,” said the official.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J P Nadda, in a separate tweet, said the press was the fourth pillar of India’s democracy and played a great role by shaping opinions and creating awareness.“On this World Press Day, I salute our media persons for risking their lives to make public aware of various aspects of COVID-19,” he said.The opposition Congress went on the offensive.“India slipped two places in World Press Freedom Index to 142. As we commemorate World Press Freedom Day, we must remember that the BJP is hell bent on destroying this fourth pillar of democracy and we shouldn’t let that happen,” the opposition party said on its official Twitter handle.“To all the journalists we would say, Daro Mat (don’t be scared),” it said.World Press Freedom Day was proclaimed by the UN General Assembly in December 1993 on the recommendation of UNESCO’s General Conference. Since then, May 3, the anniversary of the Declaration of Windhoek for the development of a free and pluralistic press, has been celebrated as the World Press Freedom Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/javadekar-attacks-press-index-says-indian-media-has-freedom/story-OynQCVL8PnRsX9OrQ4X7cK.html
03-05-2020||India||Digital teaching may become new norm but hurdles remain||Once schools and colleges reopen in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the way teachers teach and students learn seems set for a fundamental change, like so many other hallmarks of life as Indians have known them.Online lessons, for one thing, may be the new normal in a post-Covid-19 world in which the need to avoid close physical contact and practice social distancing will gain greater currency. “The component of online learning is definitely going to increase vis-à-vis face-to-face classroom teaching,” said Pramod Kumar Jain, director of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Banaras Hindu University “ Another important {subject} on which norms will have to be established is social distancing on campus. These are the two immediate impacts of the Covid-19 crisis on education.”The outbreak of Sars-Cov2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease, has disrupted education across the country where schools and colleges were ordered to shut and cancel examinations. The disease and its aftermath have also led to delays in competitive admission tests such as the Joint Entrance Examination that qualifies students for entry into the Indian Institutes of Technology,.leaving the future of tens of thousands of students in uncertainty. Most institutions are awaiting directions from the government to decide when to resume teaching although the higher education regulator, University Grants Commission (UGC), has given them a free hand in dealing with the situation depending on their needs “The restrictions may be eased but till the time public transport does not open up, it will be difficult to have life back to normal in the campuses. However, there is a greater emphasis on online modes and every institute will have to develop its capacity {for teaching online ,” said a senior official at the human resource development (HRD) ministry, which oversees education, requesting anonymity.Most schools have started online lessons during the lockdown, but deficient technology infrastructure and lack of experience loom as potential setbacks in educating and testing students on the Internet.The National Testing Agency, the Central Board of Secondary Education and state education boards aren’t prepared enough to administer a test that students can attempt sitting at home, policymakers said. To be sure, the availability of net connectivity and hardware at the students’ homes is another concern.“This is an area where on which there can be more focus in the coming years. The UGC, which had not pushed for reforms like open book tests etc, has now allowed universities to adopt these options. This experience will have an immense bearing on the way we look at evaluation,” said the HRD ministry official cited above.Students are, meanwhile, waiting anxiously for the dates of incomplete board examinations; the Delhi government says that conducting the exams is not feasible..“Given the disruptions during the lockdown, educational institutions have lost time that was needed in completing the academic courses. While many institutions have adopted the use of online platforms, these have largely been taking the classroom in video conference mode. With teachers not able to view the receptivity of students through their body language and concentration levels, there is limited clarity on the effectiveness of learning,” said Anindya Mallick, partner, Deloitte India.. “Once institutions open for classroom teaching, it will be clear how much students have been able to learn..,” he said. Academic courses/ syllabi are designed with a standard timeline and level of learning/ content in mind.”’Mallick added: “Truncating the course due to curtailment of an academic year is not an optimum learning option. The challenge, therefore, is how to complete the academic year’s course curriculum and ensuring the effectiveness of learning across all students in the class.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-teaching-may-become-new-norm-but-hurdles-remain/story-W9yFeEOCNvx7FqAn7R7dTN.html
03-05-2020||India||Shramik train carrying nearly 1,000 migrants leaves Nagpur for Lucknow||A special Shramik train carrying nearly 1,000 stranded migrant labourers left Nagpur on Sunday evening for Lucknow, the Central Railway (CR) said.Around 977 labourers stuck in Nagpur, Chandrapur, Bhandara, Wardha and Gadchiroli districts in Maharashtra due to the lockdown were brought to Nagpur railway station in different buses after being screened, a statement issued by the CR said.All the passengers were made to sit in the coaches as per the social distancing norms with the help of Railway Protection Force (RPF), Government Railway Police (GRP), city police and the railway staff, it added.Senior railway officials and Nagpur Guardian Minister Nitin Raut was present on the occasion. The train left for Lucknow around 7.30 pm, the statement said.In a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Raut, who is also the state Energy Minister, appreciated the Central government’s move of starting the Shramik special trains for the stranded people.In the letter, Raut requested that the Railway Ministry should bear the expenses of the transportation of passengers to their home states. PTI CLS NP NP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shramik-train-carrying-nearly-1-000-migrants-leaves-nagpur-for-lucknow/story-6IYd37Y7nwwmChA2u7irgI.html
03-05-2020||India||Over 150 migrant workers jump quarantine in Odisha, state government warns of arrest||One of the major concerns for Odisha government in getting a grip over the rising numbers of Covid positive cases in the State when the numbers went up further today after 150 migrant labourers of Ganjam district, who had returned from Surat a day ago, fled from two quarantine centres over lack of food, water and other facilities.Around 200 migrant workers were kept in two quarantine centres set up at Janata High School and Adarsh Vidyalaya in Beguniapada block of Ganjam district after they were brought back from Surat in two buses on Saturday. But on Sunday, 150 of them attempted to flee protesting lack of proper facilities. While the police managed to catch 50 of them, a hunt is on to nab the rest.The labourers alleged that they did not get food, drinking water and other facilities at the two quarantine centres. “After we reached the quarantine centre, we did not get any water to drink or to take bath. We were told that the officials had made arrangements for only 60 people. Why should we stay in quarantine if we don’t get basic facilities,” said one of the migrant labourers working in a diamond polishing units of Surat. “If the government can’t provide food and other facilities to 100 people, how would they ensure stay of lakhs of people who are returning to the state,” the labourer asked.A similar scene played out in another quarantine centre of Khallikote block where the migrant workers created a ruckus over being served breakfast of upma at noon. In a video that has gone viral, the migrant workers, kept in an Adarsh Vidyalaya of Subalaya grampanchayat of Khallikote block, are seen putting the upma served on a disposable plate on ground refusing to eat it. Subalaya sarpanch Kedar Swain, however, said that the matter has been sorted out.As per the guidelines of the Odisha government, all migrant workers who are returning to villages will have to undergo a 14-day mandatory quarantine in the 7,000-odd temporary medical centres. The state government has approved per diem expenditure of Rs 120 on their food for an adult and Rs 100 for a child below 14 years. Similarly, Rs 300 would be spent on personal hygiene kit that includes tooth brush, paste, tongue cleaner, soaps, oil, razor, masks, sanitary pad, mug, bottle and bucket. After successful of quarantine, each of them would get Rs 2,000.The jumping of quarantine came on the heels of two of the Surat-returned migrants in Ganjam testing positive. Both the Surat returnees, aged 17 and 22 years, were asymptomatic and travelled in a bus. Till now, 162 persons in Odisha have tested positive with more than half turning out to be with travel histories to Covid hotspots like Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat.Sounding a warning for those jumping quarantine, chief secretary Asit Tripathy said violators will be arrested as per the Epidemic Act and will not get the Rs 2,000 incentive. “The returnees, who are creating nuisance and escaping from quarantine centres, will be kept at quarantine centres away from their respective home districts. Once caught, these violators will be arrested and their quarantine period will extend,” said Tripathy.“In the last two months, we have been able to contain Covid-19 spread in Odisha in comparison to other states. A lot of frontline workers are working 24x7 across the state and their contribution is commendable. We will continue the good work and will not comprise it at any level,” he said, requesting migrants coming by buses to avoid overcrowding and maintain social distancing. “Buses must have a valid pass, without which entry into the State borders will be denied. Overcrowded buses will also be denied entry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-150-migrant-workers-jump-quarantine-in-odisha-state-government-warns-of-arrest/story-sFSrkdf91WDmtmcYPRMsBL.html
03-05-2020||India||Noted Kannada poet KS Nissar Ahmed dies at 84||Well known Kannada poet K Sheikh Haider Nissar Ahmed died in Bangalore at the age of 84 on Sunday after a bout of illness. Nissar Ahmed was a winner of Padma Shri, Sahitya academy award, Karnataka Rajyotsava award as well as Pampa and Nadoja awards apart from several others.Ahmed was considered a key pillar of the Navya movement in Kannada literature. While he is known for his several notable works like Manasu Gandhi Bazaru, Mandondige Mathukathe, Sanje Idare Mele and various other offerings, it was Nithyothasava a poetry collection he released in 1974 which brought him eternal fame.One of the songs in the collection ‘Jogada Siri Belakanalli’ which celebrates the natural beauty of Karnataka is almost seen as an unofficial state anthem. Ahmed was also the President of the 73rd Kannada Sahitya Sammelan held in 2007 at Shivamogga. Leaders across party lines condoled the death of the poet with CM Yediyurappa saying his death was a ‘irreparable loss’ to Kannada language and its literature. Former CM Siddaramiah, KPCC President D K Shivakumar, JDS leader H D Kumaraswamy and several others have condoled the demise of Nissar Ahmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noted-kannada-poet-ks-nissar-ahmed-dies-at-84/story-wDLUx40S9nmS58lFYFZ1iN.html
03-05-2020||India||Mark separate triage area for flu-like cases: Health ministry to non-Covid hospitals||The Union health ministry has directed non-Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospitals to identify a separate triage and holding area, away from the main outpatient department (OPD), for patients with influenza-like illnesses, to check the rising cases of health-care workers getting infected by the disease.The guidelines issued by the ministry are meant for health-care workers and others working in non-Covid hospitals and non-Covid treatment areas of hospitals that have Covid blocks.“These are precautionary guidelines that all non-Covid hospitals must follow. Not everyone needs a personal protection equipment (PPE); there has to be a rational use of these kits which is why the ministry has explained in great detail as to where all PPE kits, especially the entire set, is required to be worn mandatorily,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting not to be identified.In the past, there have been instances of spread of infection reported from a few non-covid hospitals such as Delhi State Cancer Institute in Delhi, Brijesh Banger Memorial Hospital in Bhilwara Rajasthan, or Mumbai’s Wockhardt Hospital among othersThere is a need for rational use of PPE kits based on the risk profile of the health-care worker, says the health ministry.Technical teams working on the guidelines divide the risk profile into three categories--mild, moderate and high, wherein mostly those working in the high-risk areas need to wear the entire PPE set comprising N-95 mask, coverall, goggle, latex examination gloves and shoe cover.As per the guidelines, all areas in the OPDs and in-patient departments (IPDs) fall under the mild to moderate categories, with N-95 masks , goggles, latex examination gloves and face shields being enough to handle patients. Even sanitation workers, who clean frequently touched surfaces, floors, and change linen, have a low risk profile that needs them to wear triple-layer medical masks and latex examination gloves.The area in the hospital that would require healthcare workers to wear the entire PPE set because of the high risk of contracting infection is when attending to severely ill patients while performing aerosol generating procedures in the emergency department. Also, wearing a PPE set is mandated for health-care workers when they manage patients of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) in an ambulance. “Following overall infection control and prevention guidelines for hospitals is extremely important to reduce the risk of spread of infection. Even if there is a case reported from a hospital, the health ministry has earlier issued detailed do’s and don’ts that must be followed,” the official cited above added. The ministry has also been reiterating the fact there was no shortage of PPE kits in India, and domestic manufactures have begun manufacturing the kits that will soon help in matching the country’s requirements.The total projected demand for PPE kits till June has been estimated to be 20.10 million. Orders to the tune of 22.20 million have already been placed, of which orders for about 14.20 million have been placed with domestic manufacturers, and 8 million kits are being imported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mark-separate-triage-area-for-flu-like-cases-health-ministry-to-non-covid-hospitals/story-uCzoXblK54n6okqfaEpFFK.html
03-05-2020||India||Centre sends public health teams to districts worst affected by Covid-19||Twenty central public health teams have been constituted and are being deployed in as many affected districts having high case load of Covid-19 in nine states and Delhi to identify the gaps and support them in proper implementation of cluster containment plans and surveillance measures. According to the Union Health Ministry, these teams will be deployed in 20 districts -- Mumbai, Thane, Pune in Maharashtra; Bhopal, Indore in Madhya Pradesh; Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara in Gujarat; South East and Central Districts in Delhi; Jaipur and Jodhpur in Rajasthan; Agra and Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh; Hyderabad in Telangana; Chennai in Tamil Nadu; Kolkata in West Bengal; and Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna in Andhra Pradesh.  These teams comprising experts from National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), AIIMS, JIPMER and All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health among others will submit reports to additional chief secretary/principal secretary/secretary (health) of respective states detailing their observations, areas for improvement and recommendations, according to an office memorandum issued on May 2. “A decision has been taken in the Ministry of Health to deploy public health teams to assist health departments in managing Covid-19 outbreaks in selected districts,” said an official. The regional directors under the ministry of health in these nine states and one Union Territory will coordinate the deployment of these teams with the state health authorities. All the 20 districts are in the red zone. The ministry has listed 130 districts in the country in ‘red’ zone, 284 in ‘orange’ zone and 319 in ‘green’ zone on the basis of incidence of cases of Covid-19, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback. This classification of districts is to be followed by states and UTs till a week post May 3 for containment operations. The list will be revised on a weekly basis or earlier and communicated to states for further follow-up action. India registered a record jump of 83 deaths and 2,487 cases in 24 hours as the number of Covid-19 fatalities rose to 1,306 and total cases climbed to 40,263 on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry. The number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 28,070, while 10,886 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said. The total number of cases also include 111 foreign nationals. According to the health ministry data updated in the evening, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country is from Maharashtra at 12,296, followed by Gujarat (5,055), Delhi (4,122),Madhya Pradesh (2,846), Rajasthan (2,772), Tamil Nadu (2,757) and Uttar Pradesh (2,626). The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 1,583 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,063 in Telangana. It has risen to 922 in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sends-public-health-teams-to-districts-worst-affected-by-covid-19/story-c74Of0xIQGWZ2WWkmb29AN.html
03-05-2020||India||Bihar BJP boss attacks Nitish Kumar over lockdown handling, JD (U) defends||Differences have cropped up in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in Bihar over the handling of the coronavirus pandemic, the lockdown and the evacuation of stranded migrants and students.BJP leaders including the state unit’s president have raised serious questions over the style of functioning of the state government. On its part, the BJP ‘s alliance partner Janata Dal (United) has defended the “Nitish Model” of dealing with lockdown as the most effective.The latest spark came after BJP’s Bihar president Sanjay Jaiswal in a Facebook post questioned state government’s “lackluster approach” in dealing with the migrant issue.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“The problem with Bihar government is that none of their officials clarify before the media as to which types of shops will open in which zone or which train is coming to Bihar and where to get registered. As a result of the state government’s attitude, people are posting on social media whatever they want. The state government should take lessons from the Yogi government in UP. UP chief secretary briefs the media very well,”Jaiswal, the West Champaran MP said in his post.Only on Saturday, the state government had issued clarifications on reports that nodal officers have gone incommunicado and released fresh helpline numbers.The state government also announced details of trains which would be coming with migrants and students. The BJP which is the junior partner in the coalition now finds itself in an awkward position after Jaiswal’s post. A section of BJP leaders led by MLC Nawal Kishore Yadav, tried to control the damage by praising chief minister Nitish Kumar.“There is no better CM in the country than Nitish Kumar,” he said and refused to draw parallels with UP CM Yogi Adityanath. “I do not know anything about Yogi government’s work. He (Nitish Kumar) is a better CM that is why BJP is supporting him,” he said.The JD (U) came out in defence of Nitish Kumar and said that the Bihar CM does not believe in “populist measures.’“Bihar did not commit the mistakes which states like UP or Punjab did. Bihar’s CM’s measures have been more protective, more answerable than his counterparts of UP and Punjab. Had he not adhered to the Centre’s guidelines, the number of positive cases would have been more,” argued JD (U) national principal general secretary, K C Tyagi. “Bihar model has saved Bihar,” he added and said that every party has the right to place its view.But Jaiswal’s barb has given the opposition another opportunity to attack Nitish Kumar’s government.RJD spokesperson Bhai Birendra said that the government needs to reply on issues raised by the BJP president. “When we raised the issue, it annoyed the JD (U) leaders. We had been demanding extraction of students but the Nitish Kumar government turned it down citing lockdown norms,” he said.Leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said that the state government has no definite action plan to bring people stuck in different states. “The nodal officers have switched off their mobile phones or cannot be reached. The state government is also charging tickets from migrants,” he said.The evacuation of stranded migrant workers and students stranded in different states had snowballed into a major issue with Nitish Kumar insisting that there would be no evacuation unless the Centre changed the norms which it did on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-bjp-boss-attacks-nitish-kumar-over-lockdown-handling-jd-u-defends/story-I1wttaZtUDqbraJHdxttHK.html
03-05-2020||India||Maharashtra’s retired top cops donate PPE kits to police staff battling Covid-19||Retired police personnel have joined hands to provide safety kits to their juniors who are working in the frontline in the battle to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. Former police officers of the 1983 batch have donated face shields, hand sanitizers and gloves to working policemen since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. The retirees include former ACPs and senior inspectors who donated the protective material in different regions and districts in the past four weeks.D D Wadmare, retired ACP from the 1983 batch said, “I was in the services for 31 years and have seen many critical situations during my service but nothing can beat this lockdown. It is emotionally very difficult to leave our family at home and be strong while on duty to control whatever situation comes our way. India, is currently, fighting the Covid-19 virus and illiteracy as well. As an ex-cop, I know how the crowd behaves and the hatred they have for policemen. They have many doubts in their mind and so answering them with a calm mind is always on priority for police officers.”“My eyes are always on the news and when I got to know that a few cops are ill and affected with the disease, I decided to distribute safety gear. I got in touch with my former colleagues who are also retired and shared my thoughts. They appreciated my idea and helped me with more funds. So far I have distributed over 2,000 safety kits to various police stations like Powai, Sakinaka, MIDC, Sahar, Thane,- Rural: Mira Road and Bhayandar division, Palghar and many more on my list. My other mates are joining the initiative and we have placed an order for more safety kits. This is giving me mental peace that our Corona Warriors are safe and can confidently handle the situation. A family friend name Vicky Motvani, a businessman, also came forward and contributed towards the safety kits for the policemen,” Wadmare said.Rajan Ghule, a retired ACP (1983 batch) from the Dindoshi division, said, “My friend Wadmare has always been known for being the best in his services, be it as a cop during his tenure or now as a retired police officer. His thought of reaching out to the warriors by distributing the safety kits was really great. As soon as I got to know about it, I requested him to get kits for the officers in my locality. An officer out on duty has to keep themselves calm and strong during their working hours and knowing their other colleagues are getting infected would put their morale down. This initiative will boost the morale of the police officers out on the field to handle any situation coming their way if they have the safety kits with them.”Khanderao Patil, a retired ACP from Mahim division said, “This is a critical situation in India and through this initiative I can only help in giving my 5% to the department. Coming home safely to your family is the best feeling a warrior can have during a situation like this. The safety kits will ensure that their basic safety is under control in any given situation.”Popatmaharaj Tiwatne, another retired ACP said, “The cops are the first source to reach the public and have to travel in the deepest area for research along with medical teams. Their safety is as important as the doctors so distribution of these protective kits will encourage them to fight Covid-19 in a better way. Being a former cop, I know a police officer is the primarily connect for the public in their area and they have to handle any given situation during this time. Crowds cannot be bifurcated in infected and non-infected category. So, the safety gear will help them be on the safer side of the situation.”Retired ACP Dinesh Agarwal from the 1985 batch got in touch with other cops as soon as he got to know about Wadmare’s initiatives. He was overwhelmed with the thought and shared his contribution to get 500 face shields and distributed them in most affected areas like Dharavi and Shahunagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-retired-top-cops-donate-ppe-kits-to-police-staff-battling-covid-19/story-28F44V1oGk7v9fbD7pm4GL.html
03-05-2020||India||Public transport, private offices to reopen in Goa from May 4||The Goa government will restart public transport including buses, taxis and auto rickshaws but only with 50% capacity and with a limit that they operate between 7am and 7pm, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant announced. Addressing a press conference to elaborate on the fresh guidelines that will be effective up to March 20, the chief minister said that most services and economic activity will be allowed to resume within the state including shops selling non essential items and liquor stores but will have to close by 6pm so that everyone can be home by 7pm. “Only essential workers like medical workers and other essential services like shops selling essentials and milk will be allowed to be open after 7pm,” Sawant said. “Goa is a green zone and there has not been any fresh cases since April 3 and the last patient was discharged on April 17. It is important that Goa remains a green zone which is why we have to continue with some restrictions,” Sawant said. Restaurants, street eateries, beach shacks and drinking in public places as well as public gathering, malls, gymnasia, community halls, religious services continue to remain prohibited as part of the national guidelines. The restart of public transport will bring a huge relief to industries, private offices as well as government servants who were forced to either travel by their own vehicles or government operated buses, whose services were limited. Municipal markets are set to open in a limited way, as it is expected that normalcy will take some more time to resume. Liquor traders have however said they expect a 70% dip in sales given that tourists, who are a large chunk of consumers in the state will not be around. “Because of the absence of tourists, liquor stores, when they re-open, are expected to witness a 70 per cent drop in sales,” Dattaprasad Naik the president of the All Goa liquor traders association, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-transport-private-offices-to-reopen-in-goa-from-may-4/story-sbBVI7mRozdUQV4Q8UFqNP.html
03-05-2020||India||35 new Covid-19 cases reported in Jammu & Kashmir, total crosses 700 mark||Thirty five new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday taking the total number of people infected with the disease in the union territory to 701. After days of lull in the union territory of Ladakh, 19 more people tested positive for the coronavirus disease taking the total number of patients to 41.Officials said that 34 positive cases were reported from Kashmir valley where the number of cases has risen to 640 while one new person also tested positive in Jammu division where the total number of cases has reached 61.“Finally, J&K breaks the 2000 tests a day barrier. Over 2500 tests conducted in a day with 35 new positives and 33 recoveries. Total cases now 701,” Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said.The new cases were reported from Anantnag, Baramulla, Shopian, Kupwara, Budgam, Pulwama and Sambha districts.“Two patients recovered from Jammu division while 31 from Kashmir division,” a government statement read.Meanwhile, the union territory of Ladakh saw a sudden spike in the number of people testing positive for Covid-19. While 18 new cases were reported in Leh district, one woman tested positive in Kargil.Rigzin Samphel, Commissioner Secretary Health and Medical Education of Ladakh, said that 16 new Covid-19 positive cases were from Chuchot Yokma village, one from Agling and one from Leh Town. He informed that one new positive case was also reported in Sanku, Kargil.District Leh has been declared a red zone. “Results of 78 samples came yesterday evening of which 18 samples were found positive in Leh. It is a major jump since for the past so many days we had no cases and suddenly there are 18 positive cases. The district has been classified as a red zone and there will be more restrictions with no relaxations given by MHA,” Deputy Commissioner Leh, Sachin Kumar said.In Jammu and Kashmir, an elderly woman of Srinagar’s Batpora in Dal Lake area had died due to the disease on Tuesday. So far seven people have died in Kashmir while there has been one death in Jammu.Jammu had recorded its first positive case on March 9, Kashmir’s first positive came on March 18.The official statement said that so far 287 patients - 234 in Kashmir and 53 in Jammu division – have recovered from the infectious disease.There are 399 active Covid-19 positive cases in Kashmir while seven of them are in Jammu.The government statement said that till date 75,838 people have been enlisted for observation with 10,751 in home quarantine (including facilities operated by the government), 406 in hospital isolation, 183 in hospital quarantine, 7,104 in home surveillance while 57,386 have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/35-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-jammu-kashmir-total-crosses-700-mark/story-8r9JKmYqG8Joleq5LelztN.html
03-05-2020||India||JK Police salute Sageer Pathan @Qazi, a highly decorated anti-terrorism expert||Jammu and Kashmir Police’s sub-inspector Sageer Ahmad Pathan, who was killed along with four other security personnel during an encounter with terrorists in Handwara on Saturday night, was a counter-terrorism specialist who earned three out of turn promotions during his glorious career, the J&K police said. Sageer Ahmad Pathan was born in 1978 in Trad Karnah of Kupwara District in Jammu and Kashmir and was appointed as a constable in the armed wing of Jammu and Kashmir Police in 1999.“He volunteered to work for the Police SOG (Special Operations Group), an elite counter-terrorist force in 2006 and continued their till date because of his outstanding performance,” said a statement from the police department.Pathan was killed in an operation at Chanjmulla in Handwara along with commanding officer Colonel Ashutosh Sharma of 21 Rashtriya Rifles, Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh Kumar and Lance Naik Dinesh Singh of the same unit, while rescuing civilians taken hostage by terrorists belonging to Pakistan-based terror outfit Lashkar-e- Toiba.Yesterday, when inputs were received about the presence of terrorists in village Chanjmulla, Handwara, Sageer led the SOG team under the command of Handwara SP along with the Colonel Ashutosh Sharma and launched the operation. He was part of the original team which went in to evacuate the civilian inmates taken hostage by terrorists hiding in a house.The team rescued the inmates safely but came under heavy fire from the terrorists, during the evacuation process and died.The police department said Pathan had led various successful anti-terror operations as part of the SOG. “In recognition of his immense contribution, he was granted three out of turn promotions and rose from the rank of a constable to sub-inspector over the years,” the department said.Sageer was honoured with various medals including Sheri-Kashmir Police Medal for Gallantry in 2009 and the Police Medal for Gallantry by President of India in 2011.He had also won DGP J&K Commendation Medal and GOC-in-C, Northern Command Commendation Disc.The operation was concluded successfully on Sunday morning with the recovery of two terrorists eliminated in the encounter, along with arms and ammunition. One of the slain terrorists is identified as Haider, a Pak national working in Lashkar-e-Toiba in Kashmir for the past couple of years. The identity of the other terrorist is being ascertained, said the police.“All Ranks of JKP salute the brave heart martyrs of police SI Sageer and other members of the team led by Colonel Ashutosh,” the statement adds. Sageer is survived by three daughters, a son and aged parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-police-salute-sageer-pathan-qazi-a-highly-decorated-anti-terrorism-expert/story-cCdSiK0CLLALR6amTeWNKO.html
03-05-2020||India||Singer Rahul Pandey on a cover release spree!||Playback singer and composer Rahul Pandey, who has entertained us with his songs in films like ‘Munna Michael’, ‘Hero’ and ‘Happy Ending’, feels coming back to his home town, Prayagraj, is like you are in living in food’s paradise. “I love it’s food, people and the musical culture. Both my paternal and maternal sides are based there and so much miss them. I was there this February for my brother’s wedding and what a blast we all had,” said the versatile singer over phone. Rahul remembers his initial days when he had reached Mumbai from Kolkata with degree but mind and soul for music. “Whatever I have learnt in Kolkata was not enough to obtain work, so I started a job in a music house and tried hard to get work but it went in vain. I knew I had learnt music and I trained in both Indian and Western music extensively but still the big break was evading me. Then, one of my friends helped me reaching my mentors and composers Sachin-Jigar who finally gave me a break in ‘Happy Ending’ shot on Saif Ali Khan.”Last year he sung and composed a Hindi song for a German film ‘Checker Tobi und das Geheimnis unseres Planeten.’ The film has been well received internationally but could not have a theatrical release in India. “In India we don’t release German films but after much persuasion the makers have agreed to officially release the song ‘Sapney…’ in India. I am absolutely thrilled as this is my first international project that went on to be so big. I am honoured to a part of an international film so early in my career.”He got this project after the director of the German film happened to hear his song ‘Jab We Met’ from film ‘Hero’ and wanted his song also to be on the same lines.Talking about his days in quarantine, the UPite says, “Lately, I have been releasing a lot of covers for my listeners. The list includes ‘Enna Sona,’ ‘Sooraj Dooba Hai, ‘Dill Diya Gallan,’ and more. Also, recently I have recreated 90’s hit number ‘Ho Gayi Hai Mohabbat’ by Aslam and Shibani Kashyap for a music company and the response is phenomenal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/singer-rahul-pandey-on-a-cover-release-spree/story-M2thDj13vUQK4nXNIz4kqL.html
03-05-2020||India||J&K cop volunteered to fight terrorists for 14 years, then again at Handwara||Sageer Ahmed Pathan, the police officer who made the supreme sacrifice in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Saturday evening, had volunteered to join the Special Operations Group of Jammu and Kashmir Police nearly 14 ago. When a team of four army officers and jawans led by Colonel Ashutosh Sharma decided to walk into the Handwara house to pull out the family that was believed to have been held hostage, Pathan alias Qazi stepped forward. Like he always had.That was the last anyone saw him, alive.Pathan was also the natural choice to join the risky mission.Also read | ‘Assalamualaikum’: How one word changed the course of Handwara encounterThe 41-year-old, a father of three daughters and a son, had been the go-to man for many in the 21 Rashtriya Rifles, the army’s counter-insurgency unit. He was not only courageous but was also familiar with the district. This was his home.Pathan was born in Trad village of Kupwara district’s Karnah tehsil that is located right along the Line of Control in 1978. He grew up around this place and joined the J&K Armed Police in 1999.In 2006, he made the switch and volunteered to join the Special Operations Group, the specialised anti-militancy team. He was good at his job. So good that in the next 14 years, he landed himself three out-of-turn promotions and a bunch of awards and commendation certificates.Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh said during his posting in SOG, he led various successful anti-terror operations.”In recognition of his immense contribution, he was granted three out-of-turn promotions and he rose from the rank of a constable to sub-inspector over the years,” he said. Pathan, or Qazi as many called him, honoured with Police Medal for Gallantry in 2011, Sher-i-Kashmir Police Medal for Gallantry in 2009, besides DGP Commendation Medal and GOC-in-C, Northern Command Commendation Disc.Also read | ‘Went in to rescue civilians’: Colonel, Major among 5 killed in action in HandwaraPathan was incharge of the SOG team that accompanied the 21 Rashtriya Rifles and the district police when the operation to search the terrorists was launched. ”He was part of the original team which went in to evacuate the civilian inmates in the target house who were taken hostage by the hiding terrorists,” a Jammu and Kashmir police statement said.“The team could safely rescue the inmates but came under heavy fire from the terrorists, during the evacuation process and attained martyrdom,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-cop-volunteered-to-fight-terrorists-for-14-years-then-again-at-handwara/story-uKLCJekYbzBCy57sJCHdNN.html
03-05-2020||India||Mumbai’s Dharavi records 94 new Covid-19 cases; its highest single-day jump||Ninety four new coronavirus cases were reported from Mumbai’s Dharavi on Sunday, the highest single-day spike so far in Asia’s largest slum.Two people succumbed to the highly contagious disease in the last 24 hours taking the total number of deaths in Dharavi to 20. Dharavi also breached the 500-mark on Sunday with the total number of Covid-19 positive cases climbing to 590.Despite a large number of Covid-19 cases being reported daily from the large slum cluster, no deaths were reported among Covid-19 positive patients for two days in a row after which reports of the two deaths emerged on Sunday.India registered a record jump of 83 deaths and 2,487 cases in 24 hours on Sunday, as the number of Covid-19 fatalities rose to 1,306 while the total number of coronavirus cases climbed to 40,263, health ministry data indicated.The number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 28,070, while 10,886 people have recovered and been discharged.The total number of Covid-19 cases in the country, also include 111 foreign nationals.Of the 83 deaths reported since Saturday evening, 36 were from Maharashtra, 26 from Gujarat, 11 from Madhya Pradesh, three each from Rajasthan and Delhi, two from Telangana and one each from Tamil Nadu and Bihar.Maharashtra, the worst-hit state in the coronavirus pandemic accounts for the maximum number of nationwide fatalities with 521 deaths. Gujarat follows second with 262 deaths, followed by Madhya Pradesh with 156, Rajasthan 65, Delhi 64, Uttar Pradesh 43, and West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh 33 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-s-dharavi-records-94-new-covid-19-cases-its-highest-single-day-jump/story-QJffNvc5tP2GNB97aNYHZI.html
03-05-2020||India||Covid-19 in India: 42 BSF personnel infected by virus so far||The Border Security Force (BSF) said on Sunday that 42 of its personnel had been infected with Covid-19, so far. Of these, 31 belong to a 98-member-unit that was deployed with Delhi Police at Markaz headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin and in Chandni Mahal area. Around 58 members of this 126th battalion of BSF have tested negative while five reports are awaited. Earlier on Sunday, the Delhi headquarters of the CRPF was sealed after a driver posted there was tested positive for the disease. On Saturday, CRPF’s 31st battalion in Delhi had reported 135 positive cases.The central paramilitary forces have been asked by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to maintain safety standards for its personnel, sanitise its work places, work with reduced staff strength wherever possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-in-india-42-bsf-personnel-infected-by-virus-so-far/story-6GcDmR9QsXOuhSvU4udsCP.html
03-05-2020||India||Native village remembers Col Sharma as simple, amiable person||An eerie silence enveloped Uttar Pradesh’s Parwana Mahmodpur, the native village of Colonel Ashutosh Sharma on Sunday as news broke of his death in an anti-terror operation in Jammu and Kashmir’s Handwara.Almost every villager visited the braveheart’s paternal house as the news spread. Colonel Sharma’s uncle Dinesh Chandra Pathak said that they came to know about the tragic news through some relatives at about 8 am.Remembering Sharma as a handsome, simple and amiable person, his cousin Lokesh Pathak said he visited the village nearly a year-and-a-half ago to take part in the rituals after their grandmother’s death.He completed his graduation from Bulandshahr. Since childhood, he nurtured the dream of joining the army and he did so, said his uncle Dinesh.Colonel Sharma, 45, who is survived by his wife and a 12-year-old daughter, was twice awarded the Sena Medal for gallantry. Although his family shifted to Jaipur, where his elder brother Piyush lives with their mother and other family members after the death of his father seven years ago, their other relatives still live in the village, said Nand Lal Pathak, another uncle of the officer.“Initially it was thought that the last rites would be performed here but now it has been decided that the last rites will take place in Jaipur,” Pathak said. He has approached the district administration to issue passes to them so that they could go to Jaipur to attend the last rites of his nephew.Colonel Sharma was the younger son of the late Shambhu Dutt Pathak, who was a soil conservation officer, and Sudha Pathak.Colonel Sharma, the commanding officer of 21 Rashtriya Rifles unit, and four others laid down their lives in a military operation earlier in the day. Other armymen killed in the encounter include Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh Kumar and Lance Naik Dinesh Singh. Sub-inspector Shakeel Qazi of Jammu and Kashmir police was also killed in the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/native-village-remembers-col-sharma-as-simple-amiable-person/story-GexhUm61RnjIBix8QUxdJM.html
03-05-2020||India||Congress will again form govt in MP after by-polls: Kamal Nath||Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath claimed on Sunday that the Congress party would again form the government in the state after the by-polls to 24 state assembly seats are held.Kamal Nath, whose government lost the majority in the state assembly after a rebellion by 22 party MLAs, said, “The voters are wise enough to understand the BJP’s designs. The voters of the 22 constituencies, from where Congress MLAs resigned in March, know well that their representatives betrayed them and their party. The BJP will face anti-incumbency in the by-polls whereas, the Congress enjoys the trust of people.” The rebellion had compelled Nath to tender his resignation from the chief minister’s post on March 20.In reply to a question he said the rebellion was unexpected.“Neither myself nor Digvijaya Singh ever believed that 22 of the Congress MLAs would be lured to betray the party and part ways with it,” he said.He also played down the allegations levelled by the rebels that he didn’t listen to them and ignored development work in their constituencies.“I have got a complete list of works recommended by the MLAs and done by the then government. But I don’t want to go into it. I am confident that our party is going to win the by-polls convincingly,” Nath said.On allegations that senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh used to run his government from behind the curtains, Kamal Nath said, “I never outsourced the government. I ran my government. It’s wrong to say that the MLAs were upset. I used to have meetings with ministers and officers to take decisions on public welfare schemes. At the same time, I used to meet MLAs too.”He also responded to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s allegations that the then Congress government did nothing to contain the coronavirus spread in the state and said his government undertook adequate measures including testing for the disease. Nath said it was under the BJP government that the coronavirus situation worsened in the state.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesChief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that the previous Congress government had created a “chaotic” situation in the state. “The real heroes and true leaders are those who helped in uprooting a corrupt government. Jyotiraditya Scindia is such a leader for whom the interest of the state is supreme. That’s why he parted ways with the corrupt government, along with his friends,” he added.Chouhan said he also held the Congress rebels in high regard since they decided to put their political careers at stake to dislodge a “self-centred” government.“Those who worship a particular family and don’t think of the public interest can’t run their government for long even if they are able to get power by mistake,” Chouhan said.The Congress formed the government in the state on December 17, 2018, after securing 114 seats in the 230-member state assembly in the November elections. The government was also supported by 7 MLAs including 4 independent, two BSP and one SP MLAs.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19After the resignation of 22 Congress MLAs in March, the Congress is left with 92 MLAs, while the BJP has 107. Other two seats fell vacant after two MLAs--one each from the Congress and the BJP-- died. The present strength of the state assembly is 206 and the reduced majority mark is at 104.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-will-again-form-govt-in-mp-after-by-polls-kamal-nath/story-MUGWHDKJ5gSlpXQwlSwHaO.html
03-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Kerala flattens Covid-19 graph for now, registers no new cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala flattens Covid-19 graph for now, registers no new casesKerala has successfully flattened the Covid-19 graph as of now as no fresh cases have been reported on Sunday, state health minister K K Shailaja said. Read more Assam tweaks curfew hours to 6 pm to 6 am during extended lockdownThe Assam government on Sunday announced a statewide curfew between 6 pm and 6 am starting from Monday on all days during the extended lockdown in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreUsing wit and jest, UT adviser clarifies Chandigarh’s odd-even rule on TwitterOn Saturday night, Chandigarh residents were pleasantly surprised by UT adviser’s dry humour, as he sought to answer their queries. Read more Bike-borne miscreants stab insurance agent outside his house in LudhianaThree unidentified assailants stabbed an insurance agent in front of his house in Bachittar Nagar of Jamalpur area on Sunday morning. Read moreIndian businessman dies of coronavirus in UAEA 62-year-old Indian businessman has died in Abu Dhabi after contracting the novel coronavirus, according to a media report. Read moreGirl from Manipur sings Neil Young’s Heart of Gold, her amazing voice wins people overIf the phrase ‘big things come in small packages’ had a face, it would be of this little girl S Horyaowon Pheirei. Hailing from Kachai Village, Manipur, she became an Internet sensation after a video of the little one singing a beautiful rendition of a song by Neil Young went viral. Read more100 Hours 100 Stars: In conversation with Javed Akhtar and Benny DayalFamous screenwriter, lyricist and poet Javed Akhtar spoke with RJ Peeyush during the 100 Hours 100 Stars initiative by Fever Network where he explained his quirky Twitter bio which reads: A poet, lyricist, scriptwriter, atheist and a die-hard optimist. Read moreiForIndia concert latest updates: Madhuri Dixit performs song with her son, Jack Black says he is with IndiaThe country is geared up on Sunday for a massive online concert called iForIndia with top Bollywood and global stars, including rock legend Mick Jagger, to raise funds for those affected by the coronavirus pandemic. Read moreWatch: Stranded migrant labourers in Gujarat’s Dahod pelt stones at cops||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kerala-flattens-covid-19-graph-for-now-registers-no-new-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-OIQ5fVjeEuARd8q2sncGPO.html
03-05-2020||India||Mizoram brings ordinance for stricter punishment for lockdown violations||Mizoram on Sunday, promulgated an ordinance making the punishment for violations of lockdown measures more stringent and giving more power to the state to manage the Covid outbreak. Rajasthan had passed a similar ordinance yesterday.The ordinance was approved in a state cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Zoramthanga.The Ordinance for Containment and Prevention of COVID-19 provisions for stringent punishment for those violating the lockdown regime and creating public nuisance, said a government statement issued on Sunday.The Cabinet also decided that the state government will make arrangements to facilitate the return of Mizoram residents stranded in other parts of the country through trains, as permitted by the Centre, officials said. The Cabinet’s approval of the ordinance comes a week after eight teenagers were beaten up by the members of a local Covid-19 task force allegedly for defying the lockdown orders. According to the Union health ministry data, the state has reported only one case of coronavirus so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-brings-ordinance-for-stricter-punishment-for-lockdown-violations/story-2dGt7GQvHzjxvaA8ZYjfvI.html
03-05-2020||India||Strong winds, thundershowers likely in northwest India over next 2 days: IMD||Thundershowers and hailstorms have started affecting several parts of northwest India as forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) last week. Strong winds and thundershowers is likely to continue impacting the region on Monday and Tuesday due to an intense western disturbance and moisture incursion from both the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal.“There is heating in many parts of the country and (also) a lot of moisture incursion from the Arabian Sea. All conditions are favourable for thunderstorm activity over northwest India. Western Disturbances (WDs) pass through the region round the year but this time we are also seeing some intense WDs,” said M Mohapatra, the director general of IMD.IMD’s Sunday bulletin said due to strong southeasterly and easterly winds from May 3 to 6 in the lower levels over northern plains of India, along with fresh moisture incursion from both the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, fairly widespread rain and thunderstorms as well as lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) is likely over this region. Peak activity over the Western Himalayas is likely on May 4 and 5, while peak activity over the northern plains, including Uttarakhand, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and western Uttar Pradesh is likely on May 5.“Already hailstorm has started impacting south Haryana and some parts of Rajasthan. Rest of the northern states are experiencing thunderstorms and rain. This year we had a pattern of unusually high number of WDs since January, when there were nine WDs against a normal of three-four. In April there were seven WDs,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of regional weather forecasting centre. “It’s too early to link it with climate change. We have to see if this pattern sustains for a few years,” he added.Scientists earlier told HT that such changes in the WD pattern may be due to weather anomalies in Europe, because WDs originate as low-pressure systems in the Mediterranean or they could also be linked to favourable sea temperatures over the Pacific.The maximum temperature on May 2 reached 44 to 45 degrees C in parts of Vidarbha, Marathwada and southwest Madhya Pradesh. Heat wave conditions are likely to develop over these areas in the next three-four days, according to IMD. Also, Cyclone ‘Amphan’ may develop over the south Andaman Sea in the next three-four days||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strong-winds-thundershowers-likely-in-northwest-india-over-next-2-days-imd/story-kT6CboTr5NJvXEnkE2F38O.html
03-05-2020||India||Assam tweaks curfew hours to 6 pm to 6 am during extended lockdown||The Assam government on Sunday announced a statewide curfew between 6 pm and 6 am starting from Monday on all days during the extended lockdown in view of Covid-19 pandemic.The state government’s directive is different from the Union home ministry guidelines issued earlier which proposed curfew from 7 pm and 7 am. While no reason was given for the change, officials said the step was taken as sunrise and sunset in the state happen earlier than other parts of the country.“Directives have been issued to police to take stringent action against curfew violators. Hence, we request everyone to ensure that the restrictions are complied with,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said while announcing the curfew.However, pharmacies, media houses, medical establishments, fire services, ambulances and government vehicles on official duty will be exempted from the curfew.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.From Monday, oupatients departments at hospitals, doctors’ clinics, veterinary clinics, pathological laboratories and standalone shops in rural and urban areas will be allowed to resume services.Shops in market places will be allowed to open on a 1/3 policy i.e. there should be a gap of two closed shops between two open shops. The rule won’t apply for bookstores, grocery shops and pharmacies.All offices and business establishments will have to close at 5 pm in order to allow employees, customers to reach homes before the 6 pm curfew. Auto-rickshaws, cycle-rickshaws, taxis and private vehicles will be allowed to operate with one driver and a maximum of two passengers.Two-wheelers will be allowed to ply with pillion riding allowed for women and children below 12 years of age. All construction activities will be allowed to resume with 50% workforce. E-commerce services will also start.Buses will be allowed to ply within a district and outside with 50% passengers. Tea stalls, juice stalls, restaurants, ice-cream parlours etc. can open but only take away and home delivery will be allowed.From Monday government and private offices will open with 50% employees. But women employees with children under 5 years of age are not needed to attend office.Barber shops, saloons, spas, beauty parlours etc. won’t be allowed to open, but barbers and beauticians can provide home service. In view of African Swine Fever detected in pigs in Assam, no vehicles carrying livestock will be allowed entry into the state.“All relaxations are only for districts in green zones, but earlier restrictions will continue for red and orange zones. Morigaon, Goalpara, Dhubri and Bongaigaon districts are in orange zone,” Sarma said.“We would like to stress that wearing masks and maintenance of social distancing norms will have to be followed. Persons above 65 years and those under 12 years will not be allowed to step out of their homes unless for medical emergencies,” he added. Sarma said that besides the guidelines issues by the state government, the earlier restrictions and relaxations allowed by the Union home ministry will continue to be followed.Assam has recorded 42 Covid-19 cases so far out of which nine are active cases, 32 have been discharged and one has died.Earlier in the day, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal appealed to people to follow lockdown guidelines.“I appeal to the people of Assam to follow the guidelines of the lockdown effectively especially with regards to social distancing, wearing of masks of maintaining hygiene,” Sonowal said.On Sunday, the state government also constituted an eight member economic advisory committee to revive economy. The committee headed by retired IAS officer Subhash Das would study various aspects of Assam’s economy and suggest recommendations to boost it through systematic interventions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-tweaks-curfew-hours-to-6-pm-to-6-am-during-extended-lockdown/story-Q3fhVrviBuo8mOz8TqxfeO.html
03-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh liquor shops to reopen from Monday with home delivery option at some places||Liquor shops in Chhattisgarh will reopen from Monday following the implementation of the new lockdown guidelines released by the Centre. The state excise department said it was ready to home deliver liquor at some places.As per an order issued by the Chhattisgarh excise department on Sunday, the liquor shops in the state, including the premium liquor shops, will remain open from 8 am to 7 pm from Monday onwards.“To maintain social distancing, we have decided to provide home delivery to some big colonies and settlements. The liquor will also be available at the liquor vends, but if anyone asks for its home delivery, the liquor will be delivered,” Chhattisgarh’s excise minister Kawasi Lakhma told Hindustan Times.He added that additional charges will be applicable for the home delivery option.“Delivery boys will be hired by a placement agency and the rate of delivered liquor will be determined after calculating the cost of hiring manpower agency,” the order stated.The minister further said the modalities of home delivery of liquor were still being worked out and it will be announced on Monday. “We are still working on it.” The government order adds that one person will not be allowed to buy more than 5000 ML at a time from any liquor shop.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-liquor-shops-to-reopen-from-monday-with-home-delivery-option-at-some-places/story-MC5g7SY15hGt1feLbZOLZP.html
03-05-2020||India||Prolonged PPE usage can cause skin injuries, warns study||Prolonged personal protective equipment (PPE) use can lead to serious skin injuries, a study covering 161 hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in China has found, and said that preventive measures be institutionalised for doctors and nurses at the forefront of the battle against the contagion.The study, to be published in the journal Advances in Wound Care, looked at 4,308 health care respondents from across 28 provinces in China and found that 42.8% had some form of skin injury related to PPE.The most common forms were device-related pressure injuries, moisture-associated skin damage, and skin tears, and they were sometimes found at multiple parts of the same health care worker’s body.The PPE was worn on average daily for 7.7 hours and roughly a third of respondents reported heavy sweating while wearing them.Two kinds of PPE were considered: Grade 2, comprising surgical masks with goggles or protective face masks and protective gowns used for moderate risk of exposure to the virus; and Grade 3, N-95 respirators with goggles or protective face masks, protective gowns, latex gloves, and shoes used by staff with a high risk of exposure to the virus, often in intensive care units or isolation wards.Men formed 12% of the respondents while women 88%. Almost 12% of the respondents (11.7%) were doctors and 88.3% were nurses.The study found that the prevalence of skin injuries was higher in men than women, in doctors than in nurses, in ones wearing Grade 3 PPE than in ones wearing Grade 2 PPE and those wearing the equipment for more than four hours daily than in ones who used it for less than four hours. The researchers also found that older people and those who sweated heavily suffered more injuries.In many cases, the kind of injuries on doctors and nurses were more severe than those in patients they were treating. The susceptible parts of skin injuries in medical staff were on the nose bridge, cheeks, ears, and forehead, the study found.“These significant findings are consistent with independent observations in Europe and United States, and call for systematic studies addressing skin injury and repair in Covid-19 patients as well as in their health care providers,” said Chandan K Sen, a professor at Indiana University.The researchers offered several reasons for the injuries. The first, while staff using PPE should be replaced every four hours, because of the pandemic, many worked for 8-12 hours continuously.“Of their long hours wearing PPE, the N-95 respirators or surgical masks and goggles would compress nose-bridge and cheeks, a mask strap would compress the ears, and face shield and surgical cap would compress the forehead, which might be the main cause of skin injuries on multiple parts of the head and face,” the study said.Moreover, the researchers said sweating caused redness, pain, itching, or prickling, which might be the main cause of skin damage. “Soaked skin combined with pressure increased friction coefficient between the PPE and skin, and when masks and goggles were removed quickly, skin tear was ready to happen,” the study added.In India, where many doctors and nurses are working round the clock, health care staff faces similar problems, said experts. “Because of the pandemic and long duty hours of doctors and nurses, many complained of excessive sweating and restricted movement with PPE. Duty hours should not be more than six hours,” said Girish Tyagi, member, the Delhi Medical Council||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prolonged-ppe-usage-can-cause-skin-injuries-warns-study/story-gtYIi2Em6F1Yo1OW2By2JJ.html
03-05-2020||India||Identify area away from OPD for flu-like cases: Govt to non-Covid hospitals||The Union health ministry has directed non-Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospitals to identify a separate triage and holding area, away from the main outpatient department (OPD), for patients with influenza-like illnesses, to check the rising cases of health-care workers getting infected by the disease.The guidelines issued by the ministry are meant for health-care workers and others working in non-Covid hospitals and non-Covid treatment areas of hospitals that have Covid blocks.“These are precautionary guidelines that all non-Covid hospitals must follow. Not everyone needs a personal protection equipment (PPE); there has to be a rational use of these kits which is why the ministry has explained in great detail as to where all PPE kits, especially the entire set, is required to be worn mandatorily,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting not to be identified.There is a need for rational use of PPE kits based on the risk profile of the health-care worker, says the health ministry.Technical teams working on the guidelines divide the risk profile into three categories--mild, moderate and high, wherein mostly those working in the high-risk areas need to wear the entire PPE set.As per the guidelines, all areas in the OPDs and in-patient departments (IPDs) fall under the mild to moderate categories, with N-95 masks , goggles, latex examination gloves and face shields being enough to handle patients. Even sanitation workers, who clean frequently touched surfaces, floors, and change linen, have a low risk profile that needs them to wear triple-layer medical masks and latex examination gloves.The area in the hospital that would require healthcare workers to wear the entire PPE set because of the high risk of contracting infection is when attending to severely ill patients while performing aerosol generating procedures in the emergency department. Also, wearing a PPE set is mandated for health-care workers when they manage patients of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) in an ambulance. “Following overall infection control and prevention guidelines for hospitals is extremely important to reduce the risk of spread of infection. Even if there is a case reported from a hospital, the health ministry has earlier issued detailed do’s and don’ts that must be followed,” the official cited above added. The ministry has also been reiterating the fact there was no shortage of PPE kits in India, and domestic manufactures have begun manufacturing the kits that will soon help in matching the country’s requirements.The total projected demand for PPE kits till June has been estimated to be 20.10 million. Orders to the tune of 22.20 million have already been placed, of which orders for about 14.20 million have been placed with domestic manufacturers, and 8 million kits are being imported||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/identify-area-away-from-opd-for-flu-like-cases-govt-to-non-covid-hospitals/story-SqWCgMqkn3BgQ4aOp0GnBN.html
03-05-2020||India||Kerala flattens Covid-19 graph for now, registers no new cases||Kerala has successfully flattened the Covid-19 graph as of now as no fresh cases have been reported on Sunday, state health minister K K Shailaja said. The state has been showing a sharp decline in coronavirus cases in the last few days and on Saturday it reported only two positive cases while on Friday it drew a blank.The minister said out of 499 Covid-19 positive cases in the state, 95 people are in the hospital and others have been discharged. Out of 95 cases, the maximum number of cases are in Kannur (north Kerala) 37, also a red zone. At least 21,720 people are under observation and 32,217 samples have been tested. The state has the lowest mortality and highest recovery rate in the country.Kerala was the first state in the country to report a coronavirus case in January 2020, when a medical student who had returned from China tested positive for the disease.Covid-19 cases increased in the first week of March after people started returning from middle-eastern countries and Europe. At one point it was leading in cases of the infectious disease but after the Tablighi Jammat conference in Delhi, numbers in other states shot up. In terms of mortality and recovery rates, the state has been displaying good progress, statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-flattens-covid-19-graph-for-now-registers-no-new-cases/story-WY7kChacxqbRJUjZIo90GI.html
03-05-2020||India||Three MP cops injured in stone pelting by labourers waiting to enter the state||At least three Madhya Pradesh police personnel including a sub-inspector sustained injuries in stone pelting by labourers in Barwani district on Sunday morning. The labourers from Maharashtra were agitated at not being allowed to enter Madhya Pradesh on their way to Uttar Pradesh, said police.While sub-inspector Omkar Lal sustained head injuries, two constables sustained minor injuries. A heavy police force deployed at Bijasan in Sendhwa rural police circle controlled the situation, said Sendhwa police.At least 4000 labourers, who had gathered at Bijasan looking to proceed to Uttar Pradesh, blocked the traffic on Agra-Mumbai national highway on Saturday evening.They lifted the blockade around midnight but again blocked the traffic on Sunday morning. When police didn’t allow them to proceed, a section of agitated labourers indulged in stone-pelting, resulting in injuries to the cops.The labourers withdrew from the highway on an assurance from the Barwani district collector that the issue was being discussed with the Uttar Pradesh government. The labourers said they were giving two hours time to the administration to meet their demand.Sendhwa rural police station in charge, Vishwadeep Singh Parihar, said, “Medical treatment of the sub-inspector is going on. An FIR is being lodged against unidentified persons involved in the attack. However, no arrest has been made so far in this connection.”Another administrative official in Barwani said, “On Saturday, Uttar Pradesh didn’t open its border for hundreds of labourers sent from here in more than 200 buses. That’s why movement of other labourers coming from Maharashtra was blocked. Uttar Pradesh government is perhaps conscious that these people are coming from Maharashtra, one of the worst Covid affected states.”Barwani District Collector Amit Tomar said they were awaiting instructions from the state government for further action. “However, labourers are satisfied after having a talk with us. We are providing food and other facilities to them,” he said.Similarly, about 7000 to 8000 people, mostly labourers from various parts of Maharashtra assembled near Joharia village at the MP-UP border in Datia district on Saturday since Uttar Pradesh didn’t allow them to enter.Datia District Collector Rohit Singh said that the situation didn’t deteriorate there.“There was no road blockade like situation or any other law and order problem at the border. Since a large number of people had assembled here; it was a matter of concern for us, but we managed to control the situation. They entered Uttar Pradesh after the latter granted permission to them,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-mp-cops-injured-in-stone-pelting-by-labourers-waiting-to-enter-uttar-pradesh/story-wLaod9EWYu4vkYhLo8laBL.html
03-05-2020||India||‘Don’t send every migrant home’: Centre rebukes states for missing fine print||As state governments rush to book buses and trains to send migrant workers home, the Union Home Ministry on Sunday evening pulled up states and told them that the relaxation wasn’t meant for workers who intended to visit home but only those who were in distress because they had been caught unaware by the lockdown.Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla’s mild rebuke for the states on Sunday came after state governments rushed to the railways ministry to run special trains to send all migrant workers home.Bhalla underlined that the Centre had only made an exception for people who had been stranded due to the lockdown.“The facilitation envisaged in the aforesaid orders is meant for such distressed persons, but does not extend to those categories of persons, who are otherwise residing normally at places, other than the native places for purposes of work, etc., and who wish to visit their native places in normal course,” his letter to the state chief secretaries said.This is the first time that the Home Ministry has explicitly, in writing, stressed that the operative word in its order allowing migrants, tourists, students and others was “stranded”.Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba had, for instance, spelt out in his video conference with the chief secretaries last week that the relaxation shouldn’t result in a free-for-all and states should only allow people who were stranded due to the lockdown to travel from one state to another.On April 30, Hindustan Times had reported the fine print in the home ministry’s order, ‘In Centre’s 2-page order on letting migrants travel, there is 1 operative word’.The Centre decided to send the ‘clarification’ in writing on Sunday after an assessment that states, under pressure from the public and opposition, were getting into a race to send, or bring home, as many migrant workers as possible.“It is clarified that the MHA orders are meant to facilitate movement of such stranded persons, who had moved from their native places/workplaces, just before the lockdown period, but could not return to their native places/workplaces on account of restrictions placed on movement of persons and vehicles as part of lockdown measures,” Ajay Bhalla’s letter, accessed by Hindustan Times, said.Central government officials said the state governments should have, in the first instance, offered the ride home to 14-lakh people living in relief camps run by the state or non-profit sector.“They are the people who have been really in distress and are stranded in every sense of the word,” a government official said. He explained that states, which were practically encouraging migrant workers home, should account for the fact that the state’s economy would take longer to revive in the absence of the migrant workforce that powers most industries.This was one reason why the Centre had been reluctant to run special trains also. It, however, finally relented when the chorus from the states became too loud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-send-every-migrant-home-centre-rebukes-states-for-missing-fine-print/story-uw3p10wm3Qpj587FfRBlSN.html
03-05-2020||India||MHA looks to address grievances of truckers during lockdown||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has decided to use its control room at North Block to resolve the problems faced by truck drivers and transporters engaged in the supply of essential items during the lockdown, officials said on Sunday. Several complaints were raised by transporters that their goods trucks are not being allowed by the local authorities and the movement of empty trucks from one state to another. The ministry has recently written to all states reminding that trucks should not be stopped at borders to maintain the supply of goods. The control room number (1930) is being made available for the benefit of drivers/transporters who can now lodge any complaint pertaining to the lockdown, a statement by the Press Information Bureau said. In addition, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) helpline number 1033 is also available for highway-related grievances. It added that the NHAI, transport departments of states and Union Territories and transport associations will take necessary steps to provide information to drivers and transporters in this regard. “The officials deputed from ministry of road transport in the MHA control room will assist in complaint/ grievance resolution relating to the Transport sector/Drivers. These officials would also compile the daily report on such complaints received,” it added. “This mechanism is expected to greatly address the issues/hurdles in the movement of goods across States/UTs during lockdown announced to curb COVID-19 pandemic in India,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-looks-to-address-grievances-of-truckers-during-lockdown/story-0fHaN3Jar0lflhBQabuhnM.html
03-05-2020||India||‘Where are your priorities’: Uttarakhand seers, clerics question freeze on religious activities||A prominent Hindu religious body and a Muslim cleric have asked the Uttarakhand government to allow the reopening of religious places of worship with restrictions and added that people’s religious needs should not be considered secondary, when a graded resumption in activities is taking place after nearly 40 days of nationwide lockdown, which was put in place to combat the coroonavirus pandemic. The premier body of all the major Akhadas, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, has sought to know why places of worship seemed not to be on the government’s priority list when permission had been granted for the reopening of authorized liquor shops in the Orange and Green Zones.Mahant Narendra Giri Maharaj, the president of the Akhada Parishad demanded that portals of religious places of importance should be opened up for priests, saints and devotees while following precautionary measures like social distancing.“As relaxations are being given, it’s imperative that shrines, temples, ashrams and muts are also included in the list of exemptions with compulsory enforcement of social distancing norms and use of facemasks for both seers and devotees. Religious and spiritual aspects can’t be ignored for long as they provide immense spiritual, mental and physical solace to people,” said Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj, general secretary of the Akhada Parishad.Similar demands were made by priests who conduct ash-immersion rituals at Haridwar. They said the restriction imposed on the rituals of last rites during the lockdown was “unprecedented”.Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha pointed out that ash immersion rituals are performed within a specific timeframe as per Hindu and Vedic traditions and added that a memorandum has been given to the state government for allowing ash immersion rituals in the holy city of Haridwar.“Religious rituals are an integral part of all people’s lives, irrespective of their sect or community. With specific restrictive, preventive guidelines, surely temples and Har-Ki-Pauri can be opened up for devotees as has been done for Gangotri, Yamunotri and Kedarnath,” said “Pradeep Jha, president Ganga Sabha.Muslim cleric Maulana Iqbal Ahmed has also urged the state government to allow the offering of prayers at mosques while promising adherence to social distancing and other preventive measures.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesReacting to the demands, cabinet spokesperson Madan Kaushik said that all aspects were being considered by the Central and state governments but ensuring the safety of human beings was their first priority.“The government is opening up or relaxing restrictions, but majorly it depends on Covid-19 containment and figures from the area concerned,” he said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Prior to lockdown, temple committees had ensured that pilgrims wore facemasks and use sanitizers. We will apply even stricter safety measures if the government allows the shrines to open to the public,” said Mahant Ravindra Puri, head of Shri Mata Mansa Devi temple trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/where-are-your-priorities-uttarakhand-seers-clerics-question-freeze-on-religious-activities/story-Gc5a9KdLyNau98IfQYfV0N.html
03-05-2020||India||‘Assalamualaikum’: How one word changed the course of Handwara encounter||A phone call to Colonel Ashutosh Sharma that was answered by a terrorist, in all likelihood by one of the two men found dead at the end of the 13-hour-long encounter, changed the course of the bloody gunfight in north Kashmir’s Handwara. That phone call told the scores of soldiers and police officers waiting around the house in Handwara’s Chanjmulla locality that they had probably taken a hit.Col Ashutosh Sharma, the 44-year-old commanding the 21 Rashtriya Rifles battalion, had entered the house with company commander Major Anuj Sood, 30, Naik Rajesh Kumar, 29, Lance Naik Dinesh Singh, 24, and J&K Police Sub Inspector Sageer Pathan aka Qazi, 41, a little after 5.30 pm. They succeeded in getting the family that was stuck in the house out, but were trapped. But there was no sign of the security personnel.Also read: ‘Last Holi, he came unannounced. It turned out to be his last visit’: Col Sharma’s family“Between 6 pm and 10 pm, we tried every way we could think to get in touch with him or other members of the team. But couldn’t,” a senior Jammu and Kashmir police officer told Hindustan Times.Four hours later, at about 10 pm, someone finally answered.‘Assalamualaikum’, the man on the other end of the line said.“Our officers figured that there was only one way they could have gotten hold of his phone,” a top Jammu and Kashmir police officer told Hindustan Times on conditions of anonymity.Also read: ‘Went in to rescue civilians’: Colonel, Major among 5 killed in action in HandwaraThe firing, which had been suspended, resumed.It continued all night till the early hours of Sunday. This time, there was no reason for the security forces to hold themselves back.In the early part of the encounter, they had their hands tied behind their back as they had to ensure that the family, that according to intelligence inputs was being held hostage, wasn’t harmed. Once Col Sharma and his team got them out, their safety was their prime concern.Also Watch| Handwara encounter: Army Colonel among 5 martyred, 2 terrorists gunned down The firing stopped only around daybreak.When security forces finally entered the house, they found the two terrorists; dead. One of them has been identified as Haider, a Pakistani national who had been a top commander of the Lashkar-e-Taiba in Kashmir.Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the nation in paying tributes to the soldiers.Also read: ‘Tributes to courageous security personnel martyred in Handwara’, tweets PM Modi“Tributes to our courageous soldiers and security personnel martyred in Handwara. Their valour and sacrifice will never be forgotten. They served the nation with utmost dedication and worked tirelessly to protect our citizens. Condolences to their families and friends,” PM Modi said in a tweet.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh described it as “deeply disturbing and painful”.Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat stressed that the anti-terror operation highlighted the determination of the security forces to safeguard the lives of the people of Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assalamualaikum-how-one-word-changed-the-course-of-handwara-encounter/story-SeUcO9kTrVTQ3E4XALAIaO.html
03-05-2020||India||India knows how to handle countries like Pakistan: Ram Madhav||The post Covid-19 world order will be “markedly different” and it will be in Pakistan’s own interest to change its actions like supporting terrorism, BJP National General Secretary Ram Madhav said on Sunday, asserting that India knows how to handle such countries. In an exclusive interview to PTI, he also said that there will be a flight of capital from China in the post pandemic phase and India will be an attractive destination for investments by global corporate giants. Strongly rejecting allegations of “Islamophobia” in India, Madhav said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is enjoying support of all communities in the fight against coronavirus and those suffering from “Modi-phobia” are trying to communalise the country’s discourse. In an apparent reference allegations of Muslims being targeted for the spurt in Covid-19 cases after a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, the BJP general secretary said: “It will not be fair to blame an entire religious community for perceived mistakes of some members of a group. It doesn’t help the community and country at large.” On Pakistan, Madhav said the country has not relented on its anti-India and pro-terror campaigns even when the entire world is focusing on dealing with the coronavirus crisis. “It shows that somewhere something is hugely amiss in Pakistan’s leadership. It doesn’t want to improve relations with India,” he said. Madhav said Pakistan itself will be forced to decided what place it wants in the post Covid-19 global order. “It is as much a question to Pakistan as much to China.” He further said: “It will be in Pakistan’s own interest to change its actions in emerging new world order and India knows how to handle such nations.” Pakistan has been unrelenting in its efforts to push militants into India as there have been rising incidents of unprovoked firing by Pakistan military along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir in the last few weeks notwithstanding the coronavirus crisis, according to military officials. Talking about China, Madhav said he felt many companies will move out of the neighbouring country in the wake of the coronavirus crisis and India will be an attractive destination for them. “In the post COVID period there will be a flight of capital from China and India will certainly be an attractive destination for them,” he said. The BJP leader said the allegations of “Islamophobia are nothing but some sort of propaganda and are not based on the ground reality. There has been a wave of angry reactions on Twitter by leading citizens and rights activists from various Arab countries following allegations that Muslims are being blamed for spreading Covid-19 in several parts of India. The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, a powerful bloc of 57 countries, recently accused India of “Islamophobia”. India rejected the charges as regrettable. Crediting Modi’s leadership for effectively handling the pandemic, Madhav said: “India has set a shining example that how visionary leadership, democratic governance and popular support can work together to face such challenges.” He said one of the major reasons for successful handling of coronavirus crisis is that the country is “unitedly” standing behind the government. Referring to surveys showing higher approval ratings for Modi among global leaders, Madhav said they reflected that he is enjoying the support of Muslims, Christians and all other minorities. “Look at the way the country has responded to his clarion calls to light lamps or clap for corona warriors. But some elements are trying to communalise the discourse as they are suffering from Modi-phobia,” he said. PTI JTR MPB RT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-knows-how-to-handle-countries-like-pakistan-ram-madhav/story-K08YIrrvTFvNzZtzvEpzWM.html
03-05-2020||India||Kerala begins reverse quarantine to protect vulnerable from Covid-19||With a large number of its expatriate population expected to return by next week, Kerala is set to take the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic to the next stage by showcasing a plan to protect the aged and people who suffer from co-morbidity conditions.Kerala, which has the lowest mortality and highest recovery rates in the country, has prepared a blueprint for ‘reverse quarantine’ and grassroots health workers have started monitoring health conditions of aged and people who are immuno-compromised. No new cases were reported on Sunday. The state has recorded 499 cases of Covid-19 out of which 95 are active. Experts say reserve quarantine is a practice of isolating the most vulnerable people, aged or people with co-morbidity conditions, from the rest and monitor their health conditions closely to protect them from infection.Click here fro full Covid-19 coverage.“In Kerala we have 70 lakh people who are above 65 years of age and suffer from diabetes, cancer, blood pressure, heart ailments, kidney disease and respiratory tract infections. They are sitting ducks. Our priority is to detach them from others and protect them,” said Dr B Ekbal, who heads an expert panel that advises the state government on prevention of coronavirus.“In case of a community spread we can isolate vulnerable populations and check their mortality rate effectively unlike what happened in some of the western countries. We have formed grassroots committees to monitor their health conditions. Besides local body members, Asha workers, resident association office-bearers, youth volunteers and local police officers will be part of these committees,” he said.Dr Ekbal said reverse quarantine was nothing new and had been tested during earlier pandemics but was not widely publicised.Experts like him feel that reverse quarantine is a viable option against Covid-19 till a vaccine is found. Once a person is in reverse quarantine a separate room with a bathroom can be given to him/her and his/her interaction with other family members will be limited. Even if they interact, social distancing and using masks are must for them in the house. If he/she takes it in the right sense that it is for his/her sake it will be a success, they said. In north Kerala many cancer patients are already in reverse quarantine now.“Since it is a new virus we need a multi-pronged strategy to deal with it. Reverse quarantine is one among them. We can’t say how long the virus will be active and achieve herd immunity. So we can isolate people who are more prone to it. As Kerala is an informed society it is better to practise here,” said epidemiologist and former principal of the Vellore Christian Medical College Hospital Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil.Experts say during reverse quarantine a sense of deprivation and neglect will be quite high among people and it has to be addressed adequately by family members and counsellors. In certain areas especially north Kerala palliative care is strong and services of those volunteers can be used here, said Dr Ekbal.“We can’t live in lockdown like this for long. We have to live with it till a vaccine is found. So we have to evolve a mechanism to suit this. Like social distancing, reverse quarantine is a way to check mortality rate,” said another expert.The key is “minimum exposure” of the vulnerable to the outside world, he said.In red zones in Kerala, there is a ban on people above 65 and children below 10 years of age stepping out of their houses.The state is planning reverse quarantine in a big way as it expects an exodus from the west Asian countries by next week. At least 3.50 lakh people have been registered on a website opened by the government. The government is being more cautions this time after some of the returnees from Dubai in March jumped home quarantine and infected many others with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-begins-reverse-quarantine-to-protect-vulnerable-from-covid-19/story-KY3yAlYuKCymaJ5gQkmZVN.html
03-05-2020||India||MHA orders ‘second line of defence’ for police as Covid-19 cases rise||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Sunday asked chief secretaries, director generals of police (DGPs) of all states and heads of central paramilitary forces to “prepare a second line of defence” in police to make up for those who may be rendered ineffective due to Covid-19.In an order, the ministry told the states/union territories that they can use the services of home guards, civil defence, NCC cadets, Scouts and Guides and Students Police Cadets in the areas where there are not imminent law and order duties.The order came after many central police forces have reported Covid-19 cases. The CRPF has been the worst hit with more than 100 of its troopers testing positive in Delhi which forced it to seal its headquarters on Sunday. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The police chiefs have also been asked to consider the option of work from home for personnel not deployed on frontline and where feasible. “To meet the challenge of Covid-19, and to ensure sustainment of control strategy for Covid-19, police forces need to prepare an effective second line of defence to make up for the police personnel who may be rendered ineffective due to Covid-19 infection during the pandemic,” stated the order reviewed by HT. The government has suggested that the home guards, NCC etc can especially be of help in maintaining order at the relief centres and in facilitating the maintenance of supply chain and for coordinating other essential services. The police have also been asked to help the general public and deal with them with empathy and compassion especially the weaker sections of the society. The cops have been asked to also monitor religious and social congregations during festivals to ensure social distancing. “Police should also be watchful of migrant labourers/slums to contain any unexpected and undesirable mass movement,” it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-orders-second-line-of-defence-for-police-as-covid-19-cases-rise/story-eWL9dC33JqQV6GN5SWETuN.html
03-05-2020||India||‘Time to reopen’: Kejriwal asks Centre to treat Delhi as green, not red zone||The Delhi government will implement all lockdown relaxations that have been prescribed by the Union home ministry, despite the national capital being completely in the red zone with a high concentration of Covid-19 cases, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday.All Delhi government offices engaged in essential services will function with full strength and private offices will be allowed to function with 33 per cent strength, Kejriwal announced via a video conference.“The time has come to re-open Delhi. We will have to be ready to live with coronavirus. The lockdown was necessary to contain Covid-19, but Delhi is fully ready to relax lockdown restrictions,” the Delhi chief minister said.ALSO READ | Covid-19 lockdown 3.0: India’s national lockdown extended again. All you need to know“I have been getting multiple calls and queries on what will open and what all are likely to remain shut. All standalone shops in residential colonies, neighbourhood shops not only those selling essential items will be allowed to operate. If you have a four-wheeler apart from the driver only two more people will be allowed. No pillion riders will be allowed on two-wheelers,” he said.Clarity on the relaxations came barely two days after the Centre extended the nationwide lockdown for another two weeks on Friday. The lockdown will now continue till May 17.The lockdown was earlier scheduled to be lifted today on May 3.The Delhi Metro will remain shut during the lockdown and shops selling essential items will continue to be open.“I will suggest to the Centre to declare only containment areas in the city as red zones and not the entire district. Suspension of travel by flight, Delhi Metro and bus services will continue in the national capital,” Kejriwal said.The Delhi government will take strict action against those found spitting in public places.Delivery of essential goods through e-commerce portals will continue but the e-retailers will not be allowed to sell non essential items online nor deliver any such goods to consumers.Malls, cinemas, salons, market complexes and any such place where crowds can gather will remain shut, the Delhi CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-implement-all-lockdown-relaxations-with-conditions-kejriwal/story-QXXhHfowBsVgEf0t6XMNYK.html
03-05-2020||India||Lockdown latest: Standalone liquor shops can reopen in Uttar Pradesh, even in Red Zones||Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday permitted the operation of standalone liquor vends across the state including the Red Zones, where maximum restrictions will be imposed during the third phase of national lockdown beginning May 4 till May 17. The notification of new guidelines governing individuals and businesses in the state for the next two weeks was released by the State’s chief secretary. The notification largely follows the guidelines released by the Union home ministry, a couple of days ago, on May 1.“Standalone excise department shops in municipal and rural areas will be allowed to stay open between 10 am and 7 pm with the caveat that social distancing norms should be implemented strictly during the sales. This provision will also be implemented in a similar fashion in the Orange and Green Zones,” says the order.The Central government had released guidelines to control the movement of people and conduct of businesses on May 1, in a graded lifting of restrictions, seen during the 40-days of nationwide lockdown. It allowed the states to modify the order taking into account local realities as long as they didn’t dilute it in any way.All the 733 districts in the country have been demarcated as Red, Orange or Green Zones, depending upon the severity of the spread of the disease and other parameters defining the threat posed by the virus.19 districts in Uttar Pradesh including Lucknow and Gautam Budh Nagar are classified as Red Zones, 36 districts are categorized as Orange Zone and 20 as Green Zones. While Red Zones are classified on the basis of number of positive cases, recovery rate, doubling rate, the extent of testing and surveillance feedback from the districts, Green Zones include districts that have not seen any positive case in the last 21 days, all the other districts that do not fall into these two categories, are in the Orange Zone. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe Uttar Pradesh government has retained almost all the guidelines released by the centre.Places of mass gatherings including malls, cinema halls, educational and training institutes, religious places, clubs, social and political gatherings, interstate travel by air, rail or road, hotels and restaurants will remain shut during the third phase of lockdown in the state.It also bans inter and intra-district public transport in Red Zones and Orange Zones while permitting them to operate in the Green Zones at 50% capacity while maintaining social distancing norms.Auto rickshaws, cycle rickshaws and taxis and cab services like Ola and Uber will not be allowed in the Red and Green Zones.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The order also makes it mandatory to wear face masks at all public places and prohibits the gathering of more than 5 persons at any common area. Permission will have to be taken for organizing marriages which cannot be attended by more than 20 people. The administration also places a limit of 20 people for holding of last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-latest-standalone-liquor-shops-can-reopen-in-uttar-pradesh-even-in-red-zones/story-gBvhKwGc6W2vaqh8HJcmML.html
03-05-2020||India||‘Last Holi, he came unannounced. It turned out to be his last visit’: Col Sharma’s family||Jaipur-based Piyush Sharma remembers last year’s Holi when his younger brother Col Ashutosh Sharma gave him a surprise by visiting his house a day before the festival of colours.“He came unannounced around 7.30 pm on the day holika is burnt and gave us a pleasant surprise. We had a blast the next day,” remembers the pharmaceutical professional settled in Jaipur for 16 years.Col Sharma’s family – wife Pallavi and 12-year-old daughter Tamanna – arrived in Jaipur two and a half years ago when he was going for his second tenure of Rashtriya Rifles posting. The family lives in Rangoli Garden, a gated society in Vaishali Nagar. On Sunday, after she was informed about Col Sharma’s death, she and Tamanna went to Piyush Sharma’s house in Jaisinghpura on Ajmer Road. Col Sharma’s mother lives with her elder son; their father is no more.ALSO READ | ‘Went in to rescue civilians’: Colonel, Major among 5 killed in action in HandwaraFour Army personnel and a police sub-inspector died in a gun battle in Handwara in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara district. Reports suggested that the Indian Army and the J&K police had launched a joint operation in Changimulla based on Intel that a few locals were being held hostage inside their home by terrorists.The Army personnel have been identified as Colonel Sharma, commanding officer of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles (RR), Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh and Lance Naik Dinesh and sub-inspector Shakeel Qazi of the J&K Police.The Sharmas are originally from Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh. “If there was no lockdown, we would have taken the body there for cremation. But in the present circumstances, it is not possible to travel with my 80-year-old mother. So we will perform the last rites in Jaipur,” Sharma said.ALSO READ | ‘Tributes to courageous security personnel martyred in Handwara’, tweets PM ModiAccording to defence spokesperson Col Sombit Ghosh, the mortal remains are likely to be brought to Jaipur for a military ceremonial funeral on Monday.“He was passionate about the Army,” remembers Col Sharma’s brother. “He was a brave soldier. He talked, dreamt and lived the Army. He took pride in sharing glory of his unit (19 Guards Mechanised Infantry) and its traditions,” Piyush Sharma, 47, said.Col Sharma spoke to his family on May 1, the raising day of 21 RR. “He said the unit is unable to celebrate because of Covid-19. ‘We have only done a puja,’ he said.”Piyush Sharma said it was a matter of great pride for the family that a member had sacrificed his life for the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-holi-he-came-unannounced-it-turned-out-to-be-his-last-visit-col-sharma-s-family/story-0te4eYGezoCId6jLgctY5I.html
03-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand may give sanitisation certificates to hotels for ‘safe stay’ post lockdown||Uttarakhand is considering issuing sanitisation certificates to hotels and lodges in tourist destinations and pilgrimage sites to ensure ‘safe stay’ for tourists when traffic resumes after the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state’s tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said on Sunday.The move is being planned on the lines of a similar exercise in Singapore, the minister said.Uttarakhand attracts over 3.5 crore tourists and pilgrims every year.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“After the lockdown ends, tourism will again gradually start in the state. We have to be prepared for that amid this pandemic. We have received various ideas to tackle it including one to issue sanitisation certificates to hotels and lodges in and around popular tourist and pilgrimage sites.”Maharaj said, “The idea of issuing sanitisation certificates is being contemplated on the lines of Singapore where it has been implemented. The certificate will assure the visitors that the hotel is completely sanitised as per guidelines and is safe to stay.”The minister said such a measure was necessary because even after the lockdown ends, people will still be cautious because of the deadly virus. “We cannot adopt a lenient approach. We will have to be cautious even after the lockdown ends. The precautionary measures being taken now by the people in the ongoing pandemic are going to continue in the coming days also because of the deadly effect of the virus. We will have to be always very cautious without taking any risk as much as possible,” he said. The minister said whatever steps the government takes will be in line with the Centre’s guidelines.“A final decision is yet to be taken. Any step will be finalised while adhering to the Centre’s guidelines and approval of the government.”Earlier Sunday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that the state government could allow pilgrims from districts in the state’s green zone for Char-Dham yatra which includes the four highly revered shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-may-give-sanitisation-certificates-to-hotels-for-safe-stay-post-lockdown/story-KsZ4JBBhUKBpYKhmGwUeMO.html
03-05-2020||India||Sharad Pawar writes to PM Modi, slams Centre’s decision to shift IFSC from Mumbai||In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar slammed the central government’s decision to shift the International Finance Services Centre (IFSC) from Mumbai to Gandhinagar in Gujarat. He called the establishment of IFSC in Gujarat as “egregious, erroneous and unwarranted”.In the scathing letter that he tweeted on Sunday, Pawar wrote, “It will also be perceived as a move to shift financial institutions and business houses away from Maharashtra and will create unnecessary political disturbances. It will not only cause financial damage to the country but also bring international discredit to it by undermining the importance of Mumbai.”He said that the Central government receives government securities (G-sec) to the tune of Rs 5.95 lakh crore from Maharashtra alone as against Gujarat’s contribution of Rs 1.40 lakh crore. He also said that Mumbai has been recognised as the world’s top ten centres of commerce. “If you see the general psyche of all business communities, bankers and other financial institutions, Mumbai is their natural choice for setting up such a unified authority. The Central government’s decision will be taken as an act of undermining the strategic importance of Mumbai that boasts as the Nation’s Financial Capital,” Pawar wrote. “Even the institutions across the world will be taken aback with this shocking decision,” he added.He also said that the Prime Minister must consider establishing IFSC in the financial capital of India i.e Mumbai. He further tweeted, “I expect Hon. @PMOIndia to take a rational, judicious decision keeping aside the state politics and consider it as an issue of utmost national importance.”The NCP chief’s reaction also comes a day after former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said that it was the then Congress-NCP government which is to be blamed for this as it did not consider the option when it first came up in 2007. Fadnavis also claimed that the previous state government, during his tenure, had submitted a proposal to the Centre to allow functioning of two IFSCs in the country – in Mumbai and Gujarat – and added that it was still under consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-writes-to-pm-modi-slams-centre-s-decision-to-shift-ifsc-from-mumbai/story-Wc79XDPRIPXTfMOBvTqTvI.html
03-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown 3.0: Maharashtra relaxes rules; liquor shops to open in Mumbai, Pune||The Maharashtra government allowed the functioning of standalone liquor shops in coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-affected Mumbai and Pune -- both in red zones --- on Sunday. According to a government notification, standalone shops selling non-essential items will operate in red zones.The containment zones in such areas, including Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Malegoan, will not get any of these relaxations, a decision that is in line with the central government’s Friday order.Construction activities in all red zone districts will be allowed, provided workers are available on site. The state will allow just five non-essential shops in each lane, according to news agency ANI. The numbers of essential shops are not restricted, it reported.According to a home ministry official, liquor shops will open across all three zones --- red, orange and green -- across India. But only standalone liquor shops will function; such shops in malls will continue to be closed. Shops selling liquor and tobacco products will ensure six-feet distance between two people and not allow more than five people at a time. Consumption of liquor, paan, gutka and tobacco in public places is not allowed.Also, in red zones, all malls and market complexes within city limits will be closed, but those selling essential items are exempt, according to the fresh federal guidelines on Friday. All standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes --- irrespective of whether they are selling essential or non-essential items --- are allowed, but social distancing is a must.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-relaxes-rules-liquor-shops-to-open-in-mumbai-pune/story-MNat6NOfRdwW4RepCzr1qO.html
03-05-2020||India||Screening population, strict monitoring of disease trends helped Himachal flatten Covid-19 curve||As its neighbouring states struggle to control the Covid-19 spread, efforts made by Himachal Pradesh (HP) to flatten the curve could become a template to contain the outbreak.With just one active case till Sunday, HP has reported 40 cases, including one fatality and 34 recoveries. Four have been moved out of the state for treatment.No case has been reported in the state in the last 10 days. Also, six out of 12 districts have reported no cases in the green zone.The state will be officially declared coronavirus-free if no new case is reported up to May 5.Initial cases and the surgeThe first two cases, a 32-year-old man and a 64-year-old woman, were from the Shahpur sub-division of Kangra, HP’s most populous district. Both had a travel history to an affected foreign country.The third case, a US-returned Tibetan man from McLeodganj in Dharamsala, who tested positive on March 23, died of acute respiratory distress in hospital.No fresh case was reported till the end of March, but on April 2 three Tablighi Jamaat workers from Una district who attended the Markaz at Delhi’s Nizamuddin tested positive. The situation seemed to be spiralling out of control as the number rose to 24 within a week with Una and Solan identified as hotspots.However, after the count reached 40 on April 23, no new case was reported.The responseThe state got into war mode the day it reported its first two cases, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the health portfolio, told the Hindustan Times. Though section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code prohibiting a gathering of more than four people was already in force in vulnerable pockets, a statewide curfew was imposed on March 23, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a countrywide lockdown.Schools and religious institutions had been closed earlier with hospitals only treating emergency cases.Six hospitals were designated for Covid-19 treatment, Thakur added. Rigorous contact mapping of all the positive cases was also done.A new challenge emerged when those with Jamaat links started testing positive. After a warning that all Markaz attendees disclose their status or face action, more than 1,000 such people and their primary contacts were quarantined.Strict vigil was maintained at the borders and anyone entering HP was kept in institutional quarantine for 28 days. Panchayati raj representatives were entrusted with the task to inform the authorities about anyone concealing information about outsiders in hiding.Authorities in HP shared contact numbers of their counterparts with people stranded outside the state who called the Himachal helpline number for help.Strict curbs were imposed on the movement of vehicles and persons even during curfew relaxation with a curfew e-pass system launched.Identifying casesThe health department adopted a three-pronged strategy, said director, National Health Mission (NHM) Nipun Jindal. It activated an integrated disease surveillance programme to strengthen and decentralise laboratories, allowing authorities to monitor the disease trend and response to the outbreak. Four labs conducted Covid-19 tests. Rapid response teams were pressed into service after years.The government also launched a massive active case finding campaign. More than 8,000 two-member teams moved door-to-door to screen people for influenza-like illness (ILI), connecting with about 70 lakh people.Of this, authorities identified 10,000 with ILI symptoms, who are now being tested for Covid-19.The strategy even found favour with PM Modi, who told other states to emulate the same.Testing was also ramped up due to 15 mobile sample collection vans. The authorities also arranged for home delivery of essential items including medicines, through 1,706 authorised shops and vendors, and were able to reach out to about 12.82 lakh people.Ration was also provided to migrant labourers and poor people with the help of various NGOs. Threat not overHowever, the war is not yet over, especially after HP opened its borders allowing residents stranded outside to return.More than 95,000 people were estimated to have entered the state in the last one week, with the situation again seeming to spiral out of control for three days as inter-state borders remained choked with thousands queuing up to cross the border.They have been ordered to self-quarantine for 28 days.As many entered without routine screening the government was forced to suspend more e-curfew passes. People entering the state now will be screened with the help of infrared scanners at the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/screening-population-strict-monitoring-of-disease-trends-helped-himachal-flatten-covid-19-curve/story-WODEaIYfhC6h3XLEDjn3pM.html
03-05-2020||India||Standalone shops, liquor stores to open in Maharashtra’s Covid-19 ‘red zone’||Maharashtra government on Sunday announced that standalone shops, including liquor stores, will be allowed to open in coronavirus ‘red zone’ from May 4, news agency ANI reported. The directive, however, will not apply to Covid-19 containment zones. Only 5 non-essential shops can be opened in each lane as per the directive, ANI reported. The Central government, earlier this week, extended the nationwide coronavirus lockdown by two more weeks with some relaxations. The government gave a nod to the sale of liquor in standalone wine stores and sale of paan/gutkha, tobacco products across the country from May 4 except in Covid-19 containment zones. “Liquor stores and pan shops will be allowed to function in all zones while ensuring a minimum six feet distance (2 gaz ki doori) from each other and ensuring that not more than five persons are present at one time at the shop,” the statement from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said.Also read: 450 liquor shops to open in Delhi from MondayMaharashtra government has decided to allow standalone shops including liquor shops to open in Red Zone also except the containment zones. Only 5 non-essential shops can be opened in each lane. Numbers not restricted for essential shops: Maharashtra GovernmentStrict social distancing norms are to be followed by the shop owners as well as the customers. A minimum of six feet distance from each other is to be maintained by customers. Not more than five people should be present at a shop at any given time.Liquor and paan shops inside malls or marketplaces in any of the zones or those in containment zones will not be allowed to operate. The government has categorized all 733 districts across the country into three zones – red (hotspots), orange (having limited number of Covid-19 cases) and green (no cases).The total number of coronavirus cases in the country near the 40,000-mark and stand at 39,980, according to Ministry of Health. Maharashtra continues to lead the Covid-19 tally with 12,296 coronavirus cases. Over 10,000 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals across the country while 1,301 people have succumbed to death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/standalone-shops-liquor-stores-to-open-in-maharashtra-s-covid-19-red-zone/story-gH6xckvcrsKO35SrfMliuK.html
03-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Over 10,000 recover from Covid-19 in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 10,000 recover from Covid-19 in India, mortality rate lowest in worldUnion Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhar on Sunday said that the number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the country has crossed the 10,000-mark. Many more, who are still admitted in hospitals, “are on the road to recovery,” he said as reported by news agency ANI. Read more ‘Sophisticated surveillance system’: Rahul Gandhi on Aarogya Setu appA day after the Centre made it mandatory for workers in both private and public offices to download the Aarogya Setu app, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter to accuse the government of building a sophisticated surveillance system which raised serious data and privacy concerns. Read more Man tries to track 2 missing packets of snacks online, loses Rs 2.22 lakhA 40-year-old businessman who had ordered some food material online called on a fake helpline number of the company, which he found on a widely used search engine, to enquire about two bhujiya packets worth Rs 400 that he had ordered but not received, and ended up losing Rs 2.25 lakh after sharing his bank details, cyber police officials said. Read more Trump to take pandemic victory lap in TV ‘town hall’Donald Trump will wrap himself in the mantle of America’s arguably greatest president with a television extravaganza Sunday at the Lincoln Memorial meant to leave the coronavirus crisis behind and relaunch his election campaign. Read more ‘It is because of...’: Gautam Gambhir believes credit for Rohit Sharma’s success should go to former captainRohit Sharma has had a phenomenal cricket career till now. He has a record-maker in limited-overs cricket with three double hundreds while scoring six tons at the 2019 Cricket World Cup. Read more Quarantine workout: Lockdown exercises to keep you fit, focused and saneAs we’ve been navigating through our professional and personal lives during the Covid-19 lockdown, some fitness enthusiasts have also been driving home an important point: the importance of health and fitness. Read more Rishi Kapoor prayer meet: Neetu Kapoor and Ranbir Kapoor pay tribute to veteran actor, see picA picture of Neetu Kapoor and Ranbir Kapoor paying obeisance to Rishi Kapoor at a prayer meet is being widely shared on social media. The snapshot has Neetu dressed in white and Ranbir wearing a red turban, next to a framed photograph of Rishi with garlands on it. Read moreGoogle Meet integrated with Gmail, currently available to GSuite usersGoogle is constantly adding new features to its enterprise video conferencing app, Google Meet. Last month, the company introduced a tiled-layout for up to 16 people on Google Meet. Read moreThis adorable sleepy kitten is breaking the cuteness barometer. WatchWe’re not saying that this is the cutest cat video you’ll see today, but we may be saying that this is the cutest cat video you’ll see today. This 35-second-long video was posted on Reddit on May 3. Read more Watch: ‘Was the government blindsided on migrants’: CEA answers | On The Record||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sophisticated-surveillance-system-rahul-gandhi-on-aarogya-setu-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8J8VGtdlBHRGmYNtzjS36L.html
03-05-2020||India||Jharkhand extends lockdown by 2 weeks, will not implement Centre’s relaxations||The Jharkhand government has decided to extend the lockdown across the state by two weeks beginning May 4 and will not allow the area-specific relaxations provided by the Union home ministry in red, orange and green zones.Chief minister Hemant Soren announced the decision after a high-level meeting at the state secretariat on Sunday.“Migrant workers, students and others are returning home from other states. As a precautionary measure, lockdown would continue in Jharkhand for next two weeks. The new directions of the Centre regarding relaxations would not be implemented in Jharkhand for now,” Soren said in a Twitter post.Around 2,500 migrant workers from Hyderabad and students from Kota have till now returned to the state on two special trains. Another train from Kota will be reaching Dhanbad later on Sunday.As per the state labour department estimates, around 950,000 people including migrant workers, students and others, who are stranded outside Jharkhand, have approached the government.The total number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state stands at 115 with 12 of the 24 districts being affected. However, only state capital Ranchi is in red zone; 11 districts are in orange while the rest 12 are in green zone. Three people have died of the disease in the state, while 22 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-khand-extends-lockdown-by-2-weeks-will-not-implement-centre-s-relaxations/story-ApJUYwp0SHTJIQd67kKzoM.html
03-05-2020||India||World Laughter Day 2020: From Byron to Bill Gates, world has always believed in power of a good laugh||Always laugh when you can. It is cheap medicine. — Lord Gordon ByronIn a world where everyone is caught in a rut to meet their goals and turn desires into reality, World Laughter Day comes as a reminder to take a break and ease the load. From some of the greatest poets, writers that the world has ever seen to the 21st-century business tycoons and billionaires - the world, from time to time, has come around to recognise the power of laughter and has always recommended it as one of the cheapest drugs to most things that plague the mind. Microsoft co-founder and billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates, in one of his heartfelt blog entries, shared how his friendship with Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffet - spanning over 2 decades now - has been all about “ learning and laughter”. Gates said that Warren has always helped do two things “that are impossible to overdo in one lifetime: learn more and laugh more”.Also read: Fight Covid-19 with 30 minutes of laughter every day“I’m always impatient for the plane doors to open because I know Warren will be waiting with a new story or a joke and I’ll be learning and laughing with him all over again,” Gates wrote in a blog piece in 2016. Breaking into a fit of laughter is one of the best and easiest ways to ease the stress temporarily and thus goes the popular saying, ‘laughter is the best medicine’. The benefits of laughter are many. It automatically infuses a sense of connection among people, almost instantly. Laughing can bust stress, relieve tension and scientifically speaking, it is known to boost brain activity, alleviate pain, improve mood and activate the stress response.Laughter is what comes to us naturally, instinctively. Nothing else is as pure and real as a good laugh, the easiest way to placate a troubled soul.  World Laughter Day was founded in the year 1998 by a Mumbai-based doctor, Madan Kataria, who was also the founder of the worldwide Laughter Yoga movement. The day dedicated to laughter is celebrated every year on May 3. Kataria was resolved to start a global laughter yoga movement based on the premise that facial expressions can affect human emotions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-laughter-day-2020-from-lord-byron-to-bill-gates-world-has-always-believed-in-power-of-a-good-laugh/story-8tOBYN0gvUIZ9pLQEFh3OM.html
03-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand nursing officer tests Covid-19 positive at AIIMS Rishikesh||A nursing officer from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh, tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand on Sunday, taking the tally of total cases in the state to 60.Harish Mohan Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS Rishikesh, said that the 29-year-old nursing officer is likely to have been infected by a patient who was admitted in the intensive care unit of the hospital and had passed away on Friday.“The nursing officer was posted in the medicine ICU section in the second half of April where a 56-year-old Covid-19 patient was already admitted. The nursing officer is likely to have got the virus from that patient while attending to her in the ICU,” Thapliyal said.He added on April 26, the nursing officer had reported symptoms like high fever after which she took a paracetamol medicine and had taken leave the next day.“After taking leave on April 27, she was off duty again on April 29 and on May 1 she was found to be symptomatic and a primary contact of the 56-year-old patient who had died. We took the swab samples of the nursing officer on May 2 and she tested positive on Sunday,” Thapliyal said.With this, a total of four health staff including two nursing officers, one nurse, one intern have tested positive for coronavirus at AIIMS Rishikesh.On Saturday, when an intern had tested positive for Covid-19, UB Mishra, dean of AIIMS Rishikesh had said that the intern is also likely to have contracted the virus from the Covid-19 positive patient who died on Friday.“The Covid-19 positive patient who died on Friday had been kept at the emergency ward (before being shifted to the ICU) where the intern had also attended to her and she is likely to have contracted the virus there. The intern had been working in the emergency ward since April 16,” Mishra said.He further added that the officials are tracing contacts of the intern and the hostel where she stays has been quarantined.On Friday, a 56-year-old woman from Nainital district who had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 28, died but her death wasn’t due to coronavirus, officials said.She died at AIIMS, Rishikesh, where she had been initially admitted on April 22 after suffering from a brain stroke but was tested positive for the Covid-19 disease later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-nursing-officer-tests-covid-19-positive-at-aiims-rishikesh/story-yQ4CvTHe0119AI2ZVGcyqM.html
03-05-2020||India||Day after encounter, eight injured in blast in J-K’s Handwara||Eight people including a few children were injured after an explosive object suspected to be an unexploded shell detonated in Handwara, about 70 km northwest of Srinagar around noon on Sunday, officials said.The injured were taken to the Handwara District Hospital from where two of them were later shifted to Srinagar for advanced treatment, doctors at the hospital said.Ahgam village where the explosion took place around noon is about 3 km from the site of Saturday night’s encounter in which two terrorists and five security personnel including a colonel were killed.The village where the encounter took place has been sealed off and nobody is allowed to go near the village.On Sunday, the army said in a statement that a security team successfully rescued hostages but lost five men in the operation.Watch| Handwara encounter: Army Colonel among 5 martyred, 2 terrorists gunned down “A team comprising five army and J&K Police personnel entered the target area occupied by the terrorists to evacuate the civilians. The team entered the target area and successfully extricated the civilians,” the statement said.“However, during the process, the team was subjected to heavy volume of fire by the terrorists. In the ensuing firefight, two terrorists were eliminated and the team of five… comprising two army officers, two soldiers and one police sub-inspector attained martyrdom,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-encounter-eight-injured-in-blast-in-j-k-s-handwara/story-89BAIw0EbvuHGfR03gKHBP.html
03-05-2020||India||‘Bow to our soldiers’: Amit Shah pays tribute to 5 security personnel killed in Handwara encounter||Union Home Minister Amit Shah paid tribute to the five security personnel who were killed in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Handwara on Sunday. Shah said that the entire country will remain indebted to the supreme sacrifice made them.“I bow to our soldiers and security personnel martyred while protecting our motherland during an encounter with terrorists in Handwara in Jammu and Kashmir. Nation will always remain indebted to their supreme sacrifice. My deepest condolences to their bereaved families,” Shah said on Twitter. I bow to our soldiers and security personnel martyred while protecting our motherland during an encounter with terrorists in Handwara in Jammu and Kashmir. Nation will always remain indebted to their supreme sacrifice. My deepest condolences to their bereaved families.Five security force personnel, including Indian Army’s Colonel and Major, and a Jammu and Kashmir Police officer, were killed in the gunbattle with terrorists in Handwara in north Kashmir on Sunday.Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh Kumar, Lance Naik Dinesh Singh and sub-inspector of Jammu-Kashmir police Shakeel Qazi were martyred in the line of duty while rescuing civilians held hostage by the terrorists.Two terrorists were also shot dead by the security forces in the Handwara encounter.Col Sharma, the commanding officer of the army’s 21 Rashtriya Rifles battalion, was leading the three army men and the sub-inspector and had been locked in a gunfight with the terrorists holed up inside a house in Rajwar forests.The army said a joint operation was launched by the army and state police based on the intelligence input that terrorists were taking hostage some civilians in a house.Also watch| Handwara encounter: Army Colonel among 5 martyred, 2 terrorists gunned down Prime Minister Narendra Modi also paid tributes to security personnel for their supreme sacrifice.“Tributes to our courageous soldiers and security personnel martyred in Handwara. Their valour and sacrifice will never be forgotten. They served the nation with utmost dedication and worked tirelessly to protect our citizens. Condolences to their families and friends,” he said on Twitter.While the four Army personnel and the police sub-inspector lost their lives in the encounter, the civilians trapped in the house were safely evacuated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bow-to-our-soldiers-amit-shah-pays-tribute-to-5-security-personnel-killed-in-handwara-encounter/story-CrCbiFDBf1YXt4XoLTctdM.html
03-05-2020||India||Firms fear 40% revenue decline in April-June quarter: CII snap poll||Two-thirds of Indian chief executive officers (CEOs) expect a 40% revenue decline in the quarter ending June 30 because of the nationwide shutdown for the coronavirus disease and its fallout, manifested by a lack of consumer demand, value chain and labour market disruptions as well as raw material shortages, according to a snap poll conducted by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). More than half the CEOs foresee job losses after the lockdown ends, said the poll. Businesses have largely refrained from layoffs, but the hit suffered by their revenue streams has started causing financial distresses which would deepen if they remain shut longer, making job losses inevitable, the survey warned The respondents were mainly representatives of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), which have borne the brunt of the coronavirus outbreak and its after-effects on the economy. Forty-five percent of CEOs expect the economy to take more than a year to revive and 36% think the recovery will take six months to a year, the CII poll found. The CEOs want business operations to be resumed across districts including geographic zones worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, subject to strict safety protocols, so that the economy to return to track.“It is believed that the cost of prioritizing actions in such districts would be much smaller in comparison to the economic loss if these businesses have to remain shut,” CII said in its survey report, demanding that all industrial activities -- essential and non-essential -- be allowed to resume in all zones with strict health protocols in place.India came under the world’s biggest lockdown with effect from March 25 as the Narendra Modi government moved to stop the viral disease from spreading and enforced safe distancing measures, stopping industrial production, shutting commercial establishments, suspending air and rail transport, and taking public transport off the roads . The initial three-week emergency protocol was extended to 40 days until May 3, and by two more weeks until May 17, with a substantial easing of restrictions The lockdown has helped curb spread of Covid-19 and allowed time for India to build capacity to tackle a possible spurt in cases, CII said adding that it, however, had also started building pressure on businesses cutting across a large swathe, impairing economic growth prospects.Economic growth this financial year is forecast by the International Monetary Fund to slump to 1.9%, the slowest pace in three decades.CII proposed identifying districts to restart businesses on the basis of the concentration of industrial and economic activities. “This could be done as per the district’s contribution to the state/country’s GDP [gross domestic products] or industrial estates and clusters or number of enterprises registered in a district,” it said.“The top 100-150 districts so identified should be specially monitored and provided special attention in containment of the disease and restart of the economic/business operations,” it added.CII suggested that districts deemed to be pivotal to the economy be allowed additional relaxations that will permit industrial clusters and standalone production facilities, including those not designated as industrial estates, special economic zones (SEZs) or industrial townships, to operate. The government’s May 1 notification has permitted industrial estates, SEZs and industrial townships with restricted entry in so-called red zones, or hotspot districts, to commence operations.“The third phase of lockdown necessitates a focused strategy to minimize economic contraction due to Covid-19, without compromising on efforts to control the contagion,” CII said. Aggressive measures are required to ensure that an industrial district moves from red to orange (areas with a limited number of Covid-19 cases) and green (areas free of the virus) within 21 days, it said.“The cost of undertaking precautionary measures by way of repeated sanitation, wearing of PPE [personal protection equipment], masks, monitoring, group testing etc. will be much less than the economic loss if businesses in such high performing districts have to remain shut for longer duration,” said Chandrajit Banerjee, director general of CII.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firms-fear-40-revenue-decline-in-april-june-quarter-cii-snap-poll/story-uMpBmJx8vkoPPawJs3KxJL.html
03-05-2020||India||India tried to persuade Pak through back channel to release Kulbhushan: Harish Salve||India had hoped it might be able to persuade Pakistan through “back channel” to release retired Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, who was sentenced to death by a Pakistan military court on charges of “espionage and terrorism” in 2017, senior advocate Harish Salve has said.Salve was the lead counsel for India in the Jadhav case at the International Court of Justice (ICJ) which had last year ruled that Pakistan must review the death sentence awarded to the retired naval officer after a closed trial. During an online lecture series organised by the Akhil Bharatiya Adhivakta Parishad, affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Saturday, Salve from London said the Indian side has kept on asking how do Pakistan propose to carry out the ICJ judgement and give effective review and reconsideration, but no answer has been forthcoming.“We were hoping that through back channel, we may be able to persuade Pakistan to let him go. If they want to say on humanitarian ground or whatever, we want him back. We said let him go. Because it has become a big ego problem in Pakistan. So, we were hoping that they will let him go. They haven’t,” he said, while answering a question on the current situation in the matter. “We have written four-five letters. They just keep on denying,” he said. “I think we have reached a point where we have to now decide whether we want to go back to ICJ for consequential directions because Pakistan has not moved ahead.” Salve said that following the ICJ order, Pakistan had granted consular access but it was too late and “we have now been in a tussle with Pakistan to get them to set up machinery.” “Pakistan believes, first of all they told the whole world they have won the case, good for them. And now, they keep saying that you have to file a proceeding in a Pakistani court or take Pakistani proceedings,” he said. “We keep saying how you propose to carry out the judgement of ICJ and give effective review and reconsideration. They refuse to answer that question. We have had exchanges backward and forward. I think the Government of India has been writing to them and who knows the way things are going, we may have to go back in the ICJ someday, trying to get justice for Jadhav,” Salve said. He said till date, Pakistan has refused to share the case details such as the FIR, the chargesheet or the judgement of the military court in the matter. Responding to a question about the alleged offensive languages used by lawyer representing Pakistan at the ICJ, Salve said the Pakistan’s lawyer had used very “strong language” against India. “In the ICJ, we never used words like these. I did the word check and worlds like disgusting, lying and dishonest have been used by Pakistan many times,” he said. Salve said that he did not want to stoop to the Pakistan’s level as Indian traditions did not allow him to use such bad words and, moreover, he respected the ICJ and its portal. Salve then referred to a statement of a registrar of the ICJ made to the Indian ambassador during a function. “He (registrar) said that there was so much heat in this case.” Salve recalled, adding that he said that the America-Iran sanction case was important one, but that was done peacefully. Sharing the experience about the hearing in the Jadhav case, he said that by the time of rejoinder argument, the Pakistan lawyer was apologetic for the language used. “We are keeping this case under the glare of the international community in the hope that Pakistan does not do what it does,” he said in response to a question as to how to save Jadhav from the fate meted out to Sarabjit Singh in a Pakistan jail. Sarabjit, who was convicted for alleged involvement in bomb attacks in Pakistan’s Punjab province in 1990, was brutally attacked by inmates in the Kot Lakhpat Jail and had died in a hospital in the country. Salve, while addressing the lawyers, gave the background of Jadhav’s case and said he is the ex-navy commander and his case is that he carries out business in Iran and one day he was kidnapped. “He was handed over by the Taliban to the Pakistan Army. The fact that he was seized by the Pakistan Army at the Pakistan border with Iran is an admitted fact. Of course Pakistan does not admit that he was kidnapped by the Taliban. There is no clarity. There has been no clarity in Pakistan’s case as to how they nabbed him,” Salve said. “Their case generally is that they caught him trying to infiltrate Pakistan at the Pakistan-Iran border at the place called Chhabahar. That’s where they caught him,” he said. Salve added that before Pakistan informed India about Jadhav’s arrest, they had made his confession global. “The confession makes an interesting reading. It is a very general kind of confession saying that I have been a bad boy. I have indulged in terrorism activities in this place and that place and on behalf of India. I have done lot of bad things in Pakistan. No details, no dates, no incidents mentioned, no specific incidents mentioned. They claim that on basis of this, he was then sent to trial, he was given an Army officer, as a lawyer to represent him. They claim he was tried,” he said. Pakistan has claimed that Jadhav was arrested on March 3, 2016 and India was informed on March 25, 2016, when its Foreign Secretary raised the matter with the Indian consulate in Islamabad. Jadhav was sentenced to death on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017 by the Army court. India had moved the ICJ against the Pakistan Army court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tried-to-persuade-pak-through-back-channel-to-release-kulbhushan-harish-salve/story-qW5cdNgX9ZXAT9N9xLjCrL.html
03-05-2020||India||Man tries to track 2 missing packets of snacks online, loses Rs 2.22 lakh||A 40-year-old businessman who had ordered some food material online called on a fake helpline number of the company, which he found on a widely used search engine, to enquire about two bhujiya packets worth Rs 400 that he had ordered but not received, and ended up losing Rs 2.25 lakh after sharing his bank details, cyber police officials said.A FIR was registered on Saturday in connection with the fraud. “There has been a spurt in such cases and fraudsters are adopting new modus operandi to dupe people during lockdown. People need to be careful. We keep issuing advisories and also create awareness through our Twitter handle,” Harish Baijal, Deputy Inspector General of state cyber police said.According to Borivali police, the complainant approached them on May 2 and lodged a FIR. On April 22, he had ordered online grocery from an online grocery website. While he received all the material he did not get two bhujiya packets worth Rs 400. The businessman on May 1 searched for the helpline number of the grocery website on Google and got a fake helpline number uploaded by the cyber-fraudster. The fraudster asked the businessman to give his bank account number, registered mobile number and the three digit CVV of his ATM card. The fraudster then sent him a link on his mobile phone and asked him to forward it to another mobile number. He then asked the complainant to pass on his UPI pin and the subsequent OTP received on his mobile number. The businessman gave his UPI pin as well as the OTP and within two hours in four transactions a total of Rs 2.25 lakh was withdrawn. Explaining how the crime was executed, Ritesh Bhatia, a cyber crime investigator said, “The fraudster was successful in setting up the UPI account on his device by managing to convince the victim to share all his sensitive banking details including CVV, UPI pin and OTP. The fraudster also had the card details and hence was successful in wiping away such a large amount within seconds. It’s surprising to know that people still don’t hesitate to share OTPs and CVV numbers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-tries-to-track-2-missing-packets-of-snacks-online-loses-rs-2-22-lakh/story-Q1hBXnPHUW8Xw212qNxQYO.html
03-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Students of Kota coaching institutes take train to Bihar||Around 1,200 students from Bihar studying in Kota left for their home state on a special train amid cheers on Sunday. The Kota district collector, the police and other officials at the Kota railway state clapped to encourage the students who were stuck in the coaching hub due to the lockdown.The special train having 24 coaches departed at noon, ferrying students of Begusarai zone of Bihar.“...there was no problem in Kota as hostel keepers and coaching institutes ensured food and other requirements are met, but it was becoming difficult to stay away from families...,” said 17-year-old Shiksha Jain, a National Medical Entrance Examination aspirant.But Ravi Raj (20), another coaching student, he was facing problems, including finding. “...but it is good that we are leaving for our homes.” He also said his coaching institute has many like him in arranging food.Every year, about 150,000 students, after completion of their Class 10 and 12 exams visit Kota, where private coaching centres dot the streets teeming with engineering and medical aspirantSocial distancing norm was also followed on the train as only around 50 students were allowed in one coach.Coaching institutes staff helped students in boarding the train, and provided food packets to the students.Another special train for the Gaya railway zone will depart from Kota on Sunday night.Lok Sabha speaker and Kota parliamentarian tweeted: “I have talked to the Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and arranged one more train as I had received information of more students of Bihar who wants to return home. This additional Special train from Kota-Baroni (Begusarai) will leave from Kota railway station between 3 and 4 pm today.”Kota additional district magistrate Narendra Gupta authorities made arrangements for an additional special train in view of the large number of students. He said students of Bihar who were in Kota will return to their home state between May 3 and 6.“Every day, two special trains would ferry around 1000-1200 students of Bihar,” he said.While some states tried to evacuate their students from Kota before the Centre allowed the operation of special trains on Friday, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said he would wait for relaxed federal guidelines. His stand drew criticism from the Opposition that accused the Bihar government of not helping the students. The administration, for its part, said it was only following home ministry orders prohibiting interstate travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-students-of-kota-coaching-institutes-take-train-to-bihar/story-GsD7p05ueW3KATFZRPZcxK.html
03-05-2020||India||‘Rise in India’s coronavirus cases expected to stabilise anytime soon’: Niti Aayog member VK Paul||The continuous rise in the number of people testing positive for coronavirus is expected to stabilise anytime soon, Niti Aayog member V K Paul said on Sunday.He also said the rationale behind the government’s decision to extend the lockdown by two more weeks after May 3 is to consolidate the gains of the first and second phase of restrictions.In an interview to PTI, Paul said sudden spurt in number of coronavirus cases is still amenable to containment strategy.“The rationale (behind extending lockdown till May 17) is that the gains of lockdown need to be consolidated in the country...Real goals of lockdown was to suppress the chain of transmission of the virus. So, we will lose that, if we abruptly end it,” he said.Paul, who is heading an Empowered Group on medical equipment and management plan to tackle coronavirus outbreak, said that at the same time where situation is good, the opening will take place with caution and care.Replying to a question that whether India has slipped into community transmission stage, he said, “Essentially, we think it (continuous rise in coronavirus cases) is still amenable to containment strategy”.He also noted that India is nowhere close to the kind of escalation of coronavirus cases that it witnessed during the pre-lockdown phase.“In the pre-lockdown stage, we were doubling our number of cases in every five days. Before that even at every 3 days. Now, we are doubling in 11-12 days.“So, overall the rate of spread has diminished but yes the number still has not stabilised. But we expect it to stabilise anytime soon,” the Niti Aayog member said.The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 1,301 and the number of cases climbed to 39,980 in the country on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry.The Centre has extended the lockdown by two more weeks after May 3, when the second phase of these restrictions was scheduled to end.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 25, which was later extended by two more weeks to contain the virus spread.However, several experts have cautioned that the lockdown is severely impacting the economy and many rating agencies and industry bodies have forecast a sharp dip in the country’s economic growth rate for the current fiscal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rise-in-india-s-coronavirus-cases-expected-to-stabilise-anytime-soon-niti-aayog-member-vk-paul/story-YpkqmDnTPseQG140uB4SSM.html
03-05-2020||India||Covid- 19 latest: Aarogya Setu upgraded for online medical consultation even as data privacy debate rages||Even as a political debate over Aarogya Setu application rages in the country, the NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant on Sunday tweeted that the app has been upgraded further to include facilities for online medical consultations, ePharmacy and home lab tests.According to information available on the Google Play, the app initially developed for contact tracing of coronavirus positive cases and suspects, has been installed in over 5 crore devises across the country till April 28.“AarogyaSetu now brings to you to Online Medical Consultations (call and video), Home Lab Test and ePharmacy. AarogyaSetuMitr, the stack powering this new feature, is developed in collaboration & partnership of @NITIAayog and @PrinSciAdvGoI,” said the first of the two tweets by Kant.The app developed by the ministry of electronics and information technology was first launched on April 2 and it was initially promoted by the government for voluntary use, pitched as a device meant for advance warning the user and the authorities, in case of contact with a Covid 19 infected person or a suspect. The app uses cellular location mapping technology and Bluetooth to track users and their movements.Later, the government promoted the app as a tool among several others employed for coronavirus containment efforts and the prime minister himself vigorously stressed on the need for its mass use to increase its efficacy.The app’s formal induction as a containment tool was completed on May 1, when the government made its use mandatory for people in containment zones and for office goers, which led to questions around data protection and privacy raised by the opposition parties and also some experts. While Rahul Gandhi called it a “sophisticated surveillance tool” being controlled by a “private operator”, the ruling party slammed the criticism as motivated and ill-informed.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi leads opposition charge on Aarogya SetuAccording to Kant, the app has now been scaled up further in partnership with the NITI Aayog and the Principal Scientific Advisor to the government of India, to provide online medical consultation, online pharmacy and laboratory tests at home. Kant added that more than 200 doctors were providing their services to the app and more were being added. For Coronavirus Live Updates“AarogyaSetuMitr has voluntary participation from organizations, industry coalitions, and startups. More than 200 doctors available through the day to medically assist you. More doctors being added. We Step In, So That You Don’t Have to Step Out,” his second tweet said.Apart from the new features, the app tells users how many people are using the app within a radius of 500 metres to 10 km and how many positive cases or suspects have been detected in the area. It also carries a few government advisories on containment efforts. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-aarogya-setu-upgraded-for-online-medical-consultation-even-as-data-privacy-debate-rages/story-UNkvk5jgL5VYCsSTN4GWeM.html
03-05-2020||India||Col Ashutosh Sharma is 21 Rashtriya Rifles’ 2nd CO to make supreme sacrifice in 2 decades||In its three decades of combating terrorism, the 21 Rashtriya Rifles Sunday lost only its second Commanding Officer on the line of duty when twice-decorated Colonel Ashutosh Sharma made the supreme sacrifice while rescuing civilians held hostage. Comprising officers and men from the Brigade of Guards, the 21 Rashtriya Rifles (21-RR) has earned the distinction of being called “Triple Centurions” for having killed over 300 terrorists. The battalion had lost its first Commanding Officer, Colonel Rajinder Chauhan, on August 21, 2000. Twenty years later, it lost its second Commanding Officer in Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, who attained martyrdom Sunday morning while fighting terrorists at Changimulla in Handwara tehsil of Kupwara district in North Kashmir. Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh said the Colonel and his team bravely rescued civilians held hostage by terrorists in Changimulla village. They gunned down the two terrorists in the encounter. Both the Commanding Officers sacrificed their lives for the nation in the General Area of Rajwar forest, 80 kms from the summer capital of Srinagar, and a part of Handwara tehsil of Kupwara district in North Kashmir. A recipient of Sena Medal twice as a CO in Kashmir, a rare feat, Col Sharma was remembered by his colleagues and seniors as the most jovial officer who liked to spend time with his jawans.Watch| Handwara encounter: Army Colonel among 5 martyred, 2 terrorists gunned down Col Chauhan was martyred in 2000, when he was accompanying Brigadier BS Sher Gill on an inspection tour of the units of his area. Their vehicle was blown to pieces when terrorists triggered a remote-controlled Improvised Explosive Device near Zachaldara village. Both the officers were killed on the spot while five other army personnel suffered injuries. A recipient of Sena Medal, Col Chauhan, who served the nation for more than 20 years, was the third CO of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles, a unit formed by the Army to fight militancy in the hinterland of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/handwara-encounter-decorated-officer-of-21-rr-second-co-to-be-killed-in-two-decades/story-sfoFyU5rYcg1OlzgFY4CXK.html
03-05-2020||India||‘Tributes to courageous security personnel martyred in Handwara’, tweets PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the five security personnel killed in Jammu and Kashmir’s Handwara district during an operation to rescue civilians held hostage by terrorists served the country with “utmost dedication”.The Prime Minister was paying his tributes to Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh Kumar and Lance Naik Dinesh Singh and sub-inspector of Jammu-Kashmir police Shakeel Qazi who fell in the line of duty during an operation in Changimulla of Handwara.“Tributes to our courageous soldiers and security personnel martyred in Handwara. Their valour and sacrifice will never be forgotten. They served the nation with utmost dedication and worked tirelessly to protect our citizens,” the Prime Minister tweeted.“Condolences to their families and friends,” he said.Before him, defence minister Rajnath Singh and the army also offered tributes to the security personnel who sacrificed their lives in the Handwara encounter.“The loss of our soldiers and security personnel in Handwara (J-K) is deeply disturbing and painful. They showed exemplary courage in their fight against the terrorists and made supreme sacrifice while serving the country. We will never forget their bravery and sacrifice,” Singh tweeted.Watch| Handwara encounter: Army Colonel among 5 martyred, 2 terrorists gunned down “This operation exemplified true tradition and strong determination of the #SecurityForces to safeguard the lives of own citizens,” the army also posted on Twitter.Two terrorists, including a top commander of Lashkar-e-Taiba, were also killed in the encounter that began around 3:30pm on Saturday after they took hostages inside a house in Handwara district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/valour-sacrifice-will-never-be-forgotten-pm-modi-s-tribute-to-personnel-killed-in-handwara/story-0xKxEgFC27wULtOHCfdmCL.html
03-05-2020||India||5 killed after speeding truck rams into them in Jharkhand’s Hazaribag||Five people were crushed to death and two others were seriously injured after a speeding truck loaded with goods lost control and rammed into them along a highway in Jharkhand’s Hazaribag district on Sunday morning, police said.Four people were killed on the spot on the Ranchi-Hazaribag highway and one died in the hospital during treatment. The dead have been identified as Dilip Kumar, Janki Prajapati, Rajendra Prajapati and Baiju Thakur.The truck’s driver and helper were also seriously injured in the accident and they are undergoing treatment in the hospital.Om Prakash, the sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) of Vishnugarh, said the accident took place under Charhi police station near Ghato More around 7am. “The goods vehicles are running at high speed taking advantage of the lockdown. The lorry was also at high speed,” Prakash said.“The driver suddenly saw another truck coming from the front near Ghato More. In a bid to avert an accident, the driver lost control over the vehicle and it rammed into the people standing on the roadside,” he added.He said the truck was coming from Rajasthan and was on its way to Ranchi. “We have not checked yet what kinds of goods are there in the lorry,” he said.Sources said people had gathered near Ghato More for their morning tea and to read the newspaper. Police had earlier asked them to vacate the place in a bid to maintain the Covid-19 lockdown rules. However, they gathered again at the spot after the police left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-killed-after-speeding-truck-rams-into-them-in-jharkhand-s-hazaribag/story-kV7kwqXWEVCt9bJ7XA9XkJ.html
03-05-2020||India||Over 10,000 recover from Covid-19 in India, ‘mortality rate lowest in world,’ says health minister||Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said that the number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in the country has crossed the 10,000-mark. Many more, who are still admitted in hospitals, “are on the road to recovery,” he said as reported by news agency ANI. The health minister said that the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the country is around 12 days today as compared to 10.5 days in the last 14 days. “Our mortality rate of 3.2% is the lowest in the world,” Dr Vardhan said.  Today more than 10,000 COVID19 patients have been discharged. Those still admitted at hospitals are on the road to recovery. If in last 14 days doubling rate was 10.5 days, then today it's around 12 days.Our mortality rate of 3.2% is the lowest in the world: Union Health Minister pic.twitter.com/YnQpnJ9IeJThe number of people who have recovered from coronavirus or have been discharged from hospitals across India stands at 10,632. With 28,046 active Covid-19 cases and 1,301 fatalities, coronavirus cases in the country near the 40,000-mark in India with 39,980 total cases. With over 3% of fatality ratio, India’s Covid-19 mortality rate is among the lowest in the world. Also read: How does Covid-19 mortality rate differ across countriesJohns Hopkins University suggests coronavirus-affected countries across the globe have reported very different “case fatality ratios”. The ratio is the number of deaths divided by the number of confirmed cases.The University states that the number of fatalities can differ across regions owing to the following factors:- Differences in the number of people tested: With more testing, more people with milder cases are identified. This lowers the case-fatality ratio.- Demographics: For example, mortality tends to be higher in older populations.- Characteristics of the healthcare system: For example, mortality may rise as hospitals become overwhelmed and have fewer resources, among other factors. “Countries at the top of the figure have the most deaths proportionally to their Covid-19 cases or population, not necessarily the most deaths overall,” it says.According to the data, Belgium tops the list of countries with highest Covid-19 fatality ratio with 15% Covid-19 mortality rate. The country has around 50,000 coronavirus patients and nearly 8,000 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-expresses-hope-as-over-10-000-recover-from-covid-19-in-india/story-OeoQajofj3kd1xuxU1HLsN.html
03-05-2020||India||58 people test positive for Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh, state tally at 1,583||As many as 58 out of 6,534 test samples have tested positive for Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s coronavirus tally to 1,583, said the command control room on Sunday.“As many as 6,534 samples were tested within the last 24 hours -- from 9 am on Saturday to 9 am on Sunday-- across Andhra Pradesh. 58 of them were detected corona positive,” it said.The highest number of cases was reported from Kurnool (30), followed by Guntur district (11).At present, the state has 1,062 active Covid-19 cases. Moreover, 47 people have been discharged in the last 24 hours. A total of 488 people have been cured and discharged.As no deaths have been reported, the Covid-19 death toll stands at 33. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/58-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-andhra-pradesh-state-tally-at-1-583/story-OIRMtGnxKP99nPJEOd2LSM.html
03-05-2020||India||‘Went in to rescue civilians’: Colonel, Major among 5 killed in action in Handwara||Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, the commanding officer of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles, and the joint security team that he was leading had waited patiently for an hour after the last bullet was fired by the terrorists on Saturday evening. Then he decided to go in.The encounter had started a couple of hours earlier at 3.30 pm when a joint team of the Rashtriya Rifles and Kashmir police surrounded the house a short distance from Kupwara’s Handwara town.The information available with the army indicated that a group of terrorists had entered the house and had taken the civilians hostage. This was believed to be one of the teams of terrorists that had slipped past the security grid along with Line of Control.Also read | Hostages, gunfight, assault teams: How the Handwara encounter ensuedKashmir Police IG Vijay Kumar said one of the two terrorists killed in the deadly encounter is a top Lashkar commander Haider.In April alone, intelligence agencies estimate about 25-30 terrorists have crossed over. This week, intelligence agencies also alerted about terrorist plans to carry out simultaneous suicide attacks to target army and paramilitary bases in Jammu and Kashmir.Colonel Sharma, RR company commander Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh Kumar, Lance Naik Dinesh Singh and J&K Police Sub Inspector Shakeel Qazi entered the house around 5.30 pm. Qazi, the police officer was a veteran of counter-terror operations in Kashmir and part of the J&K police’s special operations group.Watch l Handwara encounter: Army Colonel among 5 martyred, 2 terrorists gunned down “Col Sharma wanted to rescue the inmates who were trapped inside the house and wanted to make sure that the terrorists didn’t escape. He led from the front, as always,” a top army commander told Hindustan Times.Also read: Col killed in Handwara; a two time gallantry awardee for counter-terrorist operationsCol Sharma has been awarded the army’s gallantry medal twice, the last one was in August 2019.The heavily-armed terrorists , who had located themselves in the cowshed, resumed firing soon after the five walked in.The firefight continued for another 7-8 hours. A Jammu and Kashmir police officer said the firing eventually ended around dawn.An army spokesperson said the civilians were successfully extricated.Chief of Defence Services General Bipin Rawat said the operation in Handwara, J&K “highlights the determination of the security forces to safeguard the lives of the people”.This, however, isn’t the first time that terrorists had hidden themselves in the cowshed.Colonel MN Rai, who made the supreme sacrifice in an encounter in January 2015, was also targeted by Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists hiding in the cowshed. Then again, an army officer said Deputy Superintendent of Police Aman Thakur, who laid down his life last year, was also hit by bullets fired by Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists who had located themselves in the cowshed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/handwara-encounter-went-in-to-rescue-civilians-colonel-major-among-5-killed-in-action/story-ygbJV30kTSGnMPjAcIpTsN.html
03-05-2020||India||Lockdown: 6 migrant workers from Odisha among 8 injured in bus accidents on way back home||Eight people, including six migrant workers on their way back to Odisha, were injured in two separate bus accidents in Maharashtra and Odisha on Sunday. Five people, including two minors and two bus staff, were injured when the bus ferrying them from Surat in Gujarat fell in a roadside ditch on the Nagpur-Amravati National Highway in Maharashtra on Sunday morning. The bus, with 50 Odia migrant workers, had left Surat on Friday.The injured, admitted to the Karanja hospital in Maharashtra for treatment, will be brought to Odisha later in another bus along with the other passengers. In the second incident, another bus carrying 50 migrant workers from Surat to Ganjam, hit a roadside kerb at Kalinga Ghati hilly road, leaving three people injured. This is the second accident on this road. On Saturday evening, two migrant workers returning from Surat to their homes in Ganjam district were killed and a few others were injured when the bus carrying them swerved off at the same Kalinga Ghati road in Kandhamal district and dashed against roadside kerb. The two deceased were thrown off the vehicle. In a separate incident, another migrant worker died in a bus on Saturday while he was on his way back home in Odisha’s Ganjam district. The man had been unwell for some time. When the bus carrying him and others from Surat entered Raipur in Chhatisgarh, he was found unconscious. He was rushed to hospital where doctors declared him dead.Odisha’s transport minister Padmanabha Behera said the mishaps seem to be occurring due to reckless driving and lack of enough knowledge about driving in hilly roads. Behera said the drivers would be asked not to drive the buses beyond 40 kmph on those roads.Meanwhile, the number of positive cases in the state climbed to 160 as Ganjam district reported its first cases with two migrant workers from Surat testing positive for Covid-19. A 17-year-old male and 22-year-old male who had returned from Surat a day earlier were found positive, but without any symptoms. The state government has prepared close to 3 lakh quarantine beds for the migrant workers returning from other States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-6-migrant-workers-from-odisha-among-8-injured-in-bus-accidents-on-way-back-home/story-SlHn5tmY2uvtrm1w8wGuYL.html
03-05-2020||India||‘Sophisticated surveillance system’: Rahul Gandhi on Aarogya Setu app||A day after the Centre made it mandatory for workers in both private and public offices to download the Aarogya Setu app, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter to accuse the government of building a sophisticated surveillance system which raised serious data and privacy concerns. “The Aarogya Setu app is a sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a pvt operator, with no institutional oversight - raising serious data security & privacy concerns. Technology can help keep us safe; but fear must not be leveraged to track citizens without their consent,” Gandhi tweeted. IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad called Gandhi’s accusation a lie and said the app not outsourced to a private operator. “Daily a new lie. Aarogya Setu is a powerful companion which protects people. It has a robust data security architecture. Those who indulged in surveillance all their lives, won’t know how tech can be leveraged for good,” Prasad tweeted in response to Gandhi’s tweets. The app, launched by the government on April 2 to contact-trace people affected by the coronavirus, has now been expanded to host several functions. It now uses location data to identify potential hotspots, integrates the e-pass of different states, in addition to health information and telemedicine facilities. Some privacy experts and opposition leaders have raised concerns on the app’s mandate. AIMIM leader Assaduddin Owaisi on Friday said the app is “very shady”. “Now Delhi’s Sultans have issued a ‘farmaan’(edict) that people have no choice in the matter. They must share their private data with the government,” tweeted Owaisi.Reacting to it, I&B minister Prakash Javadekar said that such data is being used worldwide, and the app will continue to remain relevant for the next 1-2 years. “It curbs false information and you also know if there is a Covid-19 positive person in your vicinity,” said Javadekar.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesBJP leader Sambit Patra said that Gandhi is ignorant about the Aarogya Setu and is trying to mislead people through misinformation. “The government on multiple occasions has allayed the fears of surveillance and that too scientifically. The said app is a technical personal bodyguard to each one of us in the fight against Covid-19. Congress should refrain from using the pandemic as a political opportunity,” Patra said. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-leads-opposition-charge-on-aarogya-setu/story-WAHQCH1uENXUldyRXgQsaP.html
03-05-2020||India||Audit panel in Bengal to deal with only ‘peculiar’ Covid-19 cases, says senior member||The audit committee constituted by the West Bengal government to ascertain if a death was due to Covid-19 or a pre-existing ailment will henceforth study only select coronavirus cases and submit its report to the government, a senior member of the panel said on Sunday.The committee, after having given its set of recommendations for certifying Covid-19-related death cases, will deal with “peculiar” coronavirus cases, he said.The panel had recently examined 105 deaths in the state, following which it attributed 33 cases to the disease and the rest to co-morbidities.“The experts committee for conducting an audit into the deaths of Covid-19 will now on look into peculiar cases and not into all deaths. We have not been given any fresh sample for examination after we filed our report on those 105 deaths,” the committee member told PTI.According to the panelist, the principle objective of the committee is to study the death of Covid-19 patients and find out more about the character of the virus.“There are several questions in the mind of the common people about the disease. As there is no study or database in this regard, the government wanted set up a treatment and containment protocol to understand the symptoms... and how that kept changing from the preliminary to aggravated stage.“And in case of deaths, how many days did the virus take to reach that stage when the infected person finally succumbs,” he explained.The panel, he said, has formed a list of dos and don’ts for medical practitioners treating novel coronavirus cases and certifying deaths.“We analysed, researched and formed a list of recommendations for the doctors to treat and certify deaths because of Covid-19,” the member said.The committee will now on collect samples from hospitals for examination, and will give necessary suggestions to the health department, if there are new findings.“This panel will not certify any coronavirus-related death. We will now go for random collection of samples from hospitals. In case of any new or peculiar finding, we will inform the state health department and make our recommendations,” he said.The panel had earlier noted that there was scope for improvement in medical record-keeping at Covid-19 hospitals, following which Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said the health department would soon issue an advisory.“During our research we found that the death certificates were issued without following the norms set by the WHO and the ICMR for Covid-19 deaths. Those certificates should have included the immediate cause of death, antecedent cause of death and underlying cause of death. The medical record-keeping requires uniformity and that’s the responsibility of hospital authorities,” the panelist said.An advisory, once issued by the government, will definitely help hospitals in understanding the character of the disease and how to deal with it, he said.West Bengal has registered 48 deaths due to Covid-19.The total number of people infected by Covid-19 in West Bengal stands at 886. Of them, 624 are active cases and 199 have recovered. The Union Health ministry has put the figure at 922.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/audit-panel-in-bengal-to-deal-with-only-peculiar-covid-19-cases-says-senior-member/story-S8n2oyN5JgFGBJKxQumzHJ.html
03-05-2020||India||Handwara encounter: Top Lashkar terrorist Haider killed in gunfight||A top commander of Lashkar-e Taiba was killed in the operation in Jammu and Kashmir’s Handwara, inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said on Sunday.The Lashkar operative was identified as Haider from Pakistan by news agency ANI.The army had said earlier in the day that two terrorists were gunned down in the encounter, which ensued between terrorists and security forces at Changimullah area of Handwara on Saturday.A colonel and four other security force personnel also died in the Handwara encounter on Saturday after an hours-long gun battle with the terrorists who were holding civilian hostages.Also read | Hostages, gunfight, assault teams: How the Handwara encounter ensuedThe personnel killed in action are Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, the commanding officer of the army’s 21 Rashtriya Rifles battalion, Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh Kumar and Lance Naik Dinesh Singh and sub-inspector Shakeel Qazi of the Jammu and Kashmir police.WATCH | Handwara encounter: Army Colonel among 5 martyred, 2 terrorists gunned downThe joint operation by the army and police was launched on Saturday afternoon to rescue the civilians who had been taken hostage by the terrorists inside a house.In a statement issued on Sunday, the army said the joint operation was launched on the basis of intelligence that terrorists were holding civilian hostages at Changimulla.“A team comprising five army and J&K Police personnel entered the target area occupied by the terrorists to evacuate the civilians. The team entered the target area and successfully extricated the civilians,” the statement said. Also read: Col killed in Handwara; a two time gallantry awardee for counter-terrorist operations“However, during the process, the team was subjected to heavy volume of fire by the terrorists. In the ensuing firefight, two terrorists were eliminated and the team of five… comprising two army officers, two soldiers and one police sub-inspector attained martyrdom,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/handwara-encounter-top-lashkar-terrorist-haider-killed-in-gunfight/story-G8eoK5zx9JFjsiJMUzR00L.html
03-05-2020||India||‘Respect journalists for their contribution’: Mamata Banerjee on Press Freedom Day||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee hailed the role of the press in a democracy and said that the media should perform its duties fearlessly.“Press is the fourth pillar in a democracy and must perform its duties fearlessly. We respect journalists for their contribution to society. Our government in Bangla has many initiatives for the welfare of journalists. Our government in Bangla has also announced health insurance with up to 10 lakh coverage for frontline COVID workers, including journalists,” she said on Twitter. Press is the fourth pillar in a democracy and must perform its duties fearlessly. We respect journalists for their contribution to society. Our Govt in #Bangla has many initiatives for the welfare of journalists #PressFreedomDay 1/2Banerjee said this with the hashtag #PressFreedomDay which is being celebrated on Sunday.World Press Freedom Day was proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly in December 1993, following the recommendation of UNESCO’s General Conference. Since then, May 3, the anniversary of the Declaration of Windhoek is celebrated worldwide as the World Press Freedom Day.India dropped two places on a global press freedom index to be ranked 142 out of 180 countries in the annual Reporters Without Borders analysis released last month.The Haryana government had last month announced an insurance cover of Rs 10 lakh each for journalists who are reporting in the state during the coronavirus pandemic.The decision was taken after several journalists tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19 in Mumbai and Chennai.On April 21, the West Bengal government had extended the insurance scheme to accredited journalists in view of Covid-19 outbreak in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/respect-journalists-for-their-contribution-mamata-banerjee-on-press-freedom-day/story-IeiDqGjcwSNHbwFn86YtFN.html
03-05-2020||India||Coronavirus latest update: 39,980 cases hide a success story of India’s Covid-19 fight||The Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) on Sunday highlighted India’s relative success in the containing coronavirus outbreak by claiming the country had the least number of positive Covid-19 cases among countries that had conducted one million tests. India crossed that milestone on Saturday, thanks to a continuous up-gradation in its testing capacity.As on Sunday, India had registered a total of 39,980 positive cases of the virus, which was about half of the cases registered in Germany, one-third of cases in Turkey, one-fourth of Italy and the USA and nearly one-fifth of Spain, when these countries completed one million RT- PCR tests.According to a bar graph reportedly compiled using ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) data, Germany had 73,522 positive cases on the day it completed 1 million RT-PCR tests. Germany is one of the few countries with a high infection rate but a low mortality rate from the virus.Other major countries like Turkey (117,589), Italy (152,271), USA (164,620) and Spain (200,194) have even worse figures of total infections per million tests.The comparison suggests that the rate of spread of coronavirus in India was far less than the above-listed countries that are amongst the worst affected in the world. While the BJP didn’t specify any reason for this, the government has often credited nationwide lockdown, suspension of international and intra-national travel and other restrictions for slowing down the growth rate of the virus in the country.India has steadily ramped up its testing capacity from 5,580 a day on April 1 to 74,507 samples on May 2. The health ministry expects to cross 100,000 tests a day by the next week. The number of labs in the country conducting Covid-19 tests has gone up to 406, including 105 private facilities.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19In terms of population, India has conducted almost 783 tests per million. This ratio continues to be on the lower side since other countries with far less population have a better score on this count. Germany has done 30,400 tests per million, Turkey has done 13,177 tests per million, Italy has done 34,879 tests per million, USA has done 20,940 tests per million and Spain has done 32,699 tests per million as of Sunday. India has the lowest tests/million of population among the top 20 countries worst affected by the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-update-39-980-cases-hide-a-success-story-of-india-s-covid-19-fight/story-GC6NZbAYckWgfU1Ch8t1VO.html
03-05-2020||India||How Odisha migrant workers in Kerala were chosen, brought home in special trains||Before the first batch of 1140 migrant workers from Odisha stranded in Kerala could take the special train home from Aluva, officials in the two states said their biggest difficulty was choosing who should travel first.These migrant workers belong to 23 of the 30 districts with Kandhamal accounting for the maximum number at 382 followed by 283 from Kendrapara. Since the day the lockdown was announced and inter-state transport stopped, around 9000 migrants from different districts of Odisha working in Kerala’s Ernakulam district had been exploring ways to travel back to their homeland. While in neighbouring Tamil Nadu around 100 fishermen had taken the sea route to come back to Odisha, the migrants in Kerala did not take that risk.Operation SubhayatraThe process to bring back the labourers started on April 30 after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) allowed the transportation of stranded people across the country. Officials in Kerala’s Ernakulam district launched Operation Subhayatra and authorities held a meeting of officials of the police, transport and health departments, including the National Health Mission, as well as railway personnel.“We already had the data of all the guest workers (migrant workers) police station wise and camp wise. The problem was how to stop more people from travelling as the train could take not more than 1140 passengers after adhering to the social distance guidelines,” Karthik Kannan, Ernakulam Rural district’s superintendent of police, said. Kannan said they decided to pick people from a camp in Perumbavoor, a historic town in Ernakulam with 40000 workers from Bengal, Odisha and Assam, on May 1 but were confronted with the problem of possible agitation by other workers who may not be selected. “To deal with the problem, we took nine BSF (Border Security Force) persons along with home guards with knowledge of Assamese, Odia and Bengali languages to the camps to persuade them that it is impossible to send everyone at one go. But we assured them that everyone will go in phases,” he said.Choosing passengersWhile a decision was taken to transport the 1140 migrant workers, the problem was to choose who will travel first.“We decided to give priority to women and children and people with family. After that old people were given priority. We also gave priority to people who had some urgency at their home and needed travelling immediately,” the senior police official said.Kannan said as only people with no Covid-19 symptoms could travel, a dozen team each comprising health, police and revenue officials screened the workers and registered for their onward journey to Odisha. “Each of the people who were to board the train was given a medical certificate that they not showing any Covid symptoms,” he said.In Bhubaneswar, officials at the Covid-19 control room then checked whether all of them have pre-registered themselves with the Covid-19 portal, a necessity for all migrant workers before they set foot in Odisha.“When we cross-checked the details with our portal for registration of those who wanted to return, we found all of them had registered,” Manoj Mishra, Odisha’s IT secretary, said. Journey homeEach of the returning migrant workers was stamped with indelible ink indicating their quarantine period on their inner side of the right forearm. They were then taken in Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses to the Aluva railway station where each of the 23 coaches was allowed to be filled by 54 people as against capacity for 72 passengers following the social distancing norms. Each of them paid a base fare of Rs 530. The revenue department then loaded 6000 litres of drinking water, 2400 food packets with chapati, biscuits and banana, which were picked up by each of the migrant workers. The train also stopped at Duvvada in Andhra Pradesh for a few minutes for loading of cooked food.The train carrying the migrant workers from Ernakulam district reached Khurda Road railway station near Bhubaneswar on Sunday morning and then Jagannathpur railway station in Ganjam a couple of hours later. After they reached Odisha travelling a little more than 55 hours, the migrant workers were screened for any rise in body temperature before they were taken to their respective districts by waiting buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-odisha-migrant-workers-in-kerala-were-chosen-brought-home-in-special-trains/story-GWZ9zIsB22UwNfFOxc79MN.html
03-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM writes to railways minister Piyush Goyal demanding 28 trains for migrant workers||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to railways minister Piyush Goyal requesting him for 28 trains from various cities to help migrants from the state stranded in different parts of the country come home.The chief minister said in his letter that the fight against Covid-19 has gone intense across the country since the last few days. Chhattisgarh state is also fighting this pandemic courageously and has succeeded to a great extent in controlling the infection, he said.“Presently, a large number of labourers from Chhattisgarh is stranded in various parts of the country. Based on the information received from helpline and other sources, nearly 1.17 lakh labourers of the state are stranded in 21 states and four union territories of the country,” Bhupesh Baghel wrote.“After the transport facility is resumed, this number is expected to increase. And if we add the number of people apart from labourers, such as students, tourists etc, this number already escalates significantly,” he said.As he welcomed the Centre’s decision to run the special trains for labourers stranded in other places, Baghel also requested to run these trains free of cost on humanitarian grounds.“The letter issued by the Railway Board on May 1 states that fares have been decided for sleeper mail and express trains. This is not fair as the labourers and people stuck in other states are already distressed. They should be provided with this facility by the railways free of cost,” he wrote.The chief minister said the state’s administrative system has been directed to coordinate with various states and chalk out an action plan for safe home-coming of labourers and other people stranded there. “I request you to operate a sufficient number of trains for home-coming of labourers and citizens of Chhattisgarh in other states,” he said.Baghel requested for seven trains from Jammu to Raipur-Bilaspur, three trains from Lucknow to Raipur-Bilaspur, two trains from Kanpur to Raipur-Bilaspur, one train from Chennai to Raipur-Bilaspur, one train from Bangalore to Raipur-Bilaspur, two trains from Pune to Raipur-Bilaspur and one train from Allahabad to Bilaspur.He also asked for three trains from Delhi to Raipur-Bilaspur, three trains from Hyderabad-Secunderabad to Raipur-Bilaspur, one train from Vishakhapatnam to Raipur, from Surat-Ahmedabad to Raipur, one train from Kolkata to Raipur, one train from Jaipur to Raipur and one train from Patna to Durg, in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-writes-to-railways-minister-piyush-goyal-demanding-28-trains-for-migrant-workers/story-WuRhjNwHPko7STKcK6zHcI.html
03-05-2020||India||IAF choppers shower flowers on National Police Memorial in Delhi, other places||Indian Air Force choppers on Sunday showered flower petals on the National Police Memorial here and hospitals treating COVID-19 patients to express gratitude and appreciation towards doctors, medical professionals, police officials and paramilitary forces who are at the forefront in the battle against the coronavirus.This aerial salute was part of planned activities by India’s armed forces, which includes activities such as fly-pasts by fighter jets and transport aircraft of the IAF, playing of bands by the military and flashing warship lights, to express gratitude and honour the “corona warriors” of the country.Early on Sunday morning, two C-130J Super Hercules special operations transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force conducted a fly-past over the Dal Lake in Srinagar followed by another over Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh.The aircraft took off from Srinagar and will fly all the way to Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala to show gratitude towards COVID-19 warriors.IAF’s SU-30 aircraft conducted flypast across Marine Drive in Mumbai.The Indian Air Force (IAF) choppers showered flower petals over hospitals treating coronavirus positive patients in Delhi, among locations across the country in order to express gratitude and appreciation to the COVID-19 warriors in the country.“The list of hospitals include AllMS, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, GTB Hospital, Loknayak Hospital, RML Hospital, Safdarjang Hospital, Ganga Ram Hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Max Saket, Rohini Hospital, Apollo Indraprastha Hospital, and Army Hospital R&R,” as per a statement by the Defence Ministry.IAF also aircraft showered flowers on King George’s Medical University in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh.This flying activity is combined along with the training activity of IAF and opportunity flight for transport planes and helicopters, which are involved in moving supplies related to the COVID-19 task.The IAS also conducted a flypast over Rajpath among other locations in the national capital as a mark of respect for those at the frontline in the fight against coronavirus.About 10 helicopters of Indian Coast Guard (ICG) will shower flower petals on COVID-19 hospitals at 5 locations.Apart from this, as many as 46 Coast Guard ships will carry out illumination, fire green flares and sound ships siren at 25 locations, including, the remote sites and far-flung island territories of Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep and Minicoy islands, covering the coastline of 7516 km.Indian Naval Aviation assets will be flying over the hospitals treating corona patients and shower flower petals at Mumbai, Goa, Kochi and Vizag.The activities planned by the defence forces were delayed by over an hour due to rains in parts of the country early this morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-choppers-shower-flowers-on-national-police-memorial-in-delhi-other-places/story-yUxHnuR4s9WXo5mNKOY1QJ.html
03-05-2020||India||Maharashtra conducts over 1.61 lakh Covid-19 tests, state tally nears 12,300-mark||Maharashtra has conducted over 1.61 lakh tests for coronavirus, according to the state health department data released on Saturday night. Out of these, 1,61,092 tests for Covid-19 were conducted in 54 government labs and the remaining by private labs. The state had reached the one lakh testing mark on April 24 after which on May 1, it crossed the 1.50 lakh mark.The worst-affected state in the country recorded 5,869 Covid-19 cases between April 22 and May 2, taking the 10 days daily average in the same day to 586 cases daily.The overall death toll in the state stood at 521 on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry’s figures, compared with 283 on April 23. The total number of positive cases in the state are now 12,296 while it was 6,427 on April 22.Of these, 2,381 positive cases were reported in the last four days between April 29 and May 2, 2020. The number of deaths, too, went up drastically in the last four days from 432 on April 29 to 521, as of Sunday. The biggest spike of positive cases was on May 1, when the state recorded around 1,008 cases in one single day, the highest single day spike yet. On Saturday, Maharashtra breached the 500-mark for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) deaths after it recorded its highest single-day figure of 36 fatalities, taking the toll to 521. The state recorded 790 new cases — its third-highest 24-hour jump — taking the infection count to 12,296.Of the deaths recorded on Saturday, Mumbai reported 27, three were in Pune city, two in Amravati city and one each in Vasai-Virar, Amravati district and Aurangabad city. Besides these, Mumbai also recoded one person’s death who belonged to West Bengal.The state’s mortality rate in the state stands at 4.23%, but the number of deaths is increasing as 198 deaths have occurred since April 27 alone. The country’s mortality rate hovers around 3.25%.Mumbai, on Saturday, also crossed the 8,000 Covid-19 cases mark with 547 new infections. Its tally is 8,359. The state capital, which had crossed the 4,000-mark on April 23, doubled its count to 8,000 in just nine days. As cases continue to mount in Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, Malegaon, the state government, which issued guidelines for extension of lockdown on Saturday, imposed restrictions in most of these areas.Relaxation in lockdown normsWith the third phase of the nationwide lockdown starting from Monday, the state government has issued relaxation in varying degrees across Maharashtra’s red, orange and green zones to gradually allow businesses and individuals to resume normal lives. In a detailed order, the state government has outlined activities permitted and prohibited in the red, orange, and green zones.The guidelines stipulated that individuals engaged in non-essential activity shall not move out between 7pm and 7am; and the elderly, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and young children would stay home. It also had detailed instructions on the precautions to be taken in workplaces and public places, with an emphasis on social distancing and the use of masks.As per the order, all domestic and international air travel of passengers, except those permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA); inter-state public transport buses, except those permitted by MHA; inter-district public transport; Metro rail services; passenger train services; all schools, colleges, coaching, training institutions; all cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums, religious places; sports, cultural and religious functions and congregations, will remain prohibited irrespective of zones.Maharashtra has 14 districts in the red zone, including Mumbai, Mumbai suburban, Thane, and Palghar districts, where the lockdown will be strictly implemented. Besides these districts, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Solapur and Aurangabad districts are also in the red zones. Yavatmal, Satara, Dhule, Akola and Jalgaon are also in the red zone, but would see fewer restrictions as against the hotpot areas in Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) and Malegaon in Nashik district.In the red zone which is defined by taking into account total active cases, doubling rate, etc, autorickshaws, cycle rickshaws, taxi, cab aggregators, intra-district and inter-district of plying of buses, barber shops, and salons will not be permitted.The municipal areas of Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Pune, Malegaon and Pimpri Chinchwad have got several restrictions, including the opening of shops, private offices, and government offices.All standalone shops, neighbourhood shops, and shops in residential complexes — without any distinction between essential and non-essential — can also function, except those in the municipal corporation areas of MMR, Malegaon Municipal Corporation, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). The order makes a mention opening of liquor shops in the annexure, but it has not been clarified whether these shops will open across zones. A senior state government official said that the stores would permitted to open in orange and green zones, with strict compliance of social distancing.E-commerce will, however, be confined to essential goods. Private offices can also now function, up to 33% of their strength, except in MMR, PMC, PCMC and Malegaon. All government offices except in the areas of Mumbai, MMR, Pune, PCMC, and Malegaon will function up to the level of 100%, above the rank of deputy secretary, and 33% below that in red zones.In urban areas, special economic zones (SEZs), export-oriented units (EOUs), industrial estates, industrial townships with access control will be allowed to function except those in the municipal corporation areas of MMR, Malegaon Municipal Corporation, PMC and PCMC.In-situ construction activities in urban areas have been permitted where no workers have to be brought in from outside. While all construction activities are permitted in rural areas, pre-monsoon work related to metro work and other such projects shall be permitted by municipal bodies. Pre-monsoon work of waterproofing of roofs, flood-protection, propping and structural repairs of buildings, demolition of unsafe buildings will be permitted.Sixteen districts (Raigad, Ahmednagar, Amravati, Buldhana, Nandurbar, Kolhapur, Hingoli, Ratnagiri, Jalna, Nanded, Chandrapur, Sangli, Latur, Parbhani, Bhandara and Beed) have fewer cases in their rural parts — in single digits. These 16 districts are in the orange zone, where activities barred in red zone would be permitted.Maharashtra has six districts in the green zone. Gadchiroli and Wardha have no Covid-19 patients, while Gondia has not reported any new case in the past 35 days. Osmanabad has three cases, while Sindhudurg and Washim have two cases each. In the green zone, buses can operate with 50% capacity. However, buses will not be allowed to ply outside the zone.Migrants leave for UPMeanwhile, migrant labourers from shelter camps in Nashik district were sent to Uttar Pradesh by the special ‘Shramik’ train on Saturday. These workers walked from Mumbai, Thane and other areas to reach their villages in the northern state. They were housed in shelter camps after all state borders were sealed after the lockdown was imposed. A special outstation train with nearly 1,200 migrant workers left from Bhiwandi Road station on Saturday night. The train will operate between Bhiwandi and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh and will not halt at any railway station. A second special train is also likely to depart for Gorakhpur on Sunday late evening. The train is likely to be operated from Vasai Road railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-conducts-over-1-61-lakh-covid-19-tests-state-tally-nears-12-300-mark/story-c2HMnaTd0Sr8krwUzbLeNN.html
03-05-2020||India||In pictures: IAF’s aerial salute to ‘Covid-19 warriors’ in Mumbai||India’s financial capital, Mumbai, witnessed a spectacular fly-past carried out by Indian Air Force jets in the honour of thousands of ‘Covid-19 warriors’. The display was part of a nationwide exercise to express gratitude toward lakhs of ‘corona warriors’ in the frontline of fighting the coronavirus pandemic.A shower of flowers on various hospitals in the city, including the JJ hospital, was carried out by the IAF in respect of medical professionals, doctors, paramedical staff, nurses, policemen, among other corona warriors. Indian Navy’s Chetak helicopter, followed by Coast Guard, was seen showering flowers on doctors and medical staff of Asvini hospital, Colaba. In pics: IAF’s spectacular ‘thank you’ show for ‘corona warriors’Fighter plane Sukhoi flew over Mumbai’s skyline to pay gratitude to the corona fighters of the city. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Friday announced that the three armed forces services will carry out a series of activities to thank the “corona warriors” on Sunday.The IAF-led fly-pasts were also carried out in Delhi, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Srinagar, Chandigarh, among other cities across the country.The Eastern Naval Command and the Western Naval Command will be illuminating several ships at anchorage from 7.30 pm to midnight today.Fighter aircraft formations, comprising Sukhoi-30 MKI, MiG-29 and Jaguar, also flew over Delhi’s Rajpath and orbited over the national capital for around 30 minutes from 10 am on Sunday.This is the third massive display of gratitude to Covid-19 warriors after Prime Minister Narendra Modi previously asked people to clap for them from their balconies and light candles in their honour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pictures-iaf-s-flypast-aerial-salute-to-covid-19-warriors-in-mumbai/story-UbNGPNPJW4pqXzSZM098wK.html
03-05-2020||India||On World Press Freedom Day, BJP’s JP Nadda praises journalists for Covid-19 job||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) president JP Nadda on Sunday praised journalists for their doing their job during the coronavirus pandemic despite the risk involved.“Press is the 4th pillar of our democracy & plays a great role in the nation by shaping opinions and creating awareness. On this #WorldPressDay, I salute our media persons for risking their lives to make public aware of various aspects of COVID-19,” Nadda posted on Twitter.World Press Freedom Day was proclaimed by the UN General Assembly in December 1993, following the recommendation of Unesco’s General Conference. May 3, the anniversary of the Declaration of Windhoek, is since then observed worldwide as the World Press Freedom Day.India dropped two places on a global press freedom index to be ranked 142 out of 180 countries in the annual Reporters Without Borders analysis released last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-world-press-freedom-day-bjp-s-jp-nadda-praises-journalists-for-covid-19-job/story-UNJNB8uv3Omdyd5pDSRakK.html
03-05-2020||India||‘Service before Self’: Army praises 5 security personnel killed in Handwara encounter||The five security force personnel killed during an operation in Jammu and Kashmir’s Handwara displayed supreme sacrifice while fighting and eliminating terrorists, the Indian Army said on Sunday as it paid its tribute and condoled their deaths.Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, the commanding officer of the army’s 21 Rashtriya Rifles battalion, Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh Kumar and Lance Naik Dinesh Singh and sub-inspector Shakeel Qazi of the Jammu and Kashmir police were killed after the more than 12-hours of a firefight with terrorists in Handwara district.In a series of tweets, with messages from the Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and the army chief Gen MM Naravane, the force said Handwara operation highlighted the “determination of the security forces to safeguard the lives of the people”.“This operation exemplified true tradition and strong determination of the #SecurityForces to safeguard the lives of own citizens,” it said.The army had a special mention for Col Sharma, who was in charge of his men and had been locked in a gunfight with the terrorists holed up inside a house in Rajwar forests in Changimulla area of Handwara.Col Sharma, who is survived by his wife and a 12-year-old daughter, had served in the Kashmir valley for a long time and twice awarded the Sena Medal for gallantry.“Commanding Officer leading from the front along with other personnel of the unit and J&K Police have laid down their lives, living upto the motto; Service Before Self (soc),” the army said in a tweet.“The #ArmedForces are proud of their courage as they have successfully eliminated the terrorists. We salute these brave personnel and express our deep felt condolences for the bereaved families (sic),” it added.Two terrorists were also killed in the encounter that began around 3:30pm on Saturday after they took hostages inside the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/service-before-self-army-praises-5-security-personnel-killed-in-handwara-encounter/story-s5VrTvDRkaa75wtzUSjuLL.html
03-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: CRPF headquarters in Delhi sealed after staff member found Covid-19 positive and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.CRPF headquarters in Delhi sealed after staff member found Covid-19 positiveThe headquarters of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) here has been sealed after a personal staff of a senior officer tested positive for novel coronavirus, officials said on Sunday. A personal secretary of a Special Director General (SDG) rank officer working in the headquarters has tested positive for the virus and hence the building has been sealed by the force, they said. Read more. Hostages, gunfight, assault teams: How the Handwara encounter ensuedThe gunbattle in north’s Kashmir’s Handwara, during which an Indian Army colonel and four other security personnel were killed, had been raging since Saturday afternoon.Two terrorists were also shot dead by the security forces in the Handwara encounter. Read more. 54 passengers per coach, non-stop run: All you need to know about ‘Shramik Express’ trainsThe railways has launched special trains across various destinations in the country to ferry migrant labourers during the Covid-19 lockdown, which has been extended by two more week beyond May 3. Read more. It was a nightmare, just unreal: Rohit Sharma names 4 fast bowlers who gave him ‘difficulties’When you want to be the best, you have to deal with the best - India opener Rohit Sharma is one of the best examples of it. Regarded as one of the best limited-overs batsmen in the world right now, Rohit has had his fare share of battles with some of the world’s best fast bowlers. Read more. ‘Rishi Kapoor had a relapse after visiting Delhi this February, had advised him against going’: Rakesh RoshanFilmmaker Rakesh Roshan has spoken about how friend and veteran actor Rishi Kapoor’s health deteriorated after a visit to Delhi this February. Rishi died on April 30 in Mumbai. Read more. Covid –19: ‘PM Mask Yojna’ info on WhatsApp and other social media apps is fake, says PIB Fact CheckPIB Fact Check has confirmed that messages on social media about ‘PM Mask Yojna’ are fake. The fact checking handle by the government adds that there is no such yojna and no related link from where you can order masks free of cost. Read more. Word of the Week: Yogi, a word for the spiritually wiseYogi (noun), a practitioner of yoga, a person who is an authority on yoga, has practised yoga and attained a higher level of consciousness.Read more. Ever thought what cats think? This TikTok video may give you a clueA lot of questions about a lot of things have remained unanswered till date. But alas nobody has asked the most ‘essential’ question of all times - what do cats think? If you’re a feline lover sometimes you may wonder what exactly goes on inside those fluffy heads.Read more. Over 800 UP migrant workers reach Lucknow in a special train form NashikFirst special train ferrying UP migrants reached Lucknow on May 3 amid lockdown. More than 800 migrant workers arrived in a special train from Maharashtra’s Nashik. The migrant workers travelled in. Health workers registered the details of the migrant workers as they deboarded the train. Thermal screening was also conducted at the railway station. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-crpf-headquarters-in-delhi-sealed-after-staff-member-found-covid-19-positive-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Yd41XUjd0LJYGGgOnk0UFP.html
03-05-2020||India||CRPF headquarters in Delhi sealed after staff member found Covid-19 positive||The headquarters of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) here has been sealed after a personal staff of a senior officer tested positive for novel coronavirus, officials said on Sunday.A personal secretary of a Special Director General (SDG) rank officer working in the headquarters has tested positive for the virus and hence the building has been sealed by the force, they said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOfficials working in the building will not be allowed inside the premises from Sunday, they said.The force has informed the district surveillance officer for “initiating required protocols” as per medical guidelines, for time-bound proper sealing of the building located in the CGO complex on Lodhi Road.They said a contact tracing exercise has begun of all the personnel who came in contact with the staffer at the headquarter building. The CRPF is the country’s largest paramilitary force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-headquarters-in-delhi-sealed-after-staff-member-found-covid-19-positive/story-8MqC2cjQ1bdTPGh0RJHcaL.html
03-05-2020||India||Three new species of little horned frogs discovered in North-East India||A team of Indian and Irish biologists from Delhi University, University College Dublin and the Natural History Museum (UK) have discovered three new species of horned frogs from the jungles of North-East India.The findings, published on April 28, 2020, in the Journal of Natural History, is the result of fourteen years of research and seven years of fieldwork.“This study is a testament to how little is known about the most threatened animal group, frogs, in northeastern India,” Stephen Mahony, the lead author of the paper, said in a statement.“Our work has completely changed what we thought we knew about these secretive animals, from how to identify the different species and how they are related to each other, to where they live and how vulnerable they may be to deforestation,” he added. Also read: African swine fever detected in pigs in Assam and Arunachal PradeshThe scientists named two of the new species using words adapted from local tribal languages at their sites of discovery.The Naga Hills Horned Frog (Megophrys awuh­­), where the word “awuh” means “frog” in the Pochury language, the primary native tribe from the Melluri district of Nagaland.The Tamenglong Horned Frog (Megophrys numhbumaeng), where the name is derived from ‘nwmbwmaeng’ meaning “forest spirit” from the Rongmei (Ruangmei) language, the primary native tribe from the Tamenglong district of Manipur state.The third new species, the Dzükou Valley Horned Frog (Megophrys dzukou), was named after the only place where this potentially endangered new species was found. The location lies on the border of Nagaland and Manipur. The discovery was made when the biologists were investigating a group of small species of horned frogs from the North-East. Horned frogs are so named for their fleshy, horn-like, projection on the upper eyelids of some species.“North-East India is part of globally recognised biodiversity hotspots. Yet, the amphibian fauna of this region has been overlooked for far too long. Many such surprises are still waiting to be uncovered with respect to the incredible frog diversity of the North-East,” SD Biju, Professor at Delhi University said. With the new discoveries, 11 new species of horned frog have been named from North-East India following research by the same core team published in 2011, 2013, and 2018 (which included the 11 cm Giant Himalayan Horned Frog).“I grew up personally witnessing the rapid changes in North-East landscapes and jungles disappearing with shocking speed. Frogs are very vital for healthy ecosystems but incredibly many Nagas still consider them as tasty snacks.” Rachunliu G Kamei, one of the authors involved in the research, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-new-species-of-little-horned-frogs-discovered-in-northeast-india/story-K0i9jSw4IMcmA8cgQNHBgI.html
03-05-2020||India||54 passengers per coach, non-stop run: All you need to know about ‘Shramik Express’ trains||The railways has launched special trains across various destinations in the country to ferry migrant labourers during the Covid-19 lockdown, which has been extended by two more week beyond May 3.After an order from the central government allowing the movement of stranded migrants, the railways started running special service under the name ‘Shramik Express’.Here is all you need to know about these trains:• ‘Shramik Express’ have been planned on the request of 10 states - Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Kerala, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Gujarat who want to bring back their migrant population.• These trains will run daily and their number will be slowly increased, said railway officials. Five ‘Shramik Express’ trains were on track on Friday, 10 ran on Saturday due to the screening process necessitated by the coronavirus pandemic and logistics. The remaining trains will run on Sunday, officials said.• These trains mostly have 24 coaches. Each of these coaches can accommodate 72 passengers but only 54 are being allowed due to social distancing norms. The total number of passengers travelling should be around 1200 per train, the railways said.• The railways has directed states to collect fares from passengers cleared to travel in these trains. The fare includes the price of regular sleeper class tickets plus superfast charges of Rs 30 and an additional charge of Rs 20. The railways ministry has said that state governments can pay the fare on passengers’ behalf.• The railways will provide only one meal for trains longer than 12 hours. It has asked the state governments to provide food packets and water to the passengers at originating stations. The states have also been asked to encourage passengers to download the Arogya Setu app for checking the health status of the passengers.• In Maharashtra, the worst affected state by the coronavirus pandemic, Mumbai is not an originating station due to the high number of Covid-19 positive cases. Trains are being run from other destinations like Bhiwandi and Vasai in Maharashtra. These trains are unlikely to run from containment zones, which include almost all metro cities.• The railways has maintained secrecy about the movement of these special trains. Except the names of originating and destination states, no other details have been officially shared. These trains are non-stop, bound for a single destination.• Jharkhand, which has requested 31 trains, tops the list of states who have reached out to the national transporter to help migrants return home. It has paid the railways in advance for its services, said officials.• Railways reserves the right to discontinue ‘Shramik Express’ trains if safety protocols are flouted at any stage, the ministry has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/54-passengers-per-coach-non-stop-run-all-you-need-to-know-about-shramik-express-trains/story-WZqYPHBYXQCCFx4G753N3O.html
03-05-2020||India||Col killed in Handwara; a two time gallantry awardee for counter-terrorist operations||Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, the commanding officer of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles unit, who lost his life in operation in Handwara, had been twice awarded gallantry medals for exemplary bravery in counter-terrorist missions. He is also the first Commanding Officer or a Colonel-rank Army person in the last five years to have lost his life in an encounter with terrorists. Colonel MN Rai lost his life in operation over five years ago in January 2015 in an operation in the Kashmir valley while Colonel Santosh Mahadik lost his life in November same year.Army officials said Colonel Ashutosh Sharma belonging to the Guards Regiment had been serving in the Kashmir valley for a long time and was twice awarded the Sena Medal for gallantry including one for his bravery as commanding officer.He had received his gallantry award as a commanding officer when a terrorist was rushing towards his men on a road with a grenade hidden in his clothes.Sharma shot him at a close range which helped in saving the lives of many of his troops along with Jammu and Kashmir Police personnel. Army persons who lost their lives in the Handwara operation include Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh and Lance Naik Dinesh.Two terrorists were also killed in the operation by the security forces in the remote location of Handwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/col-killed-in-handwara-a-two-time-gallantry-awardee-for-counter-terrorist-operations/story-gHBArk2KbhamouI65amzUK.html
03-05-2020||India||In pics: Shower of flowers, fly-pasts in IAF’s spectacular ‘thank you’ show for Covid-19 warriors||A spectacular fly-past was carried out by a fleet of Indian Air Force military jets over the national capital as part of a nationwide exercise to express gratitude toward lakhs of ‘Covid-19 warriors’ in the frontline of fighting the coronavirus pandemic.Military jets, including Sukhoi-30 MKI, MiG-29 and Jaguar, flew over Rajpath in Delhi and orbited over the city for around 30 minutes on Sunday.Premier transport aircraft C-130 also carried out a separate fly-past over the Delhi/NCR region.Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Friday announced that the three armed forces services will carry out a series of activities to thank the “corona warriors” on Sunday.The thanks-giving activities started on Sunday morning with the wreath-laying ceremony at the national police memorial in Delhi to honour the police personnel deployed in the enforcement of the nationwide coronavirus lockdown.The IAF-led fly-pasts were also carried out in Mumbai, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Srinagar, Chandigarh, among other cities across the country.Military helicopters also flew over hospitals that are treating coronavirus patients and shower petals as a tribute. One such hospital was the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pics-shower-of-flowers-fly-pasts-in-iaf-s-spectacular-thank-you-show-for-covid-19-warriors/story-iwGJILGeQb608kOvKO1RKJ.html
03-05-2020||India||Railways asks states to collect fares from Shramik Special passengers||State authorities shall collect fares after distributing tickets among stranded migrants and students who are boarding special trains to return to their hometowns, and hand over the amount to the Indian Railways, the railways ministry said in fresh guidelines on Sunday.After allowing the running of the Shramik Special trains on Friday, the railways said it will charge sleeper class fares and an additional Rs 50 for one point-to-point journey, while it also added that states can coordinate and pay on passengers’ behalf.The railways shall print train tickets to specified destinations on the basis of the number of passengers indicated by an originating state, and give the tickets to the local government authority. “The local state government authority shall hand over the tickets to the passengers cleared by them and collect the ticket fare and hand over the total amount to the railways,” the fresh guidelines said.The railways also said these trains were being run only for those who have been identified and allowed to travel by the states sending and receiving them, and not for the general public. The railways reserves the right to discontinue the special train operations if safety protocols are flouted at any stage, the ministry said.“The originating state will inform the exact number of passengers travelling in a train, which should be 1200 (or at least 90%) considering the capacity…,” the guidelines said.The move to charge fares for these trains ferrying migrants --- many of them have lost their jobs --- students and others stranded in different parts of the country due to the ongoing lockdown has met with opposition.Rajasthan deputy chief minister and state Congress president Sachin Pilot said on Sunday the central government should bear the expenses. “They have no earnings. In such a situation, they should not be charged fares…,” he said.On Saturday, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said the government should roll back the fare for these special trains, adding that it was an “injustice to our labourers who are returning home”.Shramik Special trains are bound for a single destination without any stoppages. Usually, they have 24 coaches with each carrying a little over 50 in place of the total capacity of 72. These trains will run for distances of over 500 km.“We have informed that trains will not be stopping at any station in the middle, and states must make it clear to the passengers as there have been incidents where they thought they could get off…,” an official said on the condition of anonymity. The guidelines also said local authorities will give food packets and drinking water to passengers at the originating station. The railways will provide one meal on the train for a journey of over 12 hours.The railways ministry also asked states to encourage passengers to download the Aarogya Setu app for checking the health status of passengers.It will also be the responsibility of the governments sending people to bring such individuals to designated stations in sanitized buses, following social distancing norms. All passengers will have to mandatorily wear masks. Passengers will have to be screened by the sending states and only those found without symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be allowed to travel.States are also scrambling to arrange payments for the railways in order to ensure the running of these trains to bring their residents back home. Jharkhand is one of the few that has made an advance payment to the railways for deploying 31 special trains, according to officials aware of the developments.Five Shramik Special trains were run on Friday and 10 on Saturday. According to officials, railways is unlikely to run trains originating from red zones such as Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad, at least for now.“There are no trains planned for now, but we are running (trains) in nearby places…like in Maharashtra trains, are being run at Bhiwandi and Vasai…Trains will only run to these places (red zones) when the demand from the state government comes,” said the official quoted above||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-asks-states-to-collect-shramik-special-fares/story-MXp4B9RIM49F1MIsVrVTaJ.html
03-05-2020||India||Goa food bank is ensuring no one goes hungry during Covid-19 lockdown||The Covid-19 lockdown and shuttering of Goa’s tourism industry has brought an eerie silence across the once crowded beaches of North Goa.While some rejoiced at Goa’s apparent return to past natural glory, and tourism operators are left wondering what fate has befallen on them, for Donald Fernandes it posed a different kind of problem.Street Providence Trust, a Food Bank Service that Fernandes and several volunteers run to help feed the poor, homeless and others in need found itself without its main source of food - the hotel and restaurant businesses - at a time when he needed it the most.Left with mouths to feed spread across eight destitute homes that are being managed by the charitable organisation, and a full lockdown in force in Goa during the initial days that covered even the sale of essential items, Fernandes was at his wits’ end trying to arrange for supplies.“On a normal day I used to receive around 1,500-2,000 kgs of food cooked from hotels and restaurants that would otherwise go to waste. This used to be distributed to around 5,000-6,000 people through the food bank that we run. When the lockdown came in force, there was no way to source food even for the 100-odd people that we were housing at our destitute homes,” Fernandes recalled. But Fernandes’ organisation quickly shifted gears and expanded its operations and reach to distribute cooked food to those who were going hungry. Thankfully for him, donors pitched in both and cash started flowing in. A bunch of volunteers began cooking the food themselves to be distributed across the state, including among labourers who were out of work and without food. A caterer pitched in with 16 sacks of rice, three sacks of atta (flour) besides other stocks and help began coming in from other sources too. A bakery began offering 1,800 packets of sliced bread a day, and with restaurant kitchens being allowed to open, restaurants too offered to cook food to be distributed to the needy through the Street Providence network.“It is unbelievable how many people including local Goans who are living on a hand to mouth basis. Many of whom have been working for industries and establishments that are now shut and are not going to open,” Fernandes says. Fernandes and a few volunteers started Street Providence to function as a food bank three years ago with a view to act as a bridge between food that was being wasted by the hotel industry and those going hungry in Goa. In its initial days, Street Providence set up a network of fridges and freezers where leftover food from parties and restaurants was collected and stored. Fernandes started the food bank as “thanksgiving for having been blessed with a second child after a gap of seven long years” and began initially cooking food for around 50 families in the vicinity before expanding into a full fledged food bank. With his network now geared up to the new normal, Fernandes is now preparing to be ready to be serving his expanded list of dependents right up to September through the lean monsoon months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-food-bank-is-ensuring-no-one-goes-hungry-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-Gbfkje2FDi4yf7QIoKcY6H.html
03-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Rajasthan CM reviews situation, discusses movement of migrants||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has said that the state government is constantly working for the safe and smooth movement of migrants and workers during the Covid-19 lockdown. At a review meeting on Covid-19 lockdown and movement of people on Saturday, Gehlot said that there should be no negligence, else entire efforts will go waste.“The third phase of lockdown will begin from May 4. The guideline issued by the GoI and state should be strictly followed. There should not be any kind of negligence on social distancing and necessary arrangements should be made for the industrial activities, which have been allowed to commence in the third phase,” said Gehlot.He added that institutional quarantine has been arranged for migrants and workers from other states to prevent the spread of infection, but those who do not want to use it must necessarily stay in home quarantine. Also, their families should cater for social distancing and should not go out of the houses, the chief minister said.He said that screening of all passengers should be ensured along with sanitisation of trains and buses. All other arrangements, including masks, sanitisers, food, should also be available for them, Gehlot added.Gehlot said that till date, around 14 lakh people have registered for movement and it is a big challenge to send them to their respective homes. “These people should be called about 4 to 6 hours before the departure of a train by giving timely information related to the schedule and fare of the train through SMS, to avoid rush,” Gehlot said at the meeting. He also said that social distancing norms should be followed in trains too.Chief Secretary DB Gupta informed that constant communication and coordination is being done with the state governments regarding the movement of migrants and workers. He said that Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Telangana and West Bengal have not agreed to take people other than the workers currently living in the camps. Therefore, it is not possible to send people of these states. We are making efforts that governments of these states provide consent soon, said Gupta.Additional Chief Secretary Industries Subodh Agrawal informed that 45,287 workers and migrants have been sent from the state till Saturday and 57,521 workers and migrants have been brought to the state. Ensuring social distancing, around 1,200 passengers have been transported in a train. They have been asked to pay the fare fixed by the Indian Railways through the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-rajasthan-cm-reviews-situation-discusses-movement-of-migrants/story-6BD1aznJs2TL5eGpawi2LO.html
03-05-2020||India||IAF salutes Covid-19 warriors, starts flypast from Srinagar’s Dal Lake||The Indian Air Force conducted a fly-past over Dal Lake in Srinagar early on Sunday to express gratitude towards medical professionals and all other frontline COVID-19 warriors.According to the IAF officials, two C-130J Super Hercules special operations transport took off from Srinagar on Sunday morning and will fly all the way to Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala.These planes would also be carrying medical supplies to be delivered at an airbase.The armed forces will be organising multiple events like flypast by fighter and transport aircraft of the IAF from Srinagar to Thiruvananthapuram, and another one starting from Dibrugarh in Assam to Kutch in Gujarat.The helicopters from IAF and Indian Navy shall be showering flower petals on the hospitals treating Covid-19 patients.A number of choppers of the Indian Air Force (IAF) will carry out shower flower petals over the Police War Memorial and Delhi hospitals too. The aerial salute to corona warriors is planned over Delhi between 1000-1030 hrs.“Fighter aircraft formations, comprising Sukhoi-30 MKI, MiG-29 and Jaguar will be flying over the Rajpath and will orbit over Delhi and will be visible to the residents from rooftops,” said the statement.This flying activity is combined along with the training activity of IAF and opportunity flight for transport aircraft and helicopters, which are involved in moving supplies related to the Covid-19 task.“The list of hospitals include AllMS, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, GTB Hospital, Loknayak Hospital, RML Hospital, Safdarjang Hospital, Ganga Ram Hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Max Saket, Rohini Hospital, Apollo Indraprastha Hospital, and Army Hospital R&R,” the Defence Ministry said in a statement.Similarly, the Navy and Indian Coast Guard (ICG) shall move ships in formations at sea at select locations while Army bands shall visit Covid hospitals and play tunes outside the hospitals in an expression of gratitude to the warriors.The activities would be in honour of Covid-19 warriors including doctors, sanitation workers, media and policemen, who continue to serve the country amid Covid-19 crisis, said Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-salutes-covid-19-warriors-starts-flypast-from-srinagar-s-dal-lake/story-CEV1MhxYw5CsurZv7fXczL.html
03-05-2020||India||Gallantry award winner, father of 12-yr-old daughter: Colonel killed in action in Handwara encounter||Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, the commanding officer of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles unit, who lost his life during an operation in Jammu and Kashmir’s Handwara, had been awarded for his exemplary bravery in counter-terrorist missions. Colonel Sharma, who is survived by his wife and a 12-year-old daughter, had served in the Kashmir valley for a long time and twice awarded the Sena Medal for gallantry.He had received his gallantry award once as a commanding officer after he killed a terrorist rushing towards his unit’s men on a road with a grenade hidden in his clothes. The colonel shot him at a close range and saved the lives of many of his troops along with Jammu and Kashmir Police personnel. The resident of Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh was also the first commanding officer or a colonel-rank official in the last five years to have lost his life in an encounter with terrorists. Watch| Handwara encounter: Army Colonel among 5 martyred, 2 terrorists gunned down Before him, Col MN Rai was killed in January 2015 during an operation in the Kashmir valley and Col Santosh Mahadik in November in the same year.Other army personnel who lost their lives in the Handwara encounter include Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh Kumar and Lance Naik Dinesh Singh. Sub-inspector Shakeel Qazi of Jammu and Kashmir police was also killed in the operation.Two terrorists were also killed in the operation by the security forces in the remote location of Handwara.A wreath-laying ceremony would be held in Srinagar after which the Col Sharma’s body would be flown to his home in Bulandshahr.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gallantry-award-winner-father-of-12-yr-old-daughter-army-colonel-killed-in-handwara-encounter/story-qmS8kQcBWL27mrYUdHtC0J.html
03-05-2020||India||Hostages, gunfight, assault teams: How the Handwara encounter ensued||The gunbattle in north’s Kashmir’s Handwara, during which an Indian Army colonel and four other security personnel were killed, had been raging since Saturday afternoon.Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh Kumar and Lance Naik Dinesh Singh and sub-inspector of Jammu-Kashmir police Shakeel Qazi were martyred in the line of duty while rescuing civilians held hostage by the terrorists.Two terrorists were also shot dead by the security forces in the Handwara encounter.Col Sharma, the commanding officer of the army’s 21 Rashtriya Rifles battalion, was leading the three army men and the sub-inspector and had been locked in a gunfight with the terrorists holed up inside a house in Rajwar forests. The army said a joint operation was launched by the army and state police based on the intelligence input that terrorists were taking hostage some civilians in a house in Changimulla. A team comprising of the five army and police personnel entered the target area occupied by the terrorists to evacuate the civilians. The terrorists came into the village near the forest as the operation was underway and went inside the house that had a cowshed near to it.Col Sharma, who had been decorated for gallantry twice in Kashmir, Major Sood and sub-inspector Qazi took refuge inside a house as they thought that the terrorists were hiding inside the cowshed. The moment they went inside the house, a gunfight ensued. After that, there was no communication between the army teams outside the house and CO who had gone inside for a few hours. Late in the night, assault teams of the army went inside the house late and recovered the bodies of all five security force personnel. However, the team came under a heavy firing by the terrorists during the process and in the ensuing firefight, two terrorists were gunned down and the security personnel were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hostages-gunfight-assault-teams-how-the-handwara-encounter-ensued/story-GPXTDe2iv33spOc0FwTEyK.html
03-05-2020||India||‘Will never forget’: Rajnath Singh condoles death of army men in Handwara encounter||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday offered condolences on the passing away of five security personnel, including a highly-decorated colonel of the Indian Army, in an encounter between security forces and terrorists in Handwara, Jammu and Kashmir.“I offer my tributes to the soldiers and security personnel who fell in action,” Singh tweeted. The defence minister said that India stands “shoulder to shoulder” with the families of these “brave martyrs”. He said the country will never forget their bravery and sacrifice.The loss of our soldiers and security personnel in Handwara(J&K) is deeply disturbing and painful. They showed exemplary courage in their fight against the terrorists and made supreme sacrifice while serving the country. We will never forget their bravery and sacrifice.“The loss of our soldiers and security personnel in Handwara (J&K) is deeply disturbing and painful. They showed exemplary courage in their fight against the terrorists and made supreme sacrifice while serving the country. We will never forget their bravery and sacrifice,” his tweet read. A highly-decorated colonel of the Indian Army was among five security personnel killed during an operation to flush out terrorists from a house in Handwara in north Kashmir, officials said on Sunday. The operation lasted for over 12 hours. Two terrorists were also killed in the encounter that began around 3:30 pm on Saturday after they took hostages inside a house in Chanjmulla area of Handwara.Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, the commanding officer of the army’s 21 Rashtriya Rifles battalion, Major Anuj, a Lance Naik and a rifleman and sub-inspector Shakeel Qazi of the Jammu and Kashmir police were killed in the firefight with terrorists who were holed up in the house.Officials said their bodies have been recovered from the encounter site. The civilians have been rescued, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-stands-shoulder-to-shoulder-with-families-of-these-brave-martyrs-rajnath-singh-on-handwara-encounter/story-4d5k1DRWAxm6WIcWsaFhtO.html
03-05-2020||India||5 security men killed in J-K’s Handwara ops while rescuing civilian hostages||A highly-decorated colonel of the Indian Army was among five security personnel killed during more than 12-hour operation to flush terrorists out of a house in Handwara in north Kashmir, officials said on Sunday.The security men were able to kill two terrorists in Changimulla village in Handwara and rescue the civilians but at the cost of their own lives.The personnel killed in action are the commanding officer (a colonel) of the army’s 21 Rashtriya Rifles battalion, a major, two soldiers and a sub-inspector of the Jammu and Kashmir Police. The colonel, who leaves behind his wife and a 12-year-old daughter, had been decorated twice in the past for bravery in counter-terrorism operations, said one of the officials cited above.The army-police joint operation was launched on Saturday afternoon to rescue the civilians who had been taken hostage by the terrorists inside a house.In a statement issued on Sunday, the army said the joint operation was launched on the basis of intelligence that terrorists were holding civilian hostages at Changimulla.“A team comprising five army and J&K Police personnel entered the target area occupied by the terrorists to evacuate the civilians. The team entered the target area and successfully extricated the civilians,” the statement said. The statement added, “However, during the process, the team was subjected to heavy volume of fire by the terrorists. In the ensuing firefight, two terrorists were eliminated and the team of five… comprising two army officers, two soldiers and one police sub-inspector attained martyrdom.”This comes around a month after five commandos belonging to an elite unit were killed in action along the Line of Control in Kashmir’s Keran sector during an intense close-quarter battle with an equal number of terrorist infiltrators who were all eliminated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-security-men-killed-in-j-k-s-handwara-after-rescuing-civilian-hostages/story-guArF5FwwH8aNc3rkqFEYN.html
03-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Yogi Adityanath condemns Tablighi Jamaat, says hiding disease a crime||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday condemned the role of the Tamblighi Jamaat, which emerged as one of the biggest Covid-19 hotspots in the country. He also said that hiding a disease is definitely a crime.Speaking to a television channel on Saturday, Adityanath said, “To get a disease is not a crime but to hide a disease which is infectious is definitely a crime. And this crime has been done by those associated with the Tablighi Jamaat.He also said that if those who attended the Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month had revealed about the disease, the state government would have controlled the coronavirus outbreak to a large extent.The chief minister said that action would be taken against them for the “crime that they have committed”.At least 16,500 people visited Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin between March 13 and 24, according to a Delhi police report that has been compiled after the biggest exercise the force has ever undertaken.A Delhi government official, who did not wish to be named, said around 1,000 people from outside Delhi had come for the gathering.Over the last four weeks, police have checked call details and the locations of all the 16,500 people and found that they had come in close contact with around 15,000. While some stayed at the markaz (centre), others left and visited different places of Delhi.Tablighi Jamaat head Maulana Saad and six other functionaries of the group have been named in a First Information Report (FIR) for organising a religious gathering at the markaz despite restrictions on such congregations to check the Covid-19 spread.The markaz has been linked to infections in at least 17 states and Union territories, according to Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hiding-a-disease-is-a-crime-yogi-adityanath-condemns-role-of-tablighi-jamaat-in-covid-19/story-2HZO2fmPJF1BYBzKxmk9SM.html
03-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases near 40,000-mark, death toll at 1,301||The number of Covid-19 cases almost touched the 40,000-mark on Sunday with further rise in cases in Maharashtra and West Bengal nearing the 1,000-mark.According to Union Health Ministry figures at 8 am, the number of active cases in the country are 28,046. More than 10,000 people (10,632 to be exact) have been cured or discharged and 1,301 people have died due to the disease.Maharashtra continues to lead the tally with 12,296 Covid-19 positive cases. The state has seen more than 500 deaths due to the disease.National capital Delhi recorded 384 fresh cases of coronavirus on Saturday, the highest single-day spike so far, taking the infection tally to 4,122.On Saturday, India saw a record jump of 2,411 cases. However, a total of 10,632 people have recovered, resulting in a recovery rate of 26.52 per cent. The number of samples tested for Covid-19 in India crossed a million on Saturday, up from 38,914 on April 1, which takes the number of tests to almost 783 per million of the population.“We plan to ramp up testing further to move towards a situation where we can test everyone who needs it. The number of labs doing Covid-19 tests has gone up, with 406 labs - of which 105 are private ones - now testing for Covid-19,” said CK Mishra, secretary, environment, and co-chair of the PM’s high-level committee on preparedness for a medical emergency.The health ministry expects testing to cross 100,000 tests a day next week, up from 5,580 a day on April 1. India has testing kits in stock for another 11-12 days, said the ministry officials||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-cases-near-40-000-mark-today-death-toll-at-1-301/story-EsKXmD7d0wt4WHGwqNmmfJ.html
03-05-2020||India||No relaxation in red zones in 19 UP districts, says Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh governmment has said that there won’t be any relaxation in 19 districts of the state identified as Covid-19 red zones, Hindustan Times’ Hindi langiage publication Live Hindustan reported.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday that the government will follow Centre’s guidelines, Live Hindustan reported, quoting his remarks to a television channel.“We are trying to turn all the red and orange zones in the state into green zones and free the state from coronavirus pandemic,” Adityanath said yesterday.The state government has allowed the reopening of certain shops selling non-essential commodities outside the Covid-19 hotspots in rural areas during the lockdown period.Shops selling construction material, bricks, cement, sand, iron bars, hardware and mobile repairing shops located outside coronavirus hotspots in rural areas will be allowed to do business while strictly adhering to the norms of social distancing and other guidelines issued by the Centre, Chief Secretary R K Tiwari said on Saturday.Adityanath further said on Saturday that the state’s revenu has taken a massive hit - it used to earn anywhere between Rs 17,000 crore to Rs 18,000 crore per month but in April the revenue collection is only Rs 1,000 crore. But he said that most important thing for the state government right now is the safety of the people.He also appealed to the migrant workers to stay wherever they are, that the government will bring them back.The centre had announced on Friday that a “limited” lockdown which includes suspension of air, train and inter-state road travel will continue to remain in force for two more weeks from May 4 across the country, but some activities would be allowed after classifications of districts into red, orange and green zones based on Covid-19 risk profiling.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 25, which was later extended by two more weeks till March 3 to contain the virus spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-relaxation-in-red-zones-in-19-up-districts-says-chief-minister-yogi-adityanath/story-GZOcvMamVdkzluJ7GwicGK.html
03-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: First special train ferrying UP migrants reaches Lucknow from Maharashtra’s Nashik and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.First special train ferrying UP migrants reaches Lucknow from Maharashtra’s NashikMore than 800 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh arrived in Lucknow in a special train from Maharashtra’s Nashik on Sunday morning amid ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. The 847 migrant workers travelled in the Indian Railway’s Shramik Special train and reached the state capital via Jhansi and Kanpur. Read more. Colonel, Major among 5 killed in encounter in J&K’s Handwara; 2 terrorists shot deadA colonel, one major and two soldiers of the Indian Army were killed along with a police officer during an operation to flush terrorists out of a house in Handwara in north Kashmir, sources said on Sunday.Two terrorists were also killed in the encounter that began around 3:30pm on Saturday in Chanjmulla area of Handwara. Read more. Second economic stimulus package likely soon: CEAThe second economic stimulus package can be expected “very soon”, Chief Economic Adviser Krishnamurthy V Subramanian said in an interview on Saturday, although he declined to put a time-frame or a magnitude to it. Read more. Over 16k visited Tablighi Jamaat markaz in Delhi from March 13-24At least 16,500 people visited Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin around the time it emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot between March 13 and 24, according to a Delhi police report that an officer said has been compiled after the biggest exercise the force has ever undertaken. Read more. An Olympian looks for opponents at homeTo say that Vikas Krishan has a competitive bent of mind would be an understatement. The boxer cannot live without an adversary, but to his dismay the lockdown has left him with none. To tide over the situation, Krishan has found “opponents”, albeit on a different playing field, at home to keep the mind occupied. Read more. Rishi Kapoor’s daughter Riddhima Kapoor Sahni reaches Mumbai to be with mom Neetu Kapoor, brother Ranbir KapoorRishi Kapoor’s daughter Riddhima Kapoor Sahni reached Mumbai on Saturday night, two days after the veteran actor died of leukaemia, to be with her mother Neetu Kapoor and brother Ranbir Kapoor. She could not attend his funeral on Thursday as she did not get permission to fly down to Mumbai due to the restrictions of the nationwide lockdown. Read more. World Laughter Day 2020: Why we must remember that laughter is indeed the best medicineYou’re watching your favourite comedy show from the 90s like ‘Friends’, ‘Seinfeld’, or ‘Hum Paanch’ and realise you’re not laughing alone. The simulated sounds of laughter in the background of the show tend to make you smile or laugh more often at the comedic punches. Read more. How China’s loss can become India’s Covid-19 gain: PMEAC member explainsWith the Covid-19 pandemic exacerbating the slowdown, in India and globally, Nilesh Shah, part-time member of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister (EAC-PM) spoke to Hindustan Times’ Aditi Prasad about how the country can kick-start its economy once the threat of the virus dissipates. Apart from pushing for a cohesive boost involving fiscal and monetary stimuli, and foreign direct investment, Shah also pointed out how India can take advantage of the growing global discontent with China to attract manufacturers. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-first-special-train-ferrying-up-migrants-reaches-lucknow-from-maharashtra-s-nashik-and-all-the-latest-news/story-OcQeCOU6ExCTZj3txY0tTK.html
03-05-2020||India||Decorated colonel among 5 killed in J-K’s Handwara; 2 terrorists shot down||A highly-decorated colonel of the Indian Army was among five security personnel killed during more than 12-hour operation to flush terrorists out of a house in Handwara in north Kashmir, officials said on Sunday.Two terrorists were also killed in the encounter that began around 3:30pm on Saturday after they took hostages inside a house in Chanjmulla area of Handwara.Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, the commanding officer of the army’s 21 Rashtriya Rifles battalion, Major Anuj, a Lance Naik and a rifleman and sub-inspector Shakeel Qazi of the Jammu and Kashmir police were killed after the firefight with terrorists holed up in the house.Officials said their bodies have been recovered from the encounter site. The civilians have been rescued, they added.Throughout the night as the gun battle raged, several Pakistani accounts on Facebook and Telegram ran propaganda against the operation.Bravery awardsCol Sharma had been decorated twice for bravery and had been part of several successful counter-terrorism operations in the past.The commanding officer of 21 Rashtriya Rifles along with four others had entered the house to evacuate the trapped people after the firing had stopped for an hour. The encounter began on Saturday afternoon after the army and state police launched a joint operation following a tip-off about the presence of terrorists in the area. The terrorists hid inside a house and took the residents as hostages. “A team comprising five army and J&K Police personnel entered the target area occupied by the terrorists to evacuate the civilians. The team entered the target area and successfully extricated the civilians,” the army said in a statement.“However, during the process, the team was subjected to a heavy volume of fire by the terrorists. In the ensuing firefight, two terrorists were eliminated and the team of five… comprising two army officers, two soldiers and one police sub-inspector attained martyrdom,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decorated-colonel-among-5-killed-in-j-k-s-handwara-2-terrorists-shot-down/story-OUeFdgSSJyZQT9njiboD3K.html
03-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Cases rise to 12,296 in Maharashtra, West Bengal tally nears 1,000-mark||The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 39,980 on Sunday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 28,046 active coronavirus cases in the country, 10,632 patients have been cured or discharged while 1,301 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have crossed the 12,000-mark while Gujarat, the second worst-affected state has over 5,000 Covid-19 cases.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraWith 12,296 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 521 deaths so far while 2,000 patients have recovered.GujaratThe state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 5,054. While 262 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 896 recoveries so far.DelhiAs many as 4,122 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Sixty four people have died from the infection while 1,256 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 2,846 positive cases of coronavirus. One hundred fifty one people have died from Covid-19 here while 624 have recovered.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 2,770 on Sunday. The state has reported 65 fatalities, and 1,121 patients have recovered from the infection.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 2,757 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 1,341 recoveries and 29 Covid-19 deaths.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 2,487 in Uttar Pradesh. While 689 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 43 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1,525 positive Covid-19 patients and 441 cases of recovery. Thirty three people have died.TelanganaThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 1,063 in state so far. Four hundred fifty eight people have made a recovery from the virus while 28 people have died from Covid-19.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 922 on Sunday. There have been 33 deaths and 151 recoveries in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 666. Eight people have died from the infection while 254 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 601 Covid-19 cases and 25 deaths. Two hundred seventy one people have been cured and discharged.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 499 coronavirus cases on Sunday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 400 people have successfully recovered.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 360 and 772 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 20 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen four deaths. Two hundred twenty seven people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 112 in Punjab.In Bihar, 481 people have tested positive for coronavirus, four people have died while 107 patients have recovered. Odisha has 157 Covid-19 positive patients, 56 have recovered while one person has died. Jharkhand has 115 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 22 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 59 coronavirus patients, 39 patients have recovered from the infection. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 33 have recovered. Assam has reported 43 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 32 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 43 cases of coronavirus and 36 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 88 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 17 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, 16 have recovered.Ladakh has 22 patients, 17 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported eight cases, five have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur had two coronavirus cases, and those have recovered. Tripura, meanwhile, have four cases, and two of them have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-number-rises-to-12-296-in-maharashtra-west-bengal-nears-1-000-mark/story-ggZ1CLOLgnrjUlR9hizrxJ.html
03-05-2020||India||Post-pandemic agri reforms in focus, India tests cross a million: Covid-19 news today||Outlining an ambitious post-pandemic agenda for agricultural reform, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked his top ministers and bureaucrats to start working on a new set of reforms to cut down on archaic regulations, raise farm-gate prices, unify domestic markets as well as integrate the farm economy into global value chains. Meanwhile, the number of samples tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country has crossed a million.Here is a preview of important Covid-19 news today from India and the world. Govt plans major agricultural reforms post-coronavirusThe PM suggested these reforms at a high level review meeting on the agricultural sector, which was also attended by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, home minster Amit Shah, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and senior officials. Read more. Covid-19: What you need to know todayMay 1: 69; April 30: 76; April 29: 69; April 28: 74; April 27: 58; April 26: 51; April 25: 46; April 24: 57; April 23: 38; April 22: 39.These numbers are the death tolls of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India on the 10 days between April 22 and May 1.On May 2, the number was 98.The total death toll in India was 1,319 on Saturday. Read more. 1 million tested for Covid in India; 10k recover“We have made a quantum jump in testing. We plan to ramp it up further to move towards a situation where we can test everyone who needs it. The number of labs doing Covid-19 tests has gone up, with 406 labs -- of which 105 are private ones -- now testing for Covid-19,” said C K Mishra, secretary, environment, and co-chair of the PM’s high-level committee on preparedness for a medical emergency. Read more. Second economic stimulus package likely soon: CEAThe second economic stimulus package can be expected “very soon”, Chief Economic Adviser Krishnamurthy V Subramanian said in an interview on Saturday, although he declined to put a time-frame or a magnitude to it. Read more. Experts raise concerns over Aarogya SetuThe government’s decision to make it mandatory for people to install its Aarogya Setu mobile application has inadequate legal basis and exposes users to possible surveillance, according to experts who are now appealing for the directive to be rolled back or stronger safeguards to be introduced, even as the tool triggered a political spat between the government and the opposition Congress on Saturday. Read more. As migrants return, states guard against Covid surgeStates receiving migrant labourers from across India are gearing up for a massive challenge: a spurt in Covid-19 cases. And, some states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha, have already unveiled unprecedented steps.Read more. States issue guidelines for extended lockdownA day after the Centre extended lockdown till May 17, most states decided to follow the home ministry’s guidelines allowing several activities in the green and orange zones to kickstart economy and official work, with a few exceptions. Read more. When self-isolation led to great works of science and literatureQuarantine and self isolation need not be monotonous and stifling. They can be the gateway to work, be it in the arts or the sciences, that define the history of the world.Isaac Newton, Charles Darwin, John Milton and Lord Byron used such time to add to their formidable body of work in science and literature. Read more. Over 16k visited Tablighi Jamaat markaz in Delhi from March 13-24At least 16,500 people visited Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin around the time it emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot between March 13 and 24, according to a Delhi police report that an officer said has been compiled after the biggest exercise the force has ever undertaken.Read more. Punjab to test over 4,000 Nanded pilgrims for virusThe Punjab government is scrambling to test and isolate 4,012 people who returned from the Hazur Sahib gurudwara in Nanded town after 504 pilgrims tested positive for Covid-19, prompting authorities in Maharashtra to seal one of Sikhism’s holiest shrines. Read more. 135 CRPF troopers in Delhi test positive for Covid-19, set off alarm bells in MHACentral Reserve Police Force (CRPF) officials claimed on Saturday that 135 of its troopers from the 31st battalion have tested positive for coronavirus which is worrying for the paramilitary force. Four hundred and eighty troopers of the battalion have been quarantined. Read more. Bengal CM, guv spar over Covid figuresAmid a raging controversy over mismatch in the state’s data of Covid-19 infections, the West Bengal government on Saturday changed the format of its daily bulletin.The day also saw chief minister Mamata Banerjee sending a 13-page letter to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in response to his letters, accusing him of “dreaming of a dyarchy in the state”. Read more. Lokpal member justice Ajay Kumar Tripathi dies of Covid-19Judicial member of Lokpal and former judge of Chhattisgarh high court Ajay Kumar Tripathi, 62, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died late Saturday evening. He had been admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences’ (AIIMS) trauma centre on April 3.Read more. US okays remdesivir for emergency Covid-19 useThe US drug regulator has allowed emergency use of experimental antiviral drug remdesivir for Covid-19 treatment based on early clinical data that showed it helps coronavirus patients recover faster. The drug is made by Gilead Sciences and is the first to be approved globally as a treatment for the viral pandemic. Read more. 41 test Covid positive in Kapashera buildingFifty-six people, including a three-year-old, from two clusters in Kapashera and Tughlakabad Extension tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in two days, according to the Delhi government. Forty-one cases were reported from a double-storey building in southwest Delhi’s Kapashera. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-pandemic-agri-reforms-in-focus-india-tests-cross-a-million-covid-19-news-today/story-sbWVEbVAV56Vc4Dapj7pCN.html
03-05-2020||India||Eye on Gulf countries, Pak ups Twitter campaign to target India over ‘Islamophobia’||Indian security agencies have identified nearly 7,000 accounts on micro-blogging site Twitter that were opened in April 2020 and are being operated from Pakistan, a report submitted to the government this week has said. These social media handles, the report said, had launched a shrill campaign against India that was aimed at influencing India’s relations with the Gulf countries.Indian intelligence agencies had earlier reported an organised effort by Pakistan to target New Delhi and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on social media by Twitter accounts opened between January and March. The report handed over to the government this week said it had spotted 7,000 more accounts that were opened in April, all of them being operated from Pakistan.The barrage of tweets, quite a few of them by handles that pass themselves off as residents or citizens of Gulf countries, have gained some traction in the local social media landscape in Islamic countries and led a number of people in the gulf countries also to fall prey to it, the report said.By way of an example, the report names one verified Twitter handle of a prominent national of a Gulf country that had been taken in by claims of persecution of Muslims in Kashmir. This account, put out a photograph of a dead man with a caption, ‘Persecution of people in Kashmir’.Also Read: In Jaish’s plan for Kashmir, simultaneous suicide attacks on May 11When security officials looked around, they found the photograph was of a Jaish terrorist killed in an encounter along with 2 Pakistani terrorists in Dhriti village of Jammu and Kashmir’s on 14 September 2018.Then there was a tweet purportedly by an Omani princess that advocated expulsion of Indian workers from the country. Sayyida Mona bint Fahd al Said, the Omani princess whose name was used by the impersonator, issued clarification that she had no connection to the tweets and the handle was a fake.Also Read: The contours of Pakistan’s new narrative on India | AnalysisIndian officials said it was clear that the social media campaign wasn’t just an invention of Pakistan’s deep state, the Inter Services Intelligence, but had its origin in Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s shrill pitch against India, and PM Modi at the UN General Assembly in August last year.It was the first occasion that PM Imran Khan, at an international event, had attempted to rally the world’s Muslim community to what he described as the plight of Muslims in Kashmir and beyond.It has been a recurring theme in statements from PM Khan and his foreign ministry as well but hadn’t found any reverberation outside of Islamabad. PM Khan had repeatedly made the same point during protests against amendments to the citizenship law that fast-tracked citizenship for religious minorities from Islamic countries in India’s neighbourhood.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, asked about the flurry of social media posts in West Asia, this week stopped short of naming Pakistan but described much of the material on social media platforms as “propaganda by interested parties”.On some commentators calling out out what they said were Islamophobic social media posts by a handful of Indians working in the Middle East, Srivastava underscored that “stray tweets cannot be used to characterise our bilateral relations with these countries, and the real picture of these relations is very different”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-gulf-countries-pak-ups-twitter-campaign-to-target-india-over-islamophobia/story-UOj3fXsSmwJNRlVTqrQz3K.html
03-05-2020||India||Colonel, Major killed in action in J&K’s Handwara; 2 terrorists shot dead in encounter||A colonel, one major and two soldiers of the Indian Army were killed along with a police officer during an operation to flush terrorists out of a house in Handwara in north Kashmir, sources said on Sunday.Two terrorists were also killed in the encounter that began around 3:30pm on Saturday in Chanjmulla area of Handwara.Sources said Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, Major Anuj, a Lance Naik, a rifleman and police sub-inspector Shakeel Qazi were killed after the hours-long firefight with terrorists holed up in a house.The commanding officer of 21 Rashtriya Rifles along with four others had entered the house to evacuate the trapped people after the firing had stopped for an hour. Officials said their bodies have been recovered from the encounter site. The civilians have been rescued, they added.Throughout the night as the gun battle raged, several Pakistani accounts on Facebook and Telegram ran propaganda against the operation.An official, who asked not to be named, had said earlier that approximately four terrorists were holed up in the house.The encounter began on Saturday afternoon after the army and police launched a joint operation in the forests of Rajwar following a tip-off about the presence of terrorists in the area. The terrorists emerged and hid inside a house.Teams of the Special Operation Group of police had surrounded the house and lights were erected around the area where the encounter was underway, a senior security official said, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-army-personnel-die-in-encounter-with-terrorists-in-north-kashmir-s-handwara/story-YY9C1aMN7mWthL2UFC5JlL.html
03-05-2020||India||From flypasts to bands: Armed forces pay gratitude to Covid-19 warriors||India’s armed forces on Sunday exhibited their appreciation and gratitude toward thousands of ‘corona warriors’ across the country - doctors, nurses and police personnel - who have been at the forefront of the country’s battle against the coronavirus pandemic.This is the third massive display of gratitude to Covid-19 warriors after Prime Minister Narendra Modi previously asked people to clap for them from their balconies and light candles in their honour. The military’s plan to honour front-line workers on Sunday was finalised at a meeting chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday. The meeting was attended by the national security adviser, the chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs.Several activities like fly-pasts, flashing warship lights and other displays by the Indian Army bands have been included in today’s spectacular show.Here is what is in store:* Fly-pasts across the length and breadth of the country by the Indian Air Force’s (IAF’s) fighter jets and transport planes —from Srinagar to Thiruvananthapuram and Dibrugarh to Kutch. The IAF’s fighter jets fly-pasts over Mumbai, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Guwahati, Patna and Lucknow, apart from Delhi and the national capital region (NCR).* Showering of petals over hospitals dedicated to treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients across 23 locations in the country carried out military helicopters . These include Delhi, Leh, Chandigarh, Dehradun, Mumbai, Jaipur, Dispur, Shillong (subject to confirmation by state administration) Itanagar, Trivandrum and Chennai.* Wreath-laying by armed forces’ personnel at the police memorial on behalf of the three service chiefs to show support for Covid-19 warriors.* Transport aircraft will also fly in formation over 10 cities including Delhi, Srinagar, Chandigarh, Jaipur, Mumbai and Hyderabad.* The fighter jets featuring in the fly-past over Delhi-NCR, or IAF’s “aerial salute,” include the Sukhoi-30s, MiG-29s and Jaguars. * The fly-past will be followed by the C-130J special operations aircraft flying over Delhi-NCR in formation.* Showering of petals over the National Police Memorial and Delhi hospitals involved in providing relief to Covid-19 patients by IAF helicopters.* These include Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, GTB Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital, Sri Ganga Ram Hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Apollo Indraprastha Hospital and the Army Hospital (Research and Referral).* The Indian Navy illuminated its warships at anchorage from 7.30pm to midnight on Friday at Mumbai, Porbandar, Karwar, Vizag, Chennai, Kochi and Port Blair. Naval helicopters will shower petals over Covid-19 hospitals in Mumbai and Goa. * Forty-six Indian Coast Guard ships will also be lit up at 25 locations along the country’s eastern and western seaboards. Ten coast guard helicopters will shower flower petals over Covid-19 hospitals in Daman, Mumbai, Goa, Chennai and Port Blair.* The tributes being offered to Covid-19 warriors will also see army bands perform outside several hospitals and locations across the country including the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Sri Ganga Ram Hospital, the Army’s RR Hospital and the Base Hospital in Delhi Cantt.* Performance by army bands to honour Covid-19 warriors at Srinagar’s Dal Lake, among other locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-flypasts-to-bands-armed-forces-gratitude-to-covid-19-warriors/story-QFEqg4uO9PUfxyKqid9JGJ.html
03-05-2020||India||First special train ferrying UP migrants reaches Lucknow from Maharashtra’s Nashik||More than 800 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh arrived in Lucknow in a special train from Maharashtra’s Nashik on Sunday morning amid ongoing Covid-19 lockdown.The 847 migrant workers travelled in the Indian Railway’s Shramik Special train, which started from Nashik on Saturday morning and reached the state capital via Jhansi and Kanpur. This is the first special train to arrive in Uttar Pradesh with migrant labourers, who were stranded in Maharashtra and other parts of the country after Prime Minister Narendra announced the lockdown on March 24.Health workers registered the details of the migrant workers as they deboarded the train at the Charbagh station and segregated them according to the districts they belong before taking their temperature. Special buses of state transport department will ferry the passengers to their respective districts. The migrant workers were screened by health experts before they boarded the buses. Anyone with symptoms of infection will be taken to quarantine centres or hospitals.Authorities had kept ambulance on standby outside the Lucknow railway station to take passengers with Covid-19 symptoms to these quarantine centres and hospitals.Those who were allowed to make a forward journey were also handed food packets.The railways had said it will run Shramik Special trains to move migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places due to the nationwide lockdown that came into force from March 25.Ten such Shramik Special trains were run on Saturday to ferry stranded migrants to Jharkhand, UP, Bihar from Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat and the five southern states—Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh.The trains scheduled from the respective railway zones were to ferry nearly 20,000 passengers, senior officials said.The Centre on Friday decided to allow these special trains to enable stranded migrants to return home amid demands by states and a recognition of the logistical challenges involved in transporting millions of people back to their homes. Five such trains operated on Friday.On Saturday, around 7,500 migrants who were stranded in Rajasthan and Uttarakhand arrived in Lucknow. A senior official said the two states transported the migrants to the borders of UP from where around 285 buses were deployed to take the migrants to their respective home districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-special-train-ferrying-up-migrants-reaches-lucknow-from-maharashtra-s-nashik/story-kIk7LPNh27ycQP3TMJkHYO.html
03-05-2020||India||After Ramayan, Prasar Bharati counts on magic of Shri Krishna||After the record-breaking success of epic serial Ramayan, public broadcaster Prasar Bharati is now counting on another epic production Shri Krishna to maintain its high viewership ratings.Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said that from Sunday at 9 pm Doordarshan’s national channel will start telecasting Sri Krishna, one of the most popular television serials.Shri Krishna was telecast on Doordarshan in the nineties and gained much popularity.Javadekar on Saturday thanked the family of Ramayan serial creator Ramanand Sagar for facilitating the re-telecast of the epic production.In a letter to Prem Sagar, the son of the late Ramanand Sagar, Javadekar said it was “our wish to re-telecast Ramayan during Covid-19 lockdown”.“I am deeply grateful to your family for helping us in fulfilling this wish,” he said.Javadekar said 40 years back when Ramayan was released, not many people had access to television, but at present the situation is different as at least 18 crore households have access to television.The present generation has not seen the grandeur of Ramayan before and re-telecasting of the serial has made it possible for new generation to finally watch it, he said.Ramayan became the most watched show on April 16 across the world with over 7 crore 70 lakh people having watched the serial, the minister said.“I thank the whole team of Ramayan serial on behalf of Doordarshan, congratulations to all,” he said.Mythological series Ramayan and Mahabharat returned on Doordarshan on public demand and were quite popular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-ramayan-prasar-bharati-counts-on-magic-of-shri-krishna/story-8keY5XMQ5YsSKbqZ3GkyiI.html
03-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Delhi cop provides shelter to woman student at his residence||An assistant sub-inspector of the Delhi Police provided shelter to a woman student at his residence as she could not go back to her native place in Kolkata due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, officials said on Saturday. Sushmita Shah, a student who is preparing for competitive exams, used to live with the ASI’s daughter at a PG in Janakpuri here.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage When the lockdown was announced on March 24, the two women left the PG. Shah wanted to return to Kolkata, but she could not go due to the restrictions imposed across the country in view of the coronavirus outbreak. “Therefore, ASI Arvind Kumar asked her to stay at their residence like his daughter and whenever the lockdown will be relaxed, appropriate arrangement will be made to send her to Kolkata,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said.  Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava said the department will honour the ASI. “ASI Arvind Kumar, from PS Moti Nagar, brought home a girl student, studying at coaching institute & hailing from Kolkata, who had no place to stay when lockdown announced. He refused money for her expenses. The young girl is in touch with parents. Delhi Police will honour him,” the commissioner tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-delhi-cop-provides-shelter-to-woman-student-at-his-residence/story-YOUqcpvB7SBPn2QCYjYBcK.html
03-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Special flight repatriates UK nationals from Amritsar||Around 270 United Kingdom (UK) nationals left for their country in a special Qatar Airways flight from Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport in Amritsar on Sunday.The flight was scheduled to take off at 2:15 AM from Amritsar. Click here for full Covid-19 updatesSpeaking to ANI, Davinder Singh, Volunteer, British High Commission said, “Around 11,000 UK nationals have been repatriated so far around the world out of which 5500 are from Punjab. In the coming days as well UK nationals will be sent back. We would like to thank the Government of India and Airways authorities.” Before the flight took off, UK nationals here expressed their gratitude to the Indian citizens and Government of India for helping them while they were stranded here due to coronavirus-induced lockdown. “We came here on March 9 for 2 weeks but our flight was cancelled due to lockdown. We were unable to move out of our house for six weeks. People should obey the lockdown norms,” said Gurbaksh Kaur, UK national. Another UK national, Rajinder Singh told ANI, “We came here on February 29 for two weeks but later we were stranded here amid lockdown. We did face many problems but people of Punjab supported us and loved us during this crisis.”Another special flight airlifted 271 UK nationals from Amritsar yesterday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-special-flight-repatriates-uk-nationals-from-amritsar/story-SFL3GsfsFeXiIrPiq9PXCM.html
03-05-2020||India||‘Significant’ increase in cybercrime against women during lockdown: Experts||There has been a significant increase in cybercrime against women, especially sextortion, during the Covid-19-induced lockdown with “caged criminals” targeting them online, say experts.The nationwide lockdown imposed from March 25 to April 14, and then extended to May 3, aims at preventing the spread of the novel coronavirus that has claimed 1,147 lives and infected 35,043 people in the country.According to National Commission for Women (NCW) data, 54 cybercrime complaints were received online in April in comparison to 37 complaints – received online and by post -- in March, and 21 complaints in February. The panel is taking complaints online due to the lockdown.Cyber experts, however, said the numbers are just the “tip of the iceberg”.“We received a total of 412 genuine complaints of cyber abuse from March 25 till April 25. Out of these, as many as 396 complaints were serious ones from women, (and these) ranged from abuse, indecent exposure, unsolicited obscene pictures, threats, malicious emails claiming their account was hacked, ransom demands, blackmail and more,” said the founder of the Akancha Foundation, Akancha Srivastava.The organisation works for education and empowerment of people by imparting knowledge on cyber safety. Srivastava said on an average she has been getting 20-25 such complaints daily, while before the lockdown the number was less than 10 per day. This is a “significant” increase, she said.“This is just the frustration and anger that is coming to the fore as there is no other release right now. This is a form of frustration as they (cyber criminals) are caged right now,” she said. “Men are morphing images and threatening women. There is a whole racket going on where women are getting these emails that your phone and laptop has been hacked, and if you don’t deposit money my account I will send your morphed images, and share it with all your contacts,” Srivastava added.Vineet Kumar, founder and president of Cyber Peace Foundation, said specially the cases of “sextortion” have increased during the lockdown.Sextortion is extorting money or sexual favours from someone by threatening to reveal evidence of their sexual activity through means like morphed images.“People are getting into relationships online as they are under lockdown and sextortion cases are being reported to us,” he said.Kumar said in these times people are connecting through technology but forgetting the security component.“Immediately after lockdown, we saw a rise in cases of misinformation, fake news and women getting duped online when they click on malware links which gets all their information on phone, turns on the camera and microphone, and captures their intimate moments. These are then used for blackmailing,” he added.Many women do not want to make official complaints in these cases, he said.“Cyber Peace has been receiving complaints through its channels and it has been seen that people are reluctant in filing complaints. They want us to handle things unofficially,” Kumar said. “Whatever official figure that is being quoted is just the tip of the iceberg as a majority of women do not report cybercrime because they worry about the social stigma associated with it,” he said.Vandana Verma, founder of InfoSec Girls, said when the whole country is locked down, people are working from home and spending a lot of time on the internet. So, even cyber criminals are becoming innovative and craftier in their techniques, she said .“Like sending specific phishing emails or themed emails for the current COVID-19 situation to people and getting their confidential details like address, phone numbers. These emails appear to have come from legitimate sources like the government in the form of advisories when they are not at all related to the government in any form,” Verma said.“Creation of fake profiles, cyber bullying, online stalking are bigger challenges at this time. Insensitive comments on posts are also intimidating,” she said.Verma advised that such cybercrimes can be prevented through education on technology.“How to securely use the digital media, creating strong a password and spreading awareness on phishing emails, fake videos and securely sharing content on the internet can help a lot in safeguarding women,” she said. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said often it is seen there is lack of awareness among women on where to reach out when something happens.“There is cyber police in every district who they can contact. They can reach out to us also if they need help,” she said.She advised women to remain careful in the cyber space. “We are talking to women on how to protect themselves in cyber space. We advice women to not share their personal pictures or details on social media as it’s not safe. Women should realise that at times people known to them can also take advantage,” said Verma. CSC e-Governance Services India, which holds the license for providing internet services, recorded an increase in data consumption to 4.7 terabyte (TB) as on March 30 from 2.7 TB on March 10.“Based on the growth trend, data consumption on the CSC SPV network is estimated to have increased by close to 100 per cent till date,” CSC SPV CEO Dinesh Tyagi told PTI on April 5. He said that a major spike in data consumption has been recorded since the time lockdown started.There are more than 60 crore internet users in India and out of this about 29 crore are in rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/significant-increase-in-cybercrime-against-women-during-lockdown-experts/story-QNPwq5Jr1iAkAXzacLnc5K.html
03-05-2020||India||12 hours on, gunbattle at terror hideout continues in north Kashmir’s Handwara||Security forces were locked in an hours-long firefight with militants holed up in a house in north Kashmir’s Handwara, officials said late on Saturday, suspecting the gunmen to be terrorists who recently infiltrated into the Valley.According to officials who asked not to be named, approximately four terrorists are believed to be involved in the encounter that began around 3:30pm in Chanjmulla area of Handwara, which falls in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district.Two senior army officers, a state policeman and a soldier were close to the site of the encounter, news agency PTI reported citing unnamed sources. According to the sources, a hunt was underway to trace the missing personnel, while the operation to neutralise the militants was also on, PTI reported.The encounter began in the afternoon after Army and police launched a joint operation in the forests of Rajwar following a tip-off about the presence of militants in the area. The militants emerged and hid inside a house.Teams of the Special Operation Group of police surrounded the house and lights had been erected around the area where the encounter was underway, a senior security official said, asking not to be named. Since the gunfight was underway, this person added, more details about the operation were not immediately available from the unit that was engaged in the encounter.Defense spokesman Rajesh Kalia didn’t respond to phone calls made by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gun-battle-in-handwara-at-terror-hideout/story-OorhZsP2wNDaFoYve2p9gO.html
03-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||May 1: 69; April 30: 76; April 29: 69; April 28: 74; April 27: 58; April 26: 51; April 25: 46; April 24: 57; April 23: 38; April 22: 39.These numbers are the death tolls of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India on the 10 days between April 22 and May 1. On May 2, the number was 98. The total death toll in India was 1,319 on Saturday.In some ways, this is the only number to track. In the absence of a lockdown, the number of infections would have definitely soared, as would have the death toll.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageI have written previously about how data from both Mumbai and Delhi shows that the number of non-Covid-19 deaths has reduced during the lockdown. I have also written about just how difficult it will be to hide a death from that most omnipresent thing in India — a mobile phone camera. This would suggest that the number of deaths is a good metric of just how India is handling the pandemic.There’s another reason to keep tracking this number. Most diseases are so well understood that we can work backwards from the number of deaths to find the number of those affected or infected. We don’t know enough about Covid-19 now, and the widely varying fatality rates around the world are of no help — not when, as both The New York Times and Financial Times have pointed out, based on their own analysis, the actual number of deaths from Covid-19 was much higher than those attributed to the disease. India wasn’t covered by either.But this ignorance won’t last. We already know more about the disease than we did a month back, and every day seems to bring new answers. It also brings new questions, as it should with a disease of as recent vintage as this. In a column in The New York Times written in mid-April, Charlie Warzel asked some of these questions. More have been added to that list since (and some have been answered).Eventually, we will know enough about the disease to arrive at a range, a narrow one, for the death rate. And then work backwards from that.My guess is that the death rates are nowhere close to what’s being reported. The current global death rate is 7.02% of all infected people. That’s far too high. The real number is likely to be anything between 1% and 3% (again, this is a guess, not science). But this would mean that the actual number of infected people is much higher — which is plausible. That’s actually another reason to track deaths, not number of cases.The death tallies for the week before April 22 in India were as follows: April 21: 54; April 20: 32; April 19: 39; April 18: 32; April 17: 40; April 16: 24; April 15: 33.Over the past forthright, then, the number of deaths has seen a steady increase but the numbers are not alarming — not yet. They are closer to Germany’s trajectory than they are to, say, that of the US.The worrying thing is that most countries have seen the number of deaths per day follow what’s called a hockey-stick curve — gradual curve upwards, and then a steep rise. Which is why it makes sense to watch the number of daily deaths in India, especially over the next two weeks. In more cheerful news, it turns out that Gilead’s Remdesivir, a failed hepatitis and Ebola drug, may well be a cure for Covid-19. A study in the US found that it accelerated recovery rates, although it didn’t have a huge impact on death rates (it had some). Still, that promise was enough for the US Food and Drug Administration to allow the use of the drug on Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-u4tgscaAERikoAfYVLl1nN.html
03-05-2020||India||100 Hours 100 Stars: Shashi Tharoor appeals to citizens to make safety their top priority||Former Union minister and senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Saturday appealed to the citizens of the country to stay home and stay safe amid the Covid-19 pandemic and emphasized that isolation at home was the only way to beat the deadly infection.Often called one of India’s favourite politicians for his wit and erudition, Tharoor joined the ‘100 Hours 100 Stars’ initiative started by Fever Network from his home in Thiruvananthapuram amid the lockdown. He elaborated how an instinct had made him stop his mother from travelling to her home in Kochi just before the lockdown was imposed in March. The Congress leader is spending some quality family time during the lockdown with his mother and sister in Kerala.“I have been very busy with my duties as a Member of Parliament throughout the fight against coronavirus. A number of my constituents reached out for help even before the lockdown was imposed. We received a number of appeals from people from Kerala who were stranded in other cities or countries, including fishermen and students. We have supplied test kits and protective medical gear to several frontline workers from my MP’s fund,” Tharoor said.“We had migrant workers too, who were itching to go back to their homes in Bihar and Bengal…I addressed them in Hindi and Bengali and asked them to stay where they were to stay safe and avoid infection,” the Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram said.In an effort to show solidarity to those affected by Covid-19, the Fever Network is committed to uniting people against this fight with the global pandemic. Starting May 2, the Fever Network is launching ‘100 Hours 100 Stars’ – the biggest digital festival ever. Through this fest, the network is celebrating and lauding those frontline workers who risk their own lives to safeguard everyone else’s. The fest would be packed with performances, interviews and more global stars from their homes as they self-isolate during this health crisis. The campaign aims to gather funds which would then be given towards Covid-19 relief work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-hours-100-stars-shashi-tharoor-appeals-to-citizens-to-make-safety-their-top-priority/story-qaxPBJEBEB44szfIEhAo0H.html
03-05-2020||India||Govt plans major agricultural reforms post-coronavirus||Outlining an ambitious post-pandemic agenda for agricultural reform, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asked his top ministers and bureaucrats to start working on a new set of reforms to cut down on archaic regulations, raise farm-gate prices, unify domestic markets as well as integrate the farm economy into global value chains.These have been demands by key farmer groups as well as a range of economists and agricultural experts over the years. The PM suggested these reforms at a high level review meeting on the agricultural sector, which was also attended by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, home minster Amit Shah, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and senior officials. The meeting was in a series of reviews the PM is undertaking on key sectors, in the backdrop of the national lockdown which has adversely affected the economy.The PM sought further reforms in agricultural marketing, which is a reference to the mandi system that controls buying and selling of farm produce, among other issues. He said he was not averse to bringing “appropriate” new laws or changing old ones to firmly integrate farm markets across the country so that cultivators and traders can transact without restrictions. “Essentially, he wanted one nation, one market,” said a top official familiar with the deliberations of the meeting.The PM also held a “general discussion” on genetically modified crops, a tricky subject given the widespread opposition to transgenics in the country. “It was a discussion that evaluated the various advantages and disadvantages of transgenics. The PM wanted updates on options to raise productivity, while lowering farming costs,” said the official quoted above. The PM stressed last-mile dissemination of technologies developed by agricultural research bodies.The Covid pandemic has pressured farm incomes, upending the farm-to-fork supply chain, despite full exemptions to the farm sector. A nationwide curfew caught farmers by surprise on March 24. During its the initial days, labour shortage and empty wholesale markets led farmers to dump new harvest, especially perishables. Although agriculture accounts for 16.5% of India’s gross domestic product (GDP), nearly half the population in the country depends on a farm-based income, underscoring the sector’s importance for livelihoods. The big focus on Saturday was on new ideas to intervene in the agriculture marketing system so as to make them freer, a second official said. Despite several model laws at the federal level — which serve as guidance for states — trade in agricultural commodities remains fettered by state-specific legislations, which prevent farmers from freely accessing food markets. The discussions are a nod to a renewed farm agenda, which may, in all likelihood, see fresh legislations being moved in Parliament. “The honourable prime minister wants integrated markets. One state should be agreeable with another state as far as agricultural policies go,” the second official said. The Indian agricultural market is fragmented. Each state has distinct regulations. Restrictions on where farmers can sell and to whom, as mandated by the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Acts, in various states, continue to thwart farm trade.The second official said a new legal framework governing investment and technology in agrarian economy could be necessary and the “PM acknowledged that”.“The focus was on making strategic interventions in the existing marketing ecosystem and bringing appropriate reforms in the context of rapid agricultural development,” an official statement said.K. Mani, an economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, said the first step for these ideas to be successful was to have an interstate council such as the one for the Goods and Services Tax. Under a decades-old system, each state has scores of tight market zones to serve as exclusive buyer-seller platforms for an area. This system of ‘mandis’ or markets is both a physical and at times fiscal barrier, preventing seamless transactions of goods.The second official cited above said the prime minister wanted a massive scaling up of a federal e-commerce platform for farmers and traders, known as the Electronic National Agricultural Markets or the e-NAM app. The PM’s push for the app came in the backdrop of agriculture minister Tomar saying, separately, that more than 166000 registered farmers across the country are now selling their produce by transacting from home and praticising social distancing, with nearly half of the country’s 1500 major farm-end commodity markets now going online. This is the first time wholesale food markets in large states, such as Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka, have joined the digital supply chain. Farmers on the e-NAM app can strike deals for their harvests remotely by first uploading pictures of their samples and then getting these samples scientifically checked for quality by remote assayers, without having to move entire truck loads to physical markets. The e-NAM platform now has a total of 785 markets online. Saturday’s review was preceded by recommendations earlier this year from a committee of secretaries tasked with reviewing the agriculture sector. It identified persistent trade barriers within the mandi system that continue to hurt producers. The government could consider a “single mandi tax for the country” and “removal of levies” charged to traders and farmers when farm goods are sold from one state to another, known as interstate mandi tax, a third official said.“Making farm marketing reforms work is similar to opening FDI in manufacturing. That’s how big it is. It’s after all about prices for producers,” said S Mahendra Dev, director and vice-chancellor of the Mumbai-based Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research. Dev formerly headed the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, the federal body that fixes minimum support prices. Ushered in during the 1960s, most Agricultural Produce Market Committee Acts – each state has its own law — require farmers to only sell to licensed middlemen in notified markets, usually in the same area as the farmer, rather than directly to buyers elsewhere. These rules were meant to protect farmers from being forced into distress selling. But over time, they have spawned layers of intermediaries, spanning the farm-to-fork supply chain. This results in a large “price spread” or the fragmentation of profit shares due to the presence of many middlemen. Saturday’s meet also discussed possible model land tenancy laws. Outdated land tenancy laws in many states mean that tenant farmers don’t get access to farm loans because they don’t own land. Tenancy reforms can lead to more contract and organised farming without affecting “adverse possession” or ownership of land.“One reason why agriculture has suffered is that we have not liberated the sector like we have done for industry. Without compromising food security, you have to open up. The government cannot assume it knows everything. I think that’s what the government has realised now,” said Manoj Kumar Panda, the RBI chair professor at the Institute of Economic Growth, University of Delhi. Bureaucrats suggested creation of commodity-specific administrative bodies and promotion of agriculture clusters as well as contract farming to boost exports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-major-agri-reforms-post-corona/story-EISmhgFEzDaI4386TorfwM.html
03-05-2020||India||Shramik Special trains to ferry 20,000 stranded across country||Twenty Shramik Special trains were scheduled to run Saturday to ferry stranded migrants to Jharkhand, UP, Bihar from Rajashtan, Maharashtra, Gujarat and the five southern states—Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh.The trains scheduled from the respective railway zones were to ferry nearly 20,000 passengers, senior officials said.“Trains are being planned at the request of the states. Twenty trains are scheduled to run today following all the standard protocols,” Railway Protection Force DG Arun Kumar said.However, of the 20 scheduled special trains, the Indian Railways said 10 special trains ran on Saturday. “As per information received, various zonal railways have run around 10 Shramik Special trains today (Saturday) on the demand of various state governments,” railway ministry said. Amid demands by states and a recognition of the logistical challenges involved in transporting millions of people back to their home states, the Centre on Friday decided to allow special trains—called Shramik Specials—to enable stranded migrants to return home. Five such trains operated on Friday.According to officials, the railways is unlikely to run trains originating from containment zones like Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad. “There are no trains planned for Mumbai but trains are being run from other destinations like Bhiwandi and Vasai near Mumbai. Trains will only run to these places when the demand from the state government comes,” the official added.Railways also announced that it will charge to operate special trains for stranded migrant workers amid the lockdown. The fare includes the price of regular sleeper class tickets, plus a superfast charge of ₹30 and an additional charge of ₹20, adding that state governments can coordinate and pay on the passengers’ behalf.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren Saturday tweeted saying the government should roll back the fare on special trains, adding that it was an “injustice to our labourers who are returning home.”The ministry of railways had also clarified that the special trains were planned only for those identified and registered by state governments. “No one, under any circumstance, should come to railway stations looking for trains. We will not issue any tickets to any individual or entertain any request from any group or individual. We will allow only those passengers to board whom state government officials bring to the railway stations,” the ministry said.The railway ministry has said that trains would operate from point-to-point on the request of the concerned state governments. Senior officials would be appointed as nodal officers. It clarified, “The passengers have to be screened by the sending states and only those found asymptomatic will be allowed to travel.” It would also be the responsibility of the governments to bring such individuals to the designated stations in sanitised buses, following social distancing norms. All passengers will have to mandatorily wear masks; while meals and drinking water will be provided, according to the ministry, by the government sending them back home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shramik-special-trains-to-ferry-20-000-stranded-across-country/story-QrhP8sNf8mAbuUR2CFcxmK.html
03-05-2020||India||Filing of cases in SC will undergo radical change: Justice DY Chandrachud||Filing of cases in the Supreme Court will undergo a radical change with the introduction and operationalisation of e-filing, chairperson of the e-committee of Supreme Court, Justice DY Chandrachud said in a telephonic interview. The work towards this is at an advanced stage and the system is expected to be rolled out soon, he added.“We have been working on the e-filing module for the past few months. I utilized the lockdown period to have our entire team of the registrar and almost eleven data programmers work continuously on it. The module is now being tested for its stability. We are at an advanced stage and will be commencing e-filing of all cases in the Supreme Court in the near future”, justice Chandrachud said.He added that the concerns of all stakeholders, especially lawyers, will be taken into account and their suggestions incorporated before the system is finally rolled out.“We are conversant of the need to ensure that we have the confidence of all segments of the Bar. We will not start any process until we have created that understanding at the bar and ensure that they understand what we are doing.”In order to ensure that the Bar is taken on board, the court might host a webinar for lawyers in coming days to unveil the module, understand their concerns and consider their suggestions. “Once that is done, the system will be put through an audit before it is finally rolled out”, Chandrachud added.So what are the immediate advantages of e-filing?“With the introduction of e-filing, people will be able to file cases in the Supreme Court 24x7 and it won’t be restricted to working hours of the court. Curing of defects in the petitions will also be through electronic mode. It will make life much easier for litigants, lawyers, law clerks and of course for our registry staff also”, he said.The top court has also begun the process of digitization of pending cases. This did pose some challenges, Chandrachud said.“One of the technological issues faced was to ensure that the digitized files of pending cases are brought on the same platform as the fresh cases which will be filed using that platform. We have been able to streamline that. Development of e-payment gateway for payment of court fees also posed some challenges.”The Supreme Court , in 2017, launched the initiative of digitization and online filing but the project went into cold storage after the retirement of then Chief Justice of India, JS Khehar. “Perhaps it all happened very suddenly and was done without the system being stabilized. We cannot say overnight that we are going to have e-filing, or that everything is going to be digitized. We cannot dump that on litigants and lawyers. That is also why I have not kept a cut-off date (for launch) so as to obviate the problems which arose in the past. We will ensure that until lawyers get familiar with the system and their clerks are in a position to take over the system we will do the handholding at the Supreme Court. We are making it as user-friendly as possible,” added ChandrachudSome high courts have also taken up initiatives for digitizing their records of disposed of and pending cases.“Now that has to be coupled with e-filing so that both fresh cases, and disposed of and pending cases are brought on the same platform. But there should be a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the benefit of all high courts and the district judiciary”.The e-committee at the Supreme Court will soon constitute a panel of experts from the private sector and government agencies who will help draw up a standard operating procedure for digitization across the nation.“Once that is done, each high court can utilise that protocol and do that process of digitsation. Once e-filing starts in Supreme Court, it will catch up in a big way in high courts,” said ChandrachudThe Supreme Court’s first major tryst with technology happened on March 24 when the Covid-19 pandemic led to a national lockdown. Hearings since then have been happening through video conferencing but many issues have arisen regarding the same.“We were confronted with a situation almost overnight when lockdown was announced and we could not have court hearings. So instead of barring access to justice completely, we thought that the next best option was to have hearings through video conferencing”, Chandrachud said.One concern flagged by lawyers and media is regarding violation of open court hearing when it comes to video conferencing.Justice Chandrachud agreed that open court hearing is one of the fundamental precepts of our system but said that crowd is regulated even in physical proceeding in open courts.“Open court proceedings are open from two perspectives – first, free access for reporting to media, and second, that access to court rooms should be available to the members of the public who have an interest in the proceedings. We cannot have, say 5,000 people coming into a court room because we have space constraints.”He said that the objective must be to ensure that the court does not detract from the fundamental principles of an open court.“That is not to say that anybody who wants a link to the hearing will be entitled to get it. Technology also has constraints. As long there is no bar on media on one hand and members of public who would want to hear the matter of public interest, I think the principle of open court room is going to be facilitated.”Justice Chandrachud was part of the Supreme Court bench which passed an order on April 6 legalising use of video conferencing to hear cases during Covid-19 lockdown.“We gave legal sanctity to video conferencing by an overarching judicial order which sort of covered all high courts in the country. But we left it to the discretion of every high court on various nuances because we did not want to handhold the high courts and foreclose their discretion in adopting technology which they felt was best suited to their purpose.”The e-committee of the Supreme Court has now finalised model rules on video conferencing.“These rules are being circulated to all high court chief justices for adoption so as to ensure uniformity in video conferencing but subject to such situational modifications as may be necessary from state to state,” said ChandrachudHowever, he added that video conferencing is not a replacement for physical hearings.“A court is a physical space. Video conferencing and technology in my opinion are an amazing supplement to the functioning of courts. It can be used to examine a witness who is abroad, medical experts who might have to travel to give evidence and for disposal of petty cases which do not require application of judicial mind. Delhi has set up a system for online payment of traffic challans which wipes out a lot of cases from the system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/filing-of-cases-in-sc-will-undergo-radical-change-justice-dy-chandrachud/story-sFNEpebBzq5Z8rxAJawSpI.html
03-05-2020||India||Cong, BJP in tussle over Covid-19 strategy||India’s plan to fight Covid-19 triggered a political blame game on Saturday with the Congress asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address the nation on a lockdown exit plan and the Centre calling the Opposition rudderless. The Congress said the Union home ministry’s order on the extension of the curbs on Friday left many queries unanswered.“The order for the lockdown 3.0 did not come with an address from the PM [Prime Minister], and neither did the [Union] home minister [Amit Shah] come forward to make an announcement. Not even a single officer of the government chose to make an appearance,” said Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala. He said the government should spell out the purpose, objective and strategy behind the lockdown, whether there will be more lockdowns and the strategy to deal with economic distress. “What is the exit strategy, what is the PM’s policy and what is the roadmap? Are there grants for the sowing of the next kharif crops, and what are the arrangements for ensuring livelihood and ration for over 400 million urban and rural poor. Is there a relief package for the 42.5 million MSMEs [Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises]? These are questions that need answers.”He said the Congress has proposed a financial exit plan and recommended the government to transfer Rs 7,500 into Jan Dhan, PM Kisan Yojana accounts and those of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee labourers, senior citizen, widow, and physically handicapped pensioners. “In addition, 10 kg of food grains, one kg pulses and half kg of sugar be given per person per family for sustenance. The government must also ensure free travel in sanitised trains for the stranded migrant workers,” he said.Union minister Prakash Javadekar dismissed criticism over the Centre’s efforts to check the pandemic, saying the government is more interested in saving lives and livelihoods than indulging in verbal duels.“As far as Opposition is concerned, I think they are rudderless. They have no agenda or issues,” he told news agency ANI. “They have not said a single good thing, nor given any good suggestions. Now they are blaming the government on points on which they earlier agreed. There is a complete bankruptcy of political opponents.”Javadekar was responding to Congress leaders allegations of corruption in acquiring coronavirus testing kits, discrimination in sending kits to states, and managing the issue of migrant workers. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-bjp-in-tussle-over-covid-19-strategy/story-0HKZ040oNELb5EGRaIYzJK.html
03-05-2020||India||BCG vaccine may help Covid-19 health workers: Study||The Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine to prevent tuberculosis must be administered to health care workers and the elderly as prophylaxis (preventive action) for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to a paper published in the Indian Journal of Orthopaedics.“BCG vaccine is known to confer a broad-spectrum immunity not just against tuberculosis but other diseases. Indians are already administered BCG as part of our immunisation programme, but other countries, where it has been stopped, might use BCG vaccine prophylaxis along with chloroquine that is now being used. It is already tested in humans and widely available,” said Dr Ajay Gupta, the author of the article and orthopaedic surgeon from Maulana Azad Medical College.Immunity conferred through BCG vaccine may be effective in preventing a cytokine storm, the article suggests. A cytokine storm is when the immune system goes into an overdrive and starts attacking the body’s own cells and tissues other than fighting off an infection.“Viral-specific CD8 T cells (of key importance to the immune system) were seen to have special affinity towards BCG-induced granulomas (a collection of immune cells) resulting in substantial accumulation of viral-specific CD8 T cells there. Such an affinity can be made to be used in patients with COVID-19 to divert and subvert its overactive immune response towards BCG granulomas,” the study reads.“This basically means that BCG-induced immune response might reduce the chances of cytokine storms, which is what leads to deaths in such viral infections,” said Dr Gupta. “However, the immune response is generated six to ten weeks after the vaccine is given. In the meantime, for immediate protection already available, oral salmonella vaccine may be used to boost Th1 immunity,” he added.Th1 immunity refers to immunity against intracellular parasites. “There is no concrete evidence to suggest that BCG-vaccine will protect against the viral infection, but it is a hypothesis that needs to be studied by comparing robust data from places where the vaccine is administered and where it is not. However, BCG-vaccine is a known immune-modulator,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Australia, for instance, has embarked on a large clinical study of the BCG vaccine among health workers. Apart from looking at immune-modulation through available vaccines, the article also suggests that natural exposure to mycobacterium (tuberculosis), Salmonella (Typhoid), and influenza can boost the immune system resulting in less severe infections and deaths due to Covid-19.“COVID-19 has been seen to affect more of those countries who have robust and free influenza vaccination program leading to reduced natural flu infection among their population,” the article reads.“Countries where flu vaccines are readily available have witnessed a bad course of the infection. This might be because in the absence of natural flu infection, the mucous membrane is unable to develop the innate immunity that is effective against all kinds of pathogens,” said Dr Gupta.To study the impact of the natural infections on the course of Covid-19, Dr Gupta’s team will do immune profiling of 20 Covid-19 patients who have severe disease, 20 who have mild symptoms, and 20 people who haven’t had the infection. The team has received an ethical clearance for the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bcg-vaccine-may-help-health-workers-study/story-ADx5vFIBjmq3DHZMylGaDO.html
03-05-2020||India||Forces to honour Covid-19 front-line workers today||Fighter jets will perform a fly-past over Rajpath and fly over the National Capital Region (NCR), and helicopters will shower petals over several hospitals in Delhi on Sunday morning as part of an elaborate military plan to show gratitude to the country’s Covid-19 warriors, the Indian Air Force said on Saturday.The plan, announced by Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Friday, involves several activities, such as illuminating warships and band performances outside coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospitals across the country.The fighter jets featuring in the fly-past, or what the IAF is calling an “aerial salute,” over Delhi-NCR, will be the Sukhoi-30s, MiG-29s and Jaguars. The fly-past is planned between 10am and 10.30am. The aircraft will be flying at a height of 500 to 1,000 metre and will be visible to the residents of Delhi from their rooftops, the spokesperson said.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe fly-past by the fighter jets will be followed by the C-130J special operations aircraft flying over Delhi-NCR in formation.The IAF spokesperson said helicopters will shower petals over the National Police Memorial and Delhi hospitals involved in providing relief to Covid-19 patients.These include Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, GTB Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital, Sri Ganga Ram Hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Apollo Indraprastha Hospital and the Army Hospital (Research and Referral).Wreaths will be laid at the police memorial on behalf of the three service chiefs.Fighter jets and transport planes will carry out fly-pasts across the length and breadth of the country, from Srinagar to Thiruvananthapuram and Dibrugarh to Kutch, as reported by Hindustan Times on Sunday.The Indian Navy will illuminate its warships at anchorage from 7.30pm to midnight at Mumbai, Porbandar, Karwar, Vizag, Chennai, Kochi and Port Blair, a navy spokesperson said. He added that naval helicopters will shower petals over Covid-19 hospitals in Mumbai and Goa. Also, 46 Indian Coast Guard ships will be lit up at 25 locations along the country’s eastern and western seaboards, the defence ministry said. Ten coast guard helicopters will shower flower petals over Covid-19 hospitals in Daman, Mumbai, Goa, Chennai and Port Blair.The tributes being offered to Covid-19 warriors will see army bands perform outside several hospitals and locations across the country, including the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, the Army’s RR Hospital and the Base Hospital in Delhi Cantt, an army spokesperson said. Dal Lake in Srinagar is among the locations where army bands will perform to honour Covid-19 warriors.“The armed forces have always stood as a wall against all threats to the country and every time our citizens have come out in large numbers and showered their blessings and appreciation towards us. This time, it is our turn to applaud the sacrifice of our corona warriors,” the army spokesperson said.The military’s plan to honour front-line workers was finalised at a meeting chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday. The meeting was attended by the national security adviser, the CDS and the three service chiefs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-to-honour-front-line-workers-today/story-ANZHGSlT1rlVqb28EboUEO.html
03-05-2020||India||India permits 88 medical staffers to visit UAE for care||The Indian government on Saturday permitted 88 doctors and healthcare professionals to travel to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to support efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic even as the West Asian state sent a plane with seven tonnes of medical supplies to New Delhi.The foreign ministers of several West Asian countries had raised the issue of the return of Indian doctors employed in their healthcare facilities during recent telephone conversations with external affairs minister S Jaishankar. They had also sought medicines such as hydroxychloroquine from India.A statement from the UAE embassy said Indian authorities had allowed the first batch of 88 specialists, doctors and nurses to travel to the UAE within a short period to support efforts to fight Covid-19. It did not say when the batch would leave for the UAE.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the batch included healthcare professionals employed in the UAE who were at home on leave when Covid-19-related travel restrictions were put in place, and those were recently recruited by the emirates to bolster efforts to counter the pandemic.The batch is expected to fly out of India after the completion of certain formalities as the matter had been cleared by the external affairs ministry, the people said.In a separate development, the UAE sent a special flight carrying seven tonnes of medical supplies to India to bolster efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19. “The aid will assist approximately 7,000 medical professionals as they work to combat the virus,” said a statement from the UAE embassy.UAE ambassador Ahmed Al Banna said: “The UAE is committed to extending critical support to nations seeking to bolster their fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The UAE assistance to India comes in recognition of the profound and brotherly ties our two countries have shared throughout the years.The UAE has provided more than 348 tonnes of aid to nearly 35 countries, supporting nearly 348,000 professionals. The Indian consulate in Dubai thanked the UAE for the aid in a tweet and said: “We are also happy that we have been able to send medicines to UAE to fight Covid-19 and more medical personnel should come to UAE soon.”India has earlier deployed a medical rapid response team to Kuwait for two weeks to provide technical expertise and train that country’s medical personnel.The UAE is home to more than 3 million Indian expatriates, and tens of thousands of them work in the healthcare sector. The people cited above said nearly 30,000 Indians had so far registered with the missions in the UAE to return home once travel restrictions are eased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-permits-88-medical-staffers-to-visit-uae-for-care/story-kx7b3KL7PGr1R39JBQAIhN.html
03-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Liquor, paan shop owners gear up for contactless sales||A day after the Centre on Friday allowed the sale of liquor in standalone liquor stores as well as the sale of paan/gutkha and other tobacco products across the country from May 4 except in Covid-19 containment zones, stores are gearing up to resume business with social distancing norms and other guidelines in place.The government has categorised all 733 districts across the country in three zones: red (hotspots); orange (having a limited number of Covid-19 cases); and green (no cases).There are, however, strict social distancing norms in place. People going to such stores will have to maintain at least six feet distance between themselves and store owners will have to ensure that no more than five people are present at a shop at any given time. Spitting in public places remains punishable.Liquor and paan shops inside malls or marketplaces are not allowed to operate yet. Neither are such stores in containment zones. Containment zones are those areas in red and orange zones that have been sealed due to a high number of Covid-19 infections. Only essential activities are permitted in these areas.The government order on lockdown on Friday stated that any person violating the lockdown measures or directives could be prosecuted under the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code.The government had prohibited the sale of liquor and paan/gutkha since March 24, when the first phase of lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Since then, several states ,including Kerala, West Bengal and Punjab, repeatedly urged the central government to lift the ban on sale of liquor citing depletion of state revenues. Liquor is one of the major contributors to states’ coffers. The International Spirits and Wines Association of India (ISWAI), which has Diageo India, Pernod Ricard, Beam Suntory, Bacardi and others as members, had asked the union consumer affairs ministry to allow shops to sell alcoholic beverages for some hours during the day.Another body, the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverages Companies (CIABC), had also asked the government to allow the sale of liquor, citing huge losses.ISWAI chairman, Amrit Kiran Singh, said, “We have committed to the government that social distancing will be maintained at the liquor vends. As soon as the latest guidelines come into force, we will begin a programme called ‘Safe Shield’, under which signs will be put outside all shops about social distancing. Sanitisers will be placed outside shops. There will be contactless sales through trays kept at the counter.”Singh added that the aim of the second phase of ‘Safe Shield’ is to use services of online delivery platforms, such as Swiggy and Zomato, for delivery of bottles for which, he said, ISWAI is trying to convince the state governments. “This will release the load from the retail stores.” “The load on retail stores being released through online delivery will happen as soon as state governments allow it. It should happen immediately,” Singh said.As much as 75% percent of India’s liquor market is in retail while 25% is in bar sales, which stands prohibited. Last year, liquor sales brought in Rs 2.84 lakh crore revenue to state governments, according to Singh.“Covid-19 is going to stay for some time so we have to institutionalise ‘Safe Shield’ and home delivery measures into liquor retail sales. If we do this properly, 75% of revenue to states can come back,” he added.A senior home ministry official, who didn’t want to be named, explained on Friday that “the decision to reopen standalone liquor stores across all three zones has been taken as part of resuming economic activity, which is directly linked to the revenues of the states. The state governments are free to decide where they want to open the liquor stores/paan shops.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/liquor-paan-shop-owners-gear-up-for-contactless-sales/story-QzLqwEDQh7ND1L9M1agzaN.html
03-05-2020||India||Experts raise concerns over Aarogya Setu||The government’s decision to make it mandatory for people to install its Aarogya Setu mobile application has inadequate legal basis and exposes users to possible surveillance, according to experts who are now appealing for the directive to be rolled back or stronger safeguards to be introduced, even as the tool triggered a political spat between the government and the opposition Congress on Saturday. The main function of Aarogya Setu is to keep a track of people who come close to each other while having the applications on their phones. Their contact history can be pulled up if any one of these persons tests positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which will make tracing of all contacts who would have been exposed to an infectious person faster.The home ministry’s decision on Friday to make it must for people going to work from Monday onwards to install the application was criticised by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who said the tool was “intrusive” before Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad responded by calling the claim “a lie”. “The Aarogya Setu app is a sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a private operator, with no institutional oversight - raising serious data security and privacy concerns. Technology can help keep us safe; but fear must not be leveraged to track citizens without their consent,” Gandhi said in a tweet on Saturday. To this, Prasad responded with two tweets: “Daily a new lie. Aarogya Setu is a powerful companion which protects people. It has a robust data security architecture. Those who indulged in surveillance all their lives, won’t know how tech can be leveraged for good!”“Aarogya Setu is now being appreciated globally. The App is NOT outsourced to any private operator. Mr. Gandhi really high time that you stop outsourcing your tweets to your cronies who do not understand India,” he said.Cyber law expert Pavan Duggal said the need for a digital contact tracing method was understandable. “However, there is no law passed by the parliament authorizing the creation and making mandatory of this app which is in contravention of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and Act and rules and regulations. So, while it could be used as an emergency measure (in this case for tracing Covid patients), it could open up a Pandora’s box of legal challenges for the government,” said cyber law expert Pavan Duggal. According to Duggal, when the application was launched, the developers uploaded the terms and conditions as well as privacy policy, but the terms and conditions that stated that ‘government won’t be responsible for any unauthorized leakage of data’ have been removed, at least from Apple store. “The privacy policy also doesn’t give any clarity on how secure your data is. There is no mention of any cyber security parameters and it doesn’t explain how it complies with the IT Act 2000 and IT Rules 2011. The app still doesn’t tell us who all might be able to access my data in terms of governmental agencies. So, the chances of this data being used for monitoring people cannot be ruled out,” he added.While such applications exist in other parts of the world, privacy experts point out that India’s is the only one with a source code that is not open for review. Around 45 organisations and more than 100 individuals on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and electronics and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad against the mandatory use of the Aarogya Setu app for workers. “While the government initially claimed that the use of Aarogya Setu would be purely voluntary, downloading the app was soon made mandatory for all Central Armed Police Forces personnel and employees of Prasar Bharati,” the letter signed by the groups stated. The move could also violate privacy laws as well as the Puttaswamy privacy judgement, the letter says. A government representative, however, denied that there were privacy issues. Abhishek Singh of MyGov termed the concerns as non-issues and said that the app is mandatory only till the pandemic exists. “Till the epidemic law is in force, only those who are travelling to offices will have to download the app. Once the epidemic is over, a user can delete the app,” Singh said. Varun Jhaveri, an official in the government’s Ayushman Bharat programme, cited the privacy policy to say that the data collected by the application was sent and stored on servers “operated and managed by the government” in a tweet on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-raise-concerns-over-aarogya-setu/story-OKhxndnbIBYYbjyT7Y1o8N.html
03-05-2020||India||Farmers go online to sell their produce in Covid-19 lockdown||On Saturday, 200 new agricultural markets or mandis were added to the e-Nam e-commerce platform for agricultural produce, almost a fourth of the 785 markets on the platform which was launched in 2016 to benefit farmers, but whose popularity has surged in recent weeks following the coronavirus disease pandemic and the lockdown enforced to combat it. At least 166000 registered farmers across the country are now selling their produce by transacting from home and praticising social distancing, with nearly half of the country’s 1500 major farm-end commodity markets now going online on e-NAM, agriculture minister Narendra Sing Tomar said.This is the first time wholesale food markets in large states, such as Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka, have joined the digital supply chain. These mandis, or markets, are the first point of sale for farmers in a delicate supply chain, and will help connect them with more than 100,000 traders, who are also wired in, through the e-NAM mobile app. Wholesale markets, which are usually crowded, could be key coronavirus hot spots as they host several layers of trading intermediaries, from farmers, small merchants, food aggregators to commission agents. Farmers on the e-NAM app can strike deals for their harvests remotely by first uploading pictures of their samples and then getting these samples scientifically checked for quality by remote assayers, without having to move entire truck loads to physical markets. As a result, farmers need not crowd these mandis, scouting for buyers because the e-NAM platform essentially serves as a buyer-seller platform.The additional 200 markets integrated into the e-NAM platform include 11 in Andhra Pradesh, 25 in Gujarat, 16 in Odisha, 94 in Rajasthan, 27 in Tamil Nadu, 25 in Uttar Pradesh and two in Karnataka. “This is the first milestone achieved in the path of integrating 415 new markets across the country. It is for the first time that Karnataka state has been added to the list of e-NAM States,” Tomar said. According to an official who spoke on condition of anonymity, the agriculture ministry, in view of the pandemic, has added two new features or options in the e-NAM platform last month so that famers can sell their produce without bringing them to physical markets. The first, “FPO option” allows farmer producer organisations, which are agri businesses to trade on the app from their collection centres. The second, called the “warehouse module”, allows farmers to sell their produce stored in registered warehouses. “What hold some these e-NAM markets back is that in many places, state governments have not appointed adequate number of food assayers. All vacancies for food scientists must be filled to make the platform functioning to its maximum potential,” said Anil Sardana, a consultant who worked with the Karnataka government to set up a similar state-specific platform. “It takes a little getting used to,” says farmer Jaspal Singh Nain of Haryana’s Babbain near Kurukshetra, adding: “One issue of late is that sample examiners (who are responsible for grading quality) are not always available.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-go-online-to-sell-their-produce-in-lockdown/story-gZ8B9PucFvEhkjKUqImFxN.html
03-05-2020||India||States issue guidelines for extended lockdown||A day after the Centre extended lockdown till May 17, most states decided to follow the home ministry’s guidelines allowing several activities in the green and orange zones to kickstart economy and official work, with a few exceptions.Maharashtra decided to continue with a hard lockdown in Mumbai, Pune, Nashik and Thane, overlooking the exemptions provided by the Centre for red zones, from where the most number of cases have been reported, and allowed liquor sales but not that of tobacco products. Neighbouring Gujarat decided industries units across the state, except in containment zones, can resume operations fully.Kerala decided not to open liquor shops or allow public transport or restaurants ; on April 19, it allowed all these services but reversed its decision after a reprimand from the Centre. Andhra will start liquor manufacturing in rural areas from Monday to boost state finances. Karnataka decided to open liquor shops across the state, except in containment zones.Assam opened its border with the neighbouring states for the first time since the lockdown came into force on March 25 to allow stranded persons to return. Uttarakhand said it could allow state residents from Covid free districts to visit the Char Dham , the four holy sites of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri. West Bengal on Sunday is expected to announce its own lockdown norms for only four red zones as against 10 decided by the Central government. Officials said that there could be relaxation for jute mills, tea gardens, allowing some public transport in non-Covid districts and opening of standalone shops across the state.The Centre on Friday extended the lockdown till May 17 , but allowed almost all activities, except opening of malls, educational institutions, restaurants and hotels, running of public transport , inter-state travel and social, political and religious gatherings, in about 370 green districts. It also allowed opening of all medical facilities in green, orange and red zones, asking states to prescribe social distancing norms.The Maharashtra government issued a state specific lockdown notification similar to the Central one but had more stringent provisions for red zones including in Mumbai and Pune, where the number of coronavirus positive cases is high. While the Centre allowed standalone shops and offices to resume work with 33% staff in private firms red zones, Maharashtra did not. Even the industrial relaxations given by the Centre such as allowing industries to function in non-municipal areas in red zones has not been allowed, except for essential goods. The central guidelines allow states to pass their own, as long as they are tougher ; no dilution is allowed in the central guidelines, though. However, Maharashtra allowed all pre-monsoon related work including “protection of building, shuttering, flood protection, structural repairs, demolition of unsafe buildings’’ including in red zones with social distancing norms.In non-red zones, liquor shops will open as per Centre’s guidelines but tobacco and pan shops will continue to be closed. “Liqour shops will not be allowed to operate in the red zones but will be kept open in green and orange zones for now,” a Maharashtra government official said on condition of anonymity.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said public transport will not be allowed in any zones and liquor outlets will remain closed till May 17 throughout the state. He also announced a series of measures to protect aged and people who have co-morbid conditions.The CM said easing of some of the norms will affect the advantage the state achieved so far. “Opening of liquor shops will result in crowding. We want to avoid it,” he said. After Punjab, where liquor shops will open in non-Covid areas from Monday, Kerala stands second in per capita liquor consumption in the country. Going with the Centre’s guidelines, Kerala allowed private cars only three persons will be allowed including the driver and no pillion rider on two-wheelers but continued the ban on public transport.Karnataka excise minister H Nagesh said standalone liquor shops will open except in containment zones from Monday. The state had been losing about Rs 1800 crore per month because of liquor outlets being shut.The state government allowed reopening of the garment sector, a big employer, and other industries with one-third staff. Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa wrote to his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackrey requesting him to release 6 TMC of water for ensuring drinking water purposes to North Karnataka districts of Belgavi, Vijaypura, Bagalkot, Kalaburgi, Yadagiri and Raichur.Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday allowed manufacturing of Indian Made Foreign Liquor and beer in the state with immediate effect. There are in all 21 big and small breweries and distilleries in the state, said an order issued by Commissioner of Distilleries and Breweries, D Vasudeva Reddy.At a review meeting on Saturday, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered the officials to identify the containment zones. State government officials added that after Monday at least 50% of industries will resume operations. Telangana will announce its lockdown norms only after cabinet meeting on Monday. On Saturday, Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced that the state will open its borders with other states in the northeast from Sunday to allow return of residents in their own vehicles and in buses.“For those who don’t have own means of transport, we will be sending buses to pick them up within a few days. Notifications in this regard will be issued soon,” he said, while launching a helpline No: 7428159966 for persons from the state stranded in other parts of the country. Nearly two million Assamese workers are stranded outside the state.Sarma said that the government’s move to fly back 852 patients from the state undergoing treatment outside has met with roadblock after two cancer patients in Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19. Assam has recorded 42 Covid-19 positive cases till date.The Uttarakhand government is likely to allow pilgrims from within the state to visit Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines, which were opened this week, from May 4. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that from May 4, inter-district movement will be allowed in the green zones of the state allowing people to visit Char Dham shrines while maintaining social distancing. All the four shrines are in the green zones. “We will clarify with the central government guidelines first as to whether movement from orange to green zones can be allowed or not, but those who wish to go in their private cars can be allowed after May 4,” said cabinet minister, Madan Kaushik.In Himachal, the government allowed curfew relaxation from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. and decided to waive electricity bills of hotels. Chief minister Jairam Thakur also constituted three ministerial committees to suggest measures for revival of economy. All offices will open in Himachal with 30% attendance.(With state bureau inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-issue-guidelines-for-extended-lockdown/story-yWSp4w4rLD2Og2K6qzcjMJ.html
03-05-2020||India||As migrants return, states guard against Covid surge||States receiving migrant labourers from across India are gearing up for a massive challenge: a spurt in Covid-19 cases. And, some states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha, have already unveiled unprecedented steps.The Bihar government has made a 21-day quarantine mandatory for all workers and has cancelled the leave of all doctors and health workers. Odisha, which will test all workers for Covid-19 after a mandatory 14-day quarantine period, has instructed all community centres to remain open around the clock, and has decided to create 4,200 new isolation beds.Like most other states, Uttar Pradesh has made a 14-day quarantine mandatory, after which each family will get food grains for 15 days. The state has created special isolation wards at district hospitals. Jharkhand will be providing cooked meals to workers during the 15-day quarantine period and free rations for their families. On Friday, Indian railways ran special trains, called Shramik, to take migrant workers back to their villages. More trains took back workers from at least 10 states on Saturday. However, the return of migrant workers has created a fear of Covid-19 cases increasing.At least seven migrant workers, who returned to Uttar Pradesh, have tested positive. In just one district of Bihar, 13 migrant workers have tested positive. In Odisha, 20 workers, who returned from Bengal, have tested positive.Between April 25 and May 1, when many workers returned, Bihar reported 243 new cases, which is almost 50% of the 475 cases in the state. Officials said many of the new cases reported in the second phase of the lockdown were migrants, who somehow managed to reach Bihar, and spread infections to new areas.Many of the new cases have been reported from districts, such as Madhubani, Darbhanga, Sitamarhi and Purnea, which were previously free of Covid-19 cases. Madhubani district magistrate, Dr Nilesh Ramchandra Deor, said all the 13 positive cases are of migrants from Delhi, Mumbai and Lucknow, while the origin of the earlier five cases was traced to a woman who came by car from Delhi.“The emerging trend of new cases shows the challenging phase for the state may have just begun with more and more people returning to their native places and we have to be prepared for it,” said a senior official of the government, who was not willing to be named.The state government has cancelled leaves of doctors, health officials and contractual employees in the health department till May 31. All medical facilities have been asked to remain prepared for the admissions of a large number of cases, an official said.In Uttar Pradesh, seven daily wage workers, who returned from Maharashtra, tested positive for Covid-19. They have been put in government quarantine in Basti district. District magistrate, Ashutosh Niranjan, said that the workers had travelled in state-run buses from Maharashtra. Uttar Pradesh was one of the first states to bring back stranded workers by buses.The state government officials said about a million migrants, who are expected to return, will be kept at the district and panchayat quarantine centres. The officials also said that additional isolation beds have been created at the district level, should there be a spurt in cases. “Special attention is being paid to workers coming back from Maharashtra, which has the highest number of cases in India,” said a senior UP government official. The state first Shramik train, carrying 847 migrants, will reach Lucknow’s Charbagh railway station on Sunday morning from Nashik. Divisional railway manager (DRM), Lucknow division, NR Sanjay Tripathi, said, “We have also made arrangements at the station to strictly ensure social distancing.” Once the migrant labourers go through the thermal scanning, the district wise segregation will be done and they will be taken to buses. “We have arranged 65 buses for them,” said Mukesh Meshram, divisional commissioner, Lucknow.In Odisha, about 20 workers who returned from West Bengal, have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past few days in Ganjam and other districts. “More than half of the 149 Covid-19 cases in Odisha have travel history of hotspots in West Bengal,” said Odisha chief secretary, Asit Tripathy. On Friday, two new cases were reported from Bolangir district with a travel history to Tamil Nadu.About 325 workers from Surat in Gujarat, who hired seven buses to return, are in quarantine. Around 1,200 workers from Kerala, who reached Odisha on Saturday morning, have been sent to quarantine centres in their respective districts, the chief secretary said. Odisha has quarantined returned workers in 7000-odd temporary medical centres, with 2.6 lakh beds, in the grampanchayats. Four buses carrying more than 120 workers left for West Bengal from Dumka district on Friday. These buses were supposed to bring over 100 Jharkhand workers from 24-Pargana South, Howrah, Kolkata and Malda.“The buses were stopped at Bengal border and the officials there said that they have not received any such order to allow buses of other states. So, the buses were asked to return,” said Dumka deputy commissioner Rajeshwari B.Dhanbad deputy commissioner (DC), Amit Kumar, said the state is in talks with officials of the West Bengal government but they are not allowing buses to enter border. “So, we have decided to send out buses to other neighbouring states, excluding Bengal, to bring back our migrant workers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-migrants-return-states-guard-against-covid-surge/story-CGA2Q0BwelMduO5oRoG9vO.html
03-05-2020||India||1 million tested for Covid in India; 10k recover||The number of people tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India crossed a million on Saturday, up from 38,914 on April 1, which takes the number of tests to almost 770 per million of the population. And the number of recoveries crossed 10,000. On Friday, India tested 74,507 samples, of which around 85% of the tests were done at government labs using the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), which is the only diagnostic test for Covid-19 approved by the World Health Organization.“We have made a quantum jump in testing. We plan to ramp it up further to move towards a situation where we can test everyone who needs it. The number of labs doing Covid-19 tests has gone up, with 406 labs -- of which 105 are private ones -- now testing for Covid-19 across states,” said C K Mishra, secretary, environment, and co-chair of the PM’s high-level committee on preparedness for a medical emergency.The health ministry expects testing to cross 100,000 tests a day next week, up from 5,580 a day on April 1.“Positivity remains low except for the 20 cities, which are still a cause of concern as the Covid-19 curve doesn’t appear to be flattening there. The strategy for the future will be ramping up surveillance in these cities so we test every case of influenza-like illness to inform the containment response,” said a health ministry official who asked not to be namedRT-PCR is used for qualitative detection of genetic material called nucleic acid (RNA) from Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and is the most accurate diagnostic test for infection, while other tests, such as rapid antibody tests, are surveillance tools that cannot test for current infection.Among the 304 government labs, 254 use Real-Time RT PCR systems, 42 use TrueNat machines, and use Gene-Xpert cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) for Covid-19. Truenat is a small battery-operated machine that can run 32 to 48 samples and produces results in one hour, while CBNAAT machines are widely available in low-resource rural settings, where it is used to test for tuberculosis.India has added two more high throughput systems that are capable of running 1,100-1,200 tests in one shift to the existing two in Noida and Bhubhaneshwar. “Labs in Noida and Bhubaneshwar already have high-throughput systems, another one has been added to Bangalore, and a new one has arrived, which will be installed in National Centres of Disease Control in Delhi to increase testing capacity further,” said Mishra.India has testing kits in stock for another 11-12 days, and the threat of interrupted supply of RNA extraction kits from China is being addressed by domestic suppliers, who now provide 70,000-80,000 kits a day. “With local suppliers coming into play, shortages are no longer an overwhelming concern,” said the health ministry official.The health ministry has taken steps to address the pendency issue, where labs were taking several days to send back results.An examination of national showed Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi being identified as the states with the highest pendency. In Delhi, the National Institute of Biologicals in Noida was identified as a bottleneck, with the lab’s capacity to test 1,000-1,100 samples a day being stretched because of the arrival of samples from both Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. It resulted in around 9,000 results being pending, of which close to 5,000 were from Delhi.“We asked Delhi to withdraw its samples and send them to private labs for testing, and now the problem is sorted. Delayed data entry in some states is still a challenge, but we are working on that,” said the health ministry official, who is part of the team coordinating with states.Public health experts hope more people with symptoms will come forward to get tested following the health ministry order that now allows for home quarantine of mild cases.“People are not stupid, no one wants to die. We have to empower them to protect themselves. Japan now asks people with fever and cough to stay home quarantined and get tested only if the symptoms worsen or don’t go away a week later,” said Mishra.According to HT’s dashboard, the number of infections were 39,911 on Saturday night, with 1,319 deaths and 10,758 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1mn-tested-for-covid-in-india-10k-recover/story-SANAO358Z79yqNuGnP6NxN.html
03-05-2020||India||3 Indians in UAE face action over social media posts||Three more Indian expatriates in the United Arab Emirates have either been sacked or suspended from their jobs for Islamophobic social media posts days after the Indian ambassador cautioned citizens against posting inflammatory material online.Chef Rawat Rohit, storekeeper Sachin Kinnigoli and a cash custodian whose identity was withheld by his employer are the latest additions to a list of about 10 Indians who have faced action for their social media posts, Gulf News reported on Saturday.On April 20, Indian ambassador Pavan Kapoor had warned Indian expatriates against such behaviour after the issue of Islamophobic social media posts, especially content showing Islam in a poor light in conjunction with the Covid-19 pandemic, was highlighted my people in several West Asian countries.“India and UAE share the value of non-discrimination on any grounds. Discrimination is against our moral fabric and the Rule of law. Indian nationals in the UAE should always remember this,” Kapoor had tweeted, quoting another tweet from Prime Minister Narendra Modi that said Covid-19 doesn’t “see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or borders before striking”.A spokesperson for Azadea Group, which operates a chain of Italian restaurants in Dubai, said chef Rawat Rohit had been suspended and is facing a disciplinary probe, according to Gulf News.Sharjah-based Pneumics Automation suspended its storekeeper Sachin Kinnigoli and withheld his salary. “The matter is under investigation. We have a zero tolerance policy. Anyone found guilty of insulting or showing contempt for someone’s religion will have to bear the consequences,” the firm’s owner said.Dubai-based Transguard Group said it sacked an employee who posted anti-Islamic messages on his Facebook page using the name Vishal Thakur. The employee was handed over to authorities and is in the custody of Dubai Police, a Transguard spokesperson said.The issue of inflammatory posts by Indian expatriates has been in the limelight since it was raised on several occasions by Princess Hend al-Qassimi, a member of the UAE’s royal family.Former Indian ambassador Navdeep Suri has also cautioned Indians about the UAE’s hate speech laws and similar warnings have been issued by Indian missions in other Gulf Cooperation Council states.UAE’s anti-discrimination and anti-hate law prohibits all acts “that stoke religious hatred and/or which insult religion through any form of expression, be it speech or the written word, books, pamphlets or via online media”.Last month, Sharjah-based businessman Sohan Roy had to apologise for a video depicting Islamic clerics leading blindfolded men in skull caps in an adaptation of his poem on religious bigotry, while three other Indians were fired for derogatory social media posts. A police complaint was filed against Sameer Bhandari, CEO of Future Vision Events & Weddings, after he told an Indian job-seeker to “Go back to Pakistan” in a text message.In March, chef Trilok Singh was fired from a restaurant in Dubai for an online threat against a student in Delhi over her views on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-indians-in-uae-face-action-over-social-media-posts/story-4nzIrlTLEWCJE1H32FLKsJ.html
03-05-2020||India||10 special trains took migrants to Bihar, UP and Jharkhand today: Railways||Twenty Shramik Special trains were scheduled to run on Saturday ferrying stranded migrants to Jharkhand, UP, Bihar from the states of Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat and the five southern states; Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. Out of the 20 scheduled special trains, the Indian Railways said only 10 special trains could run on Saturday. The trains scheduled to run on Saturday from the Western Railway zone, Southern Railway, South Western Railway and Central Railway zone were due to ferry at least 20,000 passengers, senior officials said. “Trains are being planned at the request from the states. 10 trains ran today following all the standard protocols,” Railway Protection Force DG Arun Kumar said. “As per information received, various zonal Railways have run around 10 Shramik Special trains today on the demand of various state governments,” Railway Ministry said.Amid demands by states and recognition of the logistical challenges involved in transporting millions of people back to their home states, the Centre on Friday decided to allow special trains — called Shramik Specials — to enable stranded migrants to return home. Five such trains operated on Friday.According to officials, railways are unlikely to run trains originating from containment zones like Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad. “There are no trains planned for now but we are running in nearby places like in Maharashtra trains are being run at other destinations like Bhiwandi and Vasai in Mumbai. Trains will only run to these places when the demand from the state government comes,” the official added. The Railways also announced it will charge for tickets for operating special trains for stranded migrant workers amid coronavirus lockdown. The fare includes the price of regular sleeper class tickets plus superfast charges of Rs 30 and an additional charge of Rs 20 adding that state governments will coordinate and can pay on passengers’ behalf.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday tweeted saying the government should roll back the fare on special trains adding that it was an “injustice to our labourers who are returning home”.The ministry of railways had also clarified that the special trains were planned only for those identified and registered by state governments. “No one under any circumstance should come to Railway Stations looking for trains. We will not issue any tickets to any individual or entertain any request from any group or individual. We will allow only those passengers to board whom state government officials bring to the railway stations,” the ministry said. The railway ministry has said that trains would operate from point-to-point on the request of the concerned state governments. Senior officials would be appointed as nodal officers. It clarified, “The passengers have to be screened by the sending states and only those found asymptomatic will be allowed to travel.” It would also be the responsibility of the sending governments to bring such individuals to the designated stations in sanitized buses, following social distancing norms. All passengers will have to mandatorily wear masks; while meals and drinking water are to be provided, according to the ministry, by the sending government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-special-trains-scheduled-to-run-today-to-ferry-migrants-to-bihar-up-and-jharkhand/story-cvPBkeWj055IS1rAqQVqVO.html
03-05-2020||India||In Jaish’s deadly plan, simultaneous suicide attacks in Kashmir on May 11||Pakistan-based terrorist group Jaish-e-Mohammed plans to carry out simultaneous terrorist strikes in Jammu and Kashmir on May 11, according to an intelligence alert issued to security forces in the Union Territory.“The information is that these attacks could be suicide missions and target bases of the army and paramilitary forces in Jammu and Kashmir,” a top counter-terror official in Delhi told Hindustan Times on Saturday.The planned terror strikes come against the backdrop of a spectacular performance by counter-terror teams in Jammu and Kashmir that eliminated 28 terrorists in April alone. The security action had prompted a sharp reaction from Islamabad’s foreign ministry recently, protesting the killing of what it had described as the killing of 29 innocents.Jaish-e-Mohammed founder Maulana Masood Azhar, who has been reported to be terminally ill, has been out of action for several months. His younger brother, Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar has been running the show at the terror factory and is reported to have been personally involved in planning the multiple terror strikes, he said.On Saturday, according to information available with Indian intelligence agencies, Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar also had a scheduled meeting with officials of Inter Services Intelligence at Rawalpindi on the outskirts of Pakistan capital Islamabad.Watch: Pakistan’s terror tactic amid Covid-19 crisis explained“I would surmise that Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar’s meeting with his handlers is about the May 11 terror strikes,” a senior security official in Kashmir said.He said the choice of May 11 for the strikes is designed to coincide with the 17th day of Ramadan when the Battle of Badr was fought and won by a few hundred soldiers in Saudi Arabia. In Islamic history, it is seen as a huge victory in the early days of Islam and a turning point.Intelligence officials said the May 11 strike being planned by the Jaish was expected in view of a spike in infiltration attempts backed by the Pakistan army during the last one month. Many of them were blocked by soldiers of the Indian army and paramilitary forces. Some did succeed.It is estimated that nearly 25-30 Jaish terrorists had managed to sneak into Kashmir valley with help from the Pakistan army.Intelligence reports indicate that more than 70 Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists are likely to attempt infiltration over the next few weeks, many of them from the Leepa Valley.“Our analysis has indicated that there is often a correlation between spikes in cross-border firing and infiltration attempts at this time of the year,” an army official said, adding that the number of ceasefire violations by the Pakistan army is expected to increase further.Also Read: After proxy war in Kashmir, Pak launches cyber war against India and PM ModiThe officer said it was impossible that these infiltration attempts would not have the active support of the Pakistan army. For one, Pakistan too is in a lockdown mode and there are restrictions on movement due to Covid-19. Secondly, he said, the topography of the region was such that even terrorists would need a break when they reach the line of control before beginning the difficult journey into Kashmir. That is where the launch pads come in.Mufti Asghar Kashmiri oversees infiltrationIntelligence officials said Jaish’s de facto chief Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar has tasked Afghan war veteran Mufti Asghar Kashmiri to oversee the operational aspects of the infiltration from Leepa valley.Kashmiri is also the chief commander of Jaish’s Kashmir operations and is the so-called Amir of JeM’s Askari (or military wing) in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.Kashmiri, joined Jaish from the Harkat-ul-Mujahideen, and is also responsible for the Jaish’s terror camps in Afghanistan that also train recruits to fight in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/simultaneous-suicide-missions-planned-by-jaish-in-j-k-on-may-11-says-intel/story-477bVZx58VqzrZNi4xQFkI.html
03-05-2020||India||Domestic, international flight ops suspended till May 17||The ban on domestic, international flight operations has been extended till May 17, in line with the nationwide lockdown extension necessitated by the coronavirus outbreak.The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said the foreign and domestic airlines will be informed about the opening of their operations in due course.“The restriction shall not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by DGCA,” read the circular from the aviation watchdog. Meanwhile, airlines have begun practising mock drills to educate and prepare staff for the new social distancing normal due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Prime Minister Modi has already emphasised the importance of ‘do gaj doori (distance of two yards), saying it should be a mantra for all in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.On Friday, revising downwards its forecast, global aviation consultancy CAPA projected India’s domestic air traffic at 5.5-7 crore for the current financial year citing structural damage and weakness of customer sentiment becoming more visible.The latest forecast is a sharp downward revision compared to the traffic of 8-9 crore passengers estimated earlier for the same period.Social distancing protocols would constrain airline capacity but demand in the second quarter is expected to be so weak in any case that it is unlikely that traffic would be much higher even if there were no restrictions, it noted.On the same day, PM Modi held a meeting to review plans that could help in making the country’s civil aviation sector more efficient and able to cope with the consequences of the nationwide lockdown and closure of the Indian air space to fight the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-international-flight-ops-suspended-till-may-17/story-kC13Epkv1rZzI9EtVUK7qK.html
