05-05-2020||India||Orissa High Court asks police not to make arrests in cases with up to 7 yrs in jail unless necessary||The Orissa High Court on Tuesday advised the state police not to be in a hurry to arrest the accused in cases of cognizable offence, where the maximum sentence is up to seven years in jail unless it is necessary for maintaining law and order in the state in the light of the extraordinary circumstances due to coronavirus pandemic outbreak.While extending court orders on eviction, anticipatory bail, interim bail and parole till June 18, an HC bench comprising justice CR Dash and justice SK Panigrahi of Orissa High Court said that unless there is a need for an arrest to be made in the interest of law and order, the police should not be in a hurry to arrest those accused of cognizable offences punishable with a maximum sentence of up to 7 years in jail. The order will remain in effect till June 18.With 185 platoons of police force engaged in ensuring the enforcement of lockdown across Odisha, the High Court advisory is likely to come as a relief for the police.The court said that interim protection given in all anticipatory bail applications by it or the sessions courts, either expired or expiring today, will stand extended till June 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-high-court-asks-police-not-to-make-arrests-in-cases-with-up-to-7-yrs-in-jail-unless-necessary/story-jvcIY6imktESrIUN0ola6N.html
05-05-2020||India||Kerala CM spreading misinformation about evacuation, says junior MEA||Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan on Tuesday accused Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of spreading false information and said that his claim that the Union Government will be evacuating expatriates from West Asian countries without any tests is absurd.“I don’t know why he is indirectly blaming the Centre like this. The standard operating procedure (SOP) is being prepared by the ICMR. Its SOP came late in the evening and the CM‘s version was based on some hearsay. We will bring back people only after tests,” he told Hindustan Times.During his daily press briefing the CM said the Centre’s plan to bring back Indians stranded abroad without testing for coronavirus was fraught with heavy risks. He also said only 80,000 Indians will be evacuated and Kannur airport was left out of the evacuation itinerary.“We never mentioned any numbers. A section of the medial is going all around with a draft prepared in the morning. That is not right. We will finalize all our plans later tonight. There is no confusion on our part. Let the CM check his facts first before giving sweeping statements,” he said The junior foreign minister also said that all four international airports in Kerala including Kannur will be part of the evacuation exercise.More than four lakh people have registered in an online portal which the state government launched last week to facilitate the return of Malayalees stranded in other countries. But the CM said the Centre has made it clear that such a massive evacuation was not possible at this juncture and people who are on priority list will be evacuated. The central minister refuted that claim as well. “The Union Government did not say anything about this,” Muraleedharan insisted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-spreading-misinformation-about-evacuation-says-junior-mea/story-pDKqhKicpOtDB0rkgwW13M.html
05-05-2020||India||87% urban Indians give thumbs up to govt’s handling of Covid-19 crisis: Survey||A survey on Tuesday showed a majority of urban Indians, precisely 87 per cent of those polled, have given high ratings to the Narendra Modi government for its handling of the Covid-19 crisis.Multinational market research firm Ipsos conducted this survey from April 23-26 by seeking responses from about 26,000 people across 13 countries. A majority of people in 9 out of 13 countries felt that their government was doing a good job of containing the spread of Covid-19, it said.In India also, “people’s report card on the Modi government’s handling of Covid-19 crisis is out! ...an overwhelming 87 per cent of urban Indians giving the government high ratings”. Apart from 87 per cent people in urban areas of India, most people in Australia (84 per cent), Canada (81 per cent), Germany (75 per cent) and Italy (61 per cent) were of the view that their government handled Covid-19 crisis well, according to the survey.While those in Japan (62 per cent) and the hard-hit European countries of Spain (60 per cent) and France (51 per cent), and Russia (47 per cent) felt their government did poor job in managing the crisis.“Government was quick to enforce a total lockdown and took a number of bold, precautionary measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Now, the government is considering a cautious, partial re-opening in the green zones. Government’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic has been lauded by the majority of the populace, polled in the survey,” said Amit Adarkar, Ipsos India CEO.   After facing a lot of initial flak worldwide on the handling and seriousness of the pandemic, the role of the World Health Organization (WHO) has found favour with the majority of people in 11 out of the 13 countries surveyed in containing the spread of Covid-19, but this sentiment has fallen since March in nine out of 12 countries where Ipsos has tracked opinions.About 75 per cent of the urban Indians surveyed positively view the role of the WHO in containing the spread of the virus, although there is a dip from the previous survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/87-urban-indians-give-thumbs-up-to-govt-s-handling-of-covid-19-crisis-survey/story-0Ql5dKi3pEtxFavfSp84HJ.html
05-05-2020||India||Excise duty on petrol raised by Rs 10, diesel by Rs 13 per litre; no change in prices||The Centre on Tuesday evening raised the excise duty on petrol by Rs 10 and on diesel by 13 per litre to recoup some of the loss of revenue suffered by the government due to the Covid-19 lockdown.The change in duties will come into effect from 6 May, an official notification said.The change in the tax structure will not impact the retail sale price of petrol and diesel on account of the excise duty hike.A central government official said the revenue generated from these duties shall be used for infrastructure and other developmental items of expenditure.A Re 1 per litre increase in excise duty on petrol and diesel usually means an additional Rs 14,500 crore in annual revenue to the government. But the revenue will accrue only when demand for the fuel, curtailed due to the extended lockdown, rises substantially.The Centre’s move comes a day after the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi increased value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to raise money to fight the coronavirus disease. This decision had increased the price of petrol by Rs 1.67 per litre to Rs 71.26 and diesel, by Rs 7.10 to Rs 69.39.That decision was sharply criticised by the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress in Delhi. Outside of politics, there has been some recognition that this might be the only way for governments that are running out of money to pay employees salaries.By evening, according to news agency ANI, Congress-ruled Punjab decided to hike the price of petrol and diesel by Rs 2 per litre. Telangana’s K Chandrasekhar Rao, on the other hand, announced the decision to raise the price of liquor by 16 per cent.A few hours later, came the Union finance ministry order.This is the second time since March that the Centre raised duty on petrol and diesel.On March 14, the Centre had raised duties on petrol and diesel to Rs 3 per litre. That hike had raised the total central levies on petrol to Rs 22.98 per litre and on diesel to Rs 18.83 per litre. The retail price of the fuel had, however, remained unchanged because of the decline in crude prices.Since March 16, oil companies have abandoned the practice of daily revision of the two fuel rates, making up for present and potential inventory losses..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excise-duty-on-petrol-raised-by-rs-10-diesel-by-rs-13-per-litre-no-change-in-prices/story-RVV2cqnus4hEUYN1qrQfcP.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: In 5 days, Railways ferries over 70,000 migrants in 76 Shramik Specials||The Railways Tuesday said it has run 76 Shramik Special trains since May 1, carrying over 70,000 migrant labourers stranded due to the countrywide lockdwon to their homes states.Till May 4, the Railways had run 55 trains, the national transporter said, adding that on May 5, 12 trains started their journeys in the morning and nine in the evening, taking the tally to 76. “Zones have planned 12 more trains. But the start of their journey might spill over to tomorrow,” a railway official said.Gujarat was the originating station for around 35 of these trains, followed by Kerala with 13. Among the receiving states, Bihar has accepted 13 trains, with 11 more currently on the journey and six in the pipeline, data accessed by PTI shows. Neighbouring Uttar Pradesh has received 10 such trains and five more are on their way with 12 in the pipeline, the data shows.The West Bengal government has, however, given clearance to only two trains -- one each from Rajasthan and Kerala -- and they are on their journeys to the state.Jharkhand has accepted four trains, while five are on their way to the state. Two more Shramik Special trains are in the pipeline. Odisha has received seven trains and five are on their way to the state, with one more in the pipeline, the data shows. These 24 coach trains, which have a capacity of 72 seats, is now reduced to 54 due to social distancing norms with the middle seat not being allotted to any passenger.While the Railways has officially not stated how much it has spent so far on these services, which the government says will be shared between the Centre and state in 85:15 ratio, officials indicated that around Rs 50 crore have been incurred on 67 trains operated till Tuesday morning.Sources said that the Railways is spending around Rs 80 lakh per service for the Shramik Special trains. Earlier, the Railways drew a lot of flak from opposition parties for making these services chargeable.In its guidelines, the Railways had said the trains will ply only if they have 90 per cent occupancy and the “states should collect the ticket fare”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-railways-ferries-over-70-000-migrants-in-76-shramik-specials-in-5-days/story-yJKjKJInZmhuZLHeMahijN.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update- Maharashtra tally past 15,000, Mumbai nearing 10,000 mark||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 984 coronavirus cases, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 15,525; the state also recorded 34 fatalities, taking the Covid-19 death toll to 617. Of the new cases, 841 were reported in the last 24 hours, while remaining 143 were carried forward from the last few days as per the central government’s directive to bring the data at par with the national figures on the website of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the state government stated. 635 new cases were from Mumbai, which also saw 26 deaths on Tuesday. Six deaths were reported from Pune and one each from Aurangabad and Kolhapur. At least 14 of the deceased on Tuesday were above 60 years of age, while 28 had high-risk comorbidities. The mortality rate in the state stood at 4.01%, down from 7.21% on April 12, but the number of deaths, 299, in the past ten days since April 26 has increased. The country’s mortality rate hovers around 3.23%.State government has directed the district collectors and municipal commissioners to concentrate on the containment zones fearing their monitoring may become difficult after the additional relaxations in the lockdown came into effect from Monday. “There are complaints of crowding in many places after liquor and other non-essential shops were allowed to operate. Restricting the spread from the Red and containment zones will become more important after the relaxations. The clampdown in containment zones, especially in MMR and PMR should not be relaxed at any cost,” a government’s directive to the district authorities said. According to the officials, despite chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s directive to districts, the full containment of coronavirus by May end looks difficult.“He has set the target and asked the authorities to ensure the strictest monitoring under the principle of 3-Ts (tracing, testing and treatment) in containment areas. He has also asked them to focus on shrinking the containment zones to neutralize the areas. Though the cases are not expected to come to nil so soon, we expect a downward trend to begin by then,” said an official.The official said that though there are various projections about the curve of the disease’s spread, the government expects the downward trend to begin in the next two to three weeks.Dr TP Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research, said, “Almost all the contacts of positive patients are traced and will be quarantined in next ten days. During this period the rate of growth in cases will move northward and once two weeks of quarantine is over, we expect a drastic fall in the numbers by the end of this month.” Officials said that May 31 target to flatten the curve was set to contain the spread effectively enabling the lifting of the lockdown in Mumbai, Pune and other cities. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesMeanwhile, the state government issued a clarification saying there would be no restrictions on the number of days in a week or on the number of hours a shop can operate unless specified by the municipal commissioners and the district collectors.“All shops and markets which are allowed to remain open as per the order shall remain open to their full operations timing and day. However, the municipal commissioners in Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune Metropolitan Region, Nagpur, Nashik and Aurangabad and district collectors in other areas will have the right to decide on the timing of operation in case there is need of regulating these commercial activities. “There were too many authorities issuing orders without any uniformity on the timing and days at the local level. This order brings clarity,” said Bhushan Gagarani, principal secretary, Maharashtra government.Late on Tuesday, Mumbai civic body issued a notification saying liquor shops and non-essential goods shops will not be allowed in the city to prevent crowding.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the recovery rate in Maharashtra has improved.“As many as 354 patients were sent home after they recovered from the infection fully. This was the highest single-day recovery since the first patient was reported on March 9. We are conducting more than 7000 tests in 45 laboratories daily and the number is highest in the country,” he said.In the past 24 hours, the state has carried out 6,561 coronavirus tests and 12.81% of the total people tested were found positive. The total number of tests conducted in the state so far reached 1,82,884 on Tuesday including 1,67,205 negative results.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19199,182 people are currently under home quarantine, while 12,456 are under institutional quarantine. 11,629 teams of health workers have screened 50.81 lakh suspects.Meanwhile, some districts namely Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg and some municipal authorities, namely in Ulhasnagar and Kalyan Dombivali, have been imposing restrictions on the movement of people from Mumbai, the worst-hit city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-maharashtra-tally-past-15-000-mumbai-nearing-10-000-mark/story-XPBhAIHy9oc4rcSmZ40apN.html
05-05-2020||India||Pakistan’s reference to Kashmir at NAM Summit was ‘propaganda exercise’, says govt||The Indian government perceives Pakistan’s efforts to raise the Kashmir issue at a virtual summit of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) on the Covid-19 pandemic as a “propaganda exercise”, people familiar with developments said on Tuesday.Pakistan President Arif Alvi, who represented the country at the NAM Summit via video conference on Monday, used the occasion to criticise India for its handling of the situation in Jammu and Kashmir and for the alleged mistreatment of the Muslim minority.Responding to Alvi’s speech at the NAM Summit, one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity: “Raising Kashmir at NAM is a well-established Pakistani propaganda exercise. The international community is well aware of it and recognises that this is a propaganda exercise that they go through.”The person added, “The international community is also well aware of our position on this issue and I don’t think we need to really dignify this with any response.”In his speech, Alvi didn’t name India but referred to attempts to discriminate against and demonise Muslims in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking before Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he also referred to Islamophobia, hate speech, the “scapegoating” of a community and denial of medical facilities to this community in Pakistan’s “immediate neighbourhood”.Alvi, a close aide of Prime Minister Imran Khan, also highlighted the condition of the Kashmiri people and said their sufferings were compounded by a communications blackout and lack of unfettered access to medical and other essential facilities and high speed internet. He also criticised what he said were efforts to change the demographic profile of the region.In his speech, Modi, without naming any country, said: “Even as the world fights Covid-19, some people are busy spreading other deadly viruses such as terrorism, fake news and doctored videos to divide communities and countries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-s-reference-to-kashmir-at-nam-summit-was-propaganda-exercise-says-govt/story-w4UCbcPFMuDqTEjAeldE3K.html
05-05-2020||India||Over 300,000 Indians register to return from Gulf region, only those with ‘compelling reasons’ to be brought back in first phase||More than 300,000 Indians in West Asian countries have registered to return home but only those with compelling reasons, such as people facing deportation or those who have been laid off, will be brought back in the first phase of the repatriation programme, people familiar with developments said on Tuesday.The government will operate the first wave of 64 repatriation flights from May 7 to bring back about 15,000 Indian citizens from 12 countries over a period of one week. Those who are comfortably placed and have no compelling reason to return shouldn’t make travel plans, the people said on condition of anonymity.“The numbers are quite significant…More than 300,000 people have registered in the Gulf region alone but we will only bring back those registered as compelling cases. The missions will determine the compelling cases,” said one of the people cited above.The first phase of the programme will focus on those facing deportation, those who have been laid off, those having non-permanent residency or holding short-term visas whose visas have expired, those with medical emergencies or seeking treatment for terminal illnesses, pregnant women and the elderly, those returning due to a death in the family, tourists stranded abroad, and students whose hostels and institutions have closed because of the Covid-19 crisis.“If you are living in another country and you’re comfortable, this is not the time to plan your return,” the person said. “In the immediate future, we can’t bring back everyone but we’ll bring back those who have a genuine reason to come back.”The first wave of flights will bring back Indians from the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Bahrain, the US, the UK, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines, and the programme will be expanded later to other countries such as Sri Lanka and Afghanistan, the people said.While leaving India, the flights can carry citizens of the destination country, Indians with one-year visas for the destination country, green card or OCI card holders, and Indians with six-month visas who wish to travel for a medical emergency, the people said.More than 10,000 Indians living in West Asian countries have tested positive for Covid-19 and 84 have died, a second person said. The people said the arrangements for repatriation will be as watertight as possible to ensure there is no further spread of the virus. Passengers will be screened and only asymptomatic people will be allowed to travel, and they will have to undergo further tests and quarantine on reaching India.In the case of the UAE, all passengers will have to undergo rapid antibody tests, the people added.Though hundreds of thousands of Indian nationals have registered to return, the people said there were already numerous instances of people dropping out after finding out about the stringent conditions related to screening and quarantine.External affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla are overseeing process of coordinating with foreign governments, Indian missions and state governments. Jaishankar has been holding meetings with other ministries and had a video conference with heads of missions in some of the countries from which Indians are returning, including the UAE, Singapore, the Maldives and the US.At least 20 senior officials of the external affairs ministry have been selected to liaise with the states to which the Indian nationals will return, such as Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Haryana. The foreign secretary will have a video conference with chief secretaries of several states on Wednesday for coordination, the people said.The external affairs ministry will upload all information on the people returning to the country on an online digital platform that will be accessible to other ministries and state governments. The data on those who lost their jobs will help state governments rehabilitate these workers by including them in national or state government employment programmes or in private sector jobs, the second person said.The people insisted that the massive programme was not an evacuation because it is not a government-sponsored exercise. “What we are doing is facilitating the return of our nationals back to the country,” the first person said, adding the government had negotiated very competitive rates for the flights. For instance, the cost of the flight from West Asian countries was about Rs 15,500 per person.The people said there were about 14 million Indian nationals spread around the world, including nearly nine million in the West Asian countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-300-000-indians-register-to-return-from-gulf-region-only-those-with-compelling-reasons-to-be-brought-back-in-first-phase/story-A4qNuaOzlJVQnIclILXxgO.html
05-05-2020||India||Govt sets up 21 health centres for screening of Bhopal gas tragedy victims||With almost every death in Bhopal among Covid-19 patients identified as that of Bhopal gas tragedy victims the state government has set up as many as 21 health centres for screening of the tragedy victims.Bhopal Gas Tragedy survivors organisations had been demanding since the number of deaths in the state capital rose alarmingly that all the survivors be screened given their being prone to contracting coronavirus.Bhopal has registered 571 Covid-19 patients so far out of whom 16 have died. As per organisations of the tragedy survivors at least 15 of the deceased were the gas tragedy victims. Chief medical and health officer, Gas tragedy relief, Bhopal’s order dated May 4, 2020 said, “Essential materials will be made available in these units for screening of gas tragedy patients. Nigam Nigam will make arrangements for tent and furniture in case of want of space and water tank for hand wash. A control room is being established at Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC).”Rachna Dhingra of Bhopal Group of Information and Action said, “We welcome the decision of the state government. However, screening of the tragedy victims couldn’t take place today as arrangements are being made at the centres. We will keep a watch how the state government responds to the need of the gas victims and takes care of their health.”Notably, the state government cancelled its decision sometime back whereby it had notified BMHRC as a dedicated Covid hospital. The government cancelled the decision after the gas tragedy survivors organisations moved the high court to seek a relief on the ground that many gas tragedy victims admitted to the hospital were shifted from there after the government’s decision causing a lot of hardships to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sets-up-21-health-centres-for-screening-of-bhopal-gas-tragedy-victims/story-Cfh5PUxLKU1g2MGrkPUriI.html
05-05-2020||India||On outreach mission, DGP Dilbag Singh vows to intensify ops across Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh continued his campaign to reach out to police personnel and review arrangements to spread of Covid-19, telling police personnel in central Kashmir’s Budgam district that security forces would intensify operations across Kashmir.Singh also participated in a wreath-laying ceremony of three CRPF jawans killed in a terrorist attack in north Kashmir’s Handwara. The three jawans were deployed at a check post in Handwara’s Wangam area when they were attacked. “The terrorists had taken advantage of civilian movement in the adjoining orchard. There was a civilian movement and when they were asked to stop, the terrorists who were hiding behind the civilians opened fire, the J&K director general of police later told reporters.Singh said there would be occasions when security personnel lose their lives in operations and underlined that operations against terrorists would be intensified across Kashmir. He also spoke about fresh infiltrations reported in Baramulla and declared that the police had a list of terrorists active in Sopore. “They are on our radar,” he said.Singh, accompanied by IG Kashmir Vijay Kumar, had earlier travelled to the Bugam police lines where he formally inaugurated new facilities built for the jawans and officers. He also launched a newly set up CCTV Surveillance centre to keep a watch on sensitive areas of the city. A Covid wellness centre and a quarantine centre managed by a police woman doctor and the staff for in-house quarantine and care for the policemen deployed on various sensitive duties was also visited by Singh.Singh lauded the officers and jawans for working day and night, not just to fight terror but also to save people from the coronavirus disease. The police chief asked personnel to use the protective and preventive gears made available for them, particularly when deployed to areas where they need to take extra care.The DGP also paid rich tributes to Sub Inspector Sageer Ahmad Pathan alias Qazi and other security personnel who lost their lives this week. “It is painful to lose the brave personnel but we all are proud of these brave hearts”, the DGP said.Pakistan, he added, had over the years continuously attempted to foment trouble in J&K by pushing terrorists, repeatedly committing ceasefire violations and instigating and promoting violence by various means. Security forces haven have to continue coordinated efforts to ensure peace in the valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-outreach-mission-dgp-dilbag-singh-vows-to-intensify-ops-across-kashmir/story-St03GmNxSO9kcOWBNeBffL.html
05-05-2020||India||‘Unbelievably cruel’: Omar Abdullah slams extension of Mehbooba Mufti’s detention||The extension of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s custody on Tuesday evoked a sharp response from her political rival Omar Abdullah of teh national Conference who said it was an unbelievably cruel and retrograde decision.“Unbelievably cruel & retrograde decision to extend @MehboobaMufti’s detention. Nothing she has done or said in any way justifies the way the Indian state has treated her & the others detained,” he tweeted.Unbelievably cruel & retrograde decision to extend @MehboobaMufti’s detention. Nothing she has done or said in any way justifies the way the Indian state has treated her & the others detained. https://t.co/tyxXC9NFuL“For a government that is making tall claims about normality in J&K the last few days coupled with the extension of Ms Mufti’s detention is proof enough that Modi ji has single handedly pushed J&K back decades,” he said in another tweet.The government late Tuesday evening extended Mufti’s detention by three months under the Public Safety Act hours before her confinement was to end, officials said.Srinagar’s district magistrate handed over the order for her extended custody at her residence.Mufti who heads the Peoples’ Democratic Party was initially detained along with a host of other leaders including two former CMS – Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah on August 5 last year when the Centre abrogated special status of the erstwhile state.She has already spent eight months in detention. Farooq and Omar Abdullah were released in March.Sources said the government also extended the detention of National Conference general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar and PDP Leader Sartaaj Madni by three months under PSA. They have also bene under detention since August 5 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unbelievably-cruel-omar-abdullah-slams-extension-of-mehbooba-mufti-s-detention/story-0K4GgVfGwp2HOJwKmqL2uK.html
05-05-2020||India||Gujarat forms panel to expedite migrants’ return from Surat, slashes fuel surcharge by 0.16 paise||A day after thousands of migrant workers took to the streets of Surat demanding that they are allowed to go home, Gujarat government on Tuesday formed a committee to ensure the overall management and coordination for sending back migrant workers from the city to their homes.Gujarat police on Monday had arrested 204 migrant workers who allegedly stoned policemen demanding that they were allowed to go home. The workers, mainly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, were charged with rioting and attempt to murder after the fourth incident of violence in Surat in the past 23 days.Secretary to chief minister, Aswani Kumar, said the committee will be headed by the minister of state for health Kishor Kanani, MM Patel, commissioner of municipalities’ administration and three other officers. “The committee will coordinate with regional administrations in Botad, Bhavnagar, Amreli, etc and ensure the safe return of migrant workers from Surat,” Kumar said.He said the state government, had successfully ensured the safe return of 3.25 lakh migrant workers to their homes. These include 42 thousand migrant workers from other states, while the remaining were migrant workers from within the state.Kumar said, “The state government, in coordination with the central government, has successfully sent 42 thousand migrant workers in 35 labourers’ trains to various states like U.P, Bihar, Odisha, etc. In addition, the state government also provided permission to labourers residing in Surat to return to their native districts. This includes 5,500 workers travelling in-state buses, 1.67 lakh workers in private transport and 1.14 lakh workers through their own vehicles /other private means by the permission of Surat Municipal Corporation. This takes the tally to 3.25 lakh migrant workers.”Around 28,000 migrant workers have been sent to their respective home states through 23 trains in the last three days. These include eight trains from Surat to Odisha and one each to Bihar and Jharkhand. Two trains from Vadodara took the migrants to U.P, three trains from Ahmedabad carried the workers to Bihar, and four trains from Ahmedabad went to UP. Apart from these, one train each from Godhra, Nadiad, Palanpur and Rajkot was sent to UP with the migrant workforce.Director General of Police (DGP) Shivanand Jha said the migrant workers from various cities must be patient and cooperative as they are in large numbers. “If people take the law into their hands, strict actions will be taken against them,” said Jha.Talking about an incident that took place in Surat, the DGP said that 204 people have been arrested under various sections including damage to Public Property Act, Rioting, 304, 120(B).Meanwhile, the Gujarat Government on Tuesday decided to reduce the fuel surcharge on electricity by Rs. 0.16 paisa per unit, to provide some relief to the industry. As a result of this decision, more than 1.30 crore electricity customers will collectively save approximately Rs. 310-crore, officials said.Gujarat energy minister Saurabh Patel said that the previous fuel surcharge for the period of January to March 2020 was Rs. 2.06 per unit. It has now been reduced to Rs. 1.90 per unit for the period of April to June 2020. “The fuel surcharge has been reduced to pass on the benefit of the Central government’s decision to reduce the price of gas,” the energy minister said.The Gujarat government has also received Centre’s permission to conduct the Solidarity Trial for the Covid-19 virus, state government officials said. “The Solidarity Trial will compare four treatment options against the standard of care, to assess their relative effectiveness against Covid-19,” the World Health Organization states.“The Centre has given the permission to conduct the Solidarity Trial for the ‘Covid-19’ virus at BJ Medical College in Ahmedabad,” said Jyanti Ravi, principal secretary (health), adding that the permissions to conduct similar trials at four other colleges are the under process.Also Read: Covid 19 hotspot Ahmedabad’s municipal chief self-isolates after contacting patients, vows to rejoin fightAfter receiving permission from the Government of India, the registration process for conducting the trials on ‘Covid-19’ patients has begun at the BJ Medical College.“These four medicines are Remdesivir, Lopinavir, Interferon (beta 1 a) and hydroxychloroquine or Chloroquine. As a result of these experiments, an effective and proper medicine for the treatment of Covid-19 will be found quickly. Not only this, but it will also enhance the probability of faster recovery of the infected patients,” Ravi added.Meanwhile, on Tuesday, 441 more coronavirus cases have been reported in the state. According to health bulletin of the state government, total infections in state have reached 6,245 and 368 people have died.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-forms-panel-to-expedite-migrants-return-from-surat-slashes-fuel-surcharge-by-0-16-paise/story-rxLEeUc2JK7s94IlIhzePM.html
05-05-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh’s Covid tally crosses 3K, 1,000 recover and discharged||The total number of Covid positive cases in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday crossed 3,000 with 107 new cases reported, government data showed. On the positive note, around 1,000 patients were discharged from the government hospitals, official said. The tally was 3,049.Among the states which have had more than 100 deaths Madhya Pradesh’s death rate is the second worst in the country after West Bengal. While MP’s death rate with 176 deaths stands at 5.77% West Bengal’s death rate is 10.56%. Maharastra and Gujarat’s death rate stands at 4% and 5.49%.Of the total Covid positive cases in Madhya Pradesh Indore which saw 43 new cases in the past 24 hours to take its tally to 1654 accounts for 54% of the total cases. Indore with 79 deaths accounts for 44.84% deaths of the total 176 deaths in the state.Ujjain’s situation continues to remain grim. It has had 184 positive cases, the third in the state’s chart after Indore and Bhopal but its death rate is the worst in the state with 40 deaths and 21.73% death rate. In the past two days Ujjain has witnessed 10 deaths including a ruling party corporator.Notably, the central government decided on Sunday to send one team each to Indore and Bhopal to control the situation while the health minister in Madhya Pradesh requested the union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Monday to send a team of AIIMS, Bhopal to Ujjain to control the situation over there.On Monday night, the state government also shifted Ujjain collector Shashank Mishra to state secretariat at Bhopal and appointed Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) commissioner Ashish Singh as the new collector of Ujjain.During a review meeting over Covid situation in the state on Tuesday chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “There should be no gap in treatment. Doctors and para medical staff are expected to work with their full capability. All essential facilities be provided to patients in dedicated Covid hospitals. There should be a constant watch on patients in Ujjain. If required help of doctors from Indore and Bhopal be sought for those patients who are on ventilators or in ICU. The death rate should not go up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-s-covid-tally-crosses-3k-1-000-recover-and-discharged/story-6nr75rRNJiQcCT6T39XEjP.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in Delhi breach 5,000-mark, death toll at 64||The number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi crossed the 5,000 mark after 206 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, the Delhi government said Tuesday night.The total number of positive cases now stands at 5,104. There was no casualty in the last 24 hours and the death toll remained at 64.There are currently 3,572 active cases while 1,468 people have recovered.Meanwhile, the Delhi government announced that two more zones have been taken off the containment list. The total number of containment zones in the national capital is now 88. At its highest, there were 100 containment zones in the national capital.Earlier on Tuesday, the Delhi government raised the value added tax (VAT) on petrol from 27% to 30%, and on diesel from 16.75 % to 30% affecting the price of auto fuels in the Capital.That decision raised petrol prices by Rs 1.67 per litre and diesel by Rs 7.10 per litre. A day earlier the Delhi government had slapped a “corona fee” on alcohol which was 70% of the maximum retail of all categories of liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-numbers-breach-5-000-mark-in-delhi-with-206-new-cases/story-FbZXvTzXGtT1joyHopM3lO.html
05-05-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti’s detention under PSA extended by three months||The Public Safety Act against former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti was extended by three months on Tuesday, officials said.In a brief order, district magistrate of Srinagar handed over the continuation of her custody at her residence, hours before her present term under the PSA was to expire.She was initially detained on August 5 last year when the Centre abrogated special status of the erstwhile state and bifurcated it into two union territories -- Ladakh, and Jammu and Kashmir.Having spent over eight months in detention at two government facilities that were designated as sub-jails, Mufti was shifted to her home on April 7 as a partial relief to her.Mufti heads the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which was in power in Jammu and Kashmir in alliance with the BJP till June 2018.Initially, she was taken into preventive custody. Later on February 5 this year, she was slapped with the PSA along with Omar Abdullah, who was released in March. Farooq Abdullah had been released early last month.Earlier, Mufti was lodged a government guesthouse in Chashma Shahi and a bunglow on Maulana Azad Road near Lal Chowk.Daughter of Mehbooba, Iltija has moved a habeas corpus petition before the Supreme Court in February challenging her mother’s detention.A three-judge bench had issued a notice to the Jammu and Kashmir administration seeking its response on the plea and posted the matter for a hearing on March 18. However, the petition was not taken up for hearing due to the coronavirus outbreak.Habeas corpus is a writ seeking production of a person supposed to be in illegal detention before a court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-s-detention-under-psa-extended-by-three-months/story-OPA40WgmePxdmI1V5zSs7N.html
05-05-2020||India||Our family of apps playing critical role in challenging times: Facebook India exec||Ajit Mohan, Facebook India’s vice-president and managing director, told HT in an interview that the company is working on a longer shelf life for Instagram live videos after a 60% rise in views during the lockdown. As part of the Facebook-Jio deal, he said, digital tools will be made available to workers of the MSME sector. Edited excerpts: The Facebook-Jio deal is in the news. What more can Facebook users in India expect out of this deal? How will it help the country’s MSME sector?Facebook and Jio platforms will work in tandem to further accelerate India’s exciting digital transformation and open up new opportunities for people and businesses around the country. An early focus area for us would be about giving MSMEs access to digital tools that will empower them to grow and expand their businesses while helping them connect with their customers. The Covid-19 pandemic has come with a deluge of misinformation. Facebook has taken several steps. For instance, it has joined hands with Poynter Institute for Media Studies and International Centre for Journalists to help combat fake news. WhatsApp has tweaked some of its features to contain the spread of swirling rumours, and there are fresh curbs on advertisers as well. Are there any more plans for a change in Facebook’s features?Facebook family of is are playing a critical role in the lives of people around the globe during these challenging times, as users are leveraging our platforms more than ever to connect with their friends and family. As India fights the Covid-19 outbreak, we have stepped up our efforts to respond to the crisis. A big part of our efforts has been to ensure that everyone has access to accurate information and that we do everything we can to reduce misinformation and harmful content. We are grateful for our partnership with the government, local authorities, and health organisations and will continue to evolve our products and services in the fight against the viral outbreak. Globally, we have directed over two billion people to resources from the WHO (World Health Organisation) and other health authorities through our Coronavirus Information Center and pop-ups on Facebook and Instagram with over 350 million people clicking on them to learn more. In March, we displayed warnings on about 40 million posts related to Covid-19 on Facebook globally, based on around 4,000 articles by our independent fact-checking partners. When people saw those warning labels, 95% of the time they did not go on to view the original content. In India, we work with eight independent third-party fact-checking partners in 11 vernacular languages and English.On Facebook and Instagram, we reduce the distribution of content that our partners consider as fake. If users still see these fake content on their news feed, we attach a warning label of the misinformation along with a link to a fact-checked article.WhatsApp has recently announced limiting highly-forwarded messages to only one chat. Globally, there has been a 70% reduction in the number of highly-forwarded messages sent on WhatsApp after this new restriction came into effect. This change is helping WhatsApp’s use only for personal and private conversations.Between the coronavirus WhatsApp helpline and the Facebook messenger chatbot, how many people would you say have been reached out to in India alone? Is there any behavioural insight that has emerged from the number of interactions on these two platforms? At Facebook, we have taken several measures to ensure everyone has access to accurate information. With specific reference to the Facebook Messenger Chatbot, we launched the MyGov Corona Hub chatbot on Facebook Messenger in partnership with MyGov and MOHFW in April to raise awareness, provide authentic and accurate information and bust fake news about coronavirus. Our partnership has extended to nine state governments today (Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh) and the chatbots are now available in Telugu, Kannada , Marathi, Odia, and Punjabi apart from Hindi and English. We have also added capabilities such as state-specific helpline numbers and testing centres, among others. In addition, MyGov and MOHFW, along with WhatsApp, launched a helpline number to raise awareness and answer questions about the coronavirus. By the end of March, over 2 crore people had messaged the helpline number for information.We are making product changes in our apps. To tackle misinformation on WhatsApp, the most recent product change was limiting frequently forwarded messages (i.e. messages containing double arrows)  to one chat at a time, to control the spread of viral messages. Since putting into place this new limit, globally there has been a 70% reduction in the number of highly forwarded messages sent on WhatsApp. We also provide general education on tips to prevent the spread of rumours and fake news, and worked with partners across civil society and engaged with relevant government authorities and other technology platforms to help address the harmful consequences of misinformation. Instagram live videos attracted some prominent artists and celebrities to perform live from within the confines of their homes amid the lockdown restrictions. Is there any plan to make Instagram live videos accessible for more than 24 hours? Will there be a paywall for Instagram live videos?Instagram is the home of creativity and expression and at a time when social distancing is the new normal, we are seeing this in an even more prominent way than ever before. Culture is going virtual and the increase of Instagram live views by 60% in India is an indication of that. We are also seeing an exponential rise in interactivity with the release of new tools and features like co-watching on Instagram, the ‘Stay Home’ & ‘Ghar Pe Raho’ stickers, etc.We know people are using Instagram to stay connected and entertained. Now, users can view live content from Instagram on their desktops as well. We are also testing a way for users to save live videos to IGTV (Instagram TV), so they stick around longer than the 24-hour limit in stories and are also easier to access.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-family-of-apps-playing-critical-role-in-challenging-times-facebook-india-exec/story-UQVXaiwPuqxfklSz5DNHUM.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19: PM Modi chairs meet to discuss progress in India’s vaccine programme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday chaired a meeting of the task force on Coronavirus vaccine development. PM Modi also took a detailed review of the current status of India’s steady efforts in vaccine development, drug discovery, diagnosis and testing.Chaired a meeting on the Task Force on Corona Vaccine Development, Drug Discovery, Diagnosis and Testing. https://t.co/CPTSFBMeBMAccording to a statement released by the prime minister’s office, Indian vaccine companies have come across as innovators in early stage vaccine development research. The PMO has also noted contributions of Indian academia and start-ups pioneering the domain. Over 30 Indian vaccines are in different stages of vaccine development,with few going on to trial stages.Also read: China must come clean on Covid-19| OpinionIt was also observed that with linkage of laboratories all over the country, capacity for both — RT-PCR approach and for the antibody detection — have been enormously scaled up.“The problem of importing reagents for testing has been addressed by consortia of Indian start-ups and industry, meeting current requirements. The current thrust also holds promise for the development of a robust long-term industry in this area,” the statement read. The prime minister has noted that the innovative and original manner in which Indian scientists, from basic to applied sciences, have come together, with industry is heartening. “This kind of pride, originality and sense of purpose should dominate our approach going ahead. It is only then that we can be amongst the best in the world and not followers, in science,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pm-modi-chairs-meeting-to-discuss-progress-in-india-s-vaccine-programme/story-yDJyXGFAJcbrujOV4kKmBO.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid 19 hotspot Ahmedabad’s municipal chief self-isolates after contacting patients, vows to rejoin fight||Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra on Tuesday announced he was self isolating after coming in contact with two positive patients during field visits. The development comes a day after Ahmedabad recorded the highest number of positive cases and deaths in a single day and coincided with a worried state government deciding to rope in the services of private health experts to bring down the mortality rate in the city, which is much higher than the national average. “I came into contact with two persons during my field visits, who tested positive subsequently As per existing guidelines, I have been advised self-isolation at home for 14 days. Looking forward to rejoining the FightAgainst Coved 19 very soon,” tweeted Vijay Nehra.A record 26 people succumbed to the Covid-19 disease in hotspot Ahmedabad on Monday and 259 new coronavirus positive cases were recorded in Gujarat’s biggest city. Ahmedabad had reported 23 Covid-19 casualties on Sunday and 20 fatalities on Saturday.Ahmedabad has so far reported 4,076 coronavirus cases and 234 deaths, said news agency PTI. The city’s Covid-19 death rate stands at 5.8 per cent as on Tuesday, against the national average of around 3.2 per cent.A worried Gujarat government on Tuesday decided to rope in private intensive care specialists to advise the government doctors in Ahmedabad civil hospital for containment of Covid-19 death rate in the city.“We have decided to rope in private critical care specialists, who have agreed to give their special service in the wake of the pandemic. On Monday, we had a meeting of our Ahmedabad civil hospital team with some of these specialists,” said state principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said.Ahmedabad has reported a staggering 73.3 per cent of the total 319 deaths in Gujarat so far.Vijay Nehra had said last week that the high death rate in Ahmedabad was because people were reporting late for admission in hospitals and more lives could be saved if people visited hospitals immediately after showing symptoms for the disease.He said that the corporation had focusing on potential super spreaders and people like vegetable vendors and shopkeepers, who he said were more likely to spread the disease at a faster clip.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesNehra had pointed out the silver lining among the dark clouds and said that the doubling rate of the disease in the city had increased to eight days by April 27-28 from 3-4 days between April 15-20.“We would be getting 2,000 cases per day with a four-day doubling rate and 1000 cases a day with a eight-day doubling rate. It is, however, getting stabilised. Our health system is ready to handle the cases we are getting now, and a large number of people are also getting discharged,” Nehra was quoted as saying by PTI.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-hotspot-ahmedabad-s-municipal-chief-self-isolates-after-contacting-patients-vows-to-rejoin-fight/story-Xbp8DrzPzd13OHLISwhuDJ.html
05-05-2020||India||Uddhav-led Maha alliance set to win 5 of 9 seats in legislative council polls||The ruling alliance in Maharashtra is set to win five of nine legislative council seats going to the polls on May 21 and is in talks with smaller parties for a sixth, people familiar with the development said.The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) says it is confident of winning four seats.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who leads the Shiv Sena- Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)-Congress coalition government, is among the ruling alliance candidates, contesting the first election of his political career.Like his father, the late Balasaheb Thackeray, Uddhav Thackeray has so far stayed away from electoral politics. After assuming the chief minister’s post on November 28 , he is constitutionally bound to get elected to either the legislative assembly or the legislative council within six months or by May 27. He is likely to be elected unopposed.The state cabinet twice recommended to governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari that he be nominated one of the two vacant legislative council seats under the governor’s quota.Thackeray called Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 29 to caution him about an impending constitutional crisis if the governor denied he cabinet’s demand.Next day, Koshyari urged the Election Commission to hold elections “at the earliest” to the nine legislative council seats that have been vacant since April 24. The last date of filing nominations is May 11 and the last date of withdrawal is May 14.In the 288-member assembly, the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has the support of 169 legislators. While the Shiv Sena has 56 legislators, the NCP’s strength is 54 followed by the Congress with 44 and others 15.The opposition has 115 legislators, including 105 from the BJP and eight independents. Four others are not supporting either combination.A Congress functionary said on condition of anonymity that the MVA is in talks with the independents and smaller parties, including the Communist Party of India (Marxist), to seek their supportIf they agree, the Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress will get two seats each.Apart from Thackeray, the Shiv Sena is likely to renominate Neelam Gorhe.From the Congress, many leaders, including Rajni Patil, Hussain Dalwai, Manickrao Thakre, Muzaffar Hussain and Arif Naseem Khan have staked their claim for a nomination .The BJP says it can win four seats.“We do not anticipate any trouble in getting four of our candidates elected provided the ruling side does not try to overstretch and sticks to nominating only five candidates,” a BJP functionary said, requesting anonymity.“Normally when such an election takes place where a chief minister or a minister has to be elected all parties are usually keen on the elections being held unopposed. Hopefully, the ruling party will see reason and not push for a situation where election will be required,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-led-maha-alliance-set-to-win-5-of-9-seats-in-legislative-council-polls/story-1QQoSEFBPd2UYQi9ECoGeJ.html
05-05-2020||India||After migrants, Congress says will foot bill for stranded students, pilgrims||A day after Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked all state units to pay for the train journeys of stranded migrant workers who are headed home, the party on Tuesday extended the offer to students and pilgrims who cannot afford the cost of travel.Congress general secretary in-charge of the organization, KC Venugopal, wrote to the party’s state units, asking them to cover the train fare of students and pilgrims as well, besides migrant workers. State units were told to make sure such people aren’t required to pay the one-way train fare to their destinations if they cannot afford to do so..Pradesh Congress Committees were told to form advisory committees to frame guidelines and oversee implementation of the initiative, including outreach, identification and reimbursement of beneficiaries besides coordinating with officers appointed by state governments to ensure the orderly movement of migrant workers.Through another circular, Venugopal also directed the state units to establish help desks with dedicated helpline numbers to enable the stranded migrant workers to approach them.“There should be extensive social media campaigns through all platforms. The migrant workers can be reached out by circulating a Google form to collect the travel details such as contact, source and destination,” read the circular.The state units were also directed to deploy teams at each railway station to coordinate the departure of migrant workers and make payments to the railway authorities. In another move, the Congress sought voluntary contributions from the public to meet the travel expenses of migrant labourers.Gandhi’s announcement on Monday that her party would bear the cost of travel of migrant workers who, the Congress alleged were being forced to pay the train fare, triggered a war of words with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The opposition party accused the government of being insensitive to the plight of stranded migrant workers; the BJP rebutted the claim, saying the railways was paying 85% and state governments the remainder, entailing no cost to the workers.Gandhi on Tuesday called a meeting of the chief ministers of Congress-ruled states and senior leaders on Wednesday to discuss issues related to the coronavirus pandemic and the impact of the prolonged lockdown on the economy.Meanwhile, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said it was unfortunate that the Centre and the state governments were charging money from stranded migrant workers for ferrying them home and also offered to pay for their travel. “If governments hesitate in paying the fare of the migrants, the BSP will take help of its cadre and will contribute in making arrangements for these workers,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-migrants-congress-says-will-foot-bill-for-stranded-students-pilgrims/story-BgxmeAhi6ZcSaPTYsVUb6M.html
05-05-2020||India||GoM led by Harsh Vardhan holds Covid-19 review meeting||A group of ministers (GoM) headed by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan held a review meeting on Tuesday, discussing the strategies India has formulated to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and identifying possible loopholes in implementation.In the 14th meeting of the group since February, a presentation on the Covid-19 cases globally and within the country was made, according to a health ministry statement.“The Group of Ministers had in-depth deliberation on containment strategy and management aspects of COVID-19, as well as the measures being taken by the Centre and various States,” the statement said.Civil aviation minister Hardeep S Puri, foreign minister S Jaishankar, MoS home Nityanand Rai, MoS health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey, chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat, and Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla were present at the meeting.Separately, speaking to news agency PTI, Vardhan said India has so far been able to stave off community transmission of Covid-19, expressing hope that “behavioural changes” brought about by the infection could become the “new normal” for a healthy society after the pandemic abates.Community transmission takes place when a person tests positive for the disease but doctors are not able to trace the source of the infection. It indicates undiagnosed and asymptomatic people are unknowingly spreading the infection, which makes it difficult to break the chain of transmission.“By now we know that fighting coronavirus is no rocket science. If behavioural changes such as hand, environmental and respiratory hygiene, which are being practised more rigorously during this period, get imbibed in society it will become the new normal,” Vardhan said.“Once the havoc caused by the virus subsides and the crisis blows over, people may remember it as a blessing in disguise,” Vardhan added.At the GoM meeting, measures pertaining to strengthening health care capacity of states, including devoting adequate resources for creating dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, and equipping medical facilities with adequate personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, ventilators and other essential equipment were discussed.A senior official present at the meeting described it as a stocktaking exercise.“All members discussed steps that were taken by the Centre and how well the states implemented the directives. The gaps were identified, and what improvements are needed and in which areas (were discussed) to check the spread of the infection and bring down the number of deaths,” the senior official said, requesting not to be named.The health ministry statement said the GoM “highlighted the need for ensuring that stringent measures of quality control were taken for PPE kits, masks, ventilators etc”.“Random batch sampling for ensuring compliance and adherence to the quality standards laid down were also needed,” it added.The production of essential medical equipment in India has seen a significant growth with domestic manufacturers reaching the production capacity of nearly 250,000 PPE kits and about 200,000 N-95 masks per day.In addition, the manufacturing of ventilators by domestic players has also been started and orders placed. Steps have been taken to maintain the quality norms for PPE, masks and ventilators. Oxygen cylinders are also being procured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gom-led-by-harsh-vardhan-holds-covid-19-review-meeting/story-3D7rLKK8hlmgKDCy5H3Q6O.html
05-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times| ‘Govt without a heart’: Shivakumar stings Yediyurappa on Covid-19 response and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Govt without a heart’: Shivakumar stings Yediyurappa on Covid-19 responseIn what is being seen as an astute political move by Congress, offering to pay fare of the migrants travelling across the country back to their native states, part of the credit should go to its Karnataka unit which made this initial offer to the state government locally on Saturday. Read more. ‘Can’t take risks’: Kerala CM on flying back Indians without Covid-19 testKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said the Centre’s plan to bring back Indians stranded abroad without testing them for coronavirus was fraught with risks. Read more. Flights for stranded Indians to cost Rs 1 lakh from US, Rs 16k from UAEAround 15,000 stranded Indians are expected to be flown back to India in 64 flights in the first week of the government’s mammoth exercise to evacuate stranded Indians from abroad, union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said Tuesday. Read more. In Centre’s plan to get Indians abroad home, Aarogya Setu app mustAs Centre plans mega evacuation plan, beginning Thursday, for Indians abroad, the ministry of home affairs issued a list of instructions which included a mandatory download of the Aarogya Setu app. Read more. China must come clean on Covid-19| OpinionChina insists it has been fully transparent and hidden nothing on the killer coronavirus disease (Covid-19), whose international spread from Wuhan has turned into the greatest disaster of our time. So, why is Beijing opposing an independent international inquiry into the origins and spread of the virus? Read more. Anup Jalota denies marrying Jasleen Matharu, says she is like his ‘daughter’ and he ‘will do her kanyadaan’In an interview with Bollywood Hungama, Anup said, “Not Again! My marriage to Jasleen is news to me. I and her father are looking for a suitable match for her. I have suggested to them a Punjabi boy living in Canada. Nothing is fixed yet.” Read more. Met Gala 2020: Priyanka Chopra’s princess dreams, Kylie Jenner’s ripped dress at the red carpetThe first Monday of May is a big day in fashion, this is the day when the Met Gala takes place, and the biggest names in fashion and entertainment strut their stuff on the iconic red carpet. However, this year, on account of the coronavirus pandemic, the Gala was cancelled. Read more. Fred the doggo must be made for customer service because of the cute looks he is servingWe all know that the first day at a new job can be a little nerve-racking. It can be particularly hard if you work in customer service because customers predominantly only require service when they’re unhappy with something. Read more. Does coronavirus affect children differently?Covid-19, the disease caused by the Sars-Cov-2 coronavirus appears to have largely spared young children. Most hospitalisations and deaths are among older adults and those with chronic illnesses, like diabetes, asthma, hypertension etc. However, clinicians in the US and Europe are investigating the possible link of a deadly inflammatory syndrome with coronavirus disease. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-without-a-heart-shivakumar-stings-yediyurappa-on-covid-19-response-and-all-the-latest-news/story-JbsxHTjxd8v1rVd3olqAZN.html
05-05-2020||India||Tripura launches Whatsapp number to register corruption complaints||The Tripura’s BJP-IPFT government on Tuesday launched a Whatsapp number where the people could lodge their complaints regarding any corruption. This came almost two weeks after former Health Minister of Tripura Sudip Roy Barman raised an allegation of embezzlement of government funds to purchase kits to prevent Covid-19. The state government assured to take action against their complaints within 24 hours without revealing the complainants’ identities. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb took to his Twitter saying , “ Our aim is Zero tolerance policy against corruption. To bring more transparency in Governance, we are launching a Whatsaap no : 8794534501, where you can complain with evidence regarding any corruption and we will take action within 24 hours. Your identity will be kept secret.” After coming to power in 2018 for the first time in Tripura, the BJP-IPFT government announced zero tolerance to corruption. Roy Barman wrote to chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on April 23 regarding the alleged corruption, estimated to be around Rs. 39.28 lakh. After two days, reacting to the former minister’s allegation of misappropriation of funds, the state government removed the then secretary of Health Department Dr. Debasish Basu and National Health Mission director Aditi Majumder from their positions. They also constituted an inquiry committee comprising of two members to conduct an inquiry into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-launches-whatsapp-number-to-register-corruption-complaints/story-0A3mrXxHCdXNnPXVGW94DO.html
05-05-2020||India||‘Can’t take risks’: Kerala CM on flying back Indians without Covid-19 test||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said the Centre’s plan to bring back Indians stranded abroad without testing them for coronavirus was fraught with risks. Beginning Thursday, around 15,000 stranded Indians are expected to be flown back to India in 64 flights in a mammoth exercise to evacuate stranded Indians from abroad.“Many of them are coming without tests there. So we can’t take any risk at this point. It would have been ideal if they undergo tests before taking flights,” said the Kerala CM in a letter to PM Modi.In each flight at least 200 passengers are likely to come and in case there are one or two infected people among them, there are chances of other passengers getting infected, Vijayan said.Earlier the state was planning to send the returnees to their homes after screening with a strict instruction to remain in quarantine for two weeks. The state changed its plan after it came to know that most of them won’t undergo tests before boarding the flight. The state had insisted to bring back only who have certified that they are Covid-free, but the Centre said that it will be difficult in the present scenario to get them tested.At the time of boarding the plane or ship, the passengers will be put through thermal screening as per health protocol. Also, only asymptomatic travellers would be allowed to make the journey.The CM underlined that there should not be any lapse in following internationally accepted health protocols or else it will be a blow to the state’s efforts to prevent community spread of Covid-19.During the journey, the passengers are expected to wear masks, maintain environmental, respiratory and hand hygiene.Upon arrival the passengers will mandatorily be kept under institutional quarantine for a minimum period of 14 days, the cost of which will be borne by them. More than four lakh people have registered with the state government to facilitate their return to the country. The CM pointed out that the Centre has made it clear that such a massive evacuation was not possible at this juncture and people who are on priority list will be evacuated.The government has said priority will be given to those migrant labourers/workers abroad who have been laid off, short term visa holders faced with expiry of visa, pregnant women, elderly, faced with medical emergency or wants to return to India due to death in family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-take-risks-kerala-cm-on-flying-back-indians-without-covid-19-test/story-fQ5RV7t3Me17Lk3jZOWegK.html
05-05-2020||India||‘Let Congress keep the money’: Kerala CM refuses party aid for migrants’ train fares||The Kerala government on Tuesday turned down the Congress party’s offer to bear the train fare of migrant workers triggering a war of words with the opposition parties, while the migrants cried foul over the lost offer to cover their travel expense. In Alappuzha, the district Congress committee’s Rs 10 lakh cheque was refused by district collector M Anjana, who cited absence of any legal provision for accepting such assistance. The offer was made before a train with 1,140 migrant workers left the state for Bihar.“We were told each worker paid Rs 930 for the ticket, at least Rs 200 more than the normal rate. We approached the collector with a cheque of Rs 10 lakh but she said there is no provision to accept it. It is unfair. These people are without work for more than a month. How can the state and railways fleece them like this?” Alappuzha DCC president M Liju fumed. Similarly, in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram cheques were turned down by district collectors. Meanwhile, three trains left Kerala carrying workers on Tuesday.“It is time for Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to shed his arrogance. They were without jobs for more than a month and most of them really struggled to cough up money for the tickets,” said AICC general secretary K C Venugopal, decrying the government move. Later Congress workers carried out protests in Alappuzha and Kochi.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan later played down the whole issue saying it was an arrangement made by the railways and the state has no role in it. “We know the Congress has enough money. Let it keep the money. If they have some complaint they can talk to the railways,” he said.The migrant labourers, meanwhile, said that it was cruel on part of the Kerala government to reject the offer made by the Congress. “It is a pity that the government blocked the move to fund our tickets. Some of us literally begged to meet the ticket fare,” said one labourer, who added that it was “wrong to do politics over humanitarian issues”. But the ruling CPI(M) said it was the Congress that was playing “cheap politics”.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesCongress president Sonia Gandhi had on Monday attacked the union government for charging train fare from migrant labourers and announced that her party will bear the cost of travel of all stranded workers due to the coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-congress-keep-the-money-kerala-cm-refuses-party-aid-for-migrants-train-fares/story-FkUbSNll4rSw0yKX6Y4AkK.html
05-05-2020||India||45 ITBP men test positive for Covid-19, total cases in CAPFs now 298||The Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) suspects that a retired officer who died of Covid-19 on Sunday infected many other men as the number of infections rose to 45 on Tuesday and forced it to seal the Tigri camp in Delhi, an official said. The camp houses 22nd battalion of the ITBP, which has strength of around 1,000 personnel who all are under observation while 76 of them are in quarantine.The decision to seal the Tigri camp came after 23 more men tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.“We are trying to identify the source of infection in the force but preliminary assessment is that a retired ITBP officer, who was staying at Tigri camp and died due to Covid-19 on Sunday at Safdarjung hospital could be the carrier. The retired officer had contracted Covid-19 infection sometime in mid-April but there were other comorbidity factors due to which he died,” said an officer, who did not wish to be named.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Subsequently, ITBP suspects that some of the personnel may have contracted the infection during law and order duties in different parts of Delhi along with the Delhi Police.Out of these, 43 personnel were those deployed for internal security duties in the national capital while two were deployed for law and order duty with the Delhi Police, the ITBP said in a statement.ITBP reported its first Covid-19 case April 28. On Monday, the number reached 21 before it more than doubled to 45 on Tuesday. Forty three of these are from Tigri camp while two are stationed at Rohini for law and order duties.The central paramilitary forces, also called Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), have reported a total of 311 from across the country till Tuesday out of which 298 are active cases. The maximum of these - 158 cases (including 137 in 31st battalion in Delhi’s Mayur Vihar) have been reported by the Central Reserve , followed by Border Security Force (BSF) – 67, ITBP – 45, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) – 15 and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) – 13 cases. The majority of the cases are in Delhi.Around 10 lakh strong border guarding forces are deployed for counter-insurgency, border protection and law and order duties across the country.The spike in Covid-19 infections in CAPFs in the last one week has raised concerns among the top brass of the forces which have asked troopers to maintain the highest levels of personal hygiene and maintain social distancing at work.The CRPF headquarters was sealed over the weekend and is likely to reopen on Wednesday while BSF too sealed two floors at its headquarters after a driver there was found positive.Meanwhile, the ITBP has designated its largest Covid-19 hospital in Noida for the personnel of all forces.“ITBP has started treating the Corona positive personnel at 200 bedded CAPF Referral Hospital based in Greater Noida. This Hospital is now dedicated to corona patients only. Personnel from all Central Armed Police Forces have also been admitted in this Hospital. Currently, 52 have been admitted from the ITBP and BSF (44 from ITBP and 8 from BSF) at the Referral Hospital,” the ITBP said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-itbp-men-test-positive-for-covid-19-total-cases-in-capfs-now-286/story-j4WOFJ5SK8nzr9jGYY05lI.html
05-05-2020||India||Govt suspends all visas, bars travel by OCI card-holders till ban on air services||The government Tuesday suspended all existing visas granted to foreign nationals, barring a few categories, till international air travel to and from India remains shut due to the coronavirus pandemic, an order said.In a separate order, the Union Home Ministry also said it has extended on ‘gratis’ basis the visas of foreigners stranded in India due the lockdown. The extension will be for a period of 30 days beyond opening of international travel in the country.The ministry also said it has kept in abeyance multiple-entry life-long visas given to Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) card holders till international travel remains suspended.However, the OCI card holders who are already in India can stay in the country for “any length of time”, it said.All existing visas granted to foreigners -- except those belonging to diplomatic, official, UN international organisations, employment and project categories -- shall remain suspended till prohibition on international air travel of passengers from and to India is lifted by the government, the order said. In the other order, the Home Ministry said regular visa, e-visa or stay stipulation of foreign nationals whose visas have expired post-midnight February 1 or would expire during the ban on international air travel from India would be extended on ‘GRATIS’ basis just on submission of an online application.Such extensions would be for a period up to 30 days from the date of lifting of prohibition on international air travel without any overstay penalty, it said.Exit to such foreign nationals, if so requested by them, will also be granted on the same lines, it said.In its third order, the Home Ministry said the right of multiple-entry on lifelong visa for Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) card-holders will continue to be kept in abeyance till the prohibition on international air travel to and from India.Any foreign national holding an OCI card who intends to travel to India for compelling reasons during the period may contact the nearest Indian mission, it said.In case of persons holding OCI card who are already in India, the OCI card will remain valid for their stay in India for any length of time, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-suspends-all-visas-bars-travel-by-oci-card-holders-till-ban-on-air-services/story-21pG3oY7ITbMyHbEz50mML.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid 19 Uttarakhand update: Patient’s attendant at AIIMS Rishikesh tests positive, state tally reaches 61||A 38-year-old attendant to a cancer patient at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Rishikesh tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday night, taking the tally of positive cases to 61 in the state. She is the second attendant at the hospital to have contracted the disease in the last 10 days.A statement released by AIIMS Rishikesh said the woman was attending to a patient admitted in the urology ward between April 15 and 26, and is likely to have contracted the virus from an infected patient.A nursing officer from the urology ward had tested positive for coronavirus on April 26, two days after he first showed the symptoms. Two days later, on April 28, an attendant from the urology ward tested positive at AIIMS Rishikesh.Dr. Madhur Uniyal, staff officer at AIIMS Rishikesh said, “Last week of April, when a health care worker and an attendant of another patient tested positive in the urology ward, the 38-year-old woman along with patient she was tending to, were shifted to the isolation ward. She had tested negative for Covid-19 then, but after one week on May 3 when she was tested again, the results came out to be positive.”So far, seven persons, including patients and health staff at AIIMS Rishikesh have tested positive.On Sunday, a nursing officer from AIIMS tested positive for Covid-19. Harish Mohan Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS Rishikesh said that the 29-year-old nursing officer is likely to have contracted the virus from a patient who was admitted in the intensive care unit of the hospital and passed away on May 1. He was referring to a 56-year-old woman admitted to the hospital on April 22, who tested positive on April 28 and died on May 1 due to excessive bleeding in the brain. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn Friday night, a 23-year-old health worker, working in the emergency department of the hospital, too, had tested positive for the virus.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-uttarakhand-update-patient-s-attendant-at-aiims-rishikesh-tests-positive-state-tally-reaches-61/story-JC0uhmLxU0WFn7u0TgemIJ.html
05-05-2020||India||Next wave of 400 Jaish terrorists for Kashmir could be from its Afghan camps||Jaish-e-Mohammed, the UN designated terror group that targets Jammu and Kashmir, has readied 400 terrorists at its training camps in Afghanistan who have been deployed with Taliban units before they are sent to Kashmir valley, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.As first reported by Hindustan Times, Afghan forces had discovered one of Jaish’s terror camps quite by chance last month when they were out on a counter-terrorist mission on April 12. Initial interrogation of the terrorists arrested in this operation, however, have led Indian security agencies to conclude that there were half-a-dozen more camps.Counter-terror officials in Delhi and Kabul said the Jaish-e-Mohammed had already readied 400 fighters at these camps set up after the Taliban signed the 29 February pact with the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad.The pact, which requires the Afghan forces and the Taliban to release prisoners from the other side, paves the way for the US and other foreign forces to quit Afghanistan.“Jaish cadres have been deployed with Taliban units in areas between Khost to Jalalabad in east Afghanistan and also in areas close to the Pakistan border in Kandahar province,” a counter terror official in Kabul confirmed.Officials said the synergy between the Taliban and the Jaish-e-Mohammed - some intel reports say the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba have also sent its cadres for training to the Jaish camps - is being anchored by Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence.Zerar, one of the Jaish operatives arrested by the Afghan forces in follow-up action, has told interrogators that the training base busted by the forces were being “trained, equipped and supported by Pakistan military personnel”. Many of them, he said, had escaped in the fire cover provided by Pakistan military personnel to help them escape. Zerar, identified as a resident of Pakistan capital Islamabad, was among them. He was arrested three days later, on April 15.The terror group founded by Maulana Masood Azhar is being run by his younger brother Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar since Masood Azhar, who was designated as a global terrorist by the United Nations last year, has been terminally ill.Diplomats in Kabul say Masood Azhar’s elder brother, Ibrahim Azhar, has been spotted in Ghazni city in central Afghanistan, possibly in context of the effort to deepen ties with the Taliban.The training camps remain under overall charge of Mufti Asghar Kashmiri, commander of Jaish’s Kashmir operations who has been spotted around terrorist launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.The Afghan war veteran Mufti Asghar Kashmiri, who was once with the Harkat-ul-Mujahideen, oversees the operational aspects of the infiltration from Leepa valley that leads to Kupwara in north Kashmir and has been the favoured route for terrorists over the last few weeks.In the two-day operation that gave security officials an insight into the extent of Jaish presence in Afghanistan, Afghan security officials had targeted a Jaish-e-Mohammed base set up in coordination with Taliban in the Ghorak-e-Mohmand area of Momand Dara, a district in the east of Nangarhar Province near the Durand Line across Torkham was demolished. At least 14 Jaish cadres were killed and a weapons depot destroyed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-wave-of-400-jaish-terrorists-for-kashmir-could-be-from-its-afghan-camps/story-MUJTQWvy4LtMC7nLHKVRFL.html
05-05-2020||India||In Centre’s plan to get Indians abroad home, Aarogya Setu app must||As Centre plans mega evacuation plan, beginning Thursday, for Indians abroad, the ministry of home affairs issued a list of instructions which included a mandatory download of the Aarogya Setu app.“All passengers shall be asked to download Aarogya Setu app on their mobile devices,” said the MHA order. Aarogya Setu is India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) contact-tracing app. Singapore has a similar mobile app called TraceTogether for contact tracing. Earlier, former Congress president criticised the mandatory use of the app. He said it was akin to a “sophisticated surveillance system”. He further added that “fear must not be leveraged to track citizens without their consent”. The government said priority will be given to those migrant labourers/workers abroad who have been laid off, short term visa holders faced with expiry of visa, pregnant women, elderly, faced with medical emergency or wants to return to India due to death in family.The MHA orders also mandates that passengers mandatorily undergo institutional quarantine for a minimum period of 14 days upon arrival, the cost of which will be borne by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-centre-s-plan-to-get-indians-abroad-home-aarogya-setu-app-must/story-2VJSFaKIOOTB6a824eIQLJ.html
05-05-2020||India||Rajasthan villagers cut off dirt roads to block from people from UP||Villagers in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur district are cutting off all the rural dirt roads linking Agra and Mathura in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh following a call by the state’s junior health minister to prevent unauthorised inter-state movement of people which could result in a possible spike in coronavirus cases in the state.Subhash Garg, RLD MLA from Bharatpur City and the minister of state for medical and health, asked villagers to dig trenches to dissuade people from UP from crossing over.On Tuesday, all dust roads in villages bordering Agra and Mathura were blocked with boulders, trees and trenches dug by earthmover machines. HT visited Nurpur, Karot, Daulatpur and Bagai villages on the border with Uttar Pradesh.“We have broken all links with Agra and Mathura. We have also decided to patrol the areas at night to prevent any movement from UP,” said Sukhveer Singh of Nurpur village.Vijay Singh of Karot village said the dirt tracks have been in use even during the lockdown. “Even during the movement of migrant labourers, when police stopped them on highways, they took the village roads to cross over,” he said.Police have set up barricades on the Agra-Jaipur national highway No. 21 at Uncha Nagla but many people took the village roads to cross over.“I visited the village link roads touching UP border on Monday and told the villagers to block them. Most of the links have been blocked,” said Garg.“I have directed the police to completely block the movement of people between two states to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” the minister said.This week, three women, who slipped into Bharatpur from Agra, have tested positive. Additional district magistrate (City) Rajesh Goyal said Sapna Devi came from Agra in an ambulance to Bada Mohalla in Bharatpur City to visit her mother, and was quarantined with his son, Krishna, on April 29. Both tested positive for the virus on May 3.“We have put 10 of her contacts also in quarantine,” he said. The district administration is looking for the ambulance.Coronavirus Live UpdatesBobby Devi came to her sister’s house in Bilang village of Kaman on April 28. She tested positive on May 1. Twenty-five men have been identified as her contacts and put in government-run quarantine facility, the ADM said.Chhoti Devi also came to Bharatpur to see her mother in Sewar town on April 30. She was put in quarantine centre the next day after neighbours informed the administration. She tested positive on Tuesday.Bharatpur has reported 115 Covid-19 cases till the afternoon of May 5. Two of them have died. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-villagers-cut-off-dirt-roads-to-block-from-people-from-up/story-zzEdccIRNDPIQctGKgswhO.html
05-05-2020||India||Centre to provide medicines at doorstep, orders can be placed through WhatsApp, e-mail||Several Pradhan Mantri Bharatiya Janaushadhi Kendras (PMBJKs) are accepting orders for medicines through WhatsApp and e-mail to ensure easier procurement of medicines by patients during the lockdown, the Centre said on Tuesday.At present there are over 6,300 PMBJKs functioning in 726 districts of the country ensuring supply of quality medicines at affordable prices.“It is heartening to note that many PMBJKs are using modern communication tools including social media platforms like WhatsApp to provide better services in effecting faster delivery of essential medicines to the needy,” Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda said in an official release.In April 2020 around Rs 52 crore worth of medicine was supplied across the country. In addition, supply arrangements with India Post have also been made for supply to remotely located stores, as per the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-provide-medicines-at-doorstep-orders-can-be-placed-through-whatsapp-e-mail/story-FXvnJr7GQrkJKIve7SEbrI.html
05-05-2020||India||Private offices with 33% staff allowed to open in Delhi: Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said that private offices can open without any problem as the administration and the police have been given directions in this regard accordingly. The minister took to Twitter to share the information about he received a complaint that some offices of private companies in Nehru Place were not allowed to open amid the lockdown. “A complaint was received from Nehru Place today for not allowing offices of private companies to open. It has been made clear to the district administration and the police that no private office will be stopped from opening now. Only 33 per cent staff will be allowed in the office,” Sisodia tweeted. From May 4, private offices can operate with up to 33 per cent strength as per the requirement, with the remaining persons working from home, according to new guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), which are applicable during the extended lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-offices-with-33-staff-allowed-to-open-in-delhi-manish-sisodia/story-Z99t4PcsTfLGneUSAWajCI.html
05-05-2020||India||HC asks govt to look into necessity of J&K’s Darbar move||The Jammu and Kashmir high court asked government authorities on Tuesday to look into the necessity of continuing with the 148-year-old practice of shifting the seat of power, called Darbar move, every six months between Jammu and Srinagar.The court also asked “competent authorities” to keep in mind the financial implication for the “hopelessly fiscally deprived Union Territory”, questioning the annual expenditure of what many reports peg at Rs 200 crore needed for the exercise.Hearing a self-adopted public interest litigation, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Geeta Mittal observed that “no reasons or grounds are forthcoming for enabling and supporting considerations of administrative efficiency, legal justification or Constitutional basis for affecting the Darbar move”.“The material placed before us manifests that there has been no application of mind to the changed circumstances because of technological and scientific advances. Our judicial conscience compels us to ring the bell else we would fail in discharging our judicial duty or to perform our constitutional function as demanded in the interest of the Nation and the people of Jammu and Kashmir, especially its common woman and man, the poor and the weak,” the bench, also comprising Justice Rajnesh Oswal, said.The court expressed its inability to pass an order, saying it had listed its “limitations on the extent of our jurisdiction whereby we stand precluded from making a declaration on the permissibility or the continuation of the practice...”In its 93-page judgment, the court also listed suggestion made by senior advocate Monika Kohli, who drew the court’s attention to a report that the Centre released around Rs 24 crore for purchase of hardware and software for the civil secretariat and also released funds for digitisation of official records. She submitted before the court that government records should be properly secured and preserved at a proper place.Dogra ruler Maharja Ranbir Singh made the arrangement of shifting the Darbar from Srinagar to Jammu in 1870s to escape severe winter in the Valley and the Jammu heat in the summer. In keeping with the tradition, the capital of Jammu and Kashmir is shifted every six months from Jammu (winter capital) to Srinagar (summer capital).“The discomfort on account of change of weather in either city is today compensated by efficient and modern environment control mechanism as air conditioning, heaters etc in both Jammu as well as Srinagar,” Kohli said.Speaking to HT, Kohli said: “It all started amid the Covid-19 lockdown after a man from Kashmir, whose son was stranded in Iran, moved an application before the court for his evacuation, and it was treated as suo motu PIL.”“While all this was on, the administration announced Darbar Move in April. Some of the lawyers from Kashmir expressed their concern that how Darbar move can happen amid lockdown and Covid infection,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-asks-govt-to-look-into-necessity-of-j-k-s-darbar-move/story-0GGkzLYyyq7QbYdixxiOdP.html
05-05-2020||India||We will bounce back fast: Jimmy Sheirgill||Jimmy Sheirgill says that right now everyone must stay home and be safe. The entertainment industry will take long to restart but once it does, there will be no looking back!“In our profession most things are touch-based. We work in big crews and closely coordinate with each-other and use metal-based equipment a lot. So, it will a lot of time to restart in the post-lockdown era. Right now, people are more focused on being safe! Once things will start, several minds will work and we will bounce back after rescheduling everything,” said the Lucknowite.It has been over 40 days since he stepped out of his house. “It’s a strict lockdown here and I am spending time with my wife, son and father. Fortunately, we have permanent help, who stays with us. So, we are better off,” he said.On how he’s spending time, he said, “Small-small things which we never do in our normal routines, are being taken care of. During the initial days, I finished all scripts for films, web-series and followed a good home-gym routine. But, after a few days, you start finding new activities. Now, I manage to do something new, organising something or rearranging stuff. I can say that I have become a more organised person during this period.”Looking at the positive sides of it, he said, “A lot of good too has happened in this period. Our air and water quality has improved. In Mumbai, we are breathing such good air. I saw pictures of crystal clean Ganga at Rishikesh-Haridwar. We are spending quality time with the family. There is no point looking at it through a negative lens.”Sheirgill was shooting for the sequel of his regional film ‘Shareek’ (means enmity) in Punjab, when the lockdown started. “In Punjab, strictness and curfew started a bit early, so we left on March 19. Once things re-start, we will first complete this film as we have to be in a look — beard and ‘pagdi’ (turban).”Last to come on OTT platform was ‘Rangbaaz Phirse’ in December. “Officially, I can just say that Shareek-2 will be released. Otherwise, projects are there which will come but till their official announcements come I can’t talk about it. As actors, we keep doing our work, which, with God’s grace, is going well!”He feels that the digital space, already in a good space, has boomed during the lockdown. “Its reach has become bigger and wider. Old content is being consumed.” He has also produced a few films. “No, right now I am not doing anything. I did produce four Punjabi films but not anymore. It’s a full-time job; you may be acting somewhere and a film is being shot elsewhere. However, I have made it a point to do a Punjabi film every year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/we-will-bounce-back-fast-jimmy-sheirgill/story-UGEJURE2muK2EtxqcySARJ.html
05-05-2020||India||More concerned about rozi-roti of crew members, says Aahana Kumra||Writing during the lockdown period is keeping Aahana Kumra stress free. “I am writing stories and concepts for kids. I am looking at things from my nephew’s point of view as they live in a fantasy world. Probably, that is why I don’t feel anxiety like many other are facing in this period,” says the Lucknowite.She was at her sister’s house when the lockdown started. “I preferred to stay back as she has a kid so I can help her and together we can look after things which we divided between ourselves,” said Aahana over the phone.Fond of nazms (poetries) she has started learning them for quite some time now. She has singled out Jaun Elia’s work which she plans to recite on social media. “There have been plentiful exercising and cooking videos making a round on social media during the lockdown. So I thought to try something different and decided to make a nazm recital video.”For Aahana cooking is last in her list, she shares. “After a point, due to hectic shoot schedules ‘sab adate choot jati hai.’ My focus switched to workouts, shooting schedules and scripts. But now, I got time for things I was missing out like writing, watching shows and films.”The ‘Lipstick Under My Burkha’ actor had couple of releases lined up during this period. “A month back my series ‘Marzi’ (with Rajeev Khandelwal) released. Then hosted a sports series, ‘Colour Me Blue’ focused on lives of Indian cricketers like Smriti Mandhana, Harmpreet Kaur and Jhulan Goswami. The series delightfully showcased the other side of the female sports stars. Next to release is horror series ‘Betaal’ with Viineet Kumar (Mukkabaaz fame).”Her film ‘Khuda Hafiz’ was scheduled to release in summers. “As of now no one has any idea when work will resume and releasing of films will start. I enjoyed playing an Arab cop, sporting a hijab and performing action sequences in Uzbekistan.” A part of the film was also shot in Lucknow with Vidyut Jamwal.There were projects that were to start but have been deferred due to coronavirus spread. “Entertainment is something everyone wants but for government the priority is and will be safety, healthcare and essential services and rightly so! It will be interesting to see how things will start. It’s our ‘rozi-roti’ so we too want go back to work soon but the real struggle is for the numerous crew members to make ends meet in such times.”She hopes to go back to her home in Andheri. “It’s a hotspot and my parents are living there. Thankfully, we have a cook so I am bit relaxed but want to be with them as soon as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-concerned-about-rozi-roti-of-crew-members-says-aahana-kumra/story-EmoZYJ4YHzAMtq1MB1CXQK.html
05-05-2020||India||India’s unemployment rate soars to 27.11% amid Covid-19 crisis: CMIE||The Covid-19 crisis has led to a spike in the country’s unemployment rate to 27.11 per cent for the week ended May 3, up from the under 7 per cent level before the start of the pandemic in mid-March, the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) has said. The Mumbai-based think tank said the rate of unemployment was the highest in the urban areas, which constitute the most number of the red zones due to the Covid-19 cases, at 29.22 per cent, as against 26.69 per cent for the rural areas. Analysts have been warning about the spectre of unemployment ever since the country was put under a lockdown on March 25 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to arrest the spread of the virus infections. Scenes of migrants fleeing urban centres like Delhi and Mumbai only confirmed the long-held concerns on their employment as the economic activity came to a grinding halt. The government has so far announced income and food support to the vulnerable people as part of a Rs 1.70 lakh crore fiscal stimulus to the economic, financial and possibly humanitarian crisis, and is also mulling a second round of measures soon. The US has seen a huge spike in unemployment as over 26 million people have claimed for state support because of losing their jobs. Experts often rue the absence of a good gauge of jobs in India, which is predominantly an unorganised-sector led economy. CMIE’s weekly series of data pointed to a steady increase in unemployment since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic in India, with the week to March 29 showing the sharpest spike to 23.81 per cent. As per CMIE’s data, the monthly unemployment rate in April stood at 23.52 per cent, up from March’s 8.74 per cent. As of the end of April, Puducherry in South India had the highest number of unemployment at 75.8 per cent, followed by neighbouring Tamil Nadu 49.8 per cent, Jharkhand 47.1 per cent and Bihar 46.6 per cent. Maharashtra’s unemployment rate was pegged at 20.9 per cent by the CMIE, while the same for Haryana stood at 43.2 per cent, Uttar Pradesh at 21.5 per cent and Karnataka at 29.8 per cent. Hilly states had the lowest incidence of unemployment as of April, the think tank said, pointing out that the rate in Himachal Pradesh stood at 2.2 per cent, Sikkim at 2.3 per cent and Uttarakhand at 6.5 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-unemployment-rate-soars-to-27-11-amid-covid-19-crisis-cmie/story-9FOWBKTj3F3HlczvZJAtZN.html
05-05-2020||India||Kerala HC refuses to stay ordinance on ‘salary cut’||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday refused to stay the ordinance to defer one-month’s salary of state government employees, to be deducted in five instalments, to meet the expenses of the ongoing fight against coronavirus pandemic.The court agreed to government’s contention that it has the legislative powers to bring such an ordinance during the extraordinary situation and posted it for further hearing on June 4. The government had brought the ordinance on April 30 after a single bench of the High Court had annulled its order to cut salaries of employees.While hearing a bunch of petitions questioning the ordinance, the government said it was not a salary cut but a temporary deferment of payment to tide over the crisis. It reiterated that this amount will be paid once the fiscal condition of the state improves.“It is an extra ordinary situation and the court cannot question the wisdom of the legislature in bringing out an ordinance, especially, when the ordinance does not partake of a character appropriating the salary but deferring it for the time being, that too under the authority of law,” it observed.The government has lauded the order. “We are happy. As the court pointed out, it is an extraordinary situation. Instead of a united stance, some people are instigating employees,” said finance minister T M Thomas Iaasc. The state is expected to collect Rs 2000 crore through this move. But employees’ organisations owing allegiance to the opposition parties said they will move the Supreme Court soon.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Last month the government had issued an order to cut a month’s salary in five instalments and said the move will be applicable to employees of all state-owned enterprises, public sector undertakings, quasi-government organisations and universities, among others. But later, its order was stayed by the High Court and the government was forced to take the ordinance route. The ordinance, however, left the salaries of employees of court and judicial services out of its purview.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-refuses-to-stay-ordinance-on-salary-cut/story-3vlVnarubV6PVJthM4PC6O.html
05-05-2020||India||Nagpur Veterinary College returns tiger cub’s samples without Covid-19 testdline||The Nagpur Veterinary College (NVC) on Tuesday returned swab samples of a three-month-old tiger cub, the first suspected case of Covid-19 for a wild animal in Maharashtra, without testing them, officials said.NVC asked the forest department to go to an institute approved by the Centre for animal testing in India. “We realised that it is ethically incorrect to perform the Covid-19 test for the wild animal since we do not have Centre’s approval. In such circumstances, the samples need to be sent to the closest approved institute, and this has been conveyed to the forest department,” said Dr. A P Somkuwar, associate dean, NVC.The college aims to get an approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to be designated as an approved institute for further animal testing in Maharashtra.HT reported on Monday that swab samples of the female cub, rescued from paddy fields in Mul taluka of Chandrapur district, were collected on April 28 by the forest department after concerns of improper protective equipment during the rescue and initial ill health of the cub. The samples were sent to NVC for testing on May 1. The test results were expected on Tuesday. The cub is currently being kept at a transit treatment centre in Chandrapur and is healthy, forest officials said.NVC’s last minute decision not to test the samples left the forest department in a lurch. “If this was the case, the college could have informed us much earlier. During the lockdown, it is difficult to get permissions and interstate transportation. However, the process will begin immediately,” said A L Sonkusare, divisional forest officer (territorial), Chandrapur.Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra said, “Following NVC’s decision we have decided to send the swab samples to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. We are working on the permissions for interstate transport. Once all permissions are in place, the samples will be sent.”The cub will not be reunited with its mother until its samples are tested.“In the meantime, the cub will remain in the transit treatment centre at Chandrapur, and efforts to reunite her with her mother are put on hold till we get the results.” Kakodkar said.Sonskusare said arrangements were being made to send the samples to Bhopal since it is the closest.After the first confirmed case of a tiger testing positive for Covid-19 in New York was reported on April 5, the Centre approved three institutes were approved Covid-19 animal testing - National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, National Research Centre on Equines in Hisar, Haryana, and Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagpur-veterinary-college-returns-tiger-cub-s-samples-without-covid-19-testdline/story-XsPWWdCVfMZloNW4DWJEuI.html
05-05-2020||India||Indians’ mega evacuation begins Thursday; US returnees to pay Rs 1 lakh||Around 15,000 stranded Indians are expected to be flown back to India in 64 flights in the first week of the government’s mammoth exercise to evacuate stranded Indians from abroad, union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said Tuesday. The passengers will be charged for the flights, said Puri, adding it is a commercial service being carried out under “special circumstances”. The minister said the exchequer does not have the space to pay for repatriation of more than 2,00,000 estimated stranded Indians. Some of the fares (one way) from the Gulf countries such as Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Doha to Kochi, Kerala range from Rs 15,000 to Rs 16,000. Rescue flights from London to India will cost Rs 50,000 while flights from the United States to India have been priced at Rs 1,00,000. “If there was no charge, people wanting to come back would be much higher,” said the minister.The first phase of the evacuation will begin from May 7 to May 13, evacuating Indians from 12 countries: the UEA, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Bangladesh, Philippines, Singapore, Malaysia, United Kingdom and the United States, according to the first week’s flight plan reviewed by Hindustan Times. India will be evacuating 2,100 citizens from the United States and 2,000 from the UAE in the first week. For now, only Air India flights - 40 from the national carrier and 24 from its subsidiary Air India express - will be deployed.“We will consider involving private airlines as well going forward,” Puri said. The government on Monday announced it will begin repatriating Indians stranded around the world because of the Covid-19 crisis in phases from May 7 as a sign of relief for hundreds of thousands of Indian’s stranded abroad since India shut both domestic and international flight operations due to Covid-19.Swati Arora, 32, a Gurugram-based housewife, said her husband has been stranded in Kuala Lumpur Since February. She is due to deliver her baby by May end and has been requesting authorities for over a month seeking relief. “My husband had gone for a work trip and his business Visa which was issued for 28 days had expired on March 20. We have been constantly requesting the MEA and the embassy but got no response. We have also been tweeting about it tirelessly. I want my husband to be back in time for the delivery. The embassy has contacted him and a group of others stranded there informing that they will have to pay for their tickets and also quarantine facilities,” she said.According to Puri, the requests received by the Indian embassies are increasing by the day and expected to go much higher than the initial estimate. “Initially, we had estimated 190,000-200,000 stranded Indians wishing to come back. As the MEA and state governments considered the number, many more expressed an interest to travel. A comprehensive plan has been drawn out only for those of our citizens who are in foreign countries and who are stranded either because their visas have expired or they are being deported or they went to these countries just before the lockdown for work and need to get back,” Puri said. “We are looking at a possible second wave of infections and we need to take the screening and quarantine process very seriously,” he added. A standard operating protocol (SOP) has been prepared for the repatriation, the government has said. Upon arrival passengers will have to fill a self-declaration form. Medical screening of passengers would be done before they take the flight and only asymptomatic passengers would be allowed to travel. During the journey, all these passengers would have to follow the protocols, such as the health protocols, issued by the ministry of health and the ministry of civil aviation. On reaching their destination in India, travellers will have to register on the Aarogya Setu app and undergo another medical screening. After scrutiny, they will be quarantined for 14 days, either in a hospital or in an institutional quarantine on payment-basis, by the concerned state government. “All the necessary protocols, including thermal screening, social distancing, etc, will have to be followed. State governments have to assure us that they have the necessary infrastructure to handle the passengers coming in. They will have to have adequate quarantine facilities including provisions for paid quarantine,” Puri said. India has suspended its domestic and International passenger flights till May 17, there is no clear indication yet from the government on when they may resume. “Decision on domestic and international flight operations still remain to be taken. The services will continue to remain suspended. We will have to do it in a graded manner initially. It is not possible to open the skies at once. We will have to work out a plan by watching the behaviour of the virus and our capacity to deal with operations on ground,” he said.The government has also kept at least a dozen Indian Navy ships and around 30 Indian Air Force aircraft on standby for the mammoth rescue operation as the Centre expects the numbers to increase. Among the key routes proposed in the first week, 15 flights from seven countries are expected to ferry more than 3,150 passengers to Kerala. At least 150,000 Indians have registered to return with the Indian missions in the UAE alone, with almost a quarter of them citing job losses as the reason for returning home. Eleven flights are scheduled for Delhi with more than 3,100 passengers, 11 for Tamil Nadu with nearly 2150 passengers. Flights are also scheduled for states, say, Maharashtra, Telangana, Gujarat, Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mega-evacuation-of-indians-abroad-begins-thursday-us-passengers-to-pay-rs-1-lakh/story-2ZTaH6cbgepDGKYyMTnA8J.html
05-05-2020||India||‘Govt without a heart’: Shivakumar stings Yediyurappa on Covid-19 response||In what is being seen as an astute political move by Congress, offering to pay fare of the migrants travelling across the country back to their native states, part of the credit should go to its Karnataka unit which made this initial offer to the state government locally on Saturday. And subsequently to DK Shivkumar, the party’s state chief. Ever since Shivakumar, the party’s key trouble-shooter took over as the President of the Karnataka unit in March this year, Congress has been on an overdrive to put the BJP-led state government on the mat.In an exclusive chat with Hindustan Times, Shivakumar has strongly criticised the handling of the situation India is faced with due to the pandemic. The senior Congress leader has also accused the state government of lacking compassion when dealing with the poor. Edited excerpts :Q: Karnataka unit of Congress was the first to make an offer to pay the government on behalf of the migrants so that they could travel back to their states. Now, this has been echoed by party’s national leadership, spotlighting the BJP-led government. Where did this idea originate?DKS: Yes, it was the Congress in Karnataka which came forward to help the poor. Already, these poor migrants who had come here in search of livelihoods, are without any salary for more than a month. Only a heartless government will insist that they pay for their journey back home when they are struggling to feed themselves and their families.When we saw the situation on ground and conveyed it to our leadership, both Sonia ji and Rahul ji fully backed and blessed this idea. It has their full backing. We collected funds from party workers, legislators and from basically anyone who was willing to contribute to help these poor migrants. To help these migrants, we issued a cheque of Rupees one crore to the MD of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.Q : Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka has dubbed the cheque as fake, as it is signed by former KPCC President Dinesh Gundu Rao and not by you. Additionally, deputy CM Lakshman Savadi has claimed this entire move is just a ‘drama’.DKS: It is politically immature of Ashoka to call the cheque fake. The cheque has been issued on behalf of KPCC and signed by my predecessor as I haven’t had the time to take on that responsibility as banks have been shut due to the current crisis.As far as Savadi’s statement, they can call it anything. Those who are suffering know the truth. As a responsible Opposition, we are trying to do everything possible to help the poor and needy. We are highlighting issues which needs to be brought to the attention of people.Q: Even BJP national secretary B L Santhosh has tweeted that ‘Let alone charging, railways don’t have ticket counters...Trains are run on state requests. After the request Kerala, Rajasthan, Maharastra make #migrantlabourers pay & INCIndia chief issues statement and usual suspects pump it up’. Your comments on this?DKS: I have huge respect for Santhosh ji who is a national leader from my state. However, he doesn’t seem to have full facts. Let him please go and check whether money was collected from migrants who were ferried by more than 100 buses of KSRTC. If money was not collected, why did KSRTC deposit it with the government saying passenger fare from more than 3500 people. One should comment only after knowing full facts. I even met the MD of KSRTC and gave him the Congress party cheque. Now he says, please donate it to the CM fund.Q: Karnataka government has been claiming that compared to most large states it has done well with minimum number of deaths and positive cases as well as on relief and rehabilitation measures?DKS: Please go and tell that to the farmers who are destroying crops because they have no buyers and the government is doing nothing to help them. Because of the fight between Sriramulu (health and family welfare minister) and Sudhakar (medical education minister), Suresh Kumar (primary and secondary education minister) is addressing daily briefings on the coronavirus pandemic. This is the level of co-ordination they have in the face of a crisis.One deputy CM announces IT-BT will work with 50 per cent workforce and then the CM contradicts him, saying it will work with only 33 per cent work force. There is absolutely no co-ordination within the government. There performance on all fronts have been poor. This government does not seem to be able to see the poor and deprived and it does not hear their cries. This government doesn’t have eyes, ears and above all no heart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-without-a-heart-shivakumar-stings-yediyurappa-on-covid-19-response/story-SrpeShN4Od7QPR1GzBnJRK.html
05-05-2020||India||Breakup of 36 flights in four days to bring back stranded Indians from abroad released||India will operate 36 flights in the next 4 days to bring back 8,250 Indian nationals stranded in around a dozen countries including the US, the UK, the Middle East and in Southeast Asia. A break-up of the government’s plan to bring back around 15,000 Indians stuck in foreign countries in the next seven days was released on Tuesday.Six flights will evacuate Indians over the next four days from the UAE, while there will be a daily flight from the USA, UK, Bangladesh and Malaysia to bring back citizens.There will be three flights from Singapore and Kuwait, two each from Philippines, Saudi Arabia and Qatar and one each from Bahrain and Oman.On the first day, a total of ten flights will be operated to bring back 400 people from the UAE, 250 from Malaysia, 300 from the USA, 200 each from Bangladesh, Saudi Arabia and Qatar and 250 each from Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines and the United Kingdom. Passengers from UAE will come in two flights while one flight each has been allotted for other locations. On the second day, a total of 2050 passengers will be brought back in a total of nine flights -- two from UAE and one each from Bahrain, Malaysia, USA, Bangladesh, UK, Kuwait and Singapore.On the third day, again 2050 passengers will be brought back from nine countries—UAE, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, USA, Bangladesh, Philippines and the United Kingdom.On the fourth day, 1850 people will return from eight countries- UAE, Kuwait, Qatar, Singapore, Malaysia, USA, Bangladesh and the United Kingdom.Government said that a total of 64 flights will be in operation in the first week and that passengers will have to pay their own fares. A total of 200,000 Indian nationals are estimated to be stuck outside the country due to travel restrictions imposed by governments across the world including India in an effort to combat the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breakup-of-36-flights-in-four-days-to-bring-back-stranded-indians-from-abroad-released/story-U4DWVzakIaavt36JUU4E7I.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Number of cases rise to 46,711 in India, over 13,000 recover||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 46,000-mark on Tuesday with 46,711 cases. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 31,967 active coronavirus cases in the country, 13,160 patients have been cured or discharged while 1,583 people have died from the deadly contagion.With 14,541 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 583 deaths so far while 2,465 patients have recovered. The number of coronavirus cases near the 6,000-mark in Gujarat while in Rajasthan, cases have crossed 3,000. In the national capital, as many as 4,898 people have tested positive for coronavirus. Over one thousand fresh cases were reported in the last few days in Delhi. Over 1,030, fresh coronavirus cases were registered in the national capital between May 1 to May 3. According to statistics, the top 10 Covid-19 affected cities in the country account for roughly 60% of the total coronavirus cases in the country.Mumbai, Pune, Thane in Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat’s Ahmedabad and Surat are among the worst-affected cities in the country. Ahmedabad accounts for more than 4,000 cases of Gujarat total 5,804. Besides Mumbai, another city in Maharashtra which is badly affected by coronavirus is Pune. The city is classified under ‘red’ zone and accounts for over 2,000 coronavirus cases in the state. Chennai, in Tamil Nadu has reported more than 1,700 coronavirus cases so far. Tamil Nadu has 3,550 Covid-19 cases of which 1,409 have recovered and 31 have died from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-number-of-cases-rise-to-46-711-in-india-over-13-000-recover/story-4IYtZiyP5EQSZeX46gk1TL.html
05-05-2020||India||Day after 24 test positive at Meerut’s vegetable market, panic grips vendors and buyers||Meerut: A day after 24 vendors from Meerut’s Naveen Mandi tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive, panic has gripped both vendors and buyers in the town.On Tuesday, the mandi wore a deserted look, as most of the scared vendors have decided not to open their shops for the next few days, compelling district authorities to consider shifting the market to two or three temporary alternate sites in a bid to maintain an uninterrupted supply of fruits and vegetables and also strictly enforce social distancing norms.Some of the buyers have also started hoarding, anticipating a hike in prices due to the prevailing uncertainty over the supply of vegetables and fruits.Poonam Sharma, a homemaker, was candid. “I’ve stocked up on onion, potato, and green vegetables, which should last me for at least a week. Prices are likely to skyrocket after the mandi shut down over the Covid-19 scare,” she said. Her apprehension was not unfounded. She lives in the town’s Ganga Nagar locality, where over a dozen vendors sell vegetables and fruits daily. But on Tuesday, only two vendors went around selling vegetables and fruits, and that, too, at prices 30% higher than Monday, when 24 new Covid-19 positive cases came to light.A vendor pleaded helplessness about the overnight spike in vegetable prices. “The district authorities have cancelled our passes. Fortunately, only two of us managed to get some vegetables and fruits for our daily customers,” he said.Narendra Singh, the state government-appointed secretary entrusted to run Naveen Mandi, which has emerged as Meerut’s epicentre of Covid-19 positive cases, said scared traders refused to open their shops on Tuesday.“The district authorities are searching for two-three alternate locations for the mandi to function for at least the next three days, while an intense sanitisation drive will be launched to clean the market premises,” he added.“Passes issued to traders and vendors stand cancelled and fresh ones will be issued after the mandi is temporarily shifted to the new locations. The district authorities are looking at the makeshift locations from where fruits and vegetables can be sold in a bid to ensure that social distancing norms can be strictly enforced,” Singh said. Meerut city magistrate Satyendra Kumar Singh admitted that maintaining an uninterrupted supply of fruits and vegetables amid the pandemic poses a massive challenge for the district administration. Vegetables and fruits are essential commodities. We’re trying our best to ensure that the supply chain is not disrupted,” he said.Ashok Sonkar, president of Naveen Mandi Vegetable Traders’ Association, is under home quarantine after a person, who works in a shop adjacent to his, tested Covid-19 positive on Monday.“This is an unprecedented situation. Traders are running scared. Farmers are destroying vegetables on their farms. Everyone, including the state government, is suffering massive losses because of this viral outbreak,” said Sonkar.He, too, demanded an intense sanitisation drive in the mandi and urged traders to come up with a plan in tandem with the district administration to ensure that there is no disruption in the supply of fruits and vegetables in the town.Sarfaraj Ansari, secretary of Naveen Mandi Vegetable Traders’ Association, said that over 150 wholesale traders operate out of the mandi, and up to 4,000 cater to different parts of Meerut. The mandi’s daily supply is estimated to be a truckload of potato, onion, and tomato each and around 4,000 quintals of green vegetables, he said.The district health officials found that 24 people from the mandi were Covid-19 positive after they conducted the pool test in per the Uttar Pradesh government’s bid to carry out aggressive testing to flatten the curve.But Monday’s detection of 24 new Covid-19 cases has caused alarm among many customers in Meerut.“I’m using a bucket while buying vegetables and fruits from a vendor and then washing them extensively. This is the least I can do to ensure my family members don’t contract the viral infection. Vegetables and fruits pass through several hands before they reach the end-user and can be potential carriers of SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19,” said Mithilesh, a customer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-24-test-positive-at-meerut-s-vegetable-market-panic-grips-vendors-and-buyers/story-GNfpZalFiFETnXtXczeqUM.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19: 50 people to be allowed at weddings, 20 at funerals, says govt||The government on Tuesday announced relaxation for funerals during the Covid-19 pandemic.“To maintain social distancing, gathering of not more than 50 people are allowed at wedding functions and not more than 20 people in the last rites of deceased persons,” Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA said at the government’s daily briefing on Covid-19.On March 15, the Union health ministry in its guidelines had said that large gatherings at the crematorium/ burial ground should be avoided as a social distancing measure as it is possible that close family contacts may be symptomatic and/ or shedding the virus.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.In many cases of Covid-19 casualties, a maximum of five people were allowed to attend funerals.At Tuesday’s briefing, the government also said it will be the responsibility of employers to ensure that employees of offices that are operational to register on Aarogya Setu app to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.“The offices that are operational now must ensure thermal scanning of employees. The in-charge must ensure sufficient availability of masks and sanitisers. Social distancing norms must be followed. Employees must be registered on Aarogya Setu app and it will be the responsibility of the head of the organisation to ensure it,” said Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).The Aarogya Setu app helps users identify whether they are at risk of the Covid-19 infection and provides important information, including ways to avoid coronavirus.The Congress has opposed the government’s decision to make the Aarogya Setu app mandatory for all employees and said that it raises serious privacy issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-50-people-to-be-allowed-at-weddings-20-at-funerals-says-govt/story-vwRvpVs3q2a6iPjf04XhYJ.html
05-05-2020||India||‘No room for disrespecting women’: Mumbai Police’s stern message to boys who ‘err’||The reports of horrific Instagram group, ‘bois locker room’, has outraged thousands across the country. Social media posts, sharing screenshots of the online group, went viral over the weekend after which the group was exposed on Sunday and deactivated. The chat room of the Instagram group had members talk about gang-raping school girls and circulate objectionable pictures.The Mumbai Police has taken a definitive on the issue stating that “there is no room for disrespecting women”.In a tweet posted on late Monday evening, Mumbai Police stated that “Boys will be boys” has never been an acceptable excuse and shall never be. Also read: Facebook responds to Bois Locker Room controversyBoys will be boys - never an acceptable excuse earlier, will never be one ever after #StopThemYoung pic.twitter.com/sJx7nFOy4PThe tweet also carried a hashtag #StopThemYoung.The Delhi Police has launched an investigation in the matter and a teenage boy has been apprehended and questioned. The police have also found that some of the members of the group are aged above 18 years. The one who has been nabbed is a 15-year-old student of a prominent school in South Delhi, news agency IANS reported. At least 22 others involved have been identified and shall be investigated. Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal on Tuesday said those who were part of the Instagram group should not be spared.“Such persons, irrespective of where they are and whether the lockdown is in place or not, should not be spared,” the DCW chief said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bois-locker-room-no-room-for-disrespecting-women-mumbai-police-s-stern-message-to-boys-who-err/story-IYMH0N0k48PLOAsQ0XkeiO.html
05-05-2020||India||Assam Police pay surprise visit to lonely 78-year-old on his birthday||Kamala Prasad Agarwal was taken aback when several men and women in khaki paid him a visit at his home in Assam’s Nagaon town on Monday. It was the 78-yr-old’s birthday and since he was alone at home, a police probe was the last thing he was expecting.“The police team asked me my name and my family. I told them I was alone as my wife and other family members were stranded in Bangalore and Delhi due to lockdown. It was only when I asked them if there was any problem, they revealed the real purpose of the visit,” Agarwal told a local news channel.The team of eight police personnel said they were at his place as they couldn’t let him spend his birthday alone. The scene soon changed from apprehension and worry to a celebration as the police personnel sang Happy Birthday for Agarwal. As the team carried placards saying ‘I am your son’ and ‘I am your daughter’, Agarwal couldn’t help getting emotional. The police team couldn’t get a cake due to the lockdown, but there were sweets, birthday hats and music.Video of the moments shared on Nagaon Police and Assam police Twitter handles soon went viral evoking positive reactions.“Kudos to Nagaon Police for their compassion and human gesture. We all from Nagaon are so proud of you. Never felt safer and more loved,” Manish Tibrewal, a recovered Covid-19 patient who hails from Nagaon, wrote.Gaurav Abhijit Dilip, Nagaon’s superintendent of police, said they got an intimation about Agarwal’s birthday and that he was staying alone from his daughter Smita.“Our team, all young officers, surprised Agarwal in a creative way. We have been getting lots of calls and messages seeking help and advice during. But this is the first birthday we celebrated. Police are compassionate to those in need, but we will be strict with those who violate lockdown norms,” Dilip said.Besides enforcing lockdown stringently, police in Assam are helping people during lockdown by delivering medicines at their doorsteps and providing food to those in need and more.“In Nagaon, we have distributed 11,000 kg of rice. This is apart from the government scheme. Migrant labourers, homeless people, senior citizens unable to come out and get relief,” said Dilip.Police in Nagaon are also taking care of their own by supplying breakfast and evening snacks daily to nearly 200 police personnel on duty. A help desk is calling up almost 2400 police personnel in the district and helping them and their families resolve their problems during the lockdown.Assam has recorded 42 Covid-19 cases till Monday. While one patient has died, 32 have recovered and nine others are recovering in hospitals.Till Monday, Assam Police had registered 1,838 cases of lockdown violations, arrested 3,870 persons, detained 23,694 persons and recovered Rs 1.79 crore in fines.Caption: Two police personnel are seen holding a Happy Birthday banner for KP Agarwal in Assam’s Nagaon. They helped Agarwal, whose family is stranded across the country, celebrate his 78th birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-pay-surprise-visit-to-lonely-78-year-old-on-his-birthday/story-II286NEPzRpg0QsrAELpVK.html
05-05-2020||India||Lockdown 3.0: Andhra increases liquor prices by another 50%||Admitting that the reopening of liquor shops on Monday led to a chaotic situation, the Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday increased liquor prices by another 50% with immediate effect, taking the overall increase in the retail prices of liquor to 75% in the last two days.On Monday, the first day of resumption of retail liquor sale, the state government increased the liquor prices by 25% by imposing an additional retail excise tax on all brands of liquor.“The steep hike in liquor prices is to discourage the consumption of alcohol by the people, as part of implementing prohibition in the state in a phased manner and preventing heavy rush at liquor outlets,” special chief secretary (excise) Rajath Bhargava said.An official release from the chief minister’s office said apart from an additional hike of 50%, in addition to the 25% increase of rates in liquor prices, the number of shops would also be slashed by 15% by end of May.At present, there are 3,468 retail outlets in the state. Of them, just around 500 located in containment areas and inside malls are closed. All these outlets are being run by the state excise department.The official release admitted that hours after the shops opened on Monday, thousands of people turned up in long queues without following social distancing guidelines.“Controlling the public has become a herculean task amidst the spread of Covid-19. In order to discourage people from consuming liquor, the government increased the prices by 75% on the lines of Delhi government, which hiked the prices by 70%,” it said.The state government also decided to open liquor outlets from 11am till 8pm.Reviewing the situation at an official meeting, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed that the police department take an active charge in controlling the flow of liquor from other states and illicit liquor.The reopening of liquor shops on Monday, in tune with the central government guidelines last week relaxing lockdown norms in green and orange zone districts and non-containment areas of red zones, drew large crowds on Monday. There were, however, protests from women in parts of Nellore and Visakhapatnam districts.“On the first day, the state earned around Rs 68 crore through liquor sales. On the second day, it is expected to be more as the prices have been increased further and the duration of the shop has been extended by an hour — up to 8pm, instead of 7pm,” a senior official in the excise department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-3-0-andhra-increases-liquor-prices-by-another-50/story-0sHvXASAWKHvaACSXrd2eK.html
05-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ITBP ex-officer suspected to be Covid-19 carrier after 45 men test positive and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ITBP ex-officer suspected to be Covid-19 carrier after 45 men test positiveThe Into Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) suspects that a former officer who died of Covid-19 on Sunday infected many other men as the number of infections rose to 45 on Tuesday and forced it to seal the Tigri camp and put around 1000 personnel under observation, an official said. Read more. Indians stranded abroad to pay for flights getting them home, says ministerThe Indians stranded abroad due to the coronavirus outbreak will be charged for the flights bringing them home, announced aviation minister Hardeep Puri on Tuesday. In the first week, Air India will be conducting all the flights, said the minister, adding that private airlines will be considered going forward. Read more. 24 test positive in Army’s RR Hospital in Delhi including serving personnelThe Delhi-based Army Hospital (Research and Referral) has reported 24 Covid-19 cases, including some serving personnel, two officials said on Tuesday. All the 24 positive cases are from the hospital’s oncology ward, said one of the officials cited above. Read more. Top 10 worst-hit cities account for over 50% of total Covid-19 cases in IndiaCovid-19 cases in Maharashtra are inching towards the 15,000-mark while Gujarat, the second worst-affected state, has close to 6,000 Covid-19 cases. Delhi comes third with 4,898 Covid-19 cases. Read more. When they bowl everything’s out, when they bat it’s not out: Harbhajan Singh slams Australian cricketersVeteran India off-spinner Harbhajan Singh on Monday addressed the 2001 Test hat-trick controversy and said that Australians are “very bad losers”. Read more. Riddhima Kapoor shares Rishi Kapoor’s pic with his mother Krishna Raj, says ‘Reunited with his most favourite person’Rishi Kapoor’s daughter Riddhima Kapoor Sahni has shared two black-and-white pictures on her Instagram stories on Thursday. Rishi Kapoor died on April 30 after a two-year battle with leukaemia. Read more. NITI Aayog launches AarogyaSetu Mitr website for free Covid-19 consultancy, medicine deliveries and home lab testNITI Aayog, the body responsible for creating the Aarogya Setu app, has partnered with the Principal Scientific Advisor to the PM to launch AarogyaSetu Mitr website. The website aims to bring healthcare services to the “doorstep of all Indians in the time of the Covid-19 crisis.” Read more. Chris Evans tried to give his dog a haircut. ‘It went so wrong, so fast’People are having to figure out a new way of life without salons to turn to for their hair woes during these days. In a tweet posted last evening, Evans explained what went down when he took matters ‘better left to professionals’ in his own hands.Read more. ‘No proof from US’: WHO calls Trump’s ‘Covid-Wuhan lab link’ claim speculativeThe World Health Organization said that it has received no evidence from the US providing Covid-19 link to a lab in Wuhan. Earlier, US President Donald Trump had said that he had seen evidence evidence linking the virus to a Wuhan lab. WHO countered the President’s assertions saying the statement remains speculative. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-spreads-among-central-forces-45-itbp-personnel-now-infected-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ddCIOWAmIyNYidxBjUx6hN.html
05-05-2020||India||ITBP ex-officer suspected to be Covid-19 carrier after 45 men test positive||The Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) suspects that a former officer who died of Covid-19 on Sunday infected many other men as the number of infections rose to 45 on Tuesday and forced it to seal the Tigri camp and put around 1000 personnel under observation, an official said.The decision to seal the Tigri camp came after 23 more men tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.“ITBP is trying to identify the source of infection in the force but preliminary assessment is that a retired ITBP officer, who was staying at Tigri camp and who died due to Covid-19 on Sunday could be the carrier. Subsequently, personnel may have contracted the infection during law and order duties in different parts of Delhi along with the Delhi Police,” said an official who did not want to be named. Out of these, 43 personnel were those deployed for internal security duties in the national capital while two were deployed for law and order duty with the Delhi Police, the ITBP said in a statement.The ITBP reported its first Covid-19 case April 28. On Monday, the number reached 21 before it more than doubled to 45 on Tuesday. “ITBP has started treating the Corona positive personnel at 200 bedded CAPF Referral Hospital based in Greater Noida. This Hospital is now dedicated to corona patients only. Personnel from all Central Armed Police Forces have also been admitted in this Hospital. Currently, 52 have been admitted from the ITBP and BSF (44 from ITBP and 8 from BSF) at the Referral Hospital,” the statement said. The ITBP has also quarantined the remaining 91 personnel of the company at its Chhawla Facility. Sampling has been done and reports of these 91 personnel are awaited.The spike in Covid-19 cases in ITBP comes on the heels of similar development in two other central armed police forces in the country – the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Border Security Force (BSF). By Monday night, the BSF had reported 67 positive cases of Covid-19, most of them in Delhi and Tripura while the CRPF reported 135 cases from a single battalion in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-spreads-among-central-forces-45-itbp-personnel-now-infected/story-nqWCnC5SKuS0NYwwmkYZXK.html
05-05-2020||India||Top 10 worst-hit cities account for over 50% of total Covid-19 cases in India||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 40-000-mark on Tuesday with 46,433 cases. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 32,138 active coronavirus cases in the country, 12,726 patients have been cured or discharged while 1,568 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra are inching towards the 15,000-mark while Gujarat, the second worst-affected state, has close to 6,000 Covid-19 cases. Delhi comes third with 4,898 Covid-19 cases. Here’s taking a look at top Covid-19 cities in the country. All these cities, together, account for over 27,000 coronavirus cases which is roughly 58% of the national total of 46,433 cases.MumbaiThe financial capital of the country remains the worst affected city in the country. 9,310 of Maharashtra’s 14,541 coronavirus cases come from Mumbai. The city has reported 361 deaths while 1,395 patients have been cured or discharged. DelhiCovid-19 cases in the national capital are rapidly inching toward the 5,000-mark. On Tuesday, the total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi stood at 4,898. 1,431 patients have recovered from coronavirus here while 64 people have succumbed to death. Also read: What is WHO Covid-19 ‘Solidarity Trial’? How will it be conducted in IndiaAhmedabadGujarat’s biggest city reported 259 new coronavirus positive cases, which now accounts for 4,076 of the total 5,804 cases in the state. Over 200 people have died in the district while 620 have recovered. PuneAnother city in Maharashtra which is badly affected by coronavirus. The city is classified under ‘red’ zone in the state and accounts for over 2,000 coronavirus cases in the state. 113 people have died from the infection in the city while 425 people have been discharged. ChennaiThe city has reported more than 1,700 coronavirus cases so far. Tamil Nadu has 3,550 Covid-19 cases of which 1,409 have recovered and 31 have died from the infection. Koyambedu market for vegetables and fruits and flowers has emerged as the latest hotspot for Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu.Indore The number of coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh’s worst-hit district climbed to 1,654 on Tuesday. 43 more people tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. 79 people have died from the infection in the district while 468 patients have been discharged after recovery from Covid-19 in Indore. ThaneThe city is the third worst-hit in Maharashtra and has reported 1,238 coronavirus cases so far. As many as 21 people have died from Covid-19 in Thane while 285 people have been cured or discharged. JaipurThe pink city accounts for the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan (1,036). Rajasthan has reported 3,061 coronavirus cases so far. Over 40 people have died from the infection in the city. SuratAnother city in Gujarat which is struggling with the rising number of coronavirus cases is Surat. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Surat rose to 706 on Tuesday. There are 5,804 positive cases on coronavirus in the state. 319 people have lost their lives while 1,195 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals. AgraCoronavirus infections rise unabated in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra. Nine more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Agra on Tuesday morning. The district has reported 630 coronavirus patients so far. The number of coronavirus cases in the state rose to 2,766 on Tuesday. 802 people have been cured or discharged from hospitals while 50 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-top-10-worst-hit-cities-account-for-over-50-of-total-covid-19-cases-in-india/story-aFSH3ddWfClXcFttm5SsYN.html
05-05-2020||India||Indians stranded abroad to pay for flights getting them home, says minister||Those Indians stranded abroad due to the coronavirus outbreak will be charged for the flights bringing them home, announced aviation minister Hardeep Puri on Tuesday.All asymptomatic Indians will be asked to self quarantine for 14 days after they land in India. The state governments will be responsible for the quarantine facilities.In the first lot of repatriation, beginning May 7, Air India will be conducting all the flights, said the minister, adding that private airlines will be considered going forward.“It is a commercial service being carried out under special circumstances. The exchequer does not have the space to pay for repatriation,” said Hardeep Puri. The minister added that all prescribed health guidelines will be followed while bringing the passengers home.Close to 2 lakh Indians have requested the government to help them come back. Fifteen-hour flights from the US will cost Rs 1 lakh, while flights form the UK will cost Rs 50,000 per passenger.The move likely follows the criticism against the government that it earlier flew Indians stranded abroad home gratis while the migrant labourers were asked to pay for their special train tickets.Congress president Sonia Gandhi stung the Centre when she said her party will pay for the tickets of stranded migrants. Defending itself, the railways said they were charging state governments just 15% of the calculated train fare for the special trains and it was for the states to bear this cost or get the migrant workers to pay.Central government officials have, for days, been telling state governments not to encourage migrant workers to travel. It would not only slow down the economic revival process and make the recovery process longer but also could, as the World Bank had also warned south Asian countries, spread the vector across the region.On Friday, the Centre, however, gave in to pressure from state governments which had been demanding special trains to take the stranded workers home and operated the first train between Telangana and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-stranded-abroad-to-pay-for-flights-getting-them-home-says-minister/story-h28ULUBnJ2DU2WEJimkdTO.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19 latest: 24 test positive in Army’s RR Hospital in Delhi including serving personnel||The Delhi-based Army Hospital (Research and Referral) has reported 24 Covid-19 cases, including some serving personnel, two officials said on Tuesday. All the 24 positive cases are from the hospital’s oncology ward, said one of the officials cited above. The positive cases include serving and retired personnel and a few of their dependents and all of them have been moved to the army’s Base Hospital in Delhi Cantt, which is dedicated to Covid-19 patients, said the second official.No healthcare worker has tested positive for Covid-19 yet, the second official said, adding that necessary protocol including contact tracing is being followed.The single largest episode of coronavirus infection in the Indian military is from the Indian Navy with 26 of its sailors from a key naval base testing positive last month. The sailors were from INS Angre --- a logistics and administrative support base under the Western Naval Command. All the naval cases were traced to a single sailor.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Apart from the Indian military, 45 personnel of Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), 67 personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) and at least 135 troopers from the Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) 31st battalion, have been found positive for the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-twenty-four-test-positive-in-army-s-rr-hospital-in-delhi-including-serving-personnel/story-46dBCB3660s3GYGEKJwslM.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid lockdown: Indians, Japanese most nervous about reopening||As governments around the world weigh the pros and cons of reopening their economies before the novel coronavirus has been contained or cured, individual populations are debating how confident they are leaving their lockdowns.Data from an Ipsos survey of 14 countries indicate that only in four countries (China, India, Italy, Russia) does a majority favor restarting the economy with Covid-19 still uncontained; in only two countries (Germany, Italy) are the majority not “very nervous” about leaving their homes.Curiously, the majority of those who say they want their economies to restart before the virus has been contained also report being “very nervous” about leaving home — including 72% of Japanese and 82% of Indians. This suggests that even those economies that consider restarting may find a paucity of willing participants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-lockdown-indians-japanese-most-nervous-about-reopening/story-1oo2m6OW360VY4w1dtScFI.html
05-05-2020||India||Punjab’s first Shramik Express with 1,188 migrants heads for Jharkhand||The first Shramik Express train from Punjab with 1,188 migrants workers on board left Jalandhar railway station for Daltonganj in Jharkhand on Tuesday afternoon, Jalandhar police commissioner, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said.At Jalandhar railway station, the migrants were emotional and excited as they were returning to their native places amid the coronavirus pandemic. The migrants had registered themselves on a Punjab government portal to facilitate their travel. The train will make a non-stop journey.Police commissioner Bhullar said that the medical teams began screening the travellers since morning at three different places including Khalsa School, Nakodar Road and Guru Nanak Dev University regional campus. The passengers were then brought to the railway station in the 20 buses and boarded on the train while maintaining social distancing. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Migrant Manoj Kumar, 25 who travelled along with wife and two kids, said that he came from Jharkhand to Jalandhar in February to work in a factory and run out of money as the factory shut operations due to the lockdown the check the spread of Covid-19. A relieved Kumar said that they had been eagerly waiting for this day to go home and meet their parents. “The factory owners had paid my dues but I have no money left. I was surviving on rations given by the government and NGOs,” Kumar said. Many migrants have a similar story of empty pockets and unemployment forcing them to their native villages. Some of the workers also said that they would return to Punjab once the situation becomes normal.Vikas Kumar, 18 said that he was harassed by his landlord for room rent even though he told them that he had no money. He later shifted to stay with some of his friends. “I am happy that I am going back to my home”, Kumar said.Dina Nath, 40, said that he had been living in Jalandhar from the last five years and was forced to return home after the factory where he was working has remained shut since the lockdown began. Kailash Kumar and three of his friends had come to Punjab in January this year but are now jobless. They are going back home where they say they will seek alternate livelihoods. Meanwhile, the Punjab government has written to divisional railway manager of Ferozepur division to run two special trains – one to Varanasi and one to Lucknow on Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-s-first-shramik-express-with-1-188-migrants-heads-for-jharkhand/story-dpUOA1x1X9NX2SjnYUaFcP.html
05-05-2020||India||Starting May 7, India to operate 64 flights to bring back citizens stranded abroad||The Central government will operate 64 flights, including seven to Mumbai, starting on Thursday, to Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru, Trichy, Kozhikode, Amritsar, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Thiruvananthapuram, Hyderabad and Kochi to evacuate 14,770 Indian nationals, who have been stranded abroad because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic that led to the suspension of all international flights to the country since March 22.Altogether, seven flights carrying around 1,900 stranded Indian nationals will land at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) between Thursday and Sunday.On Thursday, around 800 Indian nationals will arrive at the CSMIA by three separate flights from London, Singapore, and San Francisco. The final destination of the San Francisco flight, carrying around 300 Indian nationals, will be Hyderabad. Both the London and Singapore flights are expected to fly back around 250 Indian nationals each. On Friday, another 500 Indians will arrive in Mumbai, including 250 each from Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia) and New York.On Saturday, a special flight from Chicago will arrive in Mumbai, carrying 300 Indian nationals. On the same day, around 200 and 250 Indian nationals will land from Dhaka (Bangladesh) and Manila (the Philippines), respectively.On Sunday, the seventh-Mumbai bound will fly back 250 Indian nationals from London.On Monday, the central government had announced that it would operate special flights to evacuate thousands of Indian nationals stranded abroad, and had been compiling their details on a priority basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/starting-may-7-india-to-operate-64-flights-to-bring-back-citizens-stranded-abroad/story-K7Hgi18X0NEyYq9EbR1kdI.html
05-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand plans to levy Covid cess on liquor, says state minister||After the Delhi government levied a whopping 70 percent Covid cess on liquor to discourage long queues at the shops, the Uttarakhand government is also considering a similar move in the state, said officials. On Monday, the liquor shops were allowed to open after more than a month in the green and orange zones, along with areas outside containment zones and hotspots in the red zone districts.The shops were open from 7 am to 4 pm as part of relaxations in the lockdown 3.0. Long queues of customers were witnessed outside the shops with police force deployed to maintain order and ensure social distancing. Confirming the development, cabinet minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “Yes, the state government is planning to levy Covid cess on liquor like other states are planning.”He, however, refused to put a number on the cess percentage that is to be levied. Kaushik said, “It will be discussed in the cabinet meeting of the state government in detail, likely on Wednesday.”A government official privy to the development said the move was important to avoid long queues at the shops.“The move will ensure that there is no chaos or long queues at the liquor shops which may pose a danger to public health amid this ongoing pandemic,” said the above mentioned official who did not wish to be named. “Apart from this it will also somewhat compensate the revenue loss to the state exchequer due to the closure of liquor shops for more than one month as excise is one of the major source of revenue for the government,” the official added.Cabinet minister Kaushik, however, refused to reveal the reasons behind the move. “All aspects will be discussed in the cabinet meeting. At present, the priority of the government is to ensure that the precautionary measures are being implemented in the market and public places which have reopened under relaxations to contain the infection of Covid-19,” said Kaushik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-plans-to-levy-covid-cess-on-liquor-says-state-minister/story-peem6bQR7ekrRgAkdipUCP.html
05-05-2020||India||‘You make us proud’: Rahul Gandhi on 3 J&K photojournalists for Pulitzer win||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday congratulated the three Indian photojournalists who won the Pulitzer Prize in feature photography.“Congratulations to Indian photojournalists Dar Yasin, Mukhtar Khan and Channi Anand for winning a Pulitzer Prize for their powerful images of life in Jammu & Kashmir. You make us all proud,” Gandhi said on Twitter. Congratulations to Indian photojournalists Dar Yasin, Mukhtar Khan and Channi Anand for winning a Pulitzer Prize for their powerful images of life in Jammu & Kashmir. You make us all proud. #Pulitzer https://t.co/A6Z4sOSyN4Dar Yasin, Mukhtar Khan and Channi Anand work with news agency Associated Press and won the award for their coverage of Jammu and Kashmir, particularly during the clampdown which was imposed after its special status was revoked in August 2019 and the state downgraded to a union territory.While Yasin and Khan are from Kashmir, Anand is from Jammu.“It’s not the story of the people I am shooting, only, but it’s my story,” Yasin told AP. “It’s a great honor to be in the list of Pulitzer winners and to share my story with the world.”Anand said the award left him speechless. “I was shocked and could not believe it,” he said.Congratulatory messages have been pouring in for three photojournalists.“It’s been a difficult year for journalists in Kashmir & that’s saying something considering the last 30 years haven’t exactly been easy. Congratulations to @daryasin, @muukhtark_khan & @channiap on this prestigious award. More power to your cameras,” National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said in a tweet. It’s been a difficult year for journalists in Kashmir & that’s saying something considering the last 30 years haven’t exactly been easy. Congratulations to @daryasin, @muukhtark_khan & @channiap on this prestigious award. More power to your cameras. https://t.co/A7SH5hUEGZOn August 5 last year, central government revoked the special status under Article 370 of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in Parliament and split the region into two union territories. Before the decision, the government put the region under a lockdown imposing strict restrictions with no communication or internet services and put hundreds of people, including most of the regional mainstream politicians, under detention. The clampdown was so hard in the initial days that it became difficult for journalists to even move or send their works to their organizations.The AP said that the three photojournalists, snaking around roadblocks, sometimes took cover in strangers’ homes and hid cameras in vegetable bags. They captured images of protests, police and paramilitary action and daily life - and then headed to an airport to persuade travellers to carry the photo files in memory cards and flash drives out with them and get them to the agency’s office in New Delhi. The awards come at a time when the local journalists in Kashmir are decrying the difficult circumstances they are facing while working amid increasing pressure of the state including examples of cases against journalists under UAPA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-make-us-all-proud-rahul-gandhi-congratulates-3-j-k-photojournalists-for-winning-pulitzer/story-UQbgzRMqcgJCkdliyE42MI.html
05-05-2020||India||What is WHO Covid-19 ‘Solidarity Trial’? How will it be conducted in India||In a bid to find an effective treatment for Covid-19, the Gujarat government has received permission from the Centre to participate in the World Health Organization’s ‘Solidarity Trial’ for Covid-19.Hospitals in four cities in Gujarat - Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot - will participate in the WHO’s international clinical trial, a senior state health official said.The clinical trial The international clinical trial is launched by the World Health Organization and its partners to help find an effective treatment for Covid-19.“The Solidarity Trial will compare four treatment options against standard of care, to assess their relative effectiveness against Covid-19,” the WHO states. The global health body says it aims to rapidly discover whether any of the drugs in the trial slows down disease progression or improves survival. The trial has patients enrolled in multiple countries. “Other drugs can be added based on emerging evidence,” it says. Also read: Donald Trump predicts Covid-19 vaccine by year endSolidarity Trial in IndiaThe trial will be conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at hospitals in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot. Under the trial, the effectiveness of four drugs and standard care on coronavirus patients will be compared. The four-drug regimes that will be tested on Covid-19 patients under the Solidarity Trial in Gujarat are -Remdesivir, Lopinavir, Hydroxychloroquine or Chloroquine and Interferon.BJ Medical College and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Hospital in Ahmedabad, New Civil Hospital in Surat, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Medical College in Rajkot and Gujarat Medical Education & Research Society (GMERS) Medical College in Vadodara are the four medical facilities in Gujarat where the Solidarity Trials will be carried out. India is among 100 other countries participating in the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-who-covid-19-solidarity-trial-how-will-it-be-conducted-in-india/story-mXSqihXg7Ov04Ze1B4tWTI.html
05-05-2020||India||Gujarat gets permission to conduct ‘Solidarity Trial’ for Covid-19||The Gujarat government has received the permission from the Centre to conduct ‘Solidarity Trial’ for the Covid-19 virus, state government officials said.“The Solidarity Trial will compare four treatment options against standard of care, to assess their relative effectiveness against Covid-19,” the World Health Organization states. To get the permission a representation was chosen by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani before Union Home Minister Amit Shah a few days back. “The Centre has given permission to conduct Solidarity Trial for the ‘Covid-19’ virus at BJ Medical College in Ahmedabad,” said a government official, adding that the permissions to conduct similar trials at four other colleges are the under process.After receiving permission from the Government of India, the registration process for conducting the trials on ‘Covid-19’ patients has begun at the BJ Medical College. Also read: Donald Trump predicts Covid-19 vaccine by year endAfter obtaining the permission for four other colleges of the state during this week, the registration of the Covid-19 patients and medical trials of four medicines under the ‘Solidarity Trial’ will begin at SVP College in Ahmedabad, GMERS Medical College at Gotri-Vadodara, Government Medical College and New Civil Hospital at Surat, and PDU Medical College at Rajkot.“These four medicines are Remdesivir, Lopinavir, Interferon (beta 1 a) and hydroxychloroquine or Chloroquine. As a result of these experiments, an effective proper medicine for the Covid-19 will be found quickly. Not only this, but it will also enhance the probability of faster recovery of the infected patients,” the official added.The international clinical trial, ‘Solidarity Trial’, for the Covid-19 is being conducted by the World Health Organization (WHO) in association with others in more than 100 countries across the world. Similarly, the WHO is going to conduct ‘Solidarity Trial’ in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in India.Under the ‘Solidarity Trial’ four treatment options are compared against the standard medium of care to assess their relative effectiveness against Covid-19. By enrolling patients in multiple countries, the ‘Solidarity Trial’ aims to rapidly discover whether any of the drugs slow disease progression or improve survival. Other drugs can be added based on emerging evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-gets-permission-to-conduct-solidarity-trial-for-covid-19-virus/story-VT7OSEfFsdlbdvAZV00bbN.html
05-05-2020||India||Woman’s body with head injury found in car in Delhi’s Lodhi Colony area||The body of an unidentified woman with a head injury was found in a car parked in south Delhi’s Lodhi Colony area on Tuesday morning. Police are waiting for the woman’s autopsy report. Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), said the woman, whose identity is yet to be ascertained, appeared to be in her early thirties.“Her body was in the front passenger seat of a Maruti Ritz car that was found abandoned near Fourth Avenue Road. She has a head injury. The nature of the injury can be confirmed only when we have her autopsy report,” said Thakur.A case of murder was registered at Lodhi Colony police station and multiple teams have been formed to probe the case. “Our first priority is to identify the woman and the ownership of the car. We are also scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed on routes leading to the spot where the car with the body inside was parked,” said a police officer associated with the probe.This is the third murder case reported in Delhi between Monday and Tuesday morning even as a majority of the police personnel remain on streets enforcing the lockdown rules.On Monday morning, the body of a 23-year-old woman was found in a locked factory in outer Delhi’s Narela industrial area. The police are looking for her friend, who was last seen with her in the factory on Sunday and has been missing since the murder came to light.In another case, a 17-year-old face mask manufacturer was stabbed to death in southeast Delhi’s Tughlaqabad Extension after a heated argument over providing cheaper masks to sellers turned nasty on Monday. The prime suspect was arrested in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-s-body-with-head-injury-found-in-delhi-s-lodhi-colony-area/story-Ier7DBLJ7ZrhtVgV911gqL.html
05-05-2020||India||In Chhattisgarh you can order liquor online during lockdown, but here’s the catch||The Chhattisgarh government has launched a website and a mobile application for home delivery of alcohol to avoid crowding at liquor shops during the Covid-19 lockdown.A government statement said buyers can order liquor on the website of the state-run Chhattisgarh State Marketing Corporation Limited (CSMCL) from shops that have been linked.However, only those in the green zones of the state will be able to order liquor online, which will be delivered to their doorstep with the help of delivery boys.“The customer will have to register by entering his mobile number, Aadhaar card and full address. Registration will have to be confirmed through OTP,” it said.After registering, people can browse the provided links to nearest liquor shops, which can also be viewed on Google Map, and order by selecting the nearest shop.“A customer can see the list of liquor available in the respective liquor shop and its price… A customer can order up to 5,000 ml of liquor at a time for home delivery. He will have to pay a delivery charge of Rs 120,” the release stated.Except for Raipur and Korba districts, which are in red and orange zones, all the other 26 districts of Chhattisgarh come under green zone classified by the central government.Liquor shops opened on Monday for the first time after March 23 and serpentine queues were seen outside the outlets in several districts as people flouted the social distancing norms.The state excise department has allowed liquor outlets to open from 8am to 7pm. In the state capital of Raipur, 44 out of the 70 liquor shops opened on Monday and police forces were deployed to ensure social distancing and crowd management.A district administration official said there would be a rush initially but things may get back to normal within a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chhattisgarh-you-can-order-liquor-online-but-here-s-the-catch/story-arRP6afKcjp5m31nEBJ6ZK.html
05-05-2020||India||In Chhattisgarh you can now order liquor online, but here’s the catch||The Chhattisgarh government has launched a website and a mobile application for home delivery of alcohol to avoid crowding at liquor shops during the Covid-19 lockdown.A government statement said buyers can order liquor on the website of the state-run Chhattisgarh State Marketing Corporation Limited (CSMCL) from shops that have been linked.However, only those in the green zones of the state will be able to order liquor online, which will be delivered to their doorstep with the help of delivery boys.“The customer will have to register by entering his mobile number, Aadhaar card and full address. Registration will have to be confirmed through OTP,” it said.After registering, people can browse the provided links to nearest liquor shops, which can also be viewed on Google Map, and order by selecting the nearest shop.“A customer can see the list of liquor available in the respective liquor shop and its price… A customer can order up to 5,000 ml of liquor at a time for home delivery. He will have to pay a delivery charge of Rs 120,” the release stated.Except for Raipur and Korba districts, which are in red and orange zones, all the other 26 districts of Chhattisgarh come under green zone classified by the central government.Liquor shops opened on Monday for the first time after March 23 and serpentine queues were seen outside the outlets in several districts as people flouted the social distancing norms.The state excise department has allowed liquor outlets to open from 8am to 7pm. In the state capital of Raipur, 44 out of the 70 liquor shops opened on Monday and police forces were deployed to ensure social distancing and crowd management.A district administration official said there would be a rush initially but things may get back to normal within a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chhattisgarh-you-can-now-order-liquor-online-but-here-s-the-catch/story-51JDTiomB12LlHeFREnoPN.html
05-05-2020||India||Lockdown 3.0: Long queues outside liquor stores lead to revenue boost for states||Tuesday, the second day of lockdown 3.0 across India was no different from day one in one aspect: long queues continued outside liquor stores in different parts of the country.One of the relaxations in lockdown curbs after 40 days to reboot the economy was allowing opening of licenced liquor shops in many states including Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka and Delhi. The permission, however, didn’t apply to containment areas.While this proved to be a headache for the law enforcement agencies as cops tried to enforce social distancing norms outside liquor shops, the states themselves appear to have gained by it in terms of revenues. Liquor sale is a big source of revenue for the governments.Uttar Pradesh registered sale of over Rs 100 crore from the sale of liquor on Monday, reports news agency IANS.State excise department officials said that in state capital Lucknow alone, liquor worth Rs 6.3 crore was recorded.“I don’t think there would be any single industry with just less than one lakh work force that gives Rs 100 crore revenue (to the state exchequer) in a day, “ Principal Secretary, Excise, Sanjay Bhoosreddy was quoted as saying by IANS. The average daily sale of liquor in the state in normal times is around Rs 70-80 crore.Karnataka, too, saw sale of liquor valued at Rs 45 crore on Monday.“As per the tentative figures we received from across the state, around 3.9 lakh litres of beer and 8.5 lakh litres of the Indian-made liquor (IML) were sold, netting Rs 45 crore when the liquor shops were shut by 7 p.m., as per the new guidelines,” an excise official told IANS in Bengaluru.Buoyed by the surge in liquor sale on day one itself, the Karnataka government decided to hike the prices of all brands when new stocks arrive next week, state excise minister H Nagesh said on Monday.“All liquor brands will cost more from next week when new stocks arrive for sales, as the 6 per cent increase in additional excise duty will be added to their maximum retail price,” Nagesh told reporters, reports IANS.Hike in liquor pricesDelhi and Andhra Pradesh, too, have decided to hike liquor prices. Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday hiked the prices of liquor by 50% , a day after imposing a 25% increase. This takes the overall hike in liquor price in the southern state to 75%. The revised rates came into effect from Tuesday itself. The hike has been imposed to discourage alcohol consumption, according to the chief minister’s office, reports ANI.Sources said the fresh hike (50 per cent) in rates could fetch an additional revenue of Rs 9,000 crore per annum to the cash-starved state government, according to PTI.‘Special Corona Fee’The Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government late on Monday imposed a “special corona fee” of 70% of the MRP on all categories of liquor that will be sold in the city with effect from Tuesday.The fee would apply at “70% of the maximum retail price of all categories of liquor sold through written licences for consumption off the premises,” read a government order.Senior government officials said that the lockdown since March 25 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 cost the Delhi government around Rs 645 crore in revenue from the sale of alcohol, when calculated on the basis of revised estimates in the 2019-20 state budget.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-3-0-long-queues-outside-liquor-store-lead-to-revenue-boost-for-states/story-Q8gdcW5yCuhZvpeHs4hiTM.html
05-05-2020||India||Kerala govt refuses money from Congress for migrants’ travel, party says shed false pride||The Kerala government on Tuesday turned down the Congress party’s offer to help the migrant workers who want to leave the state for their native places.The district Congress committee in Alappuzha brough a cheque of Rs 10 lakh, but the district collector refused to accept it saying there is no provision for it.Alappuzha district collector M Anjana said there is no government approval to collect the cheque.Congress general secretary KC Venugopal asked the Kerala government to shed its false pride and accept the money.The party further said that the railways is charging Rs 930 for a single ticket to Bihar. It further said that migrant workers are complaining that this is Rs 200 higher than the normal ticket price.A train is expected to leave Alappuzha to on Tuesday afternoon to Hazaribag in Bihar with 1,140 migrants.The migrant labourers, meanwhile, said that it is cruel on part of the Kerala government to reject the offer made by the Congress party.Congress president Sonia Gandhi had on Monday attacked the government for charging train tickets from migrant labourers going back to their homes and announced that her party will bear the cost for the rail travel of all such workers stranded due to the coronavirus lockdown.In a statement, she had said that it is disturbing that the central government and the rail ministry are charging them for train tickets in this hour of crisis.Gandhi said the Congress has taken a decision that all its state units will bear the cost for the rail travel of every needy worker and migrant labourer and take necessary steps in this regard.Terming the party decision as “historic”, Venugopal and Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had said that the party’s state units will pay the cost of train travel of migrants to state chief secretaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-refuses-money-from-congress-for-migrants-travel-party-says-shed-false-pride/story-s6MB16OHuUd7STkb62Tq9H.html
05-05-2020||India||‘Let there be surgical strike but without tom-tomming’: Shiv Sena on Handwara encounter||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday called for another surgical strike to avenge the killing of five security personnel in an encounter with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Handwara area two days ago. The Sena, however, said that the strike should be carried out without anyone boasting about it.“It is not a good sign that brave men were killed in one go on India’s own land,” an editorial in Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ said on Tuesday, adding that this happened when a strong and quite patriotic government is in power at the Centre.Also read: In Pakistan’s new script for terrorism in Kashmir, Handwara is the key“Let there be a surgical strike without tom tomming about it to avenge the martyrdom of the five jawans. It is not a good sign that five of our jawans are killed in one go,” said Sena who was a part of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) till last year.The country has forgotten Kashmir war due to the war situation triggered by Covid-19, but Pakistan has not, the Saamana editorial further said.A Colonel, a Major and three other security forces personnel were killed in an encounter with terrorists in north Kashmir’s Handwara on Sunday. This was the biggest loss to the Army in recent years.Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh Kumar, Lance Naik Dinesh Singh and sub-inspector of Jammu Kashmir Police Shakeel Qazi were martyred in the line of duty while rescuing civilians held hostage by the terrorists.Also read : Hostages, gunfight, assault teams: How the Handwara encounter ensuedTwo terrorists were also shot dead by the security forces in the Handwara encounter.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and other leaders paid tribute to the brave soldiers.“Tributes to our courageous soldiers and security personnel martyred in Handwara. Their valour and sacrifice will never be forgotten. They served the nation with utmost dedication and worked tirelessly to protect our citizens. Condolences to their families and friends,” PM Modi said on Twitter.Army chief General MM Naravane said on Monday that India is proud of five security personnel who laid down lives saving civilians from terrorists at Handwara. He also said that the army will give proportionate response to all acts of infringement of ceasefire and support to terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-there-be-surgical-strike-but-without-tom-tomming-shiv-sena-on-handwara-encounter/story-oOTxIdff2Li8oU6uxMuoAL.html
05-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Nearly 15,000 stranded Indians to be evacuated from abroad in first week and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nearly 15,000 stranded Indians to be evacuated from abroad in first weekAround 15,000 Indians stranded across the world are expected to be flown back to India in the first week from May 7 following the government’s nod, according to the civil aviation ministry.The government had on Monday said it will begin repatriating Indians stranded because of the Covid-19 crisis in phases from May 7 using commercial flights and naval warships.Read MoreRs 24 crore spent on migrant trains, Rs 20 crore borne by railways: OfficialThe Ministry of Railways had run 34 ‘Shramik special’ trains for transporting migrant labour to their home states amid Covid-19 lockdown till May 3, a senior government official said on Tuesday. The total estimated cost of tickets for all 34 trains that were run till Sunday was roughly about Rs 24 crore. Only 15% of the total Rs 24 crore was paid for by state governments while the remaining 85% was borne by the Railways, approximately Rs 20 crore, the official added.Read More‘Bowlers may become bowling machines’: Harbhajan Singh | ExclusiveIndia’s third highest Test wicket-taker and World Cup winner Harbhajan Singh, who’s spending the lockdown in his Mumbai home, said in a chat with HT that cricket administrators must rework the calendar as well as the playing conditions to ensure everyone’s safety. Read MoreNeetu Kapoor thanks Ambani family for support during Rishi Kapoor’s treatmentDays after the death of veteran actor Rishi Kapoor, wife Neetu Kapoor has been thanking people for their support in taking care of the actor who battled with leukaemia for two years. She has now penned a note to express gratitude towards the Ambani family “for the countless ways in which they have seen us safely through this time”.Read MoreThis breathtaking aerial footage of Amritsar is mesmerizing netizens. Seen it yet?A clip of Amritsar tweeted by the Chief Minister of Punjab Captain Amarinder Singh shows a spectacular view of the city and is bound to bowl you over with its beauty.Read MoreAim for the stars, the skies and seas: Here’s how to feel outdoorsy even as you stay at homeIf you miss the outdoors, train your eye on it. You’d be surprised how much you can still see. You can do some bird-watching, star-gazing, insect-studying and even dolphin-spotting, all from within your home.Read MoreThe pandemic is driving chefs, TV show hosts to depend on iPhones and ZoomFood. The one thing that surely binds us all together, even over the lockdown. With the hospitality industry largely stunted right now, what are the chefs and food enthusiasts doing?Read MoreHow India fared after easing restrictionsHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury talks about how India fared after lockdown restrictions were eased. She talked about the rise in number of Covid-19 cases in India, chaos outside liquor stores, migrants-police clash in Surat and more. Watch the full video for more details.Watch the video||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-nearly-15-000-stranded-indians-to-be-evacuated-from-abroad-in-first-week-and-all-the-latest-news/story-G1tODnEkbC5UECFMyua2vO.html
05-05-2020||India||Shastri Bhawan partially sealed after law ministry official tests Covid-19 +ve||The fourth floor of the Shastri Bhawan, a government building that houses several ministries, was sealed on Tuesday after a law ministry official tested positive for the coronavirus.The senior official in the department of legal affairs who is now positive had last attended office on April 23. Thereafter he proceeded on leave. Gate number 1 and 2 which the officer was using have been closed, along with the corresponding lifts, for disinfecting and will remain closed till Wednesday.The disinfection process is underway. All other necessary measures are being taken as per the official protocol of the government.Just recently, the CRPF headquarters and a portion of the BSF headquarters were sealed after coronavirus positive cases were reported.These buildings are in CGO Complex in the national capital.Earlier Niti Aayog, Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan, which houses the civil aviation ministry, was also sealed for sanitisation after a Covid-19 positive case was detected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shastri-bhawan-partially-sealed-after-law-ministry-official-tests-covid-19-ve/story-zB1OC2RalBOgL56r0mnh3O.html
05-05-2020||India||Almost 200,000 Indians register to be repatriated from UAE||New Delhi: Almost 200,000 Indians have registered with the country’s missions in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) for repatriation flights that will begin operating from May 7, with officials saying priority would be given to workers who have lost jobs and people with medical emergencies.The Indian government had on Monday announced it would begin repatriating Indians stranded around the world because of the Covid-19 crisis from May 7 and authorities said naval ships and chartered flights would bring back hundreds of thousands of people in phases.“Given that the Embassy/Consulate have received almost 200,000 registrations for travelling back, it will take time for all people to be accommodated on these flights,” said a statement issued by the Indian consulate in Dubai late on Monday.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe first two special flights from the UAE to India will operate from Abu Dhabi to Kochi and from Dubai to Kozhikode on Thursday, the statement said. “The passenger lists for both these flights will be finalised by the Embassy of India, Abu Dhabi, and the Consulate General of India, Dubai, on the basis of registrations in the…database for this purpose launched a few days back,” it added.The statement said priority would be given to “workers in distress, elderly people, urgent medical cases, pregnant women as well as to other people who are stranded in difficult situations”.The cost of tickets and other facilities, such as quarantine after reaching India, would be “conveyed in due course and will have to be accepted by each passenger”, the statement said.However, experts from the UAE’s aviation and travel industries indicated to Gulf News that the cost of a ticket on the special flights would be almost double the price of a normal ticket for this time of the year.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“A one-way repatriation ticket to Delhi will cost approximately Dh 1,400-Dh 1,650 – this would earlier have cost between Dh 600-Dh 700 [during these months],” said Jamal Abdulnazar, CEO of Cozmo Travel.“A one-way repatriation flight ticket to Kerala would cost approximately Dh 1,900-Dh 2,300,” he said.Gulf News reported that price could be a burden for a majority of people taking these flights because they had “either lost their jobs or are sending back their families because of uncertainty on the work front”. The aviation and travel industry experts said the higher rates couldn’t be avoided because social distancing norms would limit the number of passengers on each flight.Indian ambassador Pavan Kapoor told the daily that the missions in the UAE had “prioritised the list of passengers and given it to Air India”. He added, “We would call and email each passenger to contact Air India to get their tickets issued. The first two flights on Thursday would be to Kerala, considering the high number of applicants from the state.”One of the three Indian Navy ships that set off on Monday night to evacuate stranded Indians – INS Shardul – will go to Dubai to bring back expatriates, the defence ministry said. The other two warships – INS Jalashwa and INS Magar – were sent to the Maldives. All three warships will return to Kochi.Kapoor also said there would be flights almost on a daily basis to various destinations in India. Other officials said Indians stranded in the UAE with visit and tourist visas and those with cancelled visas would also be given preference for returning home.The Indian missions in the UAE will convey details of further flights to different destinations in India in the coming days. “We seek patience and cooperation from everyone as the Government of India undertakes this massive task of repatriation of Indian nationals,” the statement said.The UAE is home to more than two million Indian expatriates. Their welfare figured in a telephone conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Abu Dhabi’s Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed on March 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/almost-200-000-indians-register-to-be-repatriated-from-uae/story-40Qw66k1TJVwKqocLY5EsM.html
05-05-2020||India||Rs 24 crore spent on migrant trains, Rs 20 crore borne by railways: Official||The Ministry of Railways had run 34 ‘Shramik special’ trains for transporting migrant labour to their home states amid Covid-19 lockdown till May 3, a senior government official said on Tuesday.The total estimated cost for all 34 trains that were run till Sunday was roughly about Rs 24 crore. Only 15% of the total Rs 24 crore was paid for by state governments while the remaining 85% was borne by the Railways, approximately Rs 20 crore, the official added.With a subsequent increase in the number of ‘Shramik special’ trains in the coming days, the ministry is likely to incur thousands of crores on the transportation of migrant labourers to their native places.A fierce political war broke out over the issue of train fare for the migrant workers returning home, with the Congress declaring that the party and its state committees would pay the fare to enable workers to return to their native places.The Union government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claimed that the railways was bearing 85% of the fare cost, and state governments had to pay 15%, thus allowing migrants to go back home free of cost.On May 1, the first train carrying 1,225 migrant workers was run from the Telangana’s Lingampalli railway station to Hatia in Jharkhand, after the Railway Ministry acceded to the request of the state government for facilitating their return.It was the first special train to be run by the railways to ferry the stranded migrants since its services were suspended due to the coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-24-crore-spent-on-migrant-train-tickets-rs-20-crore-borne-by-railways-says-official/story-xzeHOPxmKRKicSPI5PzJdN.html
05-05-2020||India||‘Moment of pride for all of us,’ says ace J&K photographer Channi Anand on bagging the Pulitzer Prize||“Though I knew that there’s a Pulitzer Prize, I never dreamt that one day I would be honoured with it. I am speechless,” reacted Channi Anand, one of the ace photographers of Jammu and Kashmir who, along with Mukhtar Khan and Yasin Dar from Kashmir, was conferred the prestigious award on Monday.They work for Associated Press and won the 2020 Pulitzer Prize for feature photography for their “striking images of life” in Jammu and Kashmir after the Centre abrogated the territory’s special status under Article 370 of the Constitution in August last year.Anand participated in World Press competitions during initial years of his career but then stopped participating because he felt that “Indian lensmen were not recognized for their work at that forum.”However, it is for the first time that photographers from South Asia got this prestigious award, he said.The 50-year-old remained a stringer with the AP for 16 years before taken on board as a staffer four years ago.A go-getter, Anand has covered many terror attacks, Pakistani shelling on the Indo-Pak borders and life in the conflict zone.“I joined AP as a stringer in 1999 and four years back was made staff photo journalist. I started my career from State Times and then moved to Amar Ujala, contributed for ‘The Week’ and ‘India Today’ before switching over to AP,” he said.“It is indeed a moment of pride for me, my family, the people of J&K and especially the media fraternity. I think this award is in recognition of my long struggle of 23 years,” he said.Anand said the award left him speechless. “I was shocked and could not believe it,” he added.Anand informed that he, along with two other colleagues of the AP from Kashmir, had worked on a photo feature on life post- revocation of Article 370 in August last year.The soft-spoken lensman has done his schooling from Shastri Memorial Public School and Ranbir Higher Secondary School before taking online classes in photography.The Pulitzer Prize is considered the most prestigious award in journalism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moment-of-pride-for-all-of-us-says-ace-j-k-photographer-channi-anand-on-bagging-the-pulitzer-prize/story-5nKRUm5aaR4vluJYMdRQ1H.html
05-05-2020||India||Zydus Cadila seeks approval to use hepatitis drug for Covid-19 clinical trials||The country’s top drug regulator, Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), has received an application from Zydus Cadila, the leading global pharmaceutical company in India, to conduct clinical trial using antiviral drug ‘Pegylated Interferon Alpha-2b’ in adult Covid-19 patients.So far in India, the Pegylated Interferon Alpha-2b medicine has been used for the treatment of Hepatitis B and C.It is important to note that the drug -- Pegylated Interferon Alpha-2b has been used in the treatment of Covid-19 in China and Cuba and is a part of the treatment guidelines of the Chinese government.Zydus Cadila has also reached the central government’s Department of Biotechnology to investigate the role of Pegylated Interferon Alpha-2b for Covid-19.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicA senior government official told ANI, “Talks are on. Our experts’ committee is examining it. Further decisions are awaited.”He added that research done in the US and a clinical study in China showed that the drug significantly improved the condition of Covid-19 patients.Also Read: Nearly 15,000 stranded Indians to be evacuated from abroad in first weekA research conducted by the University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, showed evidence of a direct anti-viral effect of Interferon Alpha against novel coronavirus in-vitro. The study demonstrated around 10,000 fold reduction in virus titre in cells that were pre-treated with Interferon Alpha 48 hours earlier.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakThe second by a group of universities in China, Australia and Canada retrospectively analysed 77 moderate Covid-19 subjects in Wuhan and observed that those who received Interferon Alpha-2b showed a significant reduction in the duration of virus shedding period and even in levels of the inflammatory cytokine, IL-6.The study suggested that if a long-acting molecule like the drug is given early on in the infection, the patient suffering from Covid 19 will have a significant benefit as the viral load is reduced, lesser IL-6 is produced and virus eliminating specific immune response is generated.It may be noted that Zydus Cadila has been commercially manufacturing Pegylated Interferon Alpha-2b under the brand name, PegiHep, since 2011 for the treatment of Hepatitis B and C. However, PegiHep is not yet licensed or approved for the treatment of Covid-19.The Ahmedabad-based pharmaceutical company is already manufacturing Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) which is being used for asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19, asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases, and Covid-19 patients with severe disease and requiring ICU management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-seeks-approval-to-use-hepatitis-drug-for-covid-19-clinical-trials/story-LChIMoo7c2OKrbUtfQs1lM.html
05-05-2020||India||African Swine Fever: After Covid-19, another disease from China hits Assam; 2,500 pigs dead||The African Swine Fever (AFS) has gripped Assam which is already battling the Covid-19 outbreak. And its growing spread has alarmed the state government.Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Monday asked the veterinary and forest departments to draw a broad roadmap to deal with the situation caused by the disease which has killed around 2,500 pigs.He asked officials concerned to conduct ‘threat-mapping’ and undertake containment measures across the state.The government will announce a bailout package after taking stock of the situation to save the farmers from penury, he said.On Sunday, Veterinary Minister Atul Bora had said the disease was detected towards the end of February this year, but it started in April 2019 at a village in Xizang province of China bordering Arunachal Pradesh.“We have decided to not go for culling now. We will create containment zone within 1 km radius of infected area and surveillance zone within 10 km,” he said.According to a 2019 state census, the pig population was 21 lakh, which has increased to around 30 lakh at present, Bora had said.According to the World Organisation for Animal Health, ASF is a severe viral disease affecting both domestic and wild pigs. It can spread by live or dead pigs and pork products.Transmission can also occur via contaminated feed and objects such as shoes, clothes, vehicles, knives and other equipment. Unlike Classical Swine Fever (CSF), there is no vaccine for ASF.While swine flu can spread from animals to humans, swine fever does not, and therefore is not a public health threat.“The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, has confirmed that it is African Swine Fever (ASF). The central government has informed us that it is the first instance of the disease in the country,” Bora said on Monday.He also visited the Regional Institute of Livestock Entrepreneurship Management (RILEM) and ICAR-National Research Centre on Pig in Rani along with Sonowal.Bora also said that there is no possibility of getting infected by ASF due to consumption of pork and pork products.Usually stray pigs get infected with such viruses, but of late those in the farms have also been found afflicted with the disease.The animal husbandry department initially started administering classical swine flu vaccine but it was stopped due to the scare that the disease could spread through the doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/african-swine-fever-after-covid-19-another-disease-from-china-hits-assam-2-500-pigs-dead/story-g8sbTKmZniwouqfX9kK75N.html
05-05-2020||India||Nearly 15,000 stranded Indians to be evacuated from abroad in first week||Around 15,000 Indians stranded across the world are expected to be flown back to India in the first week from May 7 following the government’s nod, according to the civil aviation ministry. The government had on Monday said it will begin repatriating Indians stranded because of the Covid-19 crisis in phases from May 7 using commercial flights and naval warships.Indian citizens will be evacuated from the United Arab Emirates (UAE), the UK, Malaysia, the US, the Philippines, Bangladesh, Singapore, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, and Oman in 64 scheduled flights in the first week, the flight plan reviewed by HT shows. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe government has also kept four Indian Navy ships ready to be deployed in the first week and at least a dozen more and around 30 Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft on standby for the mammoth rescue operation, according to officials aware of the development.Indian missions around the world have been registering citizens who were stranded when Covid-19-related travel restrictions were put in place by India and other countries, and those who want to return because they have lost their jobs or to meet their families.At least 150,000 Indians have registered to return with the Indian missions in the UAE alone, with almost a quarter of them citing job losses as the reason for returning home. A statement issued by the government on Monday said the “facility would be made available on payment-basis” and “travel would begin in a phased manner from May 7”.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakA standard operating protocol (SOP) has been prepared for the repatriation, the government has said. Upon arrival, passengers will have to fill a self-declaration form.Medical screening of passengers would be done before they board a flight and only asymptomatic passengers would be allowed to travel. During the journey, all these passengers would have to follow the protocols, such as the health norms issued by the ministry of health and the ministry of civil aviation.On reaching their destination in India, travellers will have to register on the Aarogya Setu app and undergo another medical screening.“After scrutiny, they will be quarantined for 14 days, either in a hospital or in an institutional quarantine on payment-basis, by the concerned state government,” the statement by the ministry of external affairs (MEA) had said on Monday. India has suspended its domestic and international passenger flights till May 17 and there is no clear indication yet from the government on when they may resume.(With inputs from Rahul Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-15-000-stranded-indians-to-be-evacuated-from-abroad-in-first-week/story-xBnGnMNg6TnWdOn716ntSI.html
05-05-2020||India||Bombay high court refuses to extend central soft loan scheme to private sugar factories in Maharashtra||The Bombay High Court has refused to extend the benefit of soft loan scheme floated by the ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution to private sugar factories in Maharashtra.The division bench of justices SV Gangapurwala and Shrikant Kulkarni dismissed a petition filed by seven private sugar factories from Marathwada region in this regard on Thursday. The petitioners had challenged the validity of March 22, 2018 notification issued by Maharashtra co-operatives department, which is implementing the scheme in the state, keeping the private sugar factories out of the purview of the scheme.The petitioners said that by issuing the notification, the state co-operatives department has restricted benefit of the soft loan scheme only to 29 co-operative sugar factories. For 2014-15 season, when the scheme was floated to ensure payment of fair and remunerative price of sugar cane to farmers, the benefit was extended to a mix of 175 private and co-operative sugar factories in Maharashtra.It was argued on behalf of the petitioner factories that the scheme framed by the central government and implemented by the state government cannot in any way discriminate between co-operative and private sugar factories. The scheme was made applicable uniformly taking into consideration the interest of the agriculturists, but the state government has deprived private sugar factories like the petitioners from getting benefit of the scheme.The high court, however, refused to accept their argument that the state notification was arbitrary and caused injustice to the petitioners factories, which are facing financial crisis because of their exclusion from the scheme.The bench said the state government had initially extended benefit of the scheme to all sugar factories, but it was later restricted to 29 co-operative sugar factories.“If the private sugar factories are left out or excluded from getting benefit of soft loan scheme, it cannot be said to be an arbitrary decision,” said the bench.“The government has a right to take policy decision, particularly wherein financial implications are involved,” the bench said further.“Policy matters are within the domain and competence of the state government and where any policy involves financial and economic ramifications, the court certainly would not transgress upon the policy making power of the state,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-refuses-to-extend-central-soft-loan-scheme-to-private-sugar-factories-in-maharashtra/story-CxISupRqvNVeqbBExuZAVI.html
05-05-2020||India||Delhi reports over 1,000 Covid-19 cases in last 3 days, India a step closer to developing key drug: Top updates||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 46,000-mark on Tuesday with 46,433 cases. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 32,138 active coronavirus cases in the country, 12,726 patients have been cured or discharged while 1,568 people have died from the deadly contagion.With 14,541 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 583 deaths so far while 2,465 patients have recovered. The number of coronavirus cases near the 6,000-mark in Gujarat while in Rajasthan, cases have crossed 3,000. In the national capital, as many as 4,898 people have tested positive for coronavirus. Over one thousand fresh cases were reported in the last few days in Delhi. Over 1,030, fresh coronavirus cases were registered in the national capital between May 1 to May 3. While the country witnesses the third phase of coronavirus lockdown, many developments have taken place recently concerning the prevailing Covid-19 situation. Here’s taking a look at some of the top Covid-19 updates: Also Watch l ‘Delhi should have minimum relaxations’: Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan1. A day after liquor stores lifted shutters in parts of the country, and chaos was let loose with customers flouting social distancing norms, the Delhi government has said it will charge a “special corona fee” on sale of alcohol from Tuesday. 70 per cent of the maximum retail price on all categories of liquor sold through retail licensees for consumption off the premises,” the finance department’s order signed by the deputy secretary reads.2. The third phase of lockdown began on Monday and will continue until May 17 with some relaxations. Opening of liquor shops was one of them.3. The issue of train fare for the migrant workers returning home has sparked a row with the Congress declaring that the party and its state committees would pay the fare to enable workers to return. The Union government and the BJP said that the railways was bearing 85% of the fare cost, and state governments had to pay 15%, thus allowing migrants to go back home free of cost.4. India could be one step closer to developing the key drug, Remdesivir, to treat Covid-19. The Hyderabad based Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT) has synthesised the key starting materials (KSMs) for Remdesivir, the first step to develop the active pharmaceutical ingredient in a drug.5. Union Ministry of Health has said that the ratio of Covid-19 cases recovering with the number of fatalities has improved. Data shows the ratio to be 90:10 - 10 deaths on 90 people recovering from coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-reports-over-1-000-covid-19-cases-in-last-3-days-india-a-step-closer-to-coronavirus-vaccine-key-developments/story-08ZO42kQwtsJrs7la5IdoL.html
05-05-2020||India||7 days, 12 countries, 64 flights: India’s plan to fly back thousands of citizens amid coronavirus pandemic||India will send more than 60 flights spread over a week to bring back hundreds of thousands of its citizens stranded around the world because of the coronavirus pandemic.According to the flight plan by the ministry of external affairs (MEA), 64 flights will be sent to a dozen countries to repatriate students and blue-collar workers among others from abroad.“So India finally begins to fly back its Citizens home – approximately 2000 persons a day. A sneak peek into the 7-day plan. Punjab has only one incoming flight from Dubai, UAE on the 7,” KBS Sidhu, Punjab special chief secretary, tweeted on Tuesday. So India 🇮🇳 finally begins to fly back its Citizens home – approximately 2000 persons a day.A sneak peek into the 7-day plan. Punjab has only one incoming flight from Dubai, UAE on the 7.https://t.co/OWGQNMiQ4kSidhu also tweeted the detailed flight plan for the return of Indian nationals stranded abroad. Residents of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh are among those to be evacuated.The 64 flights will be sent to the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Malaysia, the UK, Singapore, Bangladesh, the Philippines and the US from May 7.There will be 15 flights—the maximum—for the residents of Kerala, 11 each from Delhi-NCR and Tamil Nadu, seven for Maharashtra and Telangana, five for Gujarat, three each for Jammu and Kashmir and Karnataka and one each for Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.Blue-collar workers, including those who have lost jobs in West Asia, such as UAE, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, will be repatriated first, followed by students and Indians who were stranded in other countries for a variety of reasons.At least 150,000 Indians have registered to return with the Indian missions in the UAE alone and about 45,000 Indians who benefited from a recent visa amnesty will be brought back from Kuwait.Indian missions around the world have been registering citizens stranded when Covid-19-related travel restrictions were put in place by India and other countries, and those who want to return because they have lost their jobs or to meet their families.A statement issued by the government on Monday said the “facility would be made available on payment-basis” and “travel would begin in a phased manner from May 7”.Anyone wishing to return to India will have to undergo medical screening and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to return to the country, the statement said. It added that state governments will make arrangements for testing, quarantine and onward movement of people who return.These travellers will have to register on the Arogya Setu app after reaching their destination in India and undergo another medical screening.“After scrutiny, they will be quarantined for 14 days, either in a hospital or in an institutional quarantine on payment-basis, by the concerned state government,” the statement said.Test to detect Covid-19 will be done on the travellers after 14 days and “further action would be taken according to health protocols”, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-days-12-countries-64-flights-india-s-plan-to-fly-back-thousands-of-citizens-amid-coronavirus-pandemic/story-d4C0ymif2bXplYMFLarzNM.html
05-05-2020||India||35-year-old man flees Covid-19 quarantine centre in Odisha||A 35-year-old man kept in a quarantine centre of western Odisha’s Jharsuguda district, for over a week, fled on Monday even before the results of his swab sample could be out. The man’s escape had raised fears of possible Covid-19 infection in the area.The man’s escape came even as the number of Covid-19 positive cases zoomed to 170 with the detection of one more case from Ganjam district where around 150 migrant workers fled a quarantine centre on Sunday citing lack of water.Police officials in Jharsuguda said Asid Khan of Kabaristanpada area of Jharsuguda district was kept in a quarantine centre since April 26 as he had visited a containment zone at Nala Road of Rourkela town in neighbouring Sundargarh district.Police had registered a case against Khan under sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the IPC at Jharsuguda police station while seeking public help in tracing him out. The man was caught in Badheimunda area of Jharsuguda on Tuesday morning by the police. He has been brought to the quarantine centre. Jharsuguda has reported two coronavirus cases so far.The containment zone in minority-dominated Nala Road area of Rourkela, that Khan visited, has reported 7 positive cases of coronavirus so far including the latest case of a 29-year-old woman. On Monday, an irate mob of the area pelted stones at police personnel and broke barricades around the containment zone causing injuries to four police personnel. Under barricade since April 26, when the first positive case in the area was detected, the residents of Nala Road have refused to cooperate with ASHA workers for health surveillance. The area has over 4,000 households and to assist the local healthcare personnel, additional doctors have been brought from Sambalpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-35-year-old-man-flees-quarantine-centre-in-odisha-police-issue-notice-seeking-public-help-in-tracing-him/story-0k7BMLpgSTQI6pyNkjcG3H.html
05-05-2020||India||India should consider a big stimulus to revive Covid-19-hit economy: Abhijit Banerjee||Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee on Tuesday said that India should consider a big stimulus and give cash in hand to create demand and prevent chains of bankruptcies to save the economy hit hard by the nationwide coronavirus lockdown.“India needs a stimulus package. We have not dedicated a large enough financial package yet,” he told former Congress president Rahul Gandhi during a conversation.“Spending is easiest way to revive economy. It will have stimulus effect,” Banerjee added.Gandhi is currently holding a series of conversations with global and Indian thought leaders to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences on the Indian economy.Banerjee said the government should issue temporary ration cards for three to six months for every person who needs food grains to save their lives. “Use those ration cards for transferring money, wheat and rice to them,” he added.Banerjee, an Indian-American economist, had won the 2019 Nobel Prize in Economics, along with Esther Duflo of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Michael Kremer of Harvard University “for their experimental approach to alleviating global poverty”.The three were recognised for their ability to divide the issue of tackling global poverty into smaller subjects.Banerjee told Gandhi that it is important to revive demand. “Nothing bad will happen if we give money to bottom 60%. But to give direct cash transfer to only poorer people is debatable,” he said.On April 30, Gandhi was in dialogue with former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan who suggested that the government transfer cash directly to the poor and supply food through the public distribution system (PDS) to as many people as possible to help them tide over the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and the consequent 40-day lockdown, estimating the effort will cost Rs 65,000 crore.The money is small given that India’s gross domestic product is to the tune of about Rs 200 lakh crore, he had said.Banerjee said the Aadhaar-based claims for PDS would have saved a lot of misery for poor as many of them are still not in the system.“We should take a cue from the US by pumping in more money in the hands of people to revive demand. Also, it is wise to put moratorium on debt payments,” he said.On lifting the lockdown, Banerjee called for caution. “You can’t take out the lockdown when a lot of people are getting sick. We need to be aware of disease’s path before taking a decision on lifting the lockdown,” he added.The Nobel laureate said that India should be optimistic about the overall economic revival post-lockdown.On the centralisation versus decentralisation debate, Banerjee said there is a visible tension as evident from the movement of the migrant workers which could not be handled by state governments only.The central government should have tested the migrant people before they boarded the trains for their home towns, he added.Banerjee also suggested that state government should be given money to chalk out their own schemes aimed at reaching a wider section of the people and not thing about some of that money getting wasted.“Be brave and take risks. When you are in dire straits, being brave is the only option,” he said.Banerjee said the strongman theory has been disastrous in the US and Brazil where the leader are “messing up” right and left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-should-consider-a-big-stimulus-to-revive-covid-19-hit-economy-abhijit-banerjee/story-kIDYfltl9HzwqNLlttVsuK.html
05-05-2020||India||WII’s Dibang Valley Project report biased and incomplete, says peer review||A peer review of the Wildlife Institute of India’s (WII) report on the Etalin Hydropower Project in Arunachal Pradesh has called it biased. In the 58- page peer review of Dehradun-based institute’s report titled “Wildlife Conservation Plan for Impact Zone of Etalin HEP,” 24 scientists from 14 scientific institutions in India have said that it doesn’t reflect a true picture of the biodiversity of Dibang Valley where the Etalin Hydropower Project of 3097 MW will come up.The review, seen by HT, suggests that WII hasn’t revealed crucial information about the area and impact of the project on ecology and local people.On February 28, 2017 the Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) of the environment ministry had met to discuss granting of forest clearance to the project but had recommended a “multiple season replicate study on biodiversity assessment of the catchment area.” The Wildlife Institute of India accordingly produced a technical report last year funded by the Etalin Hydroelectric Power Company at a budget of Rs 170.36 lakhs.Based on WII’s technical report, an FAC sub committee which visited the project area in February this year has approved the project which will involve clearing of at least 2.7 lakh trees in sub-tropical evergreen and rain forests and in a vital tiger area. FAC had again discussed granting forest clearance to the project on April 23 and is likely to publish the minutes of the meeting this week.The 24 scientists who have studied Dibang Valley closely specialise in different areas and include botanists, ornithologists, mammalogists, entomologists, social scientists and others. “Overall, the review encountered considerable deficiencies and scientific biases in the Report which have compromised the quality and the veracity of its findings and conclusions,” the review released late on Monday night said referring to the WII report.While WII was asked to do a multiple season study, it conducted its field observations only between February and June 2018. The peer review said these months do not represent seasonal patterns in Arunachal which has at least three seasons with distinct rainfall and weather regimes: October to February: relatively dry season/winter; March-April: spring/premonsoon; and May to September: summer/monsoon season.Even before the FAC clears the project, WII’s technical report has an entire chapter dedicated to mitigation and conservation measures for the impact of the project. The peer review states that it is not clear on what basis FAC’s singular mandate of biodiversity assessment was converted into a wildlife conservation plan. The WII report doesn’t refer to any peer reviewed scientific papers on social, ecological, physical and geomorphological aspects of the study region instead relies on outdated material the review states.The WII report seems to contradict its own findings at several points. For example, the peer review states that WII has omitted several species in its biodiversity documentation yet collected direct evidence of 230 bird, 159 butterfly, 112 spider, 51 moth, 31 reptile, 14 amphibian and 21 mammal species. At various points, the WII eport states that species and habitat specific conservation plans are not possible due to species diversity and their diverse dietary and foraging patterns, yet recommendations are still made for butterfly parks, reptile parks, and habitat restoration that clearly will not replace the loss of natural habitat, points the review.The Report broadly defines the ‘Zone of Influence’ (ZoI) as the farthest influence of the HEP. But this zone of does not consider areas upstream and downstream of the dams that will be severely altered due to storage of sediments and changes in flow regimes.Based on camera trap exercise WII concludes that there are no tigers in the project area and yet concludes that continuous monitoring of key mammalian fauna including tigers in 10 km radius of the project is crucial. WII also recommends long-term monitoring and conservation efforts are planned particularly for species such as Mishmi Takin (endemic species), Alpine Musk Deer, Red goral, Clouded Leopard, Snow Leopard, Spotted Linsang, in and around the study area.The peer review found that WII has ignored traditional ecological knowledge and the intricacies of nature-human relations of the local people in Dibang Valley completely.The WII report, also seen by HT, recommends a mitigation plan but also states that Arunachal Pradesh has been recognized as one of the 34 global mega biodiversity hotspots It is also a geologically fragile area. It is apparent that the aquatic and terrestrial biodiversity of Arunachal Pradesh is in peril. The proposed hydropower development is likely to impact the habitats and the survival of several endemic and threatened terrestrial species such as the Snow Leopard, Red Panda, Clouded Leopard, Tiger, Arunachal Macaque, Black-necked crane, Mishmi Wren among many others.“These developments will significantly alter the river systems thereby impacting important aquatic species,” it states.Asked about his reaction to the peer review of the WII report, the former director of the institute VB Mathur refused to comment, saying he was no longer associated with the institute.“Our report is in public domain. People are free to interpret it and critique it. I cant respond on behalf of WII because I am no longer with WII,” said Mathur who was the project leader of the 2019 WII report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wii-s-dibang-valley-project-report-biased-and-incomplete-says-peer-review/story-aBGoMWx4civffTI4CqISSL.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Cases cross 3,000 in Rajasthan, Gujarat nears 6,000-mark||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 46,000-mark on Tuesday with 46,433 Covid-19 cases. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 32,138 active coronavirus cases in the country, 12,726 patients have been cured or discharged while 1,568 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra are inching towards the 15,000-mark while Gujarat, the second worst-affected state has close to 6,000 Covid-19 cases.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraWith 14,541 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 583 deaths so far while 2,465 patients have recovered.GujaratThe state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 5,804. While 319 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 1,195 recoveries so far.DelhiAs many as 4,898 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Sixty four people have died from the infection while 1,431 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 3,550 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 1,409 recoveries and 31 Covid-19 deaths.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 3,061 on Tuesday. The state has reported 77 fatalities, and 1,394 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 2,942 positive cases of coronavirus. One hundred sixty-five people have died from Covid-19 here while 798 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 2,766 in Uttar Pradesh. While 802 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 50 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1,650 positive Covid-19 patients and 524 cases of recovery. 36 people have died.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 1,259 on Tuesday. There have been 133 deaths and 218 recoveries in the state.TelanganaThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 1,085 in state so far. 585 people have made a recovery from the virus while 29 people have died from Covid-19.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 726. Eight people have died from the infection while 303 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 651 Covid-19 cases and 27 deaths. 321 people have been cured and discharged.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 517 and 1,233 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 23 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen 6 deaths. 254 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 121 in Punjab.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 500 coronavirus cases on Tuesday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 462 people have successfully recovered.In Bihar, 528 people have tested positive for coronavirus, four people have died while 130 patients have recovered. Odisha has 169 Covid-19 positive patients, 60 have recovered while one person has died. Jharkhand has 115 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 27 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 60 coronavirus patients, 39 patients have recovered from the infection, one patient has died. Himachal Pradesh has 41 cases, one patient has died and 34 have recovered. Assam has reported 43 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 32 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 58 cases of coronavirus and 36 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 102 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 21 have recovered. One person has died here. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, 32 have recovered.Ladakh has 41 patients, 17 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported eight cases, five have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur had two coronavirus cases, and those have recovered. Tripura, meanwhile, has 29 cases, two patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-cases-cross-3-000-in-rajasthan-gujarat-nears-6-000-mark/story-cKoTOYOXCu7nBJO9rqj8FN.html
05-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally at 46,433 with 3,900 new cases in 24 hours||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India jumped by 3,900, a fresh record for new cases, that pushed the tally of confirmed infections across the country to 46,433, according to the Union health ministry on Tuesday. The number of fatalities stood at 1,568 after 195 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. At the same time, 1,020 people also recovered from the deadly respiratory disease, the Union ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard showed at 8am.There are 12,726 people who have been cured or discharged from hospitals so far.The jump in new cases and deaths came a day after curbs were eased significantly for the first time since the nationwide lockdown was clamped on March 25 to slow the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.Globally, more than 3.5 million have been infected and 251,510 people have died due to Covid-19, according to the dashboard by Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-at-46-433-with-3-900-new-cases-in-24-hours/story-PgjuQtBtp0ou1tsP8OuEdI.html
05-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: We’ve to learn to live with Covid-19, says Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘We’ve to learn to live with Covid-19’: Delhi deputy CM Manish SisodiaDelhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia spoke to HT about the social and economic costs of the national lockdown during the coronavirus pandemic, the importance of reviving the city’s economy, and learning to live with the “new normal”.Read MoreWant booze, pay more in Delhi: All you need to know about ‘special corona fee’The Delhi government has said it will charge a “special corona fee” on sale of alcohol from Tuesday, a day after liquor shops were opened in the national capital after more than a month.Read MoreUS panel wants Pakistan to be re-designated for religious freedom violationsThe US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) has said that religious freedom is severely restricted in Pakistan and slammed the country for doing nothing about it.Read MoreNose-diving salaries the new normal for athletes worldwideThe Covid-19 pandemic has caused a global economic crisis which will affect investment in sport. It has also indefinitely jettisoned major sport events leading to a world of reduced pay and furloughs.Read MoreImtiaz Ali shares video of Rishi Kapoor dancing at his brother’s wedding in KashmirFilmmaker Imtiaz Ali has shared a throwback video of late actor Rishi Kapoor dancing at the former’s brother’s wedding in Kashmir. Rishi died last week on Thursday after a two-year long battle with leukaemia.Read MoreGoogle wants you to play Mexican Bingo in new doodle gameGoogle in the past couple of weeks has been showing some of its most popular doodle games to keep its users entertained during the Covid-19 lockdown. And this time it wants you to play Mexican Bingo!Read MoreWorld Asthma Day 2020: The importance of awareness and precautionAsthma, a chronic disease of the lungs causing breathing problems affects about 1.5 to 2 crore people around the world. As per the WHO, about 80%of asthma deaths occur in low and lower-middle-income countries.At least 1 in every 10 asthma patients live in India. The World Asthma Day for the first time in 1998. Since then, 5th May is observed as the World Asthma Day every year.Read MoreOpening liquor shops: Tax revenues vs saving lives l HT DebatesAs lockdown 3.0 kicked in, standalone liquor shops opened their shutters. Across the country, people queued up, with little regard for social distancing norms. While the decision to open liquor shops was taken with a view to help state exchequers, the overcrowding at the shops seemed to defeat the purpose of the extended lockdown. Hindustan Times editors decode the government’s dilemma of ensuring tax revenues and ensuring social distancing to curb Covid-19. Watch the video||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-we-ve-to-learn-to-live-with-covid-19-says-delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-and-all-the-latest-news/story-skxPkoa3gnJiCQvMBBsvjL.html
05-05-2020||India||‘Completely surprised, but never obsessed about it’: Abhijit Banerjee on Nobel Prize||Economist Abhijit Banerjee said on Tuesday that he was completely surprised when he got to know that he has been chosen for the Nobel Prize.“There was no premonition, or expectation. I never thought about it, I was completely surprised,” Banerjee said while speaking to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.When asked if he was obsessed about it, Banerjee said, “If you worry about it, you will obsess a lot. And I am good at not obsessing about thing which don’t have any impact on my life.”“I am not saying it was not a big deal, I was saying that you can obsess about it but it’s not like there is a process for it understood by anybody. So, anything can happen,” he added.This was part of the conversation that Gandhi was holding with Banerjee on the economic fall out of the Covid-19 crisis, as part of his series of discussion with experts.They discussed the ways in which this crisis can be managed and other disasters can be averted and also highlighted how the relief measures could be planned better.Gandhi held first such talk with Former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Raghuram Rajan during which the latter said that Rs 65,000 crore is required to help the poor affected by the coronavirus-induced lockdown.He also said that unemployment numbers are really worrying and India needs to be “cleverer” about lifting the lockdown.Banerjee, an Indian-American economist, had won the 2019 Nobel Prize in Economics, along with Esther Duflo of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Michael Kremer of Harvard University “for their experimental approach to alleviating global poverty”.He received the Nobel Prize in Economics at a ceremony in Oslo in December last year.Banerjee is only the second Indian to receive the Nobel Prize in economics after Amartya Sen. Born on February 21, 1961, Banerjee was educated at Presidency College, Kolkata, and New Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University from where he obtained his master’s degree in economics. He completed his doctoral studies at Harvard in 1988.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/completely-surprised-but-never-obsessed-about-it-abhijit-banerjee-on-nobel-prize/story-cwRIz6JrYAoe9p2bXxkTWM.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Telangana to run 40 trains a day for a week from today to ferry migrant workers||The railways will run 40 special trains form Telangana to various destinations to ferry migrant labourers to their respective native places during the Covid-19 lockdown. The decision has been taken at the request of Telangana government.Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) on Monday night instructed officials to organise travel of migrant labours on behalf of the state government.The trains would run from various stations in Hyderabad, apart from Warangal, Khammam, Damaracharla and other places in the state. They would go to Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal and other states, an official release said.“The chief minister spoke to South Central Railway general manager Gajanan Mallya and requested him to arrange for 40 special trains from Tuesday,” the release said.At a meeting on Monday, KCR discussed at length the problems faced by the migrant workers and their growing impatience over the extended lockdown. Thousands of migrant workers from various states have been making attempts to leave for their native place, despite lockdown restrictions.After the Railway authorities operated a one-off special train from Lingampallin on the outskirts of Hyderabad to Hatia in Jharkhand for 1,200 migrant workers last week, demands have been pouring in from other migrant labourers for similar arrangements.The Telangana government appointed senior IAS officer Sandeep Sultania and senior IPS officer Jitendra as special officers to oversee the travel of migrant workers to their native States.“Migrant workers who have already registered their names with the local police stations to leave for their native places, would be allowed to travel by the special trains. The details of the travel will be given at the police stations,” the official release said.KCR appealed to the migrant labourers to not feel anxious as the government had made arrangements for their travel to their native destinations. He instructed the police officers concerned to inform the migrant workers about the travel details and coordinate with them.Meanwhile, the Telangana cabinet will meet on Tuesday to take a call on the extension of lockdown till May 17, as decided by the Centre, or even beyond. It would also discuss on the relaxations given by the Centre to various sectors in the green and orange zones.The health department officials told KCR that most of the Covid-19 positive cases and deaths were more in Hyderabad and its neighbouring three districts of Ranga Reddy, Medchal and Vikarabad and hence there was a need to further tighten and implement lockdown in these districts.So far, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Telangana is 1,085 of which 585 persons have been discharged, 29 died and 471 are under treatment. Of the total cases, 717 (66.08 per cent) belong to these four districts and among those dead, 82.21 per cent belongs to these four districts. For the past 10 days, the highest number of cases reported from these districts only, officials said.The officials requested the chief minister to not give any relaxations in these districts. “Continue lockdown as it is, if need be, more strictly,” they said.They said the cases in other districts have decreased and the number of containment zones has also been reduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-telangana-to-run-40-trains-a-day-for-a-week-from-today-to-ferry-migrant-workers/story-OBBoMJppMw4DtegfCNGJyL.html
05-05-2020||India||Puri Rath Yatra chariots’ construction to begin amid lockdown||The Jagannath Temple Managing Committee has decided to allow the construction of the three chariots displayed during the world-famous Rath Yatra in Odisha’s Puri even as there is uncertainty if the Car Festival will be allowed to take place this year amid the coronavirus outbreak.“It is not a religious function, but a construction activity, which is allowed in all Covid-19 zones. We will ensure adherence to all guidelines and health safety measures while building the chariots at ‘Rahta Khala’ (the open area on either side of the Grand Road in Puri),” said Puri king Gajapati Dibyasinghdev, who heads the managing committee of the 12th century temple.The Rath Yatra, scheduled on June 23, is the most important festival in Odisha attended by over million devotees who throng Puri town for the 10-day long festival. The temple doors have been shut since March 20 due to the pandemic. Only day-to-day rituals are being done by the temple priests.The temple managing committee, which met on Monday via videoconferencing, decided that if the lockdown is further extended and Rath Yatra cancelled, the logs of the chariots can be taken apart and used in the temple kitchen for preparation of the Mahaprasad.“The committee will decide on whether or not to hold Rath Yatra once the restrictions are lifted on May 17. A decision on Snana Yatra of the lords (when the three deities are bathed) will also be taken in the next meeting,” Dibyasinghdev said.If the car festival is not held this year, it would be the first time in the last 284 years when it could not be held. In the 425 years of the car festival, the event has been scrapped 32 times, mostly during invasion. It was scrapped for the first time in 1568 when Kala Pahad alias Kala Chand Roy, a general of Bengal king Suleiman Kirrani attacked the temple and pillaged the deities. The last time it could not be held was between 1733 and 1735 when Mohammed Taqi Khan, deputy governor of Odisha, attacked the Jagannath temple, forcing the shifting of the idols to Ganjam district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puri-rath-yatra-chariots-construction-to-begin-amid-lockdown/story-kwXu8OhNE1Kl5s3Gp1G43I.html
05-05-2020||India||Lockdown: In video, Bengal cop in uniform seen outside shop to buy liquor||On Monday, the first day of lockdown 3.0 when West Bengal allowed stand alone liquor shops to open for business as some restrictions were eased during the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, a state police officer made news but for all the wrong reasons. Wearing his uniform, the officer was seen standing in a queue with a nylon bag in his hands outside a liquor store in Berhampore in Murshidabad district in a video widely shared on social media.The incident took place around 4.30 pm in the Haridasmati area.The identity of the police officer, who was wearing the uniform of a sub-inspector, could not be ascertained as he had a helmet on that covered his face Some buyers alleged that the man tried to break the line, violating social distancing norms. When some local people and journalists asked him to reveal his identity, the man quickly rode off on a motorcycle.The police officer was present outside the shop for around 10 minutes during which time he was caught on camera by some of the people, including journalists, and the video was later widely shared.The owner of the shop, who did not want to be identified, said, “I opened the shop after 4.30 pm as the state excise department order was issued late in the day. I did not see who all were standing in the queue.”The superintendent of police (SP) Murshidabad police district, Sabari Rajkumar, said, “I am not aware of the incident.”Another senior officer who did not want to be identified said, “It is not desirable that a police officer in uniform should be seen buying liquor. We have seen the photos circulating on social media. Disciplinary action may be initiated if we manage to identify him.”Mugen Chaw, the assistant superintendent of Berhampore excise circle, said, “We have allowed some liquor shops in this circle to do business. We have given strict instructions that every buyer will have to maintain social distancing norms.”Stand alone liquor shops in West Bengal have been allowed to open between 12 noon and 7 PM during the third phase of nationwide lockdown in force till May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-in-video-bengal-cop-in-uniform-seen-outside-shop-to-buy-liquor/story-2xFvWl63zZTU5GjmO6uxUO.html
05-05-2020||India||West Bengal NGOs want Centre’s help in tackling trafficking during Covid-19 lockdown||Non-government organizations (NGOs) trying to stop child trafficking in north Bengal districts want the Centre to form an inter-ministerial team to trace missing children as the countrywide lockdown has made movement impossible.Rate of child and woman trafficking is quite high in north Bengal districts that are close to Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh.According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), West Bengal registered the second highest number of missing children in 2016, 2017 and 2018 while Madhya Pradesh topped the list.According to NCRB, 63,407, 63,349 and 67,134 children went missing in the country in 2016, 2017 and 2018 respectively. In West Bengal, the figures were 8,335, 8,178 and 8,205 for the corresponding years.Amit Sarkar, general secretary, Darjeeling District Legal Aid Forum (DDLAF) said, “The Covid-19 outbreak has stopped rescue operations conducted by different agencies. We are especially concerned about the missing children from Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts.”Sarkar said, “Though the number of missing children is much higher, around 100 missing diaries were lodged in different police stations after 2018. The effort to trace some of them were on when the lockdown was declared.”On April 27, DDLAF wrote to the National Legal Services Authority (NLSA) and demanded formation of a ‘Special Combat Team’.Sarkar said, “Though the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Children (WBCPC) has taken cognizance of a complaint lodged by DDLAF the state machinery moves slowly.” “The lockdown has also affected the income of local people. Hence, families of most of the missing children are not being able to pursue these cases,” said Sarkar.Rangu Souriya, secretary of Kanchanjunga Uddhar Kendra (KUK), which has rescued more than a thousand girls and women, said, “Preparing strategies to prevent trafficking and tracing the missing children during the lockdown is a must.”Raju Nepali, founder of Dooars Express Mail, an NGO that rescues trafficked children, said, “There is not a single police station in Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts where complaints have not been lodged. Most of the children come from poor families. Many cases are never reported.”Rabindranath Ghosh, senior Trinamool Congress leader and north Bengal affairs minister, said, “The NGOs have given a good proposal. Efforts should be made to trace the missing children.”The NGOs also fear that the missing children may contract the infection as their abductors may not be exercising social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-ngos-want-centre-s-help-in-tackling-trafficking-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-kyYElBHaOhhcnq9DZmFsQP.html
05-05-2020||India||Chaos over liquor, row over migrants rail fare: Covid-19 news today||Covid-19 cases in India grew by 3,861 cases on Monday with the total count of infections crossing 46,000. The fresh record for new cases came on the day India eased lockdown rules and allowed the resumption of several activities. With liquor shops reopening, thousands across the country lined up outside such stores, triggering chaos and flouting social-distancing rules.Bustle, chaos as Lockdown 3.0 beginsA degree of chaos and confusion prevailed on the first day of India’s lockdown 3.0 — this is the third extension of the national lockdown to slow the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, but with substantial relaxations in restrictions — with several citizens violating social distancing norms and authorities struggling to enforce a complex set of regulations across the country on Monday.Read MoreRow over migrants’ rail fare as Congress offers to foot the bill A fierce political war broke out over the issue of train fare for the migrant workers returning home, with the Congress declaring that the party and its state committees would pay the fare to enable workers to return and accusing the Centre of being insensitive to their plight. The Union government and the BJP said that the railways was bearing 85% of the fare cost, and state governments had to pay 15%, thus allowing migrants to go back home free of cost.Read MoreWith 3,861 new cases, Covid-19 count crosses 46,000-markThe number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India grew by 3,861 on Monday, a fresh record for new cases that pushed the nationwide tally of confirmed infections across the country to over 46,000. For the first time, the number of deaths in a single day was in the triple digits as 101 new fatalities took the total toll to 1,494.Read MoreCovid-19: What you need to know todayMonday, the first day of lockdown 3.0, was chaotic, and while much of it was because of the crowds outside liquor stores, not all was. There were far too many vehicles on the roads, and far too many people outside stores. Read MoreAt NAM meet, PM calls for new order of globalisationThe coronavirus disease crisis has exposed the limitations of the existing international system and the world needs a new framework of globalisation and international institutions that are more representative, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday.Read MoreGovt charts mitigation plan in case containment strategy failsThe Union health ministry is creating a mitigation plan for the scenario when the Covid-19 outbreak cannot be contained, putting together a standard operating procedure (SOP) that focuses on treating the most vulnerable and critical patients in order to reduce deaths.Read MoreFor every 10 deaths, 90 recoveries: Govt The ratio of number of Covid-19 cases recovering in relation to the number of people dying of the viral infection has improved with the current Union health ministry data showing the outcome ratio to be 90:10. So for every 10 deaths, 90 people have recovered from the disease.Read More‘In 10-15 days, we’ll send all migrant labourers back to their home states’: Gujarat CMGujarat chief minister Vi jay Rupani spoke to HT about Ahmedabad emerging as a Covid-19 hot spot, the concerns of migrant workers, and getting the state economy back on track.Read MoreParents wary as children’s screen time increasesThe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak shut down schools indefinitely before many completed their curriculums for the academic year, prompting them to start online lessons in a hurry. Parents are concerned that their children aren’t receiving in-depth education and are spending a little too long in front of the computer or mobile phone screen, questioning how much of a good thing is actually good.Read MoreGovt plans to evacuate Indians stranded abroad from May 7 The government will begin repatriating Indians stranded around the world because of the Covid-19 crisis in phases from May 7, using commercial flights and naval warships to bring back hundreds of thousands of citizens.Read MoreIndia a step closer to making key drug to treat Covid-19The Hyderabad based Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT) has synthesised the key starting materials (KSMs) for Remdesivir, the first step to develop the active pharmaceutical ingredient in a drug.Read MoreOnly 610 cases in 112 aspirational districts, says govt’s empowered panel on Covid-19Niti Aayog chief Amitabh Kant, who is heading an empowered group to strengthen India’s response to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said on Monday that 610 Covid-19 cases were so far reported from 112 most backward districts, which are termed as “aspirational districts” by the government.Read MoreCentre review team pulls up Bengal over ‘discrepancies’ in Covid data An inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) sent to assess West Bengal’s response to Covid-19 has alleged discrepancies in the number of cases reported by the state, pointed to its high mortality rate, and questioned the state government’s claim of having surveyed five million people.Read MoreTension, impatience stretch across containment zones in statesAcross states, in the Covid-19 containment zones, cut off from the rest of their cities, all residents confined indoors and no outsider allowed in. Life wouldn’t have been easy for the residents of these neighbourhoods, which have been under what’s called a hard lockdown -- a state in which a particular area is completely sealed and residents have no freedom of movement -- after a significant number of cases surfaced within their municipal limits.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chaos-over-liquor-row-over-migrants-rail-fare-covid-19-news-today/story-Yw4vTfOXuGo1aLdSQriJSI.html
05-05-2020||India||Three ships sent to evacuate Indians from the Maldives and UAE: Defence Official||India has sent three naval ships to evacuate its citizens stranded in the Maldives and UAE due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a defence spokesperson said in the early hours on Tuesday. INS Jalashwa deployed off Mumbai coast, along with INS Magar, diverted for Maldives on Monday night, he said.While INS Shardul diverted to Dubai to evacuate the expatriates, the spokesperson added.The three ships will return to Kochi, he said.INS Magar and INS Shardul are Southern Naval Command ships, while INS Jalashwa is from Eastern Naval Command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-ships-sent-to-evacuate-indians-from-the-maldives-and-uae-defence-official/story-1VCzdSlpDJQlrZmetWul1O.html
05-05-2020||India||Want booze, pay more in Delhi: All you need to know about ‘special corona fee’||The Delhi government has said it will charge a “special corona fee” on sale of alcohol from Tuesday, a day after liquor shops were opened in the national capital after more than a month.Hundreds of people had lined up outside standalone shops since Monday morning to buy liquor flouting social distancing norms, forcing police to baton charge in some areas and forcing shops to close. The third phase of lockdown began on Monday and will continue until May 17 with some relaxations. Opening of liquor shops was one of them.Here’s all about the “special corona fee”:* In accordance with the latest lockdown relaxations given by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), about 150 government-run liquor shops have been allowed to open from 9am to 6.30pm in Delhi.* The Delhi government’s finance department issued the order late on Monday night.* “70 per cent of the maximum retail price on all categories of liquor sold through retail licensees for consumption off the premises,” the finance department’s order signed by the deputy secretary reads.* “It will be 70% of the MRP (maximum retail price). The new rates will be imposed from Tuesday morning,” the government said in the statement.* So if a liquor bottle with a pre-tax MRP costs Rs 1000, you will now have to pay Rs 1700.* Officials have said the “special corona tax” will help in boosting the revenue, badly hit due to the Covid-19 lockdown.* Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said on Sunday that the government is finding it difficult to pay the salaries due to revenue loss of Rs 3200 crore in April as compared to the previous year.* It can be one of the ways the Delhi government can earn more revenue from liquor sales with lockdown hitting businesses and tax collection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-booze-pay-more-in-delhi-here-s-what-you-need-to-know-about-special-corona-fee/story-3petOdmHsSyMjnoAeyppbI.html
05-05-2020||India||West Bengal Governor, Mamata govt spar again||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday wrote another letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and pointed to a “collapsing health sector” and “politicised public distribution system” in West Bengal and triggered a fresh war of words with the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). He alleged West Bengal was “emerging as a police state” where voices of opposition parties were being muzzled.Dhankhar countered Banerjee’s allegation that he was trying to “usurp power” and said, “People in the state know only too well who in the state is usurper and extra-constitutional fountain of power. Who runs government and syndicates? Who is this ABCD! An open secret! Surely, I am not the person.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, have accused the TMC of running “syndicates”, which loosely refers to groups forcing people to buy products from them. Banerjee earlier replied to Dhankhar in response to the latter’s series of letters and social media posts. Dhankar wrote two letters to Banerjee on April 23 and 24.TMC lawmaker Sudip Banerjee dismissed Dhankar’s charges as “nonsense”. “We would take a call whether to respond to his statements and letters at all. He speaks gibberish. He is merely playing his role in the Centre’s plan to discredit Bengal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-governor-mamata-govt-spar-again/story-OFjyNR2oeB6XYNSbWzpQcO.html
05-05-2020||India||Jawan tests positive, BSF headquarters floors sealed||Two floors of the Border Security Force (BSF) headquarters in Delhi were sealed on Monday after a staff member tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).In a statement, BSF spokesperson Shubendu Bhardwaj said a head constable was found to have contracted the infection on Sunday. He was working in an office on the second floor of the BSF headquarters and last visited the premises on May 1. The statement said the first and second floors of the building have been closed as a precaution.All drills for sanitisation are being undertaken, BSF said, adding that contact-tracing was also underway.BSF added that before the constable tested positive, its headquarters — an eight-storey building in the CGO complex on Lodhi Road in central Delhi — were closed on Friday, and the entire complex was thoroughly sanitised with prescribed solutions of disinfectants.BSF said on Sunday 42 of its personnel have been infected with Covid-19 so far. Of these, 31 belong to a 98-member unit that was deployed with the Delhi Police at the headquarters of Islmaic sect Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin, which emerged as a major hot spot of the infection about a month ago.The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)’s 140-odd personnel were found to have contracted the infection till Sunday. On Sunday, the CRPF headquarters were sealed after a head constable attached to a senior officer tested positive.BSF, with 250,000 personnel, is primarily tasked with guarding the Indian borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh, apart from rendering a variety of duties in the country’s internal security domain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jawan-tests-positive-bsf-headquarters-floors-sealed/story-yRsI9dE9elO93H3s0FjZPL.html
05-05-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi to discuss economy, Covid-19 with Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is set to hold a conversation with Nobel Laureate, Abhijit Banerjee on the economic fall out of the Covid-19 crisis, on Tuesday as part of his series of discussion with experts. Taking to Twitter, Gandhi wrote, “Tomorrow at 9 AM, tune in to watch my conversation with Nobel Laureate, Abhijit Banerjee on dealing with the economic fall out of the #Covid19 crisis. To join the conversation and for regular video updates, subscribe to my YouTube channel.”Tomorrow at 9 AM, tune in to watch my conversation with Nobel Laureate, Abhijit Banerjee on dealing with the economic fall out of the #COVID19 crisis. To join the conversation & for regular video updates, subscribe to my YouTube channel: https://t.co/4WBysSnKTgThe Congress party on Monday tweeted a 1:44-minute clip from the conversation which will be aired tomorrow. In the video, it was stated that they discussed the ways in which this crisis can be managed and other disasters can be averted and they also highlighted how the relief measures could be planned better.Sh. @RahulGandhi in conversation with Nobel Laureate, Prof. Abhijit Banerjee discussing the critical issues of COVID-19 & its economic impact.Please tune in tomorrow at 9 AM to watch this inspiring conversation aimed at providing the way ahead. pic.twitter.com/cNwZ4vY9ByGandhi held first such talk with Former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Raghuram Rajan during which the latter said that Rs 65,000 crore is required to help the poor affected by the coronavirus-induced lockdown.He also said that unemployment numbers are really worrying and India needs to be “cleverer” about lifting the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-discuss-economy-covid-19-with-nobel-laureate-abhijit-banerjee/story-f2Cu0EG8Ah4KfuyV2BoF5K.html
05-05-2020||India||Rajasthan tally crosses 3,000 as Covid-19 cases rise||Rajasthan reported a sharp spike in the number of Covid-19 cases on Monday as 130 people were diagnosed with the disease and took the state’s infection tally to 3,016. The state also reported six Covid-19-related fatalities. Jaipur alone accounted for 1,008 cases in the state until 2pm on Monday.Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh said two fatalities each were reported from Jaipur and Jodhpur. He added 76 new cases were reported from Jodhpur while 15 from Jaipur. The number of Covid-19 cases in Jodhpur has now risen to 708.As many as 11 cases were reported from Pali, 19 from Chittorgarh, three from Kota, two from Rajsamand, and one each from Udaipur Dholpur and Bikaner. Singh said 1,394 patients have so far recovered and have been discharged from different hospitals in the state.Meanwhile, state health minister Raghu Sharma on Monday launched a web portal for health tele-consultancy services. He said though medical institutions are open, those seeking counselling from homes can avail the service through esanjeevaniopd.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-tally-crosses-3-000-as-covid-19-cases-rise/story-kakgNb4ISiuS6OCLULxAvN.html
05-05-2020||India||UP legislator, 12 aides booked for violating lockdown curbs||Uttar Pradesh MLA Amanmani Tripathi and 12 of his associates were arrested in Rishikesh for allegedly violating lockdown restrictions and let off subsequently on bail, officials said on Monday.The Uttar Pradesh government sought to distance itself from the incident, saying the Independent MLA was neither authorised by chief minister Yogi Adityanath nor by the state government to visit Uttarakhand.“On Sunday, Tripathi, along with his supporters, was stopped by policemen at Gauchar area ,” said a senior police officer. “They had a pass for 9 people but were 12, that too in three cars when only two passengers along with a driver are allowed,” said Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-legislator-12-aides-booked-for-violating-lockdown-curbs/story-kGOIamGr9Rf2u1avI3OwhO.html
05-05-2020||India||What’s the right measure of the impact of Covid-19?||On May 3, the day bridging the second and third phases of the lockdown, where did the different states of India stand with regard to deaths resulting from Covid-19? How do we decide which states are doing better?Usually, media reports mention the total number of deaths, but these are not adjusted for the size or the age structure of the population.That makes comparison between states difficult. A different number which stands out even more prominently in the reports is the Case Fatality Ratio (CFR), which refers to the deaths as a percentage of the cases diagnosed.Which is the number that provides a better comparison of the states?CFR has a clearly identifiable numerator: deaths attributed to Covid-19. The denominator can be very variable, based on the number of persons who tested positive for the virus and thus classified as cases. That, in turn, depends on the number of tests performed.All who are tested for the virus will not be positive, but more the number of tests performed, higher the total number of persons detected, even if the fraction of positive tests remains constant. Quite often, when large numbers are tested, more mild cases turn up among the positives and they are less likely to die. So, a high testing rate, with more cases detected and a greater proportion of milder cases, will lower the estimate of CFR. A lower testing rate, with tests usually reserved for the more severe cases, will yield a smaller denominator of cases and, therefore, a higher CFR. South Korea, which tested liberally, including several asymptomatic persons, had a low CFR because of the large number and lower composite risk profile of the cases included in the denominator.On the other hand, total deaths in any state are a clearly defined number at any given time, assuming that deaths are being correctly classified as Covid or non-Covid. However, the absolute number of deaths will also vary between states according to the size of their populations. If we standardise that measure and estimate deaths per one million population, we can compare different states more meaningfully. This figure yields a better picture of a state’s overall performance against the virus, capturing the benefit from the population level containment strategy as well as the clinical case management impact. It is this broadband package of public health and clinical interventions that has a combined effect on lowering deaths in any state. On the other hand, CFR usually gives us information only about the clinical treatment benefit. Only when we get a measure of all cases infected in a population -- severe, mild and asymptomatic included -- do we get an Infection Fatality Ratio (IFR), which invariably is lower than CFR.The two statistics (CFR and deaths per million) also give very different pictures about the states (Charts 1 and 2). If we look at CFR, Delhi (1.6 ) looks better than Punjab (2.6) or Jharkhand (2.6), which have lower testing rates. On the other hand, Punjab has far fewer deaths per million population (0.63) than Delhi (3.14). Jharkhand is even better (0.08 deaths per million). Where would you rather be today? Meghalaya looks terrible on CFR but is very well placed when the actual death rate in the population is considered. Odisha and Kerala do well in both, while Maharashtra and Gujarat stay high in both while minimally changing places .Statistics can be appealing or appalling, depending on how they are presented. The purpose of each statistic differs from another and the choice, of which to use when, is driven by the nature of assessment we wish to make. If performance of hospitals is being compared, CFR matters. If the overall state of the epidemic is being assessed, deaths per million is the statistic that tells us whether a state is in a safer zone than another. It is important that all of us -- policymakers, media and the public -- understand these measures and their distinctions so that we can soon get the measure of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-s-the-right-measure-of-the-impact-of-covid-19/story-qZMBpUKntbE5fDdUuqA4MK.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Life returned to normal with long queues outside liquor shops in most parts of the country, which is as understandable as it was avoidable. There have been many I-need-a-drink moments in the past 40 days. And there will be many more in the next two weeks, perhaps even after.One such was on Monday, with the release of the Nikkei Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index by IHS Markit. This is essentially a measure of manufacturing activity, and, not surprisingly, it fell sharply in April to 27.4, the lowest since the data started being tracked 15 years ago. It’s also the first time the index has entered contraction zone in almost 11 quarters. A reading above 50 indicates expansion, and one below that contraction. And IHS Markit’s release spoke of both supply- and demand-side disruptions, and a loss of jobs — which doesn’t make for a pretty picture (see page 11).Monday was chaotic, and while much of it was because of the crowds outside liquor stores, not all was. There were far too many vehicles on the roads, and far too many people outside stores. For 40 days, everyone has been waiting to exhale, but this huge collective exhalation may end up being counterproductive to India’s efforts to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease. After all, we know the connection between exhalation and the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19.And this is the situation during a graded exit; technically, the lockdown is still on till May 17. The mind boggles at what might’ve been had the government announced a complete exit from the lockdown on May 3 as some were demanding it do. If the phased exit, and the full one that will follow, are to work, then it will require people to be disciplined and follow the rules. India doesn’t have the luxury of waiting for the number of Covid-19 cases to begin to fall before opening up.By late morning on Monday, in Delhi, the angry noise of impatient car horns replaced the birdsong that has been in full play (it’s also the breeding season for many birds) for the past 40 days. By early afternoon, though, at least some of the liquor stores were shut down by local authorities (the district magistrates), citing overcrowding, absence of social distancing, and the fact that not everyone in the queues was wearing a mask (see page 2).In some ways, the PMI data and the unruly crowds outside liquor stores represent the dilemma before the government. It cannot afford to continue with the lockdown because the cure was beginning to hurt almost as much as the disease. India is yet to calculate the economic impact of zero sales for many products, tens of thousands of small businesses collapsing, millions of lost jobs, tens of millions of people pushed back into the same poverty from which they had successfully clawed their way out barely a few years ago — but it is certain to be high.No country should have to make the choice between lives and livelihoods — the reason why the understanding of Article 21 of the Constitution which guarantees the right to life has grown to include livelihoods — but this is one of the trade-offs countries are having to make in their policy response to the pandemic. As this column has pointed out, Sweden, with roughly double the number of deaths as India, but with only half the number of cases, sees its own response, of not locking down, as a success -- an opinion this writer doesn’t share.The importance of protecting both is why a relief and stimulus package for businesses is necessary. It was expected that India would announce one in late March. It’s early May and we are still waiting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-AWbAFNibHiWPzfpYFhuU6K.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19 cases rise among BSF personnel, 67 now infected||Sixty seven personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) have so far tested positive for Covid-19, the organisation said in a statement Monday night.Out of the 67 cases, 24 are from Tripura from where 13 more positive results were reported Monday of samples taken from people from a BSF campus.They include 10 BSF personnel and three family members 03 (wife and two kids) of a BSF trooper who had tested positive on Sunday.In Delhi, 41 BSF personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 while one trooper Kolkata is the only positive case in that city so far.The BSF said that another personnel, while on leave has also been detected Covid-19. He is admitted in the hospital in his home town. It did not mention the place.Two floors of the BSF headquarters in Delhi were sealed on Monday after a staff member tested positive for Covid-19.The BSF, one of India’s seven central armed police forces is still better off than the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) which has reported 135 positive cases in a battalion in Delhi over the last few days.The Covid-19 cases among the police forces have set alarm bells ringing in the ministry of home affairs (MHA) which is responsible for the internal security of the country.On Sunday, the MHA asked chief secretaries, director generals of police (DGPs) of all states and heads of central paramilitary forces to “prepare a second line of defence” in police to make up for those who may be rendered ineffective due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-rise-among-bsf-personnel-67-now-infected/story-aJ2gZG64GTJiNwl6BuVMIJ.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Amid e-learning push, parents wary as children’s screen time increases||Rishabh Saxena, a Class 9 student of a south Delhi school, wakes up around 7am and, an hour later, plonks himself in front of the computer. He is in front of the screen until noon, attending one online class after another. Every evening, Rishabh spends up to three hours more on the computer to complete his class assignments.The daily routine of Shashwat Vinayak, a Class 10 student of another south Delhi school, isn’t much different. Face-to-face teaching, he says, helps students understand their lessons better, and is sorry that he and his peers have to spend so much time learning lessons online.Rishabh and Shashwant can’t help it. The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak shut down schools indefinitely before many completed their curriculums for the academic year, prompting them to start online lessons in a hurry. Parents are concerned that their children aren’t receiving in-depth education and are spending a little too long in front of the computer or mobile phone screen, questioning how much of a good thing is actually good. Ekta Saxena, Rishabh’s mother, says her son’s generation anyway tends to be glued to multiple screens, and it isn’t clear how healthy it is for children to sit for so long in front of the computer daily. “Will such a lifestyle lead to lethargy setting in? We are absolutely concerned about what the long-term impact of this new kind of lifestyle and teaching can be,” she said.Many parents are hoping that this is a temporary phenomenon that will fade with the lifting of the lockdown and the reopening of schools. But some say that online education is set to become the new normal in a post-Covid world.“Increased screen time can cause increased sedentary behaviour in children and teens, decreased metabolism, disturbance in sleep cycle, more distractibility and perhaps lower well- being,” said Dr Kanika Ahuja, who teaches psychology at Delhi’s Lady Shri Ram College. “The key question is how much is too much? We have no clear answers. There is an urgent need for research in India considering that a large part of education will be shifted online for at least 1-2 years.” Over the past two decades, several studies have linked too much of screen time with social isolation and depression, but newer studies say the link is tenuous.“The association we find between digital technology use and adolescent well-being is negative but small, explaining at most 0.4% of the variation in well-being. Taking the broader context of the data into account suggests that these effects are too small to warrant policy change,” according to a study on the association between adolescent well-being and digital technology use by researchers at the University of Oxford published in the journal, Nature Human Behaviour, in January 2019.Rajesh Sagar, professor, department of psychiatry, All India Institute Of Medical Sciences-Delhi, said ideally children below two years of age should not be exposed to gadgets. “And children above two should not be staring at a computer screen for more than 30 minutes in one go,” he said, adding that they should take breaks every half-an-hour in case they need to sit longer. PM Narendra Modi warned students against addiction to electronic gadgets earlier this year. In his Pareeksha pe Charcha (discussion on examinations) interaction with students in January, Modi said, “I’m all for using technology to advance our lives but let’s not allow ourselves to be enslaved by technology,” the PM said.A senior official at the ministry of human resource development, said the online effort is meant to ensure that the academic calendar is rolled out and the school session remains on track. Based on feedback, the ministry will take steps to address any emerging concerns||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-amid-e-learning-push-parents-wary-as-children-s-screen-time-increases/story-ejsLGZz5EiZCLxjThu2H3M.html
05-05-2020||India||3 CRPF soldiers killed in Kupwara encounter||Three CRPF personnel were killed and two others injured when militants opened fire at them during a patrol in Kashmir’s Kupwara district, officials said on Monday. The incident comes just a day after five security personnel, including two Army officers, lost their lives during an encounter in the district’s Handwara. On Monday, militants opened fire at the Central Reserve Police Force soldiers in Kralgund area of the north Kashmir district. Officials said the three CRPF jawans were killed on the spot. A brief shootout ensued as the CRPF personnel opened retaliatory firing. The body of an unidentified 15-year-old civilian was also recovered from the attack site . Jammu and Kashmir police, CRPF and the army have launched a search operation in the area to track down the militants involved in the attack.“The operation is still underway,” a CRPF spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-crpf-soldiers-killed-in-kupwara-encounter/story-MeWrqguoUYI73KISmmcjeL.html
05-05-2020||India||Army chief pledges precise response to Handwara killings||Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Monday said Pakistan was pushing terrorists into Jammu and Kashmir under its “myopic and limited” agenda even during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, and warned that India will respond appropriately and with “precision” to state-sponsored terrorism.The chief’s comments came two days after five security personnel, including a colonel and a major, were killed in an encounter in north Kashmir’s Handwara.“I would like to emphasise that Indian Army will give proportionate response to all acts of infringement of ceasefire and its (Pakistan’s) support to terrorism. The onus remains with Pakistan to bring peace in the region. Unless Pakistan gives up its policy of state-sponsored terrorism, we will continue to respond appropriately and with precision,” news agency PTI quoted the army chief as saying in an interview.There has been an unusual spike in ceasefire violations by the Pakistan Army at the Line of Control (LoC) this year to help infiltrators sneak into Jammu and Kashmir compared to border violations over recent years. The neighbouring army has violated the ceasefire about 1,400 times already this year. Violations by the Pakistan Army numbered 3,168 in 2019 and 1,629 in 2018.The army chief reiterated that the infiltration attempts by Pakistan along the LoC clearly indicated that the neighbouring army was not interested in battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and was pursuing “its own myopic and limited agenda of pushing terrorists inside India”.On the Handwara encounter, Naravane said the country was proud of Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, the commanding officer of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles battalion, and the four other security personnel who lost their lives while saving civilians from terrorists. A group of terrorists held civilian hostages inside a house at Changimulla village in the Rajwar forest when a five-man joint army-police team, led by Colonel Sharma, swung into action to rescue the hostages on Saturday. Sharma’s team was able to extricate the hostages but at the cost of their own lives.“Even in the hinterland, Pakistan-backed terrorists are resorting to targeting innocent civilians with an aim to coerce them into following their azadi narrative. Pakistan claims to be a friend of Kashmiris; I want to ask what sort of friend resorts to killing and spreads terror,” the PTI report quoted Naravane as saying.As reported by Hindustan Times on May 2, the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic has not affected counter-insurgency operations in J&K. Instead, these operations have intensified and resulted in the killing of the highest number of terrorists belonging to different Pakistan-based outfits in April. On the implementation of recommendations of the anti-terror watchdog Financial Action Task Force by Pakistan, the army chief said Islamabad had made superficial changes to its “non-existent checks” on terror financing and money laundering. “It still continues to employ proxies to inflict terror and violence not only inside India but also in Afghanistan, where it supports the Taliban militarily and financially,” the army chief said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-pledges-precise-response-to-handwara-killings/story-aHl2IGejU0xvpX4iSVLqIJ.html
05-05-2020||India||Odisha Police book 7 for TikTok video shot inside quarantine centre||A day after 150 migrant workers fled from a quarantine centre in Ganjam district of Odisha, the state police on Monday booked seven inmates of a government quarantine centre in Bhadrak district for making a TikTok video violating social distancing norms.Police officials said the migrant workers from Kolkata kept in a quarantine centre in Tihidi High School under Bhatapada grampanchayat of Bhadrak district had shot the video while dancing to a popular Hindi song on Sunday. After the video went viral, sarpanch of Bhatapada, Swarnamayee Jena lodged a FIR against them under sections 188/269/270 of IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act for violating social distancing norms in the quarantine centre.The sarpanch alleged that the quarantined people wanted to leave the centre after testing negative in the first Covid-19 test. However, they were urged to stay in the facility for the stipulated 14 days.In another instance of violation of quarantine norms, 22 migrant workers who had arrived in Bhadrak district from Surat by bus went to their homes instead of going to the quarantine centre at Bhandaripokhari ITI. The migrant workers reportedly disembarked from their bus a few miles before their quarantine centre and escaped.The twin incidents coming within a day after 150 migrant workers of Ganjam ran away from the quarantine centre has increased concerns for the Naveen Patnaik-led government that is bracing for the return of about 6 lakh migrant workers from different states. With more than 58 of the 8800-odd migrant workers testing positive, Odisha officials said migrants jumping quarantine may lead to community transmission if not stopped. On Monday, 7 positive Covid-19 cases were reported, six of whom were migrant returnees from Kolkata.Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik took to Twitter to appeal to the migrant workers to stay put in the quarantine centres.“As far as the Covid-19 situation is concerned, Odisha is doing quite well to contain it. But to achieve this success, a lot of Odias have gone out of their way and comfort zones. They have sacrificed a lot to keep the people of Odisha safe from coronavirus. Those who are returning to Odisha should show similar conviction and discharge their duty with utmost sincerity,” said Patnaik, adding that the sarpanch of the gram panchayats should inform the authorities on any quarantine violation, so that strict action can be initiated against the accused.Warning the violators, Odisha DGP Abhay said any conduct endangering safety of others will be strongly dealt with as per law. “Our hospitality for returnees does not mean leniency towards negligence. I appeal to all returnees to follow the laid down norms while in quarantine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-police-book-7-for-tiktok-video-shot-inside-quarantine-centre/story-c2EYxFkXRV8GBd0tjQs0lM.html
05-05-2020||India||Bengal govt finds ‘missing Covid-19 data’ after IMCT letter questions mismatch||On a day the inter-ministerial central team sent a letter to the state government questioning the mismatch in its data related to Covid-19, the Mamata Banerjee-led administration claimed to have found all ‘missing data’, while admitting that there were gaps in data that was being released by the government every day. “There was an issue of missing data which is why there were some gaps. All missing data have been retrieved. Now we are in a position to share all this data every day,” Rajiva Sinha, chief secretary of West Bengal said on Monday.A major controversy had erupted after state health secretary Vivek Kumar’s letter to union health secretary Preeti Sudan put the total number of people testing positive for Covid-19 in the state at 931 as of April 30, whereas the state administration’s data shared with journalists till that day added up to 816.However, the data shared by the state on Monday supports neither figure. The government said that the total number of patients testing positive stood at 1,259 on Monday, with 229 new cases between May 1 and May 4, which put the figure as of April 30 at 1,030.“There were gaps in data which was triggering confusion. We found that the data reporting structure was highly complicated and some data was not being registered at all. It was not deliberate. We have improved. We searched all data over the weekend and compiled everything so that there is no missing data,” Sinha added.As a result, while the state government’s data so long showed fewer numbers of cases than in the data shared by the union health ministry, Bengal’s Monday’s data stood well above what has been shared by the union health ministry.The government on Monday said of the total 1,259 Covid-19 cases, 908 were active cases, 218 people had recovered and been discharged from hospitals, 61 people died of Covid-19 and another 72 died of ‘co-morbidity’. “Bengal is turning out to be India’s Covid-19 hub. The state government’s mismanagement led to this situation. Without IMCT’s intervention, we would have never known the real picture regarding the number of deaths and persons infected,” BJP state unit president Dilip Ghosh alleged on Monday.The IMCT for south Bengal, before leaving the state for Delhi, sent a letter to the chief secretary on Monday accusing the state of fudging Covid-19 related data and suppressing facts. The team, which was in Bengal since April 20, will submit its report to the ministry of home affairs soon. The number of containment zones in the state has shot up from 444 on April 30 to 516 on May 4. Kolkata, with 318 such areas, has the highest number of containment zones.Meanwhile, the bulletin published by the state on Monday showed that only four districts have been tagged as Red Zones in Bengal. On April 30, the union health ministry had released a list which said that Bengal has ten Red Zones.The state’s ruling party Trinamool Congress (TMC) targeted BJP for politicizing an administrative issue. On social media, Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and TMC youth wing chief Abhishek Banerjee wrote, “In their desperation to score cheap political points, those who are misrepresenting facts and maligning Bengal even daring to call Bengal - ‘Wuhan of India’ should look at facts: % +ve per million: 14, rank 16th, Total Cases: 1259, rank 9th, Active cases: 908, rank 10th.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-finds-missing-covid-19-data-after-imct-letter-questions-mismatch/story-0iatsiCmfeQhvpEsdNW7cO.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Row over migrants’ rail fare as Congress offers to foot the bill||A fierce political war broke out over the issue of train fare for the migrant workers returning home, with the Congress declaring that the party and its state committees would pay the fare to enable workers to return and accusing the Centre of being insensitive to their plight. The Union government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), for their part, claimed that railways was bearing 85% of the fare cost, and state governments had to pay 15%, thus allowing migrants to go back home free of cost. While the government also claimed it had never spoken of charging stranded migrants, and said the onus rested on state governments, the Opposition rebutted the assertion, citing government orders which asked state governments to collect fares from migrants and hand them over to railways. Experts pointed out that Indian Railways does provide an in-built subsidy for train journeys, which is the highest in sleeper class, the mode of travel in special trains, but also underlined that the government had to incur higher expenditure because of additional costs currently. The controversy involves an estimated 10 million migrant workers stranded after the sudden imposition of a lockdown on March 25. Many of them lost their jobs because of the lockdown and the suspension of all economic activities aimed at halting the spread of the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In the absence of public transport, many tried to walk back home but were turned back at state borders and housed in shelters run by the government and non governmental organisations. Last week, the union government finally released a protocol for their movement by bus. Soon after, Indian Railways announced it would run special trains for them.When the special trains first began operating on Friday, stranded migrants travelling from Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat, Karnataka and some other states were charged rail fares for their journey back home. On Monday, officials said states including Rajasthan, Telangana and Gujarat were paying for the tickets, even as the BJP said that its government in Madhya Pradesh was also bearing the expense.On Monday morning, Congress president Sonia Gandhi led the charge against the government, saying the current plight of migrant workers and their desperate attempts to return home was the biggest human tragedy since the Partition. Gandhi said that even today, as workers were languishing in different parts of the country, wishing to return, there was neither enough money nor provisions for free transport. “What is particularly disturbing is that the Central government and the rail ministry are charging them for train tickets in this hour of crisis.” Gandhi asked why was it that when the government could spend Rs 100 crore on a single event – in what appeared to be a reference to the Namaste Trump event to honour United States President Donald Trump during his India visit in February – and the railways could donate Rs 151 crore to the PM-Cares fund, “essential members of the nation’s fabric” were not offered the basic courtesy of free rail travel? The Congress president said that in this backdrop, the party had decided every state committee would “bear the cost of rail travel of every needy worker and migrant labourer”. This would be its “humble contribution”. The decision came in the wake of Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar, on Sunday, offering Rs 1 crore to the state-run transport service as the cost towards sending the stranded workers back home from Bengaluru and other parts of the state.The government, however, rejected the allegations. At a regular press briefing, health ministry joint secretary Lav Agrawal, said that based on the request given from states for particular cases, permission was given to run special trains. “Be it government of India or the railways, we have not talked about charging from workers. 85% of the transportation cost is borne by the railways, while states have to bear 15 of the cost,” he told reporters. The BJP also countered the Congress. Party spokesperson Sambit Patra, in a tweet to Congress Member of Parliament, Rahul Gandhi, said, “I have attached guidelines of MHA which clearly state that ‘No tickets to be sold at any station’. Railways has subsidised 85% & state govt to pay 15%. The state govt can pay for the tickets (Madhya Pradesh’s BJP govt is paying). Ask Cong state govts to follow suit.” The party’s information technology cell chief Amit Malviya claimed that the Congress was “obviously upset” at how well India had handled Covid. “They would have ideally wanted a lot more people to suffer and die. Promoting indiscriminate movement of people would lead to faster spread of infection, just like we saw in Italy. Is this what Sonia Gandhi wants?” he asked. Congress leaders KC Venugopal and Randeep Singh Surjewala, however, read out a May 2 circular by the railways ministry stating that state governments will pay the entire amount to the railways after collecting the ticket fares from migrant workers. At the heart of the controversy are two separate points. The first is whether the government placed the onus on state governments or migrant workers to pay the fare; the second is the government’s claim of taking care of 85% of the cost. Both these arguments come in the wake of a series of decisions and clarifications by the government over the past week. On Wednesday, on the 36th day of the lockdown, the Centre allowed movement of stranded migrants and students through buses. Amid demands by states and in recognition of the logistical challenges involved in transporting millions of workers, the home ministry, on Friday, also allowed the movement of migrants by special trains to be deployed at the request of the state governments. The ministry of railways, on the same day, announced it had decided to charge for tickets for operating special trains for stranded migrant workers amid the coronavirus lockdown. The fare includes the price of regular sleeper class tickets plus superfast charges of Rs 30 and an additional charge of Rs 20.“This includes meals and drinking water for long-distance trains. State governments will coordinate and can pay on passengers’ behalf,” the ministry clarified. On Saturday, the rail ministry issued a standard operating procedure on movement of passengers. The railways would print train tickets to specified destinations on the basis of the number of passengers indicated by an originating state, and give the tickets to the local government authority. It said, “The local state government authority shall hand over the tickets to the passengers cleared by them and collect the ticket fare and hand over the total amount to the railways.” This was followed by another note on Sunday. The rail ministry said, “As per the guidelines issued, sending state will pay the consolidated fare to Railways. Sending state may decide to bear this cost or take it from passengers or take it from receiving state after mutual consultation or may charge it to any fund. It is purely their prerogative.” It is this ambiguity that both the government and the opposition are basing their case on. The Centre is emphasising that it had placed the onus on state governments, while the Opposition is emphasising that the Centre had placed the onus on state governments to charge money from passengers. According to officials aware of the development, 45 Shramik Special trains have run till now and around 13 more are tentatively planned for Monday, and payments have been made by most states barring Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra thus far. States with originating trains such as Rajasthan, Telangana, and Gujarat are paying for the migrants, while Jharkhand, which has only received such trains, has also paid for the travel of workers. On Monday, Bihar said it would pay for the migrants. The Gujarat government has drafted an NGO to pay part of the travel cost, officials from the states said.Mohammed Tabraq of Bihar’s Jamui, who arrived from Kerala, said he had to borrow money as he did not have even a penny left with him. Another worker from Jharkhand’s Pakur, Kamaruddin Ansari, who was working in Kerala, said he paid ~860 for the journey from Kozhikode to Dhanbad. “We were given a ticket at the entry gate and allowed at the platform after paying the ticket price,” he claimed.The second issue is the scale of subsidy offered by the Centre, and its claim of taking care of 85% of the cost. A senior rail ministry official, familiar with the train fare structure, said that railways recover about 57% of cost of travel on an average and the remaining is given as subsidy. On an average, it pays 43 paise per rupee for each ticket as subsidy. This is not a traditional subsidy, but is instead cross-subsidised from the money railways makes from its freight operations.Explaining the rationale of the government’s claim, the official added: “The special trains are carrying only 60% of the passenger capacity in the trains due to social distancing norms. The trains are also running along with food arrangements, security, etc. After that, empty rakes also return back to the stations, for which ministry has to incur the cost. Even in normal times, the railways give about 50% subsidy to passengers for travelling. Keeping that in mind only 15-20% cost of railways expenses is being charged from the states.” He added that it was important to have this cost structure to also regulate movement, for unregulated crowds at stations would only lead to the possibility of the spread of the coronavirus disease. Former railway board chairman Vivek Sahai pointed out that it is the unreserved segment which accounts for the most subsided travel in railways in any case. “The unreserved segment has the maximum subsidy. In the sleeper segment the railways provides about 43-45% subsidy. A sleeper coach normally has an occupancy of 75 people. Assuming they have done away with the middle berth for social distancing, only about 54 people would be travelling. Hence their earnings are about 28% less, which would mean a subsidy of about 71% for the travel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-migrants-rail-fare-as-cong-offers-to-foot-the-bill/story-XrPFuQeVL9Mu3irfpbAQgM.html
05-05-2020||India||Nanded-linked cases push up Punjab Covid-19 tally||Punjab reported a big spike of 104 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, most of them pilgrims who recently returned from a Nanded gurdwara that has led to a cluster of infections, as the case count in the state rose to 1,232, according to officials.A total of 795 of about 4,100 pilgrims who returned from Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded have so far tested positive for the disease, a health official said on Monday, adding that the test reports of about 1,800 of the pilgrims were still awaited.About two-thirds of the total cases in Punjab can be attributed to the Nanded gurdwara cluster, according to the numbers released by the state officials.An official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said as the pilgrims began returning to Punjab, 700 of them were sent to their hometowns to be quarantined at their houses after thermal scanning.In Ludhiana, the district administration sealed five villages near Samrala and Machhiwara as a preventive measure. The state government started tracing and testing the pilgrims from Nanded only after three of them tested positive in Tarn Taran district on April 27.“Our entire focus has been to test the pilgrims. The process may take another couple of days,” a senior official said, asking not to be named.State transport minister Razia Sultana on Monday dismissed a statement attributed to Maharashtra minister Ashok Chavan that appeared to suggest that the pilgrims could have caught the disease from the Punjab bus driver who ferried them back.Of the total cases in the state, 23 have died, while 128 have been cured of the infection, the state’s bulletin said on Monday, adding that three patients were in a critical condition and were on ventilator support.A total of 28,545 samples have been taken so far in the state and of which, 21,295 have returned negative and 6,018 reports are still awaited. There are 1,081 active cases in the state, as per bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nanded-linked-cases-push-up-punjab-tally/story-vA1xTZUVuKxvreu2PbM8jI.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Bustle, chaos as lockdown 3.0 begins||A degree of chaos and confusion prevailed on the first day of India’s lockdown 3.0 — this is the third extension of the national lockdown to slow the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, but with substantial relaxations in restrictions — with several citizens violating social distancing norms and authorities struggling to enforce a complex set of regulations across the country on Monday. The most visible symbol of India’s partial opening up — and the challenges that come with it — were licensed liquor shops, which were allowed to resume operations after 40 days. Be it in Delhi or Kolkata, Bengaluru or Jaipur, and be it in the poshest locales or lower middle-class colonies or slums, it was in front of liquor shops that people queued up for kilometres, jostling with each other, often not wearing masks, violating social distancing protocols, and in many cases, leading the police personnel to use force to disperse crowds or authorities to shut down shops. In Delhi, alarmed by the reports of these violations, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal — who had only on Sunday asked for the lockdown to be entirely lifted — warned that strict measures, including more restrictions and sealing, would be introduced if the trend persisted. Experts, however, pointed out that the government should have anticipated the challenge, and in the case of liquor shops, either not enforced stringent restrictions in the first place, or allowed a more widespread reopening to ensure adequate supply. Monday also saw greater traffic movement than during the last 40 days as more shops and offices opened for business, but this was coupled with confusion in enforcing norms — with local authorities in different states struggling to distinguish between activities and individuals permitted to be out and those who needed to stay home. One big relaxation that kicked in was the decision to allow self-employed people, including domestic help, plumbers, and electricians, to work. But resident welfare associations were divided on the issue. In the Capital, while many neighbourhoods allowed workers to come in, others advised caution. Sudha Sinha, president of Federation of CGHS Dwarka limited, said, “We have requested residents in all societies to wait till May 17. There is no harm in waiting for a while, especially when cases are increasing every day.”In other cities in the country, officials reported higher traffic on roads a large number of industries resumed operations. Still, a large population still worked from home, and the traffic was not close to normal. Some rush was also reported at local markets, where shops selling non-essentials such as stationery and clothes opened. But a big challenge was in implementing the guidelines. An official in Delhi said, “To be able to know who is within the 33% of a private office workforce and therefore is allowed to go to work is difficult. To be able to explain to people what activities are still not allowed when they think it may all have opened up is difficult. We will have to communicate better, and citizens will have to be more responsible.”Around 150 liquor shops opened in Delhi on Monday to loud cheers and applause. But this lasted only briefly as the jostling for space began. The crowd represented all classes, coming in SUVs and sedans, but also on motorcycles and rickshaws. In places such as Ashram, Govindpuri and Vasant Vihar, the queue was more than a kilometre long while people flouted social distancing norms. In places such as the Lajpat Nagar flyover near Srinivaswpuri, the queue of buyers also caused a traffic jam, prompting police to lathi-charge the crowd.Delhi police officials said that by around 3pm, almost 90% of the shops were shut. Joint commissioner of police(eastern range) Alok Kumar said, “We did not resort to lathi charge but to used mild force to disperse the crowd. The few shops that were open today shut shop on their own. We will follow the government’s order and will ensure that people are disciplined while standing on the queue.”While many blamed citizens for being irresponsible, policy experts said the government should have been more careful. Shakti Sinha, a retired bureaucrat who has served as secretary in the Delhi government, said, “The government should have anticipated demand; planned better; allowed more shops to open up; provided for home delivery options and recognised that it will be difficult to control crowds.” Former Delhi chief secretary, Rakesh Mehra, said that even though liquor shops are a major source of revenue for the state governments, opening only limited number of shops resulted in crowding in these stores. “I don’t know what prompted the government to open some shops while keeping the rest closed. Alcohol is not like your regular non-essential commodities where people think that they would only go out to buy when shops near their houses open. Limiting supply will only lead to crowding, panic buying and chaos,” Mehra said. In the rest of the country too, the most challenging situation for authorities was in liquor shops. In West Bengal, the police had to wield batons and chase away customers at many shops, including one located in the Kalighat area. By 12pm, most of the shops downed shutters again. Later, the excise department allowed online sale and home delivery. In UP, 23,000 liquor shops opened — but social distance norms were frequently violated. In Karnataka, long queues could be seen outside liquor outlets much before the official opening time of 9am. In some places, people “reserved” their spot since Sunday night by leaving slippers, bags and other personal items. In Mumbai, select liquor shop owners said they will deploy bouncers from Tuesday to control crowds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bustle-chaos-as-lockdown-3-0-begins/story-29jHuyKyOJmAhsXq0j9zbJ.html
05-05-2020||India||In 10-15 days, we’ll send all migrant labourers back to home states: Gujarat CM||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani spoke to Smriti Kak Ramachandran about Ahmedabad emerging as a Covid-19 hot spot, the concerns of migrant workers, and getting the state economy back on track. Edited excerpts:Gujarat continues to see a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases. There are over 5,000 cases and 300 deaths, making the state one of the worst hit. Was there a slip up in arresting the spread of the virus? The state was under lockdown even before the nationwide lockdown was announced. There was a complete ban on movement of people. However, Gujarat is one of the leading states in India with a large number of international and domestic travellers. This increases the possibility of more cases. By the time we registered our first case on March 19, we’d screened around 30,000 passengers and put them under quarantine. After the nationwide lockdown, we ensured strict implementation of MHA guidelines. Meanwhile, a large number of people who attended the Tablighi Jamat Markaz, came here, and by the time we could track them, they had already come in contact with their friends, family and other people. This led to the rise of cases. Many hid their travel history. Had they co-operated with us, Ahmedabad would not have become a Covid-19 hot spot.Another reason for rise in cases is our intensive testing capacity. With a capacity of 3,000 per day, we have tested around 80,000 people till date. The government has not been able to reach out to allay the fears of migrant workers. There have been several instances of migrant workers rushing out on the streets; of stone-pelting and tear gas. Gujarat has developed a number of regional economic centres, with Ahmedabad and Surat being the biggest. These cities host lakhs of labourers. We acknowledge their contribution in the development and prosperity of our economy. And we are empathetic towards their concerns. The lockdown has been a challenging time for all of us, and especially for them. We ensured arrangements of proper food and shelter. We provided free foodgrain to migrant workers, including to those without ration cards. More than 10 lakh food packets are being distributed on a daily basis to the needy and there are shelter homes for the homeless.However, there was another challenge of no work. The workers in Surat demanded to go back. The guidelines of the lockdown did not allow us to make travel arrangements for them in April. But, we did allow industrial units outside the containment zones to resume work, under certain conditions, followed by permitting export-oriented units outside containment zones. This led to opening up of more than 40,000 industrial units and businesses and around seven lakh labourers could resume work.There are still thousands who want to go back to their homes and their families. First, we plied state transport buses to ferry people to nearby states. Now, the Indian Railways has started ‘Shramik Trains’, and we are allowing people to travel to their respective home states. The train’s capacity is 1,200 passengers per journey; I believe it will take 10-15 days for all the labourers to be able to go back to their respective states.Since there is large-scale movement of labourers from Gujarat, are you worried that the state may face a shortage of manpower? Based on central guidelines, we decided to resume industrial operations from April 20 in areas outside containment zones and municipal limits. I do not think we will face a shortage of manpower in any of the sectors. I am confident that more and more units will be permitted by my administration to resume operations in the days to come, and more labourers will resume their jobs. What are the immediate steps being taken to revive economy? We decided to restart all those industrial units and businesses falling outside the limits of municipalities and municipal corporations and containment zones. We also provided the freedom to labourers to work for a 12-hour shift with additional remuneration for extra hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-10-15-days-we-ll-send-all-migrant-labourers-back-to-their-home-states-gujarat-cm/story-fAx1pshJm6oKQLDY1El7zN.html
05-05-2020||India||Migrant workers, police clash in Gujarat’s Surat; 204 held||Surat: Gujarat police on Monday arrested 204 migrant workers who allegedly stoned policemen, demanding that they be allowed to go home. The workers, mainly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, were charged with rioting and attempt to murder after the fourth incident of violence in Surat in the past 23 days.The restive crowd torched handcarts on the roads besides hurling stones at the police in the violence that left 15 policemen and around 20 others injured, the police said. “The incident took place around 11 am in Vareli village in Kadodra police station area. Some people instigated the workers saying that nobody would pay heed to their demand of returning to their homes in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, if they did not gather in large numbers, after which around 1,000 people gathered on the streets, demanding return to their homes,” said S Pandia Raj Kumar, inspector general of police (IGP), Surat range.The IGP said teams from the local police station reached the spot and tried to convince the migrant workers to disperse after submitting a representation that would be passed on to the district administration.“The talks were going on but around 11.30 am some elements started pelting stones on policemen. Some of them threw petrol bombs too and damaged public property including shops. To control the situation, the police had to use teargas shells and force,” Kumar said. Ajay Singh, a resident of Vareli village, said: the administration had been assuring migrant workers for the past one month that transport would be arranged to their home states. “We have run out of cash. We have no money to feed our children,” he said, adding that the workers had not got even been paid pending wages.SB Singh, general secretary of the Mazdoor Ekta Union, Surat, said the government had started 10 Shramik Special trains to Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Bhopal, Agra and Puri but had failed to counsel workers to be patient.“The workers are angry as the government has not even tried to reach out to them. Nobody has told them about the process {they have to follow} to go back,” he said, explaining the reason for anger among workers. According a study by the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad, migrants contribute about 70% of Surat’s workforce and 50% of Ahmedabad’s. In Surat, 805 medium and large industries employ about 300,000 migrants, according to data compiled by the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-police-clash-in-surat-204-held/story-KzXKAwQy1BAd8OTLSQWi4I.html
05-05-2020||India||With 3,861 new cases, Covid-19 count crosses 46,000-mark||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India grew by 3,861 on Monday, a fresh record for new cases that pushed the nationwide tally of confirmed infections across the country to over 46,000. For the first time, the number of deaths in a single day were in the triple digits as 101 new fatalities took the total toll to 1,494.Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu together accounted for more than half of the new cases recorded on Monday, logging 1,567 and 527 fresh infections respectively. In both these regions, the tally in the past 24 hours was nearly double of what had been seen in the two days before.The spike in infections and fatalities came on a day when much of the country entered a new phase in the crisis with curbs easing significantly for the first time since the nationwide shutdown came into force on March 25 to slow the spread of the disease.“We are transitioning into a new normal and we need to be aware and vigilant... Everyone must strictly follow social distancing practices even outside the containment zones,” said Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal at the government’s daily briefing on the Covid-19 crisis.National capital Delhi recorded 349 new infections but no new deaths, while West Bengal – where single-day increases were in the double digits till Sunday – registered a jump in tally by 337 cases. Officials in Bengal said the count included an unspecified number of cases that had been left out, an admission that comes amid allegations from federal authorities that the state was underplaying the scale of the crisis.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi and West Bengal were the five top states in terms of new infections.But, in what he described as an improvement, Agarwal said that a record number – 1,074 – people recovered from the disease in the 24 hours between Sunday and Monday. The outcome ratio of Covid-19 -- the ratio of recoveries and deaths -- was now at 90:10. The outcome ratio on April 17 was 80:20 and the new ratio can be seen as an improvement, Agarwal said. According to the official, around 27.5% people have recovered so far from the disease. While the increase in numbers are largely being driven by the top five states and their urban centres, several smaller states and union territories – such as Goa, Puducherry, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Meghalaya, Assam, Aruranchal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Manipur, Mizoram, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand and Tripura -- have logged nil or few cases in recent days.Kerala is the only state with a mid-to-large sized population that recorded no new cases for the second consecutive day, underscoring the success of its containment efforts. Kerala has become one of the safest and secured industrial investment centers in the world after handking the Covid-19 crisis effectively, said the state Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday that the success of the state’s health care system had made it “one the safest and most secured industrial investment centres in the world.” “We are getting a lot of inquiries from investors and entrepreneurs from around the world who is interested in Kerala. Our strength is the manpower here and we have once again proved that our human resources are comparable to any developed nation in the world,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-3-861-new-cases-covid-count-crosses-46-000-mark/story-fNI8p7pxlhsNAjjR0MwrjN.html
05-05-2020||India||Delhi schoolboy who discussed raping girls on Bois Locker Room chat group questioned||The Delhi police on Monday took suo motu cognisance of social media posts, sharing screenshots of an online group -- bois locker room -- wherein some school students had allegedly shared messages about gang-raping their classmates and morphing their photographs. Police have also questioned a 15-year-old in the matter on Monday. Deputy commissioner of police, cyber crime, Anyesh Roy said the department has come to know about the group through social media monitoring. “No one has come forward with a complaint so far. We have taken suo motu cognisance of the social media posts. We are registering a case under the Information Technology (IT) Act and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code,” he said.A senior police officer, who wished not to be named, said they have received a complaint on behalf of a South Delhi private school. The officer said one of the boys has been picked up for questioning. “As of now, it seems all the members of the group belonged to one school,” said the officer.The screenshots of chats on this Instagram group -- bois locker room-- were made public by some girls on social media platforms, including Twitter and Instagram, on Saturday. The incident has created a havoc on social media with questions being raised over the safety of women.In the shared screenshots, the group members can be seen discussing female anatomy and rating their female classmates on appearance.The group members also talked of taking revenge on girls who had posted about them on social media by circulating the girls’ nude picturesThe group was later deleted from Instagram. Another senior police officer said the initial investigation suggests that there were around 30 members in the group. “Some of them were involved in such conversations, others weren’t. In the chats, the students had shared morphed images of female classmates and could be seen talking about gang-raping them,” said another officer, adding that some of the group members had taken a screen shot of the conversation and these had made it to the social media.Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) has also issued notices to the Delhi police and the Instagram seeking a report in connection with the incident. “It’s reported that the group was used for sharing objectionable pictures of minor girls and young women many a time with their personal information. The members of the group have been reported to have discussed techniques of raping women and gang-raping minors. The commission is in receipt of many screenshots of the group wherein the handle names and usernames are clearly visible,” DCW chief Swati Malliwal said in the orders issued to both the police and the Instagram.The DCW has sought details from them about the group and its members and an investigation into the matter by Friday.Several school and college-going girls on Monday said they have been shaken by the incident. “According a tweet, the boys in the group are school-going teenagers. Some girls have even identified them. It’s so scary. They have shared nude pictures of girls and posted rape threats. My friends and I are in shock after reading all those messages. My mother even asked me to quit Instagram,” said Sneha Agarwal, a class 11 student at a South Delhi private school.Jawaharlal Nehru University Students Union (JNUSU) president Aishe Ghosh in a statement said that steps need to be taken to improve cyber laws to create a safe cyber space for women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-take-note-of-rape-threats-on-social-media-group-of-schoolboys/story-loYqRytz0h5PMSIfsirVKI.html
05-05-2020||India||India questions Pakistan over holding polls in Gilgit Baltistan||India on Monday lodged a strong protest with Pakistan over a move to conduct elections in Gilgit Baltistan, with New Delhi saying the region is an integral part of the country that had been “illegally and forcibly occupied”.A senior Pakistani diplomat was served a “demarche” or formal diplomatic representation over telephone to lodge India’s strong protest against the Pakistan supreme court’s recent order allowing the setting up of a caretaker administration in Gilgit-Baltistan to hold fresh elections, people familiar with developments said.“It was clearly conveyed that the entire Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of India by virtue of its fully legal and irrevocable accession,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.“The Government of Pakistan or its judiciary has no locus standi on territories illegally and forcibly occupied by it,” it said.Later in the day, Pakistan responded by summoning a senior Indian diplomat in Islamabad to reject “India’s baseless and fallacious contention” regarding the supreme court’s order on Gilgit-Baltistan.India claims the whole of the erstwhile state of Jammu & Kashmir, including Gilgit-Baltistan region, which was given near-provincial status by the Pakistan government in 2009.On April 30, Pakistan’s supreme court allowed authorities to amend the Government of Gilgit-Baltistan Order 2018 to set up a caretaker administration in the region to conduct fresh elections. The order was issued in response to a petition filed by the Imran Khan government.The term of the current “government” in Gilgit-Baltistan is set to end on June 24 and elections have to be held within 60 days.However, the external affairs ministry said India “completely rejects such actions and continued attempts to bring material changes in Pakistan-occupied areas of the Indian territory of Jammu and Kashmir”, and instead, Pakistan “should immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation”.“It was further conveyed that such actions can neither hide the illegal occupation of parts of Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh by Pakistan nor the grave human rights violations, exploitation and denial of freedom to the people residing in Pakistan-occupied territories for the past seven decades,” the statement said.The Indian government’s position on Gilgit-Baltistan is reflected in the resolution passed by Parliament in 1994 by consensus, the statement added.The resolution described Jammu & Kashmir as an integral part of India and demanded Pakistan “must vacate” areas of the state “occupied through aggression”.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the demarche was read out over telephone in view of the Covid-19 lockdown. In normal circumstances, a diplomat can be summoned to the external affairs ministry to receive the demarche.Several other recent demarches were read out to Pakistani diplomats over telephone, the people said.A statement from Pakistan’s Foreign Office said the Indian diplomat was told the Indian claim to Jammu & Kashmir “had no legal basis” and the entire state was a “disputed” territory. It added, “No subsequent illegal and unilateral Indian actions could or have altered the status of Jammu and Kashmir as a disputed territory.”The Pakistani side contended the Kashmir issue could be resolved only by implementing UN Security Council resolutions that recognise the Kashmiris’ right to self-determination through a plebiscite under UN auspices. It described the scrapping of Kashmir’s special status by India as “illegal and in clear violation” of UN resolutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-questions-pak-over-holding-polls-in-gilgit-baltistan/story-qBYRFXj0gYmuoqnVVfkO8K.html
05-05-2020||India||Arnab Goswami belittling police by tweets, TV shows: Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government has accused senior journalist Arnab Goswami of interfering with the probe by using his tweets and television debates to browbeat the Mumbai Police.In an application moved before the top court, the state sought urgent orders to restrain the journalist from engaging in such acts that creates a “fear psychosis” among the force impeding their ability to probe the case without fear or favour.Goswami faces complaints of inciting hatred among religious groups, which are now being probed under a single complaint at the NM Joshi Marg police station in Mumbai.The state’s application seems to be a response to an earlier order by the apex court, on April 24, saying the police cannot take any coercive action against Goswami for three weeks. The direction came on a petition by Goswami who sought clubbing of multiple cases against him along with protection from arrest.The fresh application by the state said, “Petitioner (Goswami) considers indulgence granted by this Court as some kind of a license to indulge in unwarranted sensationalism and to ridicule, denigrate, and defame the police department and its officers.” The application seeks a restraint order against Goswami from indulging in such acts that tantamount to interference with probe. A further direction has been sought asking Goswami not to abuse the indulgence granted to him by the Court on April 24 and cooperate with investigation.The application stated that the television show hosted by Goswami on April 28 showed Commissioner of Police in bad light by making false charges against him. Accusing him of making a “media spectacle” of the case against him, the application said, “The act and conduct of the petitioner would tantamount to encroaching upon the area of investigation (sole prerogative of police) as also subjecting the entire criminal justice system to ridicule.”Goswami has also been accused of carrying out a “vicious propaganda” against the police by abusing his journalistic freedom to malign the police force and its chief using false allegations. Incidentally, Goswami has filed a second petition in the apex court with regard to a fresh FIR lodged against him on May 2, seeking similar relief from arrest. When contacted by HT for a comment on the matter, Goswami’s legal representatives declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goswami-belittling-police-by-tweets-tv-shows-maha/story-UqUWdSsIpmaINcJNDbda8K.html
05-05-2020||India||Army pays tributes to martyred soldiers in Jammu and Kashmir’s Handwara||The army on Monday paid rich tributes to the four soldiers, who were killed in a two-day counter-insurgency operation in Jammu and Kashmir’s Handwara, before their bodies were sent to their native places.Top army commanders Lt Gen Y K Joshi and Lt Gen BS Raju were among those who paid homage to the soldiers, Col Ashutosh Sharma, Maj Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh Kumar, and Lance Naik Dinesh Singh.“Late Col Ashutosh Sharma SM and his team were leading a counter-terrorist operation in village Chanjimul, District Kupwara. In a valiant effort to save innocent civilian lives, while putting their own lives in grave danger, they eliminated two terrorists in the operation. In the ensuing firefight, Late Col Ashutosh Sharma SM, Late Maj Anuj Sood, Late Naik Rajesh Kumar, Late Lance Naik Dinesh Singh and Late Sub Inspector Sageer Ahmed Qazi made the supreme sacrifice in service to the Nation,’’ the army said in a statement.Sharma, 44, had joined the army in 2002 and was from Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr. He is survived by his widow and a daughter. Sood, 30, was from Pune and had joined the army in 2012. He is survived by his wife. Kumar, 29, who was from Punjab’s Mansa, had joined the army in 2010 and is survived by his parents. Singh, 24, years, had joined the army in 2015 and belonged to Uttarakhand’s Almora. He is survived by his parents.“The mortal remains of the martyrs were taken for last rites to their native place, where they would be laid to rest with full military honours. In this hour of grief, the Army stands in solidarity with the bereaved families and remains committed to their dignity and well being,’’ the statement said.Qazi’s last rites were held with full state honours at Karnah in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara on Sunday in presence of top police officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-pays-tributes-to-martyred-soldiers-in-j-k-s-handwara/story-Ms3QMXWKD7SUsaOyKyKQ0N.html
05-05-2020||India||‘Special corona fee’: Delhi govt to charge 70% tax on liquor from today||The Delhi government on Monday imposed a “special corona fee” of 70% of the MRP on all categories of liquor that will be sold in the city with effect from Tuesday.The fee was approved by Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and a notification was later issued by the Delhi government’s finance department. The fee would apply at “70% of the maximum retail price of all categories of liquor sold through written licences for consumption off the premises,” read the order. Senior government officials said that the lockdown since March 25 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 cost the Delhi government around Rs 645 crore in revenue from the sale of alcohol, when calculated on the basis of revised estimates in the 2019-20 state budget. The excise department was preparing a full report on the exact revenue loss incurred by the ban on the sale of liquor for over 40 days, they said.The Delhi government’s late night move will boost the government revenue but will also result in a steep rise in the prices of retails liquor bottle. For instance, a liquor bottle with a maximum retail price of Rs 1,000 earlier, will now cost Rs 1,700 in the city.The Finance Department of the Delhi government said “70 per cent of the maximum retail price (will be levied) on all categories of liquor sold through retail licensees for consumption....” Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal warned that his government would be forced to shut shops -- opened under conditional scaling down of the lockdown restrictions applicable till May 17 – in case of violation of social distancing norms.Kejriwal’s warning came after the chaos that followed the opening of government-run wine shops in the city after 40 days. Many liquor shops had to be shut and at some places police had to disperse huge crowds that had gathered in front of the shops.According to an official, about 150 government-run liquor shops have been allowed to open from 9 am to 6:30 pm in accordance with the latest lockdown relaxations given by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).Delhi registered another big spike of 349 new cases of Covid-19 that took the national capital’s tally to 4,898, the health department said in a statement Monday night.There are 3,403 active cases while 1,431 people have recovered from Covid-19. There was no casualty in the last 24 hours which remained at 64.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-slaps-special-corona-fee-on-alcohol-as-covid-19-cases-near-5-000-mark/story-xmu9edMa4SvqePQnpWanvK.html
05-05-2020||India||Rajya Sabha plans to save Rs 80 crore amid Covid-19 crisis||As the nation battles the Covid-19 pandemic, the Rajya Sabha expects to save around Rs.80 crore this financial year by cutting expenses on the purchase of vehicles, reducing the number of study visits by parliamentary committees, keeping on hold international travel and training of its officials as well as the award of fellowships and internships under the upper house’s research scheme.The austerity measures were decided at a meeting of the Rajya Sabha secretariat chaired by vice president and Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu, who wanted an expenditure reduction plan to be prepared, an official aware of the details of the meeting said on condition of anonymity.“Secretary general Desh Deepak Verma informed {the meeting} that saving of Rs. 60 crore has already been identified against the annual budget of Rs. 423 crore for the secretariat for 2020-21. And a total saving of Rs. 80 core is being targeted as the financial year progresses,” the official said.Against the backdrop of the extension of the coronavirus lockdown until May 17 and the need for the undivided focus of the executive on containing the spread of the disease, Naidu said a view will be taken later on holding meetings of department-related standing committees and other panels of the upper house.This was the first meeting Naidu has held with senior officials of the Rajya Sabha secretariat since the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25.Naidu also instructed officials to initiate action to fill up the vacancies of chairmen of eight committees, which arose following the retirement of some members of the Rajya Sabha. These vacancies include the posts of chairmen of department-related standing committees on human resource development and industries, held by Dr. Satyanarayan Jatiya and Dr. K. Keshava Rao, respectively. “As for oath taking by the 38 members who were recently elected unopposed, it has been decided that oath will be administered to them inside the chamber of the Rajya Sabha after the lockdown, if feasible before the next session so as to comply with the norm of physical distance, with their family members likely to attend,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-plans-to-save-80-crore-amid-covid-crisis/story-DzGYAy4OvUV1vDoyavdZlO.html
05-05-2020||India||For every 10 Covid-19-related deaths, 90 recoveries, says govt||The ratio of number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases recovering in relation to the number of people dying of the viral infection has improved with the current Union health ministry data showing the outcome ratio to be 90:10. So for every 10 deaths, 90 people have recovered from the disease.“We determine the outcome ratio by analysing our cases that are closed in terms of people in hospitals who recovered proportional to those who died of the infection. This also indicates the clinical management status of a hospital,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry, adding that the outcome ratio has improved been April 17 and May 4.“On April 17, the ratio was 80:20, wherein 80 people had been discharged after recovery and 20 patients could not make it. The current outcome ratio, however, has improved and stands at 90:10,” he added.On Monday, the country also reported the highest number of recovered patients to date.“A total of 1,074 patients have recovered in the past 24 hours, which is the highest to date, taking the total number of patients cured of Covid-19 in the country to 11706. It has also improved India’s recovery rate that now stands at 27.52%,” he said.With 2,553 new Covid-19 cases reported in the past 24 hours, the total number of infected patients in the country is 42533, with 1389 deaths, according to the health ministry’s data (which lags the data in the HT dashboard).“So far we have been fortunate that India has not seen an exponential growth in cases like other affected countries. However, people need to be extra careful now that the lockdown is being eased in a staggered manner, so as to not throw away the gains made. The focus will continue to remain on rigorous containment measures in areas from where maximum cases are being reported and strictly implementing infection control practices,” said Agarwal.The health ministry has urged people to wear masks or a face cover when stepping out, and to scrupulously follow physical distancing.Implementing total lockdown has yielded results in the form of significant improvement in India’s case doubling rate that before lockdown stood at about 3.4 days and is now almost 12 days.The testing capacity has also been ramped up to meet the demand by increasing the number of labs to 426 (315 in the government sector and 111 in the private sector) and increasing sampling. “As on May 3 we have done more than a million tests for Covid-19, and 77,474 in a day. There is no shortage of testing kits or any other material in the country; all those who need to be tested are being tested,” Agarwal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-every-10-deaths-90-recoveries-govt/story-FPTHDJFaVLpkLZaXdTFe6J.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Govt charts mitigation plan in case containment strategy fails||The Union health ministry is creating a mitigation plan for the scenario when the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak cannot be contained, putting together a standard operating procedure (SOP) that focuses on treating the most vulnerable and critical patients in order to reduce deaths. Mentions of a mitigation plan were first made in the government’s containment guidelines for large outbreaks released last month, when officials said the strategy will be in case the number of infections grows to such levels that containment strategies are ineffective – a scenario seen in New York, and parts of Italy and Spain. “The mitigation plan is usually put in place in an extreme situation when all containment measures seem to be failing, and the spread of infection cannot be effectively controlled. In such a situation the focus shifts on reducing mortality and morbidity, which means the measures are drafted and implemented to reduce the number of deaths due to the disease and to work towards ensuring the disease doesn’t progress to its severe level and fewer people need intensive care,” said a senior government official aware of the strategy, asking not to be named. As part of a standard protocol, the focus of such a plan usually is on upgrading health infrastructure, adding more intensive care unit (ICU) beds, increasing ventilators and improving oxygen support mechanisms, and increasing testing capacity. “…if the containment plan is not able to contain the outbreak and large numbers of cases start appearing, then a decision will need to be taken by state administration to abandon the containment plan and start on mitigation activities,” the centre had said in the containment plan released last month.The strategy will be an extension of India’s Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems, which was being prepared by experts from the health ministry, to “respond to and mitigate the Covid-19’s threat and strengthen national systems for public health preparedness”.The plan includes revamping hospitals for air borne infection control; improving facilities handling infectious diseases and equipping district hospitals with single occupancy airborne infection isolation rooms (also called negative-pressure isolation rooms) to prevent spread of infections from and between patients.“Some of it may take time but currently what we are attempting is to ensure quick measures that would be more effective in aiding recovery of patients so that there’s less mortality and morbidity due to the infection,” said the official.The Union government has also constituted and rushed 20 public health teams that will work at the ground level in 20 districts with the highest cases. These include Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Delhi (South East and central districts), Indore, Bhopal, Chennai, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Agra, Lucknow, Kolkata, Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna.Experts say mitigation plan is technically a part of the overarching containment plan.“It shouldn’t be seen as an exclusive plan as purpose of having a containment strategy in place is also to mitigate or reduce the risks associated with the disease outbreak. However, if despite the containment plan, cases spread to other areas, then one has to move out of containment zone and towards peripheral areas to control the spread,” said Dr LS Chauhan, former head, National Centre for Disease Control. “And in the containment zone from where there is excess case load, the focus has to shift towards extensive case management as merely detecting all cases won’t be enough. If you are able to successfully trace and treat all positives then next step is to plan for adequate treatment so that fewer lives are lost,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-charts-mitigation-plan-in-case-containment-strategy-fails/story-viw8kuvJlQBv70yUdju8jJ.html
05-05-2020||India||UPSC postpones civil service prelims exam||The Union Public Service Commission has taken a decision to postpone the civil services preliminary exam “until further notice”. The exam was scheduled to be held on May 31. According to officials in the UPSC, a call will be taken on the new date after “assessment” by May 20. A meeting of the Commission, chaired byUPSC chairman, Arvind Saxena, was held on Monday to take the call to defer the exam with senior UPSC officials. The decision comes after the Central government extended the lockdown for two weeks starting May 4.“UPSC has done what needed to be done,” said an official privy to the developments. “In the current scenario, where Covid-19 is spreading, it is not feasible to hold such a large scale exam.” The Commission, the official added, has not taken a call on a fresh date for the prelims. “The date will be decided in due course of time after evaluating the situation,” the official added.“The decision has been taken keeping mind the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown restrictions,” a second UPSC official told Hindustan Times. “A fresh date will be announced after May 20.”“From inaccessibility of exam venues during lockdown as schools had been turned into quarantine centres, to ensuring students had enough time to book tickets to reach the centres, the UPSC had to address a host to issues to be able to hold the exam on May 31. It would have been very difficult ,” said the second official. The Commission was due to release admit cards for the students this week, but has decided to defer the process in view of the current crisis. Nearly 10 lakh people register for the civil services preliminary examination every year. Nearly 1.6 lakh functionaries participate in conducting the exam across 2,500 centres. Many other premier exams, such as the Haryana Civil Services, which was slated to be held from June 5, have also been postponed. Former UPSC chairman, Vijay Singh, said that the decision may delay the recruitment process a little but it is not worrisome. “We have to keep in mind not everything has been postponed as of yet,” said Singh. “The preliminary exam is a huge exercise carried out in a number of centres. The logistics are vast and expansive with people involved across the country. UPSC can’t afford for anything to go wrong, it has to maintain its reputation and the exam has to be conducted in a way that no doubts are raised about it.”“All that may happen is that the recruitment process may be a little delayed but that’s not a really big deal,” he added. But the lack of clarity regarding a new date brings a new set of anxieties for aspirants who believe that the preparation time for the main examination may be reduced. “The uncertainty is worrisome, but, at the same time, I am hoping for positives since it will give aspirants more time to study,” said UPSC aspirant, Snigdha Talapatra, 25, who will be writing her second attempt. “It’s probably going to happen in August or September. I sincerely hope we will not be given lesser time to prepare for the Mains. Studying for prelims also entails studying for Mains for most us, though.” There is usually a three month gap between the civil services preliminary and main examination. Last year, the preliminary exam was held on June 3, while the main examination, that usually lasts a week, started on September 20. “The situation is so dire that the decision to postpone the exam was inevitable,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upsc-postpones-civil-service-prelims-exam/story-jc2x5EtRniH7BwN9S3vBEI.html
05-05-2020||India||At NAM meet, PM Modi calls for new order of globalisation||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis has exposed the limitations of the existing international system and the world needs a new framework of globalisation and international institutions that are more representative, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday.Addressing a summit of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) for the first time since he assumed office in 2014, Modi said efforts to promote human welfare will have to go side by side with measures for economic growth in a post-Covid-9 world order.Modi, who has pushed efforts to organise a coordinated response to the Covid-19 pandemic in the region and beyond by organising a video conference of leaders of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) and joining a special summit of the G20, skipped the last two NAM summits in 2016 and 2019.In line with his addresses at multilateral meetings held after the Covid-19 crisis began, Modi’s speech at Monday’s video conference too focused on the need to fashion a new world order after the pandemic. NAM, he said, can promote global solidarity at a time when humanity is facing its most serious crisis in many decades.“Covid-19 has shown us the limitations of the existing international system. In the post-Covid world, we need a new template of globalisation based on fairness, equality and humanity. We need international institutions that are more representative of today’s world, we need to promote human welfare and not focus on economic growth alone,” Modi said.India has backed initiatives to help fashion a better world order, such as the International Solar Alliance to “help our planet heal from the disease of climate change”, the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure to “protect ourselves against climate and disaster risks”, and the International Day of Yoga, he added.Without naming any country, Modi also said: “Even as the world fights Covid-19, some people are busy spreading other deadly viruses such as terrorism, fake news and doctored videos to divide communities and countries.”Amid the Covid-19 crisis, he said, India has shown “how democracy, discipline and decisiveness can come together to create a genuine people’s movement”. India has helped other countries to counter Covid-19 and promoted coordination in its immediate neighbourhood, he said.“India is regarded as a pharmacy of the world, especially for affordable medicines. Despite our own needs, we have ensured medical supplies to over 123 partner countries, including 59 members of NAM,” Modi said. India has also organised online training to share its medical expertise with others and is active in global efforts to develop remedies and vaccines.“Many countries organise military drills but India had taken the initiative to organise disaster management drills in our region and beyond. NAM should call upon the international community and the World Health Organization to focus on building health capacity in developing countries,” he said.The NAM should also ensure equitable, affordable and timely access to health products and technology and develop a platform where all member countries can pool their best practices, crisis management protocols, research and resources, he added.“In the founding spirit of the movement, let us aim today to come together, not grow apart… Let us work as partners towards an inclusive and cooperative global response,” Modi said.India played a major role in the establishment of NAM in 1961 but in recent years, the organisation of 120 developing countries has not been a key part of New Delhi’s multilateral diplomatic initiatives. India continues to have robust ties with key members of NAM from Asia, Africa and the Arab world but New Delhi’s decision not to join the organisation’s summits at the level of the prime minister after 2012 reflected the rebalancing of diplomatic equations.Azerbaijan, the current chair of NAM, organised the virtual summit on Monday to forge a united response to the Covid-19 pandemic. It said the summit was aimed at mobilising NAM member states to fight Covid-19 and to strengthen multilateralism.More than 30 heads of state and government and other leaders from Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean joined Monday’s meeting, which was also addressed by UN General Assembly president Tijjani Muhammed Bande, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, EU high representative Josep Borrell and WHO director general Tedros Ghebreyesus.The NAM leaders identified requirements for remedies and called for action-oriented follow-up measures. Following the summit, the leaders adopted a declaration underlining the importance of global solidarity in the fight against Covid-19, and announced the creation of a task force to identify the requirements of member states in terms of medical, social and humanitarian needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-nam-meet-pm-calls-for-new-order-of-globalisation/story-xTKPZQ80ufhC5FLrc2FVBL.html
05-05-2020||India||Teething troubles mark Day 1 as Covid-19 lockdown enters new phase||Scenes of chaos outside liquor stores that opened after 40 days, confusion over the reopening of other commercial establishments, the return of traffic, albeit thin, onto the roads and a small section of office-goers braving it back to work -- that just about summarises how the first day of lockdown 3.0 went on Monday.A semblance of normality returned for the first time since March 25, when the lockdown took hold, as the central and state governments loosened some of the tough restrictions they put in place to curb the spread of Covid-19. The loosening of the curbs is part of a a government strategy aimed at a graded lifting of the world’s biggest lockdown.The government has allowed the resumption of standalone stores, neighbourhood shops and outlets in residential complexes to reopen for business. The central government has also allowed private offices with up to 33% staff strength and private vehicles with two persons besides the driver even in urban areas classified as red zones Standalone liquor shops have been allowed to open in all three zones — red, orange and green — in the country subject to the condition that strict social-distancing rules are observed. These shops are, however, not allowed in containment zones.From West Bengal to Rajasthan and Karnataka to Uttar Pradesh, law enforcement officials faced a tough challenge on Monday in controlling crowds and maintaining social distancing in front of liquor shops.Extraordinary scenes were seen across Indian cities where people formed serpentine queues, waited for hours and jostled with each other to reach the sales counters. Many celebrated by lighting the traditional lamp and incense sticks.Such was the rush in Kolkata that most shops had to down their shutters hours after opening for business. “The government will not allow violation of social distancing norms outside liquor stores,” chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said at the state secretariat in the afternoon.In Rajasthan, which too closed some shops as the day progressed, people formed long queues. “What to do, sir? This day has come after a long wait,” said Shyam Sundar Sharma, a consumer waiting for his turn. Sanjay Bhoosreddy, the principal secretary of the excise department in Uttar Pradesh, said: “There is an estimate that on the first day itself, the government is likely to earn Rs 100 crore as revenue.” In India’s most populous state, officials in some places put in place a “one bottle, one person” limit. “We want our alcohol at any cost,” said Sooraj Pawar from Mumbai’s suburb Santacruz. In the morning, confusion prevailed in Mumbai over the opening of liquor shops with traders waiting for the final word from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which gave its go-ahead in the afternoon. Liquor shops in Mumbai and Mumbai Suburban opened after that.Some states such as Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana kept liquor shops closed. So did Puducherry.The Tamil Nadu government announced the resumption of liquor sales from May 7. The decision to open state-run retail outlets was taken after people in districts bordering Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh started making a beeline to liquor stores there, posing a challenge in controlling interstate movement, the government said in a statement.Shops in Madhya Pradesh will reopen on Tuesday, excluding Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain — all under the red zone.Also on Monday, with area-specific relaxations coming into force, several manufacturing firms across auto, textiles, breweries and fertilizers segments resumed operations. But some retailers complained of chaos due to different interpretation of orders by local authorities.Traders’ body CAIT (The Confederation of All India Traders) said just 20% of its member shops in permitted categories could open in different states due to confusion and lack of clarity over interpretation of neighbourhood shops and standalone shops at the local level.CAIT secretary general Praveen Khandelwal said: “In states like Punjab and Uttarakhand, over 50% shops were allowed to open but in many states either the shops could not open or those which opened were asked to close down by the local authorities.”The country’s largest two-wheeler maker, Hero MotoCorp, said it resumed operations in a graded manner across three of its manufacturing plants in Gurugram, Dharuhera (both in Haryana) and Haridwar (Uttarakhand), with actual product rollout expected to begin from Wednesday.Commercial vehicle maker SML Isuzu said it received permission from the Punjab government to start its manufacturing plant situated in district Shahid Bhagat Singh Nagar, but emphasised that the “work from home policy” will continue.In line with the federal guidelines, the West Bengal government said private buses are allowed intra-district travel with 20 passengers in green zones, while standalone shops will be allowed to open in all zones.Business activities and movement of people resumed mainly in green and orange zones of Odisha as the state government considerably relaxed the lockdown curbs. The situation remained largely unchanged in the “red zones” where roads were deserted look.In Assam, a police patrol party was attacked by a group of people while enforcing curfew as part of the lockdown. An officer in Sonitpur district was injured.In Uttar Pradesh, long queues were seen at banks, though many private offices were closed. Haldwani in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district reported traffic jams in the first half of the day with people coming out on their two-wheelers and four-wheelers to visit markets. Small traffic jams were seen in Bengaluru as well. While Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol expressed his disapproval of the decision to give relaxations in non-containment zones in the city, Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore said it was necessary to ease lockdown restrictions in the Union territory.“After 41 days of the lockdown, it was necessary to ease out restrictions for bringing the economy on track and also for giving relief to daily (wage) earners. Hence, as per guidelines of home ministry, the Chandigarh administration provided certain exemptions in the lockout,” Badnore said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teething-troubles-mark-day-1-as-covid-lockdown-enters-new-phase/story-fcZ4Q6h7buAR0CMdW3bqxN.html
05-05-2020||India||TMC govt says it has retrieved ‘missing’ Covid-19 data, admits to gaps||On a day the inter-ministerial central team sent a letter to the state government questioning mismatch in its data related to Covid-19, the Mamata Banerjee-administration claimed to have found all missing data, even while admitting that there were gaps in data that was being released every day. “There was an issue of missing data which is why there were some gaps. All missing data have been retrieved. Now we are in a position to share all this data every day,” Rajiva Sinha, chief secretary of West Bengal said on Monday.A major controversy erupted after state health secretary Vivek Kumar’s letter to union health secretary Preeti Sudan put the total number of persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in the state at 931 as of April 30, whereas the data shared with journalists gave the number 816.However, the data shared by the state on Monday supports neither figure. The government said that the total number of patients testing positive stood at 1,259 on Monday, with 229 new cases between May 1 and May 4, which put the April 30 number at 1,030.“There were gaps in data which was triggering confusion. We found that the data reporting structure was highly complicated and some data was not being registered at all. It was not deliberate. We have improved. We searched all data over the weekend and compiled everything so that there is no missing data,” Sinha added.As a result, while the state government’s data and so long shown fewer number of cases than in the data shared by the union health ministry, the Monday number was well above what was shared by union health ministry.The state government on Monday said of the total 1,259 total cases, 908 were active cases, 218 persons have recovered and been discharged from hospitals, 61 persons died of Covid-19 and another 72 died of co-morbidity. “Bengal is turning out to be India’s Covid-19 hub. The state government’s mismanagement led to this situation. Without IMCT’s interventions, we would have never known the real picture regarding the number of deaths and persons infected,” BJP state unit president Dilip Ghosh alleged on Monday.The IMCT for south Bengal, before leaving the state for Delhi, sent a letter to the chief secretary on Monday accusing the state of fudging Covid-19 related data and suppressing facts. The team, which was in Bengal since April 20, will submit its report to the ministry of home affairs soon. The number of containment zones in the state has shot up from 444 on April 30 to 516 on May 4. Kolkata, with 318 such areas, has the highest number of containment zones.Meanwhile the bulletin published by the state on Monday showed that only four districts have been tagged as Red Zones in Bengal. On April 30, the union health ministry released a list which said that Bengal has 10 Red Zones.The state’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) targeted the BJP for politicising an administrative issue. On social media, Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and TMC youth wing chief Abhishek Banerjee wrote, “In their desperation to score cheap political points, those who are misrepresenting facts and maligning Bengal even daring to call Bengal - ‘Wuhan of India’ should look at facts: % +ve per million: 14, rank 16th, Total Cases: 1259, rank 9th, Active cases: 908, rank 10th.” The ranks refer to the state’s standing nationally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-govt-says-it-has-retrieved-missing-data-admits-to-gaps/story-DaVR5zNHra5xrwehmTwZ6L.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Migrant workers throng MP borders in bid to return home||Thousands of labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have gathered along Madhya Pradesh’s borders with Gujarat and Maharasthra as they seek to return to their states even as inter-state borders remained closed as part of the national lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 spread, multiple officials said on Monday.The officials said about 8,000 people, including women and children, have gathered at Bijasan in Barwani along the state’s border with Maharashtra and over 5000 at Pitol in Jhabua that borders Gujarat since Saturday as they were not allowed to enter Madhya Pradesh. Similarly, thousands of labourers gathered at Johariya in Datia district along the Madhya Pradesh-Uttar Pradesh border as it remained closed.Rohit, a labourer from Uttar Pradesh’s Faridpur stranded along the Gujarat border, said their group reached Pitol on Sunday. “We want to go to Uttar Pradesh. The officials here say [chief minister] Yogi [Yogi Adityanath] does not want us to enter Uttar Pradesh. The authorities are opening and closing the border. There is no food and water for us since yesterday [Sunday]. There should be prior information when they are going to close or open the border.”Arvind Kumar from Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgarh said people from Madhya Pradesh were being allowed to enter the state while they were not.Datia collector Rohit Singh said a number of labourers were allowed to get in but then the border was closed from the Uttar Pradesh side.Madhya Pradesh police chief Vivek Johri said they have no problem in allowing people to enter the state but Uttar Pradesh has to allow them.The Barwani administration arranged 200 buses for labourers to go to Uttar Pradesh on Thursday and Friday but they were stuck in Datia as the border remained closed. An official said this is why they did not allow further movement of people.State governments have been scrambling to arrange buses and trains to send migrant workers home after the Centre made an exception for people stranded because of the lockdown and allowed them to travel. Vishwadeep Singh Parihar, a police inspector in Barwani, said there are pregnant women and couples with kids among the stranded people. “Hence, the administration has decided to arrange transport for such people to send them to the Uttar Pradesh border so that they do not have any problem in staying here and could reach their homes early whenever the border is opened for them.” A police sub-inspector and two constables were injured on Sunday when angry labourers in Barwani threw stones at police personnel when they were not allowed to enter Madhya Pradesh.Another official said even though the administration arranged food for labourers at Bijasan, their numbers have swelled and made the arrangements inadequate. “We had not anticipated that Uttar Pradesh will close its borders. Even otherwise it is not possible to provide basic facilities for the stay and food for such a large number of people that too while ensuring social distancing.”Activists Medha Patkar said people are coming even as the mercury has shot up to 42 degree Celsius using various modes of transport and even barefooted but no one is taking care of them whether it is the Centre or state governments of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Mahrashtra and Gujarat. The lockdown was imposed first in March and triggered an exodus of jobless migrant workers from big cities. Many of them left for their homes on foot and forced the Centre to ask the states to seal their borders and take care of the workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-throng-mp-borders-in-bid-to-return-home/story-RrC1FfnWTm9v7UUgXGwdCO.html
05-05-2020||India||Centre review team pulls up Bengal over ‘discrepancies’ in Covid-19 data||An inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) sent to assess West Bengal’s response to Covid-19 has alleged discrepancies in the number of cases reported by the state, pointed to its high mortality rate, and questioned the state government’s claim of having surveyed five million people.The team has detailed these alleged discrepancies in its final observations submitted to the West Bengal government on Monday. HT has accessed a copy of the observations. The Union sent two IMCTs to West Bengal on April 20 -- one to do on spot assessment in Kolkata, Howrah, Midnapure and 24 North Paragnas and other was sent to Jalpaiguri, Kalimpong and Darjeeling. The state and the Centre have exchanged words over the teams, the availability of testing kits, and alleged gaps in West Bengal’s response to Covid-19. Last week, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused the Centre of maligning the state and spreading “canards” about its testing figures when the “real problem” was with the testing kits supplied. She lashed out at the two central teams for calling officers indiscriminately and hampering the fight against Covid-19. BJP has alleged that Mamata Banerjee has not provided enough protection to the medics and Centre’s relief ration is not reaching intended beneficiaries in the state. The teams have complained that they did not get enough support from the state government, said an IMCT member. Complaints of one IMCT are out in public domain. In its observations, the first team cited the state’s April 30 medical bulletin, saying it reported 572 active cases and said that 139 patients were discharged after treatment while 33 died of the disease, making a total of 744. “In a communication to Union health secretary on the same day, the total number of cases was indicated to be 931, leading to a discrepancy of 187 cases,” the team said. It added the state classified 72 fatalities on April 30 due to Covid-19 as deaths due to co-morbidities. “The bulletin of May 1 and 2 does not even mention the total number of cases and deaths...” it said.The team questioned the state’s claims of high daily surveillance in containment zones. “During the stay of the committee itself, over 50 lakh (five million) persons would have been surveyed in the four districts. Collating and evaluating a database of this magnitude requires very robust systems to be in place. However, no such evidence was available during our stay or field visits,” noted the IMCT leader Apruva Chandra in the observations.The IMCT notes that the state government has on April 30 made a pronouncement that henceforth all deaths of Covid patients would be indicated in the daily statistics and the death certificate would be issued by the hospital with the Committee of Doctors only examining a random sample.” The team called it a big step towards transparency, but said that the state raised the total death count of Covid-19 patients to 105 as on April 30, as per West Bengal chief secretary. “For a total reported number of 744 + 72 = 816 Covid patients, the mortality rate of 12.8% is by far the highest in the country. This extremely high mortality rate is a clear indication of low testing and weak surveillance and tracking.” The national Covid-19 mortality rate as of Monday was 3.24%, with 1,389 deaths for over 42,835 total cases. Responding to the IMCT’s letter dated May 4, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said, “You (journalists) are getting their letters before these are reaching us. Anyway, we will give them a reply.” An IMCT member, who spoke on condition of anonymity, cited the case of a Border Security Force driver, who developed Covid-19 symptoms on May 1 to underline the state’s lax attitude. “He was tested and the result came positive on May 3. But there has been no effort from anyone in the state government to trace the contacts or get his family tested.” The team reiterated its accusation that the West Bengal government has been “antagonistic” towards it and has not supported the IMCT in the performance of its duties. It added this is in contrast with the experience of IMCTs deputed to other states, where top officials attended their meetings.The IMCT, which was due to submit its final report to the Union home ministry on Monday, also asked the West Bengal government to explain the methodology used to ascertain Covid-19 deaths and whether it was in line with the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines.The state’s ruling party, Trinamool Congress, however, lambasted the IMCT. “Of the 20 teams, three are being sent to Gujarat, Andhra and Maharashtra but only one to Bengal. Two teams are being sent to Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, among others. This itself reflects how Bengal’s situation is better than other states. The IMCT, instead of writing to the state, should have consulted their colleagues in the union home ministry to get the real picture,” said TMC national spokesperson Derek O’Brien.TMC’s Lok Sabha leader Sudip Banerjee, too, took a dig at the IMCT and said, “There is a plan on behalf of the Centre to malign our state. We don’t blame the officers who made the IMCT. They are doing what their political masters are asking them to do. They were sent here not to help the state but to create disturbances.”The Centre has also deputed two inter-ministerial teams each to Gujarat, Telangana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu to probe possible lapses in efforts to control Covid-19 and violations of lockdown regulations. Of these, Gujarat and Indore teams have given positive feedback, that of others is not yet known.Inputs by Snigdhendu Bhattacharya||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-review-team-pulls-up-bengal-over-discrepancies-in-covid-data/story-t9YPXMTV0P7c1Z2etkN53J.html
05-05-2020||India||Temperature in May likely to be over 42° C, predicts IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s long-range forecast for May indicates most parts of northwest, central and east India will record maximum temperatures of over 42 degrees C in the second, third and fourth week of May.But that may not be the case for northwest India if western disturbances (WDs) continue to affect the region as they have in March and April. There will be several cloudy days and thunderstorm activity, which will keep maximum temperatures down by 2 to 3 degrees, if the current pattern of WDs continues.IMD scientists said the climate models used for long range forecast of seasons cannot account for the impact of WDs, which can significantly alter weather patterns in northwest India and even in other parts of the country depending on their intensity. They are highly unpredictable and are best tracked only three to four days in advance. So summer temperatures over India this year will continue to remain unpredictable.“These models don’t factor in western disturbances. WDs usually affect only the northern part of the country in winter. This time we are seeing some intense WDs even in May, which is unusual. May and June are still there, let’s see how WDs affect the temperature in the rest of summer,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.Rains over India during the pre-monsoon period from March 1 to May 4 have been 24% excess while over NW India it has been 41% excess and 174% excess over Central India. Such wet conditions over NW India during the pre-monsoon period is unusual. “We are expecting temperatures to be above normal over NW India and normal and slightly above normal over the rest of India. We can’t now talk about the impact of WDs because they can be forecast only three to four days in advance. By May, moisture is expected to reduce over NW India, which then leads to high temperatures but if there is moisture incursion from the Bay of Bengal or Arabian Sea, this will also change,” said DS Pai, senior scientist at IMD Pune. IMD uses statistical and dynamic models with various atmospheric and oceanic parameters to assess seasonal weather patterns.Another IMD scientist who preferred not to be quoted said intense WDs have had an impact all over the country this year. This could not be captured in IMD’s seasonal forecast. “We have had only two to three occasions of heat waves in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. In previous years, heat waves began in early April. The combination of easterly winds, western disturbances, moisture incursion has changed everything. April and early May are cooler than normal,” he said.WDs are low pressure systems that generally originate over the Mediterranean region and are known to bring winter rain in India. Their intensity reduces in summer when they move to upper latitudes.The IMD, in its Monday bulletin, said convergence of moist easterly winds can cause widespread thundershowers over entire northwest India over the next three days.Thundershowers are also likely over Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram. Tripura, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during next three or four days. Thundersqualls (50-60 kmph) and hailstorms are also likely over parts of east India.Experts at Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) advised that the elderly will need extra care during extreme summer heat because of the combined threat of Covid-19 and heat stress. “Most people are indoors because of lockdown related restrictions. If power supply is ensured, this summer may be different and better. But due to less pollution, radiation will be high this year. These impacts will have to be studied,” said Abhiyant Tiwari, research associate at Indian Institute of Public Health.The IMD, in its seasonal outlook for March, April, May, and again in an updated outlook for April to June season, had predicted that seasonal average maximum temperatures are likely to be warmer than normal by 0.5 to 1 degree C over northwest India and western peninsular India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-rain-may-likely-to-be-hot/story-G97lEvwFnRVhhZHIKqCu2K.html
05-05-2020||India||In Pakistan’s new script for terrorism in Kashmir, Handwara is the key||A second face-off between security forces and terrorists, not far from the Handwara house in north Kashmir where a bloody firefight killed 5 soldiers, appears to be part of a Pakistan attempt to rewrite the script for terrorism in Kashmir, a top security official told Hindustan Times on Monday evening.Just minutes earlier, two young men had opened fire at CRPF jawans at a security checkpoint when they were busy checking out some movement in the adjoining orchard. Two jawans were killed on the spot, the third succumbed to the gunshots later. A civilian who was caught in the cross-firing also died.The attack is considered brazen not just because of how the terrorists targeted security personnel at a checkpoint, but also the timing.In an overnight operation in another part of Handwara over the weekend, the security establishment had lost four soldiers including the commanding officer of the battalion Colonel Ashutosh Sharma and a police officer. At the end of the 13-hour long operation, two bodies of terrorists were found. One of them was said to be a top Lashkar commander Haider, a Pakistani national.Top intelligence officials told Hindustan Times that they have decided to keep an open mind about the number of terrorists involved in the Handwara encounter and ascertain if this group had recently infiltrated into India.Handwara falls along the infiltration route from the Leepa Valley.Intelligence agencies had earlier pointed to terror launch pads that had been activated in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir’s Dudhnial, Sharda and Athmuqam across the Keran sector on this side of the Line of Control.It was in the Keran sector in early April that a team of army commandos killed the entire infiltrating batch of five terrorists in a close-quarter battle. Five Special Forces commandos had laid down their lives in this operation carried out in heavy snow.Counter-terror operatives said about 25-30 terrorists are believed to have slipped through the security grid along the LoC in April alone.The developments of the last two days appears to indicate, a senior security official said, that Kupwara district, particularly Handwara, would be the hotbed of action this summer.This assessment also matches with intelligence inputs that suggest the Pakistan-backed terrorist groups would focus on north Kashmir. There would be some intermittent attacks elsewhere too, like the grenade that terrorists threw at CISF jawans at a power facility in Budgam. A CISF jawan escaped with some splinter injuries in his leg.Pakistan has for years, tried to give Kashmir terrorism a local face. There was a renewed attempt at this makeover in recent months. According to an assessment presented to national security planners in late April, the ISI had messaged the 100-odd foreign terrorists to lie low and let the local terrorists front the battle with security forces.“Foreign terrorists are seen to be consolidating logistics, expanding the overground workers facilitation network and concentrating on recruitment of Kashmiri youth,” the report accessed by Hindustan Times said. Foreign terrorists had accordingly stepped up efforts to radicalise the youth in the Doda-Kishtwar-Ramban range to prepare them for recruitment.The intelligence brief had also predicted a spike in terror activities and attacks from April, after the starting of Ramzan.“Our assessment is that the next 10-14 days are going to be crucial… very crucial,” a top intelligence official said, alluding to inputs that indicated an effort by terrorist group Jaish-e-Mohammed to carry out simultaneous suicide attacks targetting army and central paramilitary bases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pakistan-new-script-for-terrorism-in-kashmir-handwara-is-the-key/story-GdfBJRgJALmvhUD4t0RyDJ.html
05-05-2020||India||Supreme Court reserves order on 4G connectivity in Jammu and Kashmir||The Supreme Court on Monday reserved its order on a raft of petitions challenging restrictions on 4G connectivity in Jammu and Kashmir, where high-speed Internet has been.blocked to prevent terrorists from using it as a communications tool .The petitions filed by the Foundation for Media Professionals and Association of Private Schools in J&K, among others, challenged a decision by the administration to restrict connectivity in the entire Union territory to 2G services. Amid the lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) which has infected more than 700 people in J&K, it is imperative to restore high-speed internet connectivity, the petitioners argued. This would give doctors access to the latest information on Covid-19, facilitate video consultations with patients in line with social distancing norms, and enable students to log onto online classrooms , the petitions said.Before reserving its order, the bench of justices NV Ramana, SK Kaul and BR Gavai said that on the one hand was the right to health and education of citizens and on the other was the equally pressing concern of national security. The Centre and the J&K administration claimed that any relaxation on restrictions will promote militancy. Attorney general KK Venugopal argued that militancy was on the rise and the courts should not interfere with decisions that are best left to the wisdom of the government.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for J&K, argued that the right to Internet was not a fundamental right and can be restricted. Responding to the claim made n the petitions that 4G was essential in the battle against Covid-19 , Mehta said, “There are other places in the country where there is no internet or only 2G network is available. We have no information yet that someone has died of Covid-19 there as they did not have internet access.” The petitioners, represented by senior advocates Huzefa Ahmadi and Salman Khurshid, said the government must demonstrate a nexus between high-speed internet connectivity and militancy. Ahmadi said that militancy has been around in J&K for a long time and in a lockdown scenario, the right to health of citizens must take precedence. Khurshid submitted that the government could curb the spread of anti-national activities through the internet, but .that should not be made the grounds to deprive the entire J&K of high-speed internet.Article 370 that granted J&K special status was scrapped in August last year and the state was bifurcated into two Union territories, J&K and Ladakh, in moves accompanied by widespread arrests and a communication blockade that lasted several months. In January, the apex court directed the government to review the blockade from time to time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-reserves-order-on-4g-connectivity-in-j-k/story-Cvh1Lks2fIw3qt88vV6WGJ.html
05-05-2020||India||Rajasthan cop readies for return to duty after recovering from Covid-19||Ram Charan Soran, a 28-year-old policeman, was among the first responders ensuring essentials were supplied to the residents so that they do not have to step out when a hard lockdown was imposed in Jaipur’s Covid-19 hotspot of Ramganj to check the spread of the pandemic. He regularly visited the area with teams of health care workers and those distributing food packets. He was also on patrolling duty in Ramganj for some days and worked overtime until April 6 when he developed a mild fever. His worst fears came true four days later when he was tested positive for Covid-19.Soran said he was shocked to know he had contracted the disease but had no option but to come to terms with it. “Now that I was infected, whatever had to happen had happened,” said Soran, who joined the Rajasthan police in 2018. “Some of us went for voluntary testing because we were working in a hotspot area. My report came on April 10...I tested positive,” said Soran. He was discharged from Jaipur’s SMS hospital on April 23 and quarantined the same day after he tested negative for the disease twice. He will be released from a quarantine centre in the city as per protocol on May 7.He said he got up early and did yoga during his hospitalisation. “After that, it was mostly about watching videos on my mobile phone and chatting with friends and family. What else could one do there? Doctors came to check us twice daily,” he said.Soran, who was the first policeman to contract the disease in Jaipur, was more worried about the 15 policemen he stayed with at a barrack, and luckily only one of them contracted the disease. Both of them have since recovered and are looking forward to returning to work once their quarantine period is over. “I want to return to work,” said Soran. He added he was not scared of even returning to Ramganj. “I will perform my duty without fear,” he said. “If my family says anything, I will explain to them also that duty is duty and in whichever area, we have to perform it.”Ramganj had reported 598 out of Jaipur’s 924 Covid-19 cases as of Saturday and since then the area-wise break-up of the cases has been unavailable.Soran said half of Ramganj is under the jurisdiction of his police station and they went there several times for work. Two other policemen, who contracted the disease in Jaipur’s walled city area, have also recovered.Additional police commissioner Ajay Pal Lamba said four policemen tested positive for the virus and three of them have recovered. “We are proud of our men. They are working in the hotspots as well as in other areas without any complaints. The policemen who have recovered will return to duty when they get discharged from the quarantine centres,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-cop-readies-for-return-to-duty-after-recovering-from-covid-19/story-TcAqexfcptzIwoN82SMNqJ.html
05-05-2020||India||Tamil Nadu’s wholesale market shut down amid Covid-19 outbreak||Koyambedu, one of the country’s largest perishable fruit and vegetable wholesale market with over 3000 shops was shut down on Monday after at least 300 of the 527 new cases reported in Tamil Nadu on Monday were linked to it, making it one of the biggest coronavirus hotspots in the state.“We are shutting [Koyambedu] down temporarily till further orders,” a senior official from the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) who did not wish to be named, told Hindustan Times. “We are going to take those people who work there to a quarantine facility. They will be tested, and those found positive will be treated as per standard protocol.” The market premises will be disinfected over the next two days, officials said.The market was already running at a decreased capacity on account of the national lockdown, which was recently extended to May 17. The first case linked to the Koyambedu cluster emerged on April 19.The sudden shutdown will have an effect on the supply of fresh fruit and vegetables in the city of 10.5 million people, wholesalers said. “The officials came here at around 4 pm and ordered the market’s closure without any warning whatsoever. Produce valued at Rs 5 crore is stuck inside the market and 250 trucks with Rs 10 crore worth of vegetables are on their way to Koyambedu. This is not a small roadside operation that we can simply push our carts back home,” said GD Rajasekaran, president, Koyambedu Periyar Market Association.Koyambedu spread over 295 acres, is one of the largest vegetable, flower and fruit market complexes in India. It houses more than 1000 wholesalers and 2000 retail shops. In non-pandemic times, Koyambedu receives nearly 1,500 truckloads of horticultural produce and at least 100,000 visitors, daily. During the lockdown, around 400 trucks visited the market daily.State officials said Monday that 600 people linked to the market would be taken to quarantine facilities — there are four in Chennai — but several others who worked at the market have returned to their villages across Chennai, Kancheepuram, Cuddalore, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu. Officials said that the total number of workers was unclear at present.“Many people who worked at the market have also returned to their native villages,” the CMDA official said. “We don’t know how many people have returned home. At present, we have about 600 people who we are going to send to quarantine,” he added.The Koyambedu cluster had so far recorded at least 300 cases, including Monday’s cases reported from Villipuram (49) and Perambalur (25). Officials surmise that the number of contacts who will need to be traced would be several times those traced in connection with the Tablighi Jamaat religious conference held in New Delhi in March, from which over 1000 attendees had returned to the state. The conference was a hotspot and several states were involved in tracing the attendees and their contacts to track the spread of the coronavirus infection.CMDA officials said that they had urged traders at Koyambedu to move to another location within the city, as traders in other parts of the state like Trichy and Tirunelveli had done once the lockdown was implemented in March. “It is a private trade so unless they come forward and cooperate we could not do anything. We have been meeting with them regularly, they were simply not interested,” one official told HT.However, wholesalers claimed that there was no communication from the government, let alone alternative arrangements. On April 28, retail traders and fruit sellers from Koyambedu had been relocated to the bus terminus at Madhavaram, a suburb in the city’s northwest. Asking wholesalers to do likewise would be difficult as few open spaces in the city have the capacity to handle 3000 tonnes of vegetables each day, Rajasekaran said. According to government sources, the wholesale market would be relocated to Tirumazhisai, on the western outskirts of the city, about 15 km from Koyambedu. Another point of infection was a barber who owned a salon in Koyambedu, the official pointed out. The barber had come in contact with over 100 customers either at their homes or when they visited his salon. Efforts are on to trace his contacts, as well.The government anticipates a major disruption in supplies for at least the next three days. According to a senior official in the agriculture ministry, the government has asked farmer producer companies (FPC) that already supply about 12 tonnes of vegetables from farms directly to consumers to increase their supplies 10-fold. That according to the official would take care of 60% of the the city’s vegetable demand. However, the capacity of FPCs to scale up deliveries so much at such short notice is doubtful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-s-wholesale-market-shut-down/story-nmYawvUEVwk3VlQrLwVcsL.html
05-05-2020||India||Govt plans to evacuate Indians stranded abroad from May 7||The government will begin repatriating Indians stranded around the world because of the Covid-19 crisis in phases from May 7, using commercial flights and naval warships to bring back hundreds of thousands of citizens.Indian missions around the world have been registering citizens stranded when Covid-19-related travel restrictions were put in place by India and other countries, and those who want to return because they have lost their jobs or to meet their families.A statement issued by the government on Monday said the “facility would be made available on payment-basis” and “travel would begin in a phased manner from May 7”.Anyone wishing to return to India will have to undergo medical screening and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to return to the country, the statement said. State governments will make arrangements for testing, quarantine and onward movement of people who return, it added.The government has not given any official figure for the total number of Indians expected to return from across the world though people familiar with developments said it is expected to run into hundreds of thousands. Blue collar workers, including those who have lost jobs in West Asia, such as the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, are expected to be repatriated first, followed by students and Indians who were stranded in other countries for a variety of reasons, the people said on condition of anonymity.At least150,000 Indians have registered to return with the Indian missions in the UAEalone, with almost a quarter of them citing job losses as the reason for returning home, the people said. About 45,000 Indians who benefited from a recent visa amnesty will be brought back from Kuwait, they said.The statement said the government will facilitate the return of Indian nationals “stranded abroad on compelling grounds” and the “travel would be arranged by aircraft and naval ships”. A standard operating protocol (SOP) has been prepared for the repatriation, it said.Indian missions are preparing the list of “distressed Indian citizens” and non-scheduled commercial flights will be arranged for air travel from May 7.“Medical screening of passengers would be done before taking the flight. Only asymptomatic passengers would be allowed to travel. During the journey, all these passengers would have to follow the protocols, such as the health protocols, issued by the ministry of health and the ministry of civil aviation,” the statement said.On reaching their destination in India, travellers will have to register on the Arogya Setu app and undergo another medical screening. “After scrutiny, they will be quarantined for 14 days, either in a hospital or in an institutional quarantine on payment-basis, by the concerned state government,” the statement said.Covid-19 tests will be done on the travellers after 14 days and “further action would be taken according to health protocols”, it said.“State governments are being advised to make arrangements, including for testing, quarantine and onward movement of the returning Indians in their respective states,” it added.The Indian Navy put three of its large warships – INS Jalashwa and two other amphibious vessels – on standby late last month to bring back thousands of Indians, especially from West Asian states, the people said. About a dozen more warships can be pressed into service if needed, they added.After all international flights to India were suspended in March, the government advised thousands of Indians stranded around the world to “stay put” in the face of numerous requests that they be allowed to return. Officials said at the time this was done because authorities were apprehensive about the spread of the coronavirus disease and there weren’t enough quarantine facilities to cope with any sudden influx of thousands of people.Many stranded Indians faced problems in accessing food and accommodation and there were reports of dozens of people roughing it out in airports in cities such as Dubai and Kuala Lumpur. Indian students in many countries faced problems as their universities closed due to the pandemic and they had no accommodation. In London, a group of students camped in the high commission for several days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-to-evacuate-indians-stranded-abroad-from-may-7/story-dpMojrNABfXGhZzOZZUl3J.html
05-05-2020||India||WhatsApp comes up with chatbots for users to check coronavirus facts||Poynter Institute’s International Fact-Checking Network (IFCN) has released a chatbot on WhatsApp where people can message and check on fake news claims. Replies from IFCN’s database of debunked fake news will be available to people at +1 (727) 2912606.Baybars Örsek, director at IFCN, Poynter Institute, said the chatbot which is available in English alone, and will be released in Hindi soon. “The service is launching in English but will be available in other languages, including Hindi, Portuguese and Spanish, in due course. We are working to include other languages in due course,” Örsek said. A release from WhatsApp said through the bot, people can check whether a piece of content about Covid-19 has already been rated as false by professional fact checkers. “Since January, more than 80 fact-checking organisations from 74 countries have identified more than 4,000 hoaxes related to the novel coronavirus. All this information now forms the CoronaVirusFacts database and is updated daily by the IFCN so that chatbot users can navigate and easily access its content,” the release said.Örsek said that users can search for these debunked news through the chatbot. “The IFCN bot is primarily a way to distribute fact checks to WhatsApp users and to provide access to a searchable database on coronavirus debunked hoaxes. It allows users to review IFCN’s database of 4,000 debunked myths, to search for fact checks by word or phrase, access to tips to protect themselves from falsehoods, and also to find out how to contact local fact checkers in their country,” he said. Through the bot, a user can access a global directory of fact-checking organisations, and the user’s country is detected from the mobile country code to provide contacts of fact-checking organisations which are closest. “The person can then submit a piece of information for review directly to its local fact checker or visit it,” WhatsApp said in a release. With the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, there is a spike in the volume of fake news, and WhatsApp has been grappling with it, especially in India where it has over 450 million users. As the pandemic spread, the private messaging platform brought in product changes, including reducing the number forwards of a ‘highly forwarded message’ to just one chat. The company says this has brought down virality of messages which has already reduced the number of highly forwarded messages by 70%. Örsek said some of these fake news items were about symptoms of the disease. “The first couple of weeks after the first case was detected outside of China, we have seen so many pieces of misinformation on the spread of the virus and false symptoms. It had been the case especially in Europe, where the virus spread from Italy to Spain and then eventually to the different parts of the world where we saw a big volume of misinformation on the spread of the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-comes-up-with-chatbots-for-users-to-check-coronavirus-facts/story-dluORhdVdUa8e76pU6v1TM.html
05-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Tension, impatience stretch in containment zones across states||Azad Nagar in Indore, Ramganj Bazar in Jaipur, Dharavi in Mumbai and Master Plan Road in Agra may be divided by geography, but they have one thing in common. All four neighbourhoods are Covid-19 containment zones, cut off from the rest of their cities, all residents confined indoors and no outsider allowed in.Life wouldn’t have been easy for the residents of these neighbourhoods, which have been under what’s called a hard lockdown -- a state in which a particular area is completely sealed and residents have no freedom of movement -- after a significant number of cases surfaced within their municipal limits.Everyday essentials are home-delivered so that residents don’t need to step out and the heavily barricaded localities are sanitised everyday. They have been isolated in the run-up to and after Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared a three-week nationwide lockdown that took effect on March 25, and has since been extended twice, until May 17.It isn’t easy either for government officials deputed to these areas, classified as highly contagious, who have to spend most of the day visiting homes to trace the contact history of locals,ensure no one is breaching the quarantine, and gathering information about the health of residents that goes into the framing of national policies to combat Covid-19. There have been instances of abuse of officials, some of whom have even been spat at. Mamta Patel, 42, doesn’t let that deter her. A mother of two, Patel is a revenue department official tasked with ensuring compliance with lockdown restrictions in Indore’s Azad Nagar, from where the most number of Covid cases in the Madhya Pradesh city have been reported. Every day, Patel confronts people who exhibit a mixture of fear and apprehension, pain and distrust. She takes each case as a challenge as she goes about doing her duty in what she calls these “tragic times”.“Recently a woman and her three-year-old child tested positive. The woman, who has a three-month-old baby, wanted a family member to come with her to hospital. It took us lot of time and energy to convince her that it will not be possible,” Patel said. There have been instances of women not willing to go to hospital leaving their children behind. “Some who tested positive wanted to remain in home quarantine, which is not possible,” she said.Patel has been on the job since the first case was reported on March 23 from the neighbourhood of 100,000 people, and hasn’t taken a single day’s leave. She is tasked with surveying the area, screening residents, collecting samples, hospitalising positive cases, and following up with recovered patients. “In the beginning, people were hostile. Gradually we won the faith of the people and they are now cooperating,” she said.Patel’s husband, too, is on Covide-19-related duties in Indore. “I am at the locality at 9am every day after finishing work at my house as the maid is not coming in because of Covid,” Patel said. “My children -- one in Class 12 and the other in Class 8 -- often ask me how long this will go on. I assure them that life will be normal soon,” she said.A few hundred kilometers away in Mumbai’s Dharavi, Asia’s biggest slum, Nazish Shaikh, 33, has been attending to Covid-19 patients for over a month with no leave. The health care worker is among 2,500 people deployed in the containment zone. All of them work wearing protective suits in Mumbai’s sweltering weather.Dharavi, a densely-populated slum of 850,000 people, has already recorded 496 Covid-19 cases with 18 deaths. Screening slum dwellers dressed in full personal protective equipment (PPE) kit isn’t easy. People can’t see the faces of health care workers attending to them; it creates trust issues and impedes communication. “With the rising temperatures, walking around in PPE leads to dehydration. And we can’t even drink water in the suit. The N95 masks make it tougher to breathe,” Shaikh said. She works for up to 10 hours daily despite keeping a fast for Ramzan, and has to be extra careful to make sure she doesn’t catch the infection herself because she has to take care of two elderly parents at home. “My parents wait outside the home for me. I don’t even look at them and go directly into the bathroom. Then I take a bath in warm water with Dettol and soak my clothes in detergent in a separate bucket. Only after this do I allow them to come inside. I can’t take risks with their health,” said Shaikh, who has been on duty since March 19. Equally tough is the job of Chaitali Choudhary, 38, a mother of two, who has to convince people suspected of being infected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus to go into and remain in home quarantine. “As many remain asymptomatic, they don’t agree to go for institutional quarantine. Some behave as if they will be put in jail,” she said. Because she interacts with Covid-19 patients daily, she keeps a safe distance from her two children at home. “My parents who live in Nagpur are very worried about us as my husband is also a doctor and deployed to take care of Covid patients,” she said. In Agra’s Master Plan road, RK Dixit, 58, the district malaria officer, has the job of sanitising the locality every day as the head of a 60-member team. “We have been working since mid-March,” Dixit said. Sanitiser is sprayed in target areas and at the quarantine centres.His team hasn’t been spared the frustration of residents, some of whom even spat on them. “There were a few such incidents initially but now locals cooperate,” he said. Dixit said he has never in his career as a health officer seen such fear among people as that inspired by the coronavirus disease. “At the fag end of my career, I have learnt a lot,” said Dixit, who will retire in two yearsAjitabh Sharma, the nodal officer for Ramganj Bazar road in Jaipur, has experienced the pain of people who have been without work and living with the fear of Covid-19 for almost two months . “There is no much pain and anguish, which words cannot explain..More than corona, fear is killing people. This has been the toughest job of my career,” he said. Suresh Kumar, 32, who responsible for distribution of food in the slums in Mumbai, compares the situation to a science fiction movie that is all too real. “The fear on the faces of people is so real,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tension-impatience-stretch-in-containment-zones-across-states/story-3OObXV3dYStE1OOWpE0llI.html
05-05-2020||India||Only 610 cases in 112 aspirational districts, says govt’s empowered panel on Covid-19||Niti Aayog chief Amitabh Kant, who is heading an empowered group to strengthen India’s response to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said on Monday the government mobilised about 92,000 NGOs and civil society organisations across the country to tackle the crisis, even as the panel’s progress report said the exodus of migrants to their hometowns was an area of concern.Kant presented the progress report of the sixth empowered group, constituted to engage non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and other industry and international bodies, at the daily news briefing and said that these groups were working closely with district administrations. The Centre has formed 11 empowered groups comprising senior civil servants to deal with the Covid-19 outbreak and the problems emerging from the public health crisis.“Empowered Group 6 has mobilised over 92,000 NGOs and CSOs, appealing to them to assist state governments and district administrations in identifying hot spots and delivering essential services to the vulnerable, including the homeless, daily wagers and migrant workers,” the Niti Aayog CEO said.Kant also said that 610 Covid-19 cases were so far reported from 112 most backward districts, which are termed as “aspirational districts” by the government. “So far, in those 112 districts, only 610 cases have been reported, which is 2% of the national infections... Of these, six districts have reported the first case after April 21,” he added.The panel’s progress report said: “Major hot spots are Baramulla (62 cases), Nuh (57), Ranchi (55), YSR (55), Kupwara (47) and Jaisalmer (34) it added.”On a question about the state of the economy, the Niti Aayog CEO said that economic activity began picking up in the third phase of the lockdown, which has seen considerable relaxations.The empowered group previously asked all chief secretaries to appoint state-level nodal officers to coordinate with all NGOs and resolve their issues apart from leveraging their resources and networks. “The NGOs were also urged to lift and distribute rice and wheat from the Food Corporation of India’s godowns at the subsidised rate of Rs 21-22 per kg so that no one in the country remains hungry,” Kant said. The sixth empowered group is monitoring and coordinating with NGOs and civil society organisations across 700 districts on real-time basis to fight the spread of Covid-19. It has also engaged with development partners, United Nations agencies, and industry associations in at least 15 meetings.The Niti Aayog has taken steps to ensure that these districts are able to contain the spread of the virus and has actively referred the requirements in testing kits, personal protective equipment and masks to the respective empowered groups for necessary action in order to address supply constraints, the progress report said.The empowered group also engaged organisations such as the Red Cross Society, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Tata Trusts and Piramal Foundation to extend assistance to people across the country.“It is a record of sorts, to harness their strengths and resources, expertise in key social sectors-nutrition, health, sanitation, education, and extensive reach in the community,” a Niti Aayog official said. The group has involved the organisations in identifying hot spots and deputing volunteers; delivering essential services to the vulnerable, including the homeless, daily wage workers, migrants, and urban poor families; and increasing awareness about prevention, social distancing, and isolation. The report added: “A primary area of concern in these times is the mass exodus of migrant labourers from urban hubs of work to their villages. NGOs are coordinating efforts and working closely with the district administrations and state governments so that measures of care, quarantine, and treatment go hand in hand.”In the next phase, the group will mobilise CSOs and NGOs for movement against Covid-19 stigmatisation and in protecting the elderly and senior citizens, Kant said. The UN in India has prepared a Joint Response Plan (JRP) with prevention, treatment and essential supplies as key components.“Skill building of 15,300 trainers, training for 3,951 surveillance/health officers on Integrated Health Information Platform, infection prevention and control training in 890 hospitals, support to ICMR [Indian Council for Medical Research] for testing, strengthening risk communication and community engagement capabilities of health care workers, procurement of 200,000 PPE kits and 400,000 N95 masks, have been initiated by WHO and UNICEF,” the report said. The empowered group has also urged all organisations and industry partners to effectively utilise the Arogya Setu app in their operations. The application enables people to assess the risk of exposure to Covid-19 infection based on their interaction with others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-610-cases-in-112-aspirational-districts-says-govt-s-empowered-panel-on-covid-19/story-PqqfiGdpj2gzp9jI3IgGOI.html
05-05-2020||India||India a step closer to making key drug to treat Covid-19||The Hyderabad based Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT) has synthesised the key starting materials (KSMs) for Remdesivir, the first step to develop the active pharmaceutical ingredient in a drug.IICT has also begun so-called technology demonstrations for drug manufacturers such as Cipla so that manufacturing can begin in India, if needed. Remdesivir, manufactured by Gilead Sciences, is the first drug to treat Covid-19 approved for emergency use in the US based on clinical data . Gilead Sciences has a patent on the drug but patent laws allow for the drug to be developed solely for research purposes and not for commercial manufacturing. Remdesivir, when administered by an intravenous infusion helped patients recover on an average in 11 days, compared to 15 days taken by those on placebo according to US clinical trial results.India is part of the World Health Organisation’s Solidarity Trials for the cure of Covid-19 and has received 1000 doses of the drug for testing. Harsh Vardhan, science and technology and health minister said in a statement on Monday that synthesis of KSMs has been achieved by CSIR-IICT and that technology demonstrations to Indian industry are happening. For Favipiravir, another promising drug to treat Covid19, CSIR is working with the private sector for clinical trials and a possible launch in India. Remdesivir has three KSMs, Pyrrole, Furan and a Phosphate intermediate. Dr Srivari Chandrasekhar, director of IICT said over phone from Hyderabad that synthesis of KSMs is an important stage in drug development.“The synthesis of key starting materials (KSM) for any drug is the first step to develop an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API). These key starting materials for Remdesivir are available in India and chemical companies can manufacture these. Other reagents can be sourced from other countries. We started working on KSM for Remdesivir in January end, when trials had begun in China,” he said.Gilead Sciences CEO, Daniel O’ Day in an open letter on April 29 said: “On the supply side, we are working to build a global consortium of pharmaceutical and chemical manufacturers to expand global capacity and production. It will be essential for countries to work together to create enough supply for people all over the world and we look forward to these collaborative efforts.”Experts said the Indian government could request Gilead Sciences for grant of voluntary licenses to Indian private companies for a royalty. If not, India could use the compulsory licence option, under which it, or a generics manufacturer can manufacture patented drugs so as to protect the health of its citizens. The patent hlder, however, gets paid for this. “Because it is a patented drug, there are two options. One is that manufacturers obtain permission from the patent holder for a license to manufacture. The other option is that the Indian government allows two to three manufacturers to manufacture the drug on a compulsory license or a government use license. The manufacturers will need regulatory clearances which will be available only when more clinical data is available on the efficacy of the drug,” said KM Gopakumar, an intellectual property rights expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-a-step-closer-to-making-key-drug/story-mVleP51rCdJUPQgU2UtCLK.html
05-05-2020||India||Kejriwal Cabinet approved Rs 1 crore for family of IB staffer who died in February riots||The Delhi Cabinet on Monday approved Rs 1 crore compensation to the family members of Intelligence Bureau staffer Ankit Sharma, who was killed in the riots on February 26. Besides this, the Cabinet approved ration for the month of May to 38 lakh non-PDS cardholders. The Cabinet also decided to extend its existing scheme of providing one-time financial assistance of Rs 5,000 to every permit holder of para-transit vehicle in Delhi as well as owners of e-rickshaws registered in Delhi. Earlier the scheme was limited to only those drivers of para-transit vehicles who have PSV badge.“With this decision, more than 60,000 permit holders of para-transit vehicles and owners of e-rickshaws registered in Delhi, shall be benefitted,” the government said in a press statement.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal chaired the first Cabinet meeting after the opening of government offices, as part of new lockdown guidelines effective from May 3, on Monday. Among other major decisions taken was regarding approval of the process of home isolation of mild and asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients.“A training manual has been designed which will be given to all patients and their caregivers. A team of health workers will call each patient personally, and educate them on best practices for home isolation. This will be followed by a daily call that will track all the important vitals of the patient and answer all their queries. The patients would also get automatic SMS alerts for patients testing to be done after 14 days of isolation,” the statement said.Decisions regarding ex-gratia and ration for non-PDS cardholders were already announced by the government but had been awaiting Cabinet nod due to lockdown amid coronavirus pandemic.The government said that 38 lakh non-PDS cardholders, who registered for ration e-coupons through an online process, will be given ration. In April also the government had distributed ration to non-PDS cardholders. “Each individual will be given 4kg wheat and 1 kg rice, and every family will receive the Corona Relief kit that is being given to PDS cardholders. The Corona relief kit consists of 1 litre of refined oil, 1kg Chhole chana, 1kg sugar, 1kg salt, 200gm Haldi powder, 200gm Dhania powder, 200gms chili powder and 2 bars of soap,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-cabinet-approved-rs-1crore-for-family-of-ib-staffer-who-died-in-february-riots/story-0KSPIwaessCltcnA28v0RP.html
05-05-2020||India||Forest panel to share its views on Arunachal hydropower project||Minutes of an April 23 meeting of the environment ministry’s forest advisory committee (FAC) , in which it considered giving forest clearance to the contentious, 3097-megawatt Etalin hydropower project in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley, will be made public this week, senior ministry officials said.But the officials said the FAC hadn’t yet taken a decision on whether to reject or allow the project, which conservationists say entails felling tens of thousands of trees and poses a threat to the region’s rich biodiversity.The environment ministry’s forest division has been swamped in the past week by letters and submissions on the project, to make way for which at least 270,000 trees will be felled. After several conservationists and researchers wrote to FAC about the risk of losing a significant tiger habitat and biodiversity-rich sub-tropical evergreen and rainforests, the Idu Mishmi community of Dibang valley has also started petitioning the FAC.“We have received some letters which are in favour of the project and some which are not. We plan to release the minutes of our discussion in FAC meeting next week but a decision is still not taken. We require more information. We will address the concerns raised by scientists and conservationists at an appropriate time,” said Sanjay Kumar, director general of forests.Among several petitions received by the ministry, the Project Affected People Forum, which groups residents of the valley near Tangon and Dri tributaries of Dibang river, where concrete gravity dams will be constructed, also wrote to the ministry. The petition said scientists and researchers with “anti-development mindset” are trying to sabotage the project by running a signature campaign against it.Members of the forum said the project will be critical for the remote region which has been neglected by the government. “There are no basic services like proper health-care services, schools here. When the project comes up people will get jobs. This is a very remote area. The project is also important for Arunachal Pradesh which has no source of revenue generation. There are no big industries here. China across the border has already built several dams on the rivers,” Rohit Mele, chief advisor of the forum, said over phone.More importantly, 250 families have been assured compensation under the land acquisition act which hasn’t come through yet. “Land acquisition has been completed and detailed project report made. All technical formalities are over except forest clearance and environmental clearance. These families are waiting for compensation,” added Mele, who said the project developers had assured the forum that it will have no major environmental or biodiversity impact.The project has been proposed by Etalin Hydro Electric Power Company Limited, a joint venture of Hydro Power Development Corporation of Arunachal Pradesh Limited and Jindal Power Limited HT wrote to Jindal Power Limited on April 29 for a response to the ecological concerns, but the company hasn’t responded to the yet.According to FAC’s own factsheet, the project falls under the richest bio-geographical province of the Himalayan zone and one of the mega biodiversity hotspots of the world. The proposed project location falls at the junction of the Paleoarctic, Indo-Chinese, and Indo-Malayan biogeographic regions having luxuriant forests and plethora of flora and fauna. It is also a “vital tiger area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forest-panel-to-share-its-views-on-arunachal-hydropower-project/story-sbyP6hSBZVcP6wn5IMlKhM.html
05-05-2020||India||‘Pakistan groups trying to send 200 terrorists’||Pakistan-based groups have activated their launch pads along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir and the International Border (IB) in Jammu in an attempt to send across more than 200 terrorists at a time when the Indian security forces are busy helping the region’s civil administration to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, according officials familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity. Around 160 terrorists of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) are ready to infiltrate into the Valley, according to intelligence inputs available to national security planners. In the Jammu sector, along the border, around 70 armed and trained terrorists are planning to sneak into the Indian territory through unfenced nullahs, the inputs added. Counter-terror operatives said Jaish terrorists were camping at Samani-Bhimber and Dhudhnial launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. LeT has been sending its terrorists to the Leepa and Kel launching pads in Leepa Valley and Neelum Valley, respectively.Indian security agency officials said that, as part of its plan to intensify infiltration efforts and terror attacks in J&K, the Jaish has been mobilising its cadre across the IB in the Sialkot sector since February. Intelligence inputs also reveal that a group of armed Jaish terrorists arrived in Mundeke village, Daska Tehsil, in Sialkot district on February 11, 2020. There were 133 successful infiltration events along the LoC/IB in 2019 with majority of the crossovers taking place between April and September 2019, according to home ministry official. During January-February 2020, the Indian security forces managed to arrest 48 jihadists and overground workers of terror groups, and neutralised 24 terrorists, including three foreign nationals.The April 5 encounter in the Keran sector, in which five terrorists were killed in a close-quarters battle, revealed that the LeT had big plans to infiltrate from the Kupwara sector, according to investigators. Five elite Indian commandos also died in the operation.The LOC/IB infiltration takes place in different sectors: Gurez, Machchil, Keran, Tangdhar, Naugam and Uri in Kashmir; Poonch, Krishnaghati, Bhimber Gali, Sunderbani and Naushera in the Rajouri sector; and Jourian, Hira Nagar, Kathua, Samba and Jammu in the Jammu sector.While the main outfits involved in the infiltration are Jaish, Lashkar and Hizbul, there are indications, security official said, that the Rawalpindi GHQ wants to revive the Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami (Huji) in Sialkot, Punjab and Kotli regions of PoK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-groups-trying-to-send-200-terrorists/story-8L2qwLkWH4Hw6rBgS2w1sJ.html
