06-05-2020||India||Transgender activists write to Centre demanding support during Covid-19 crisis||Transgender people have appealed to the government to institute a monthly basic income, ensure access to ration and essentials and supply of medication to help the marginalised community during the Covid-19 pandemic. In a letter to the finance, home and social justice ministries, more than 2,000 activists and groups said the community was hit hard by the ongoing national lockdown because it obliterated their primary sources of income -- begging and sex work – and the lack of proper identity cards stopped their access to social security schemes.“This community is already very badly affected and further marginsalised during a pandemic, and prone to higher health risks. It is important that the central government provide adequate support, which must include ration,” said Meera Sanghamitra, an activist and one of the signatories to the letter. The activists noted that some measures had been instituted to help the community – such as the provision of Rs 1,500 by the National Institute of Social Defense (NISD) -- but added that such efforts were mostly localized and inadequate. For example, the NISD allowance reached around 4,500 people, according to the activists, which made up roughly 1% of the 488,000-odd transpeople counted in the 2011 Census. The activists demanded that the government provide a subsistence income of at least Rs. 3,000 per month, universalize the public distribution system to ensure food security, block the eviction or forced rent payment of transpeople, and ensure uninterrupted supply of essential medication. “This would also be in keeping with the spirit of the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in NALSA vs UoI (14th April, 2014) and obligations of the state, there under as well as under Article 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution of India,” the letter added, referring to the 2014 verdict of the top court that affirmed the rights of the trans community and recognised them as “third gender”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transgender-activists-write-to-centre-demanding-support-during-covid-19-crisis/story-v8vV8kEquqfFjXX3YEvODM.html
06-05-2020||India||Now, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka join states in raising taxes on liquor to fight Covid-19||The Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka governments decided to increase taxes on liquor and fuel on Wednesday to mop up resources to fight coronavirus, a few days after Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal increased taxes on liquor.In the past three days, states such as Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal had increased taxes on liquor to fund the fight against Covid-19.Several states including West Bengal, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand on Wednesday reported up to 20% higher excise revenue than normal days and said the rush reported on Monday was slowly tapering. As a result, lesser people were seen at liquor shops in these states. However, women in Uttarkashi district of Uttarakhand, Bolangir in Odisha and in some parts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh protested over the reopening of liquor shops saying it would derail their families. In West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district, some women wielding sticks thrashed people who queued outside liquor vends.The Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Wednesday approved proposals making petrol, diesel and liquor costlier to earn an additional Rs 4,429 crore in 2020-2021, said state’s finance minister Suresh Khanna. He said petrol prices will increase by Rs 2 per litre from the present Rs 71.91 and diesel Re 1 per litre from Rs 62.86. The prices will increase from Wednesday night.The cabinet decided to make liquor costlier by Rs 5 per bottle in case of country made liquor to Rs 400 per bottle (of more than 500 ml) in the case of imported brands of foreign liquor. For brands of regular and premium categories, an additional Rs 20 will be charged on 180 ml bottle, Rs 30 on 180 ml to 500 ml bottle and Rs 50 on more than 500 ml bottle, he said. For imported liquor Rs 100 extra will be charged on 180 ml bottle while Rs 200 additional amount will be charged on 180 ml to 500 ml bottle. An additional Rs 400 will be charged on more than 500 ml of imported liquor.Since May 4, when the liquor shops opened in the state, the government has got revenue of Rs 200 crore. “We got maximum revenue on Wednesday even though there was so much hype on Monday,” an official said. In 2019-20, UP had earned revenue of Rs 23,918 crore from liquor sales (2018-19) against the target of Rs 30,000 crore. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa also announced an increase in liquor prices by 11% and a stimulus package worth Rs 1,610 crore. As a part of the package, the government has decided to pay one time compensation of Rs 5,000 to Rs 60,000 to washer men (dhobis), Rs 2,30,000 to barbers, Rs 7.75 lakh to auto rickshaw and taxi drivers.In West Bengal, a huge rush was witnessed outside liquor stores for the second consecutive day despite the government increasing the prices by 30%.Bengal’s commissioner excise, Niranjan Das, said the sale of liquor in the last two days was about 58 crore, which is slightly higher than normal days. On an average Bengal gets Rs 25 crore from excise revenue. “On Monday, the liquor sale was about Rs 29 crore and on Tuesday it was about Rs 28 crore even though bars and liquor shops in malls are closed,” Das said, adding liquor sale contributes substantially to the state’s revenue.Similarly, revenue from liquor sale has been encouraging in Assam. In three days, the state earned Rs 75 crore as revenue from liquor sales, which was Rs 65 crore for entire March, officials said. In April, due to lockdown, the state had earned only Rs six crore from liquor sales. Rajasthan reported revenue of Rs 40 to 45 on Tuesday and Madhya Pradesh about Rs 40 crore.In Haryana, where shops opened on Wednesday, long queues were seen outside the liquor vends in several districts such as Bhiwani, Dadri, Rohtak and Sonepat districts. However, in many places the vends did not open in the absence of stock, officials said. RK Pandey, a resident of Kumaon, who waited for 30 minutes outside a liquor store, said: “The liquor shop was closed for six weeks and people are not sure whether it will remain open tomorrow or not so they are stocking liquor.”There were reports of women protesting against vends opening in some districts such as Uttarkashi and Chamoli districts. Sunita Negi, head of Virpur village said, “People have not been working here in the village and nearby villages due to the coronavirus pandemic. The situation will only worsen if liquor shops are opened as the men will spend money on liquor.”Liquor shops remained closed in Jharkhand, Kerala and Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-karnataka-hike-prices-of-fuel-to-improve-state-finances-as-liquor-sales-slow-down/story-7kgxC8mcTfDhGfWNWqGUVN.html
06-05-2020||India||‘Irrfan was a gentle soul, a master actor’||Director/cinematographer Mazhar Kamran feels the multiple entertainment platforms we have today are truly a blessing for both the producers as well as the audience. “Yes, of course, it is a boon. Imagine going into lockdown without OTT platforms. Also, the kind of good content being generated now, be it in films, OTT or television, is definitely better than what it used to be,” said Kamran speaking over the phone.With a body of work like ‘Satya’, ‘Kaun’ and ‘Mast’, Sujoy Ghosh’s ‘Jhankar Beats’ and directorial debut ‘Mohandas’ along with documentaries like ‘Ainie Apa,’ Kamran is glad with the release of his short film, ‘The Photographer’, after its round of film fests around globe ended and got its OTT release this week. “I am happy that the release of the short film on the web will take it to a larger audience. Also, I have completed half of another short film ‘Nalini’, with FTII students. The film was supposed to be screened at a few international film fests but due to the Covid-19 outbreak, things have had to be put on hold. So, we are waiting to get back to work so that it can reach audiences soon,” said the Lucknowite.Remembering his initial days when he was just one-film-old and got to work with Irrfan Khan for TV, Kamran said, “I had done ‘Satya’ when Tigmanshu (Dhulia) was directing the episodic ‘Ek sham ki mulaqat’ for ‘Star Bestsellers’ (1999) and that was my first interaction with him during the shoot. After that we were constantly in touch with each other. He was a gentle soul and a master actor. The way he understood his craft was commendable. A lot was planned but he went away too soon.”Kamran was all set to bring his next directorial film this year. “As everything is on hold, so is all our work. But I am utilising all this time writing and scripting new stories for feature films I plan to work on soon. All thanks to webinars and online classes that are also keeping me busy. Teaching what you know to the younger lot of our country is actually a very gratifying experience. I must say today’s youth is far smarter than what we were in our younger days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/irrfan-was-a-gentle-soul-a-master-actor/story-L3UVPUA20hNeNirGalB4LI.html
06-05-2020||India||Chinese firms again question findings about their kits by Indian authorities||Days after Indian authorities banned the import of rapid antibody testing kits from Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics, the two Chinese firms on Wednesday questioned the ICMR’s findings about the quality of their products.In separate statements that were forwarded by the Chinese embassy in New Delhi, Wondfo and Livzon also questioned the position taken by several state governments about the efficacy of their kits.Last month, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which plays a key role in advising authorities engaged in the fight against Covid-19, said state governments should stop using rapid antibody testing kits from Wondfo and Livzon after several states questioned their efficacy.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageEarlier this month, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) banned the import of kits from Wondfo and Livzon and cancelled the licences of the two firms and their Indian importers. This was done after authorities said the kits were producing inaccurate results in the field.Livzon said in its statement said it was “shocked” by media reports that its kits were showing only 5.4% accuracy as millions of the kits had been supplied around the world after they were validated by Chinese and other authorities.Referring to ICMR’s finding that the kits had shown wide variation in their sensitivity in field conditions, Livzon said: “We feel very disappointed [by] the result from ICMR. Our product gained positive report from NIV under ICMR in April before we delivered formal shipment to India and now is still listed as their recommendation…”Livzon also questioned the conditions in which the kits were used by state governments and the tests conducted by ICMR in field conditions. “There was no convincing source pointing out the [inaccurate] results only came from products made in China,” it said, questioning whether ICMR had evaluated similar products from other countries.Wondfo’s statement said its kit was one of the first such products to get an import licence from India and contended several reports in the media in the US and UK had stated that its kits were among the products from a few companies that delivered reliable results.There was no reaction from Indian officials to the statements from the Chinese firms.The Chinese government too has expressed concern about India’s decision to stop using the kits of the two Chinese firms, saying it was “unfair and irresponsible” to label the Chinese products as “faulty”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-firms-again-question-findings-about-their-kits-by-indian-authorities/story-40A8oYYmGK88Ub5NzaiKBP.html
06-05-2020||India||Bengal records 100+ cases of Covid-19 on a single day for first time||West Bengal reported 112 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, reporting more than a hundred cases on a single day for the first time that took the state’s tally to 1,456, the government said.The state reported 426 new cases between May 1 and May 6. The rise has been attributed to the increase in the number of tests – 2,570 persons were tested on Wednesday – while new cases have also been reported from hitherto unaffected areas. The number of containment zones in the state has also increased from 444 on April 30 to 555 on May 6.While Kolkata, and its neighbouring districts of Howrah and North 24-Parganas have so far been the state’s major concern – accounting for 754, 289, and 202 cases respectively – new cases were reported from 7 districts on May 4, from 9 districts on May 5 and from 8 districts on May 6.Kolkata has emerged as the biggest challenge for the state government, with the capital city accounting for more than half of the state’s Covid-19 cases. Containment zones in the city increased from 264 on April 30 to 334 of May 6, while 119 people tested positive for coronavirus infection in the last three days.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“Our number of tests has significantly increased and we hope to conduct 2,500 statewide tests on an average from now on,” state home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said.A total of 2,570 tests were conducted on Wednesday and, on average, Bengal has conducted 2,269 cases a day over the past six days, with 13,616 tests conducted between May 1 and 6. In contrast, the state tested only 16,455 people in the 45 days between March 17 and April 30. Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said the figures “should not been seen like cricket scorecards”. “Given the nature of the virus, every state will have its own time of peaking and flattening of the curve,” said Ghosh Dastidar who is a doctor by qualification.Meanwhile, union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, in yet another letter to Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha on Wednesday said that the state’s low testing rate and very high mortality rate reflected “poor surveillance, detection and testing.”The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), too, blamed a poorly implemented lockdown for the spread of the disease. “The lockdown was never implemented properly. People freely crowded as the police stood bystanders,” alleged BJP state unit president Dilip Ghosh, a Lok Sabha MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-records-100-cases-of-covid-19-on-a-single-day-for-first-time/story-re97mxtKdr4CFcQ0zHh2DP.html
06-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Israel suggests 50 topics in health for cooperation with India||Israel has suggested 50 topics in health and science where it can cooperate with India to find solutions to the Covid-19 crisis even as it works to bring together private enterprises from both sides to develop technologies to manage and overcome the pandemic.After successfully controlling coronavirus infections, Israel is sharing its experiences, best practices and strategy for exiting from a lockdown with the Indian side, Israeli ambassador Ron Malka told a small group of journalists via video conference on Wednesday.“We have started a special form of cooperation for Covid-19 and we’ve nominated a point of contact in Israel, who is coordinating with Israeli experts. We have offered India 50 topics for cooperation in health and science regarding the coronavirus,” Malka said.At the same time, Israel is working to put together start-ups and entrepreneurs from both sides to work on finding solutions to different aspects of the Covid-19 crisis. The focus, Malka said, is not just on equipment to prevent infections and defeat the virus but also on facilitating new ways of doing things amid the unprecedented lockdown.“The focus is on top priority areas we want to promote to defeat the virus but also on new methods and equipment to manage the situation,” he said, referring to the development by Israel of solutions such as hand washing stations, ultra-violet light technology, 3D printing of face masks and anti-virus fabrics that block and kill viruses.He also referred to the development of a low-cost ventilator, whose design and codes are open-source, by Israeli researchers from private companies and state-run companies such as Microsoft and Israeli Aerospace Industries, and the breakthrough by the Israel Institute for Biological Research (IIBR) in isolating an antibody that neutalises SARS-CoV-2.“I think this crisis brought Israel and India even closer together, given the fact that we are seen as a precious and close friend, given that there is mutual trust and respect between Israel and India, especially in areas of science and technology,” Malka said.Malka also spoke of Israel’s use of technology for tracing those who tested positive and the people they were in contact with against the backdrop of a debate in India on privacy concerns related to the Aarogya Setu aap.“This is a very careful line that we are now playing because we need to balance between…the need not to violate privacy [since] Israel is a democracy respecting the rights of everyone and universal freedom [and] on the other hand, we have this tech that can help us get control and help save people’s lives,” he said.The technology is being used for a “limited extent and time” by the executive while the legislative branch works on laws and procedures under the supervision of the judiciary, he said. “The basic thing is trust and understanding. In other times, no one will even dare to offer this kind of tracing,” he added.Israel is also keen to share data on Covid-19 with India as having more data to analyse will help uncover patterns and characteristics of the disease, he said.Malka, a trained economist, said any exit strategy for a lockdown will be all “about balancing life and livelihood”. He said, “We understand health is very important but the economy is also important for the health of the people.” Asked about the call from several countries for an investigation into the origin of Covid-19, Malka said: “The focus now is on trying to defeat the virus, taking the right measures to fully control the infection curve and develop a vaccine or a medicine as fast as we can while we find a balance between the needs for health and the economy.“The investigation – where did it come from and why – this is something that we can leave for later. I don’t think Israel is involved with that and I know we have harnessed all our efforts, our experts and our technology just to defeat this virus.”Israel, which was one of the first countries to go into a total lockdown, has so far recorded more than 16,000 Covid-19 cases and 238 deaths. More than 10,500 people have recovered and only 70 are still in intensive care, the envoy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-israel-suggests-50-topics-in-health-for-cooperation-with-india/story-9hqfu60ZbzLjO6n7NVMFaP.html
06-05-2020||India||PM Modi assures help to Ethiopia in fighting coronavirus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Wednesday assured his  Ethiopian counterpart Abiy Ahmed Ali of India’s support in ensuring supplies of essential medicines and offsetting the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.During their telephonic conversation, the two leaders discussed the domestic, regional and global challenges posed by the pandemic, and expressed solidarity with each other during the crisis.“The prime minister assure  Dr Abiy Ahmed Ali of Indian support to Ethiopia, for ensuring supplies of essential medicines and ameliorating the economic impact of the pandemic,” an official statement said.Modi recalled the close ties between India and Ethiopia and the excellent development partnership between the two nations, it said.     Prime Minister Modi, on behalf of the people of India and on his own behalf, wished the people of Ethiopia success in the fight against the Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-assures-help-to-ethiopia-in-fighting-coronavirus/story-mxrmH2NQ2TVVx6Obe6RUMN.html
06-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: TMC roasts Centre over ‘late’ Covid-19 response and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.TMC roasts Centre over ‘late’ Covid-19 responseWest Bengal’s ruling party Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Wednesday demanded the Rs 20,000 crore Central Vista project in New Delhi be scrapped, alleged that Arogya Setu app was being used for surveillance on people and accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre of acting late on the Covid-19 crisis.Read more. ‘Have to get used to the virus, expect flights to start soon’: Hardeep PuriUnion civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri talks about the government’s mammoth plan to evacuate stranded Indians, coordinating with the states to ensure their quarantine, the resumption of domestic flights and public transport in an interview to Hindustan Times. Read more. Lab-grown antibodies could block Sars-Cov-2 virus: ScientistsLab-grown antibodies have been shown evidence of blocking the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the Netherlands and Israel, and could emerge as a critical new tool to stop the spread of the infection.Read more. Ravi Shastri names Pakistan player who ‘would go to any level to get under your skin’India head coach Ravi Shastri recently talked about the 1985 World Championship of Cricket in Australia and the battle he engaged in for the Player of the Series award, an Audi 100 sedan, with Pakistan great Javed Miandad. Read more. When Shah Rukh Khan asked Priyanka Chopra if she’ll marry an actor like him at Miss India pageant, this was her responseActor and beauty queen Priyanka Chopra has always been the most confident woman in the room, even when she was just 17 years old. Priyanka stood as the first runner-up at 2000’s Miss India beauty pageant and later won the Miss World crown as well. Read more. How to avoid banking frauds on WhatsAppRight now, all of us are relying extensively on our smartphones and apps like WhatsApp, Zoom etc to get through this lockdown period and stay in touch with people. As far as daily messages are concerned, for a majority of the people, WhatsApp has become the mainstay. Read more. From dapper suits to lungis, Irrfan Khan remains one of the most well-dressed men Bollywood ever hadOne of the iconic names in Hindi cinema, actor Irrfan Khan passed away on April 29 this year leaving a big void behind and it will never be the same without him. Read more. Delivery man meets birthday girl, does this to make her day special. WatchIn a story that’ll fill your heart with a warm fuzzy feeling, a small act of kindness from a delivery man turned the birthday of a little girl into an unforgettable celebration. Shared by the girl’s mother on Twitter, the incident is absolutely heartwarming and may leave you teary-eyed. Read more. ‘Arogya Setu will save lives, won’t be needed after pandemic’: MyGov.in CEO The Aarogya Setu app has become a major talking point after concerns over data privacy were raised by many, including a French ethical hacker. While the opposition has called the app a ‘surveillance system’, the government maintains that data of citizens remains safe. MyGov.in CEO Abhishek Singh spoke exclusively to Hindustan Times senior editor Aditi Prasad on the privacy concerns and objectives of the app. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-tmc-roasts-centre-over-late-covid-19-response-and-all-the-latest-news/story-yteG1cBWPcypZP636dkC8N.html
06-05-2020||India||TMC roasts Centre over ‘late’ Covid-19 response||West Bengal’s ruling party Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Wednesday demanded the Rs 20,000 crore Central Vista project in New Delhi be scrapped, alleged that Arogya Setu app was being used for surveillance on people and accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre of acting late on the Covid-19 crisis.The party even alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah were supervising and controlling “a concerted effort to malign and heckle the Bengal government.”Their allegations came amid an unrelenting attack by the BJP on the Mamata Banerjee government over allegations of Covid-19 data fudging, alleged scam in the public distribution system and mismanagement in dealing with the pandemic. “We demand the Rs 20,000 crore Parliament renovation project be scrapped and the money used for the poor, especially the migrant workers. Of what use would this project be, except for, perhaps, creating an underground way for the Prime Minister to travel from this residence to the Parliament?” said TMC Rajya Sabha leader and national spokesperson Derek O’Brien at an interaction with journalists through video conferencing. .The party’s Lok Sabha MPs Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and Sudip Banerjee also took part in the interaction.Taking a dig at the use of Arogya Setu app, Ghosh Dastidar said, “Instead of the declared purpose of contact tracing, this app is being used for surveillance on people.”“It is because the Centre was not prepared that the states initially received insufficient testing kits and PPEs. That’s how the containment was affected,” she said. Sudip Banerjee, the TMC’s leader in the Lok Sabha alleged that central government officials, including those in the inter-ministerial central teams, were “writing like politicians” because they were “merely signing documents drafted by their political masters.”“There is a concerted effort on behalf of the Centre and BJP to malign and heckle the state and disturb the state’s operations against the pandemic,” Banerjee alleged. His remarks came in the backdrop of the Centre pulling up the state over the number of issues related to Covid-19 management in the state. These include at least three letters from the Union home ministry and three from the inter-ministerial central teams.Separately, TMC secretary-general and state education minister Partha Chatterjee alleged that when the world was planning for Covid-19 in February and March, Centre was busy honouring US president Donald Trump in Gujarat and in “horse-trading” in Madhya Pradesh.“Our party has been raising the issue right from the beginning, sought closure of Parliament sessions at the beginning of March and our chief minister kept demanding that the railways and international flights be stopped. They did not heed and let the virus spread. And when they finally acted, they did not allow lakhs of migrant workers the slightest time to return home. This is nothing but miserable planning,” Chatterjee alleged.BJP rubbished all charges and said that the state was being led to peril by the Mamata Banerjee government. “Had Centre not intervened, we the people of the state would have been in a complete mess. If anything changed for the better, it was due to the pressure created by the Centre,” BJP state unit president Dilip Ghosh said.Responding to TMC’s charge that BJP was indulging in politics in times of a pandemic, Ghosh said, “We are the opposition party. Our role is to highlight where the government is going wrong. We will keep doing it.” On Tuesday, BJP carried out a silent protest at the compound of all block development offices (BDOs) protesting a scam in ration distribution. Protesters wore masks and stood maintaining distance from each other and carried posters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-tops-guns-roast-centre-over-late-covid-19-response/story-5pFUzEpTGfFkWLmCC2Yu7J.html
06-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: As expatriates return, Kerala vows to prevent past slip-ups||Kerala readies to welcome the first batch of expatriates from the Middle East, hoping to maintain a clean coronavirus slate after not reporting a single positive case on Wednesday.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said eight out of the state’s 14 districts are now Covid-free with only 30 active patients remaining under treatment at hospitals after the successful recovery of 468 Covid-19 patients. Kerala has seen only four deaths among the 502 positive cases registered in the state since the outbreak.The CM said the state will have to maintain its present tempo in disease containment even as it welcomes back stranded residents from abroad beginning Thursday, when two flights—one from Abu Dhabi and another from Dubai will land at Kochi and Kozhikkode airports respectively. He said the government has made all the necessary arrangements for their arrival.“It is another challenge for us. We have to maintain strict vigilance. There is no room for any complacency at this juncture. We will move all returnees to the government quarantine centres on their arrival and will look after them well,” the CM said.The chief minister’s word of caution is not unfounded since Kerala, which seems to have things under control at the moment, was dealt a setback a couple of months ago when some of the returnees from the gulf countries jumped home quarantine and turned into super-spreaders of the disease. This time the state is taking no chances.“For the first seven days, they will be kept in government quarantine, after this, RT-PCR tests will be done on them. If found negative; they will be sent home, where they will remain in isolation for another week. There is no confusion over this,” said the CM.The government has set up ‘Covid Homes’ or quarantine facilities near all four international airports in the state, including vacant flats, houses and houseboats.Four lakh people have enlisted on the state government’s website requesting repatriation and Kerala expects at least two lakh residents’ return in one month.Vijayan replied to Union minister of state for external affairs V Muaraleedharan’s allegation that the Kerala CM was spreading “canards” by saying it was not ideal for people holding official positions to not maintain the decorum.On Tuesday, Muraleedharan had rubbished Vijayan’s claim that the Centre was flying back expatriates from the Middle East without conducting any tests as “totally absurd”.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Apart from the return of expatriates, the government also needs to deal deftly with the mass movement of migrant workers to prevent a new chain of positive cases. At least eight trains carrying stranded migrant workers have left the state and more are expected in coming days.Kerala was the first state to report coronavirus case in the country, when a China-returned medical student was diagnosed positive in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-as-expatriates-return-kerala-vows-to-prevent-past-slip-ups/story-ibz9EHSkQUdOxS5TzbGIUP.html
06-05-2020||India||No privacy breach in Aarogya Setu app: IT min Ravi Shankar Prasad||The coronavirus tracking app Aarogya Setu was “secure” and there was no privacy breach in it, Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Wednesday, rejecting charges that it was a “sophisticated surveillance system” that was leveraged to track citizens without their consent.The government’s assertion also came a day after French hacker and cyber security expert Elliot Alderson had claimed that “a security issue has been found” in the app and that “privacy of 90 million Indians is at stake”.     Describing the app as a “prominent preventive measure” in India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, an official release said as per information available, close to nine crore users have downloaded it as on May 4. The mobile application is used by the government for contact tracing and disseminating medical advisories to users in order to contain the spread of Covid-19.         “This is a technological invention of India -- Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, our scientists, NIC, Niti Aayog and some private (entities) -- whereby it is a perfectly accountable platform to help in the fight against Covid-19. It is safe and secure. The data is in an encrypted form. Most importantly, it is for the safety of Indians in public interest because it cautions you in the event there is a Covid-infected person in your vicinity.” Prasad told PTI.      Last week, the Centre made it mandatory for government and private sector employees to use Aarogya Setu mobile application to bolster the efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, and instructed the organisational heads to ensure 100 percent coverage. The Union Home Ministry also said the mobile app will be a must for people living in Covid-19 containment zones.          Following the government’s announcement, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that the app is a “sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a private operator, with no institutional oversight”, raising serious data security and privacy concerns.             “Technology can help keep us safe; but fear must not be leveraged to track citizens without their consent,” Gandhi had said.Using the GPS (global positioning system), the app helps in tracking movement of Covid-19 patients within coronavirus hotspots. However, the opposition party and others have maintained that the application captures more information than necessary for the tracking purposes.           Prasad said the mobile application also helps tracing contacts in the event a person is infected. “It is a very robust invention of technology and many other countries are using similar applications to fight Covid-19. And the second most important point is that the data is limited. Routine data remains for 30 days and in the event you are infected, then (for) 45 to 60 days. Then automatically it will vanish,” he explained.         There is always an option to scratch the app out of the phone or uninstall it, he added. “Then what is this ‘hangama’ (rukus) all about? The country has understood its utility and has willingly accepted it,” he said.       The Aarogya Setu app is for smart phones.“For feature phones we have developed Aarogya Setu IVRS. The app is absolutely robust in terms of privacy protection and safety and security of data,” he said.         According to the Union home ministry, it is mandatory for all government and private sector employees attending office to download the app.         Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been urging people to download the Aarogya Setu app, saying it is a fantastic use of technology to combat coronavirus.“Tracks the spread of Covid-19 and notifies you if someone around you is suffering from it. Also lists help-desk numbers of various states,” he had said in a series of tweets last month.         Dismissing Alderson’s claim, the government said “no personal information of any user has been proven to be at risk by this ethical hacker”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-privacy-breach-in-aarogya-setu-app-it-min-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-AQ8m1YqSyLFMx4kABQ4gAK.html
06-05-2020||India||Alwar hospital under fire after man claims wrong body, cremates it||In a bizarre mix up, a man claimed a wrong body as that of his father and cremated it Wednesday morning sparking a major controversy at the Government General Hospital in Rajasthan’s Alwar.The hospital’s principal medical officer Dr Sunil Chauhan ordered a probe into the lapse after another family raised a ruckus over the mix up.Dr Chauhan said senior medical officer Dr Rajeev Gupta and medical jurist Dr KK Meena have been ordered to conduct an inquiry in this matter. They were asked to submit their report at the earliest.Two bodies were put in the hospital’s mortuary on May 3. One was of Rajmohan (70) of Uttrakhand and other was of Pappu Ram Prajapat (55) of Alwar city. Hospital authorities did not hand over the bodies to the relatives because they were waiting for results of the samples that they had given for Covid-19 tests. When both samples tested negative, the hospital asked the relatives to come on May 6. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Rajmohan was admitted due to old age related disease. He worked as a chowkidar in a private house in Alwar. His son Sanjay came from Dehradun on Wednesday morning and went to hospital with his father’s employer to take his body for cremation.After the house owner and Rajmohan’s son identified the body, police handed it over to them. After the cremation, Sanjay returned to Dehradun. Trouble started a few hours later when Pappu Ram Prajapat’s family and relatives reached the hospital in the afternoon to take the body. His sons Deepak and Sonu and other relatives pointed out that the body was of a different person and refused to take it.It then became clear that there had been a mistake while releasing the first body in the morning. Rajmohan’s employer was called to the hospital and she realised that there had been a mistake. “When Sanjay was contacted he said that he hadn’t seen his father for the last 20 years and relied on his father’s employer to recognise him,” a hospital official said.Deepak Prajapat and Sony Prajapat insisted that they will not take the body which is not of their father’s at any cost and have asked the police to file an FIR against the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alwar-hospital-under-fire-after-man-claims-wrong-body-cremates-it/story-HeGb0ABWWsAUHcgjBZkzJN.html
06-05-2020||India||Lab-grown antibodies could block Sars-Cov-2 virus: Scientists||Lab-grown antibodies have been shown evidence of blocking the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the Netherlands and Israel, and could emerge as a critical new tool to stop the spread of the infection.Scientists in the Netherlands and Israel have separately created antibodies in the lab that can neutralise Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, to prevent human cells from getting infected.Monoclonal antibodies are man-made proteins that act like natural antibodies and that work by identifying and binding to the virus to destroy it.The antibodies stopped infection in human cells in the lab, reported Dutch scientists in the journal, Nature Communications, on the same day as Israel’s defence minister announced a government-run research centre had developed antibodies to “neutralise” coronavirus in pre-clinical trials.“Monoclonal antibodies are an established cancer therapy that works against specific types of cancers, such as cancers of the breast and blood. Herceptin, for example, is a monoclonal antibody that has been successfully used as targeted therapy for the treatment of breast cancers for at least two decades. It acts by blocking the HER2-neu receptor to prevent the spread of the cancer,” said SVS Deo, head of surgical oncology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences. Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) is a protein that promotes the growth of cancer cells.In the absence of a vaccine and an effective targeted therapy for Covid-19, monoclonal therapeutics offers a new therapy modality. Dutch researchers have identified a monoclonal antibody against Sars-CoV-2.“Here we report a human monoclonal antibody that neutralizes Sars-CoV-2 (and Sars-CoV) in cell culture. This cross-neutralising antibody targets a communal epitope on these viruses and may offer potential for prevention and treatment of Covid-19,” said researchers from the Netherlands in Nature Communications. An epitope is a part of the virus that is recognised and targeted by the immune system, specifically by antibodies, B cells, or T cells.“The monoclonal antibody treatment against Sars-CoV2 is promising but needs extensive and robust human trials to establish whether it stops Covid-19 infection and helps patients recover,” said Deo.Israel has said trials and regulatory approvals will be tracked to have a therapy ready in several months based on the monoclonal antibodies developed by the state-run Israel Institute for Biological Research in Ness Ziona in central Israel.There is no cure for Covid-19 and the treatment largely depends on repurposed drugs, such as anti-malarial drugs such as hydroxychloroquine and chloroquinine, and antivirals such as remdesivir and favipiravir. At least 120 vaccines are in various stages of development, with researchers using diverse platforms in the race to develop a vaccine that prevents infection and/or severe disease within a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lab-grown-antibodies-could-block-sars-cov-2-virus-scientists/story-vx24ZoDsFw6QKQCQn1zJbI.html
06-05-2020||India||Women in Uttarakhand villages are not saying cheers to reopening of liquor shops||Two days after the reopening of liquor stores as part of relaxations in lockdown 3.0, the rural women from Uttarakhand’s remote areas are up against the move. They say the coronavirus outbreak has already taken a toll on household incomes due to joblessness and the reopening of liquor stores was likely to add to the financial woes of family units. The women from Virpur and Dunda villages in Uttarkashi district have been protesting outside the liquor shops.Sunita Negi, head of Virpur village said, “People have not been working in the village and in nearby villages due to the coronavirus pandemic. The situation will only worsen if liquor shops are opened as the men will spend money on liquor.”Negi said that the women of the village “would not allow the shops to open, and carry out a movement if needed.”Pushpa Bhatt, the village head of Dunda village said the liquor shops will not be allowed to reopen anywhere between the Kachdu Devta Mandir to Renuka Devi temple. The protesting women alleged that the habit of liquor consumption was spoiling the culture and the environment in the villages as the youngsters were taking up alcohol.“Families keep on complaining about day to day conflicts that arise due to lack of income. We will not allow liquor shops to open in our area,” said Bhatt.Uttarkashi district excise officer Harish Chandra said the officials will try talking to the women of the villages and find a solution.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Long queues of people violating social distancing norms have been witnessed outside liquor shops across the state after the relaxations came into effect and the authorities have struggled to manage people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-in-uttarakhand-villages-are-not-saying-cheers-to-reopening-of-liquor-shops/story-utPMm7MTXGw5tC4OVDsBAO.html
06-05-2020||India||‘Bathing in rivers, playing cricket’: MHA on lockdown violations in Bengal||Drawing from the observations of the two central teams sent to Kolkata and Jalpaiguri, the union home ministry spotlighted that Bengal’s response to Covid-19 has been characterised by a very low rate of testing. It further highlighted instances of lockdown violations reported from the cities.“The response to Covid-19 in West Bengal has been characterised by a very low rate of testing in proportion to the population and a very high rate of mortality of 13.2% for the state, by far the highest for nay state, this is a reflection of poor surveillance, detection and testing in the state,” said the letter.It exhorted the state to increase random testing in crowded clusters.“Instances of overcrowding in bazaars, with poor sanitation; free movement of people in large numbers without masks; bathing of people in rives; people playing cricket and football; serious laxity in enforcing lockdown measures in containment zones, plying of rickshaws etc without any restriction; are grave violation of lockdown instructions and social distancing norms,” noted the letter. The MHA also drew state’s attention to the poor community awareness, especially among labourers as a cause of concern. It urged the state to bridge gaps in surveillance and contact tracing of positive case.“Indefinite delays in testing results has further affected the contact tracing process and has put patients under high risk. A string surveillance and testing regime coupled with confidence building measures and effective use of Aarogya Setu app could help in curtailing the spread of the virus,” the ministry noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-playing-cricket-bathing-in-rivers-mha-on-lockdown-violations-in-bengal/story-p78Vx2M4d90GKkCzwcUrFK.html
06-05-2020||India||Govt bans export of alcohol-based hand sanitisers||The Union government on Wednesday banned the export of alcohol-based hand sanitisers to other nations also grappling with the coronavirus pandemic.“Alcohol-based hand sanitisers are prohibited for export,” the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) that comes under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry said in a notification. The move by the government is meant to boost availability of hand sanitisers in the domestic market amid the outbreak of the infectious Covid-19 disease.Sanitisers are an essential component in the fight against the deadly infection and are used as a disinfectant to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.Hand sanitisers were one of the first products to be sold out at retail outlets across the country as the coronavirus infection started spreading in March. Sanitisers of reputed companies are not available in the market till date due to the extended lockdown and several gaps in the supply chain.Multiple reports of people drinking sanitisers due to the high alcohol content have also emerged across India. Last month, a 29-year-old research student died in Hoysala Nagar of Dharwad district in Karnataka after consuming a mixture of sanitiser and cough syrup as he was unable to get liquor.Police personnel and health officials have repeatedly appealed to people not to consume sanitisers or syrups. But unable to get access to liquor during the nationwide lockdown, a number of people had taken to consuming all kinds of substances, which included hand sanitisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bans-exports-of-alcohol-based-hand-sanitizers/story-L8iQjwj5hB3YCxlfPu1D3K.html
06-05-2020||India||Calls grow for testing, quarantining of health staff after loss of smell, taste||With scientists warning that sudden loss of smell and taste could be early symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the editor of a leading UK-based scientific journal has endorsed the suggestion that front line health workers should get quarantined and tested after the onset of such signs.“A proposal, actually a plea, from several doctors on the front line of Covid-19. Those with a new loss of smell should be advised to self-isolate and be tested. This simple manoeuvre could save lives,” tweeted Dr Richard Horton, editor in chief of The Lancet journal.Ajay Swaroop, chairman of the department of ENT (ear, nose and throat) in New Delhi’s Sir Gangaram Hospital, said: “Amnosia, or the loss of smell and with it the altering of the sense of taste, is a well established symptom of Covid-19 just as dry cough, fever and difficulty in breathing. There are very few conditions that lead to sudden loss of smell; so it should be treated as a early sign, especially by people who risk exposure at the front lines and those who develop it with another Covid-19 symptoms.”Health workers are at high risk of infection, both from undiagnosed cases as well as from patients in isolation wards due to aerosol-generating procedures such as intubation of severely ill patients in intensive care units.Last month, researchers from the University of California (UC), San Diego, found Covid-19 patients with symptoms of loss of smell and taste had a 10-fold higher risk of being hospitalised compared to those without the symptoms.“Based on our study, if you have smell and taste loss, you are more than 10 times more likely to have Covid-19 infection than other causes of infection. The most common first sign of a Covid-19 infection remains fever, but fatigue and loss of smell and taste follow as other very common initial symptoms,” said Dr Carol Yan, an otolaryngologist and head and neck surgeon at UC San Diego Health. The findings were published in the journal International Forum of Allergy & Rhinology on April 12.The San Diago study found among those who reported loss of smell and taste, the loss was typically profound, not mild. The effect was, however, temporary, and both smell and taste were restored within two to four weeks of infection.“Among the Covid-19 patients with smell loss, more than 70% had reported improvement of smell at the time of survey, and of those who hadn’t reported improvement, many had only been diagnosed recently,” said Yan.Covid-19 symptoms include fever, dry cough, tiredness, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing. According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), a sudden loss of taste or smell, along with either a cough or shortness of breath, should be taken as a sign of Covid-19.Symptoms of Covid-19Cough; shortness of breath or difficulty in breathingOr at least two of these symptoms:Fever; chills; repeated shaking with chills; muscle pain; headache; sore throat; new loss of taste or smellSource: US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calls-grow-for-testing-self-quarantine-of-health-staff-after-loss-of-smell-taste/story-HrvRXrjcgga1FdRrR1cw3O.html
06-05-2020||India||Two Covid-19 patients given plasma therapy in Jaipur, condition stable||Two Covid-19 patients have been given convalescent plasma therapy at the SMS hospital in Jaipur and doctors say their condition is stable. The plasma donors were recovered Covid-19 patients.Dr Sudhir Bhandari, the principal, SMS Medical College, said both patients—aged 63 and 54-years --- showed moderate symptoms of the disease and were given the convalescent plasma therapy on Monday. “The patients started feeling better and their symptoms such as breathlessness and persistent fever has gone away,” said Dr Raman Sharma, senior professor of medicine at SMS hospital.“The patient’s oxygen saturation would fall if they walked a little bit. We saw that if the therapy is given timely, then the progression of the disease can be stopped. Now, their fever is gone and their oxygen saturation has improved,” Dr Sharma added.Dr Bhandari said while it will take longer to confirm the healing through X-ray and CT scan, but a sense of well-being and reduction in symptoms is seen within 12-14 hours of administering the plasma therapy.He added that in the coming days, three more patients could be given the therapy, depending on their condition.“Patients who move into stage two and three and show significant symptoms are not responding adequately and need oxygen support... so when the patients are in moderate to severe illness stage, they are considered eligible for plasma therapy,” he said.Rajasthan, on Sunday, received permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research to begin clinical trials for the convalescent plasma therapy.The state has so far recorded 3,193 Covid-19 cases and 90 deaths. The government has pinned its hopes on plasma therapy to help cure critical patients and bring down the death rate.The centre has stressed that plasma therapy is still in an experimental stage and should not be used for regular treatment of coronavirus patients until it is approved, otherwise, it may lead to life-threatening complications.Convalescent plasma therapy entails taking antibodies from cured Covid-19 patients and injecting them in the blood of active coronavirus patients.The antibody brings down the viral load in a patient, said Dr Sharma.A team of doctors at SMS hospital has studied the feasibility and technique of carrying out plasma therapy on critical patients.The blood bank in-charge at SMS hospital, Dr Bundas said the quantity of plasma taken from a donor ranges from 300-500 ml and the transfusion process takes 60-90 minutes.Mahatma Gandhi Hospital in Jaipur has also received permission from ICMR to conduct phase-II clinical trial of the plasma therapy, named as PLACID trial to assess its safety and efficacy in Covid patients with moderate infection, said Dr. Vikas Chandra Swaranakar, chairman of Mahatma Gandhi Medical University.He said the trials will begin soon at the Mahatma Gandhi Hospital, the only hospital in the private sector in the state to have earned the nod.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The hospital said that people over the age of 18 who have been cured of coronavirus can donate their plasma voluntarily. The transfusion of donated plasma into a Covid-19 infected patient is done after consent. The results of the trial will be shared with ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-covid-19-patients-given-plasma-therapy-in-jaipur-condition-stable/story-cmUCK6Mjfn1CnNJKYHYCTM.html
06-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand to evacuate all 1.3 lakh of residents stranded in other states||: The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday clarified that it will bring back all 1.30 lakh stranded residents in other states who have registered themselves for their return.However, it has asked the migrants to be patient citing the precautions to be maintained in the evacuation process.The Centre which allowed the states to make arrangements to evacuate their stranded residents last week, issued new guidelines later stating that states are allowed to bring only those residents who are stranded in shelter homes or enroute to their home states. Those who are staying with their relatives’ or in any other accommodation without any problems can’t be brought back.“So far till Tuesday, about 1.61 lakh people have registered themselves with the government website expressing their willingness to return to their home state,” chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh said.“Out of the total, about 1.30 lakh are from Uttarakhand who are stranded in other states while about 30,000 are from other states stranded in our state and who want to return home in their states. We will bring all our stranded residents but gradually. They have to be patient as the process is not easy because we have to take all the required precautions while doing so,” said Singh. He also said that the state has so far evacuated about 5,700 people from different places in state road transport corporation buses.“The evacuation process is ongoing and in that, we have brought back total 5,669 people back to their home in Uttarakhand mainly from Chandigarh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Apart from this, about 7,000 residents who were stranded in districts other than their home districts within the state, have also reached home through government arrangements,” he said. The officer said that the government was taking all the necessary precautions in the evacuation process.“We are coordinating with other states where our residents are stranded so as to ensure their compulsory medical examination before bringing them home safely without them having any symptoms of Covid-19. After they reach here, our health workers are again examining them before sending them to their home districts,” said Singh. A 14-day home quarantine for all evacuees is mandatory while those showing symptoms will be taken to institutional quarantine. He said, “The government has also designated the district magistrates as additional nodal officers to coordinate with nodal officers of other states to facilitate the movement of stranded migrants without much problem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-evacuate-all-1-3-lakh-of-residents-stranded-in-other-states/story-xvsXOhTa9pQacvdc972o8H.html
06-05-2020||India||FSSAI trains food businesses to mitigate Covid-19 risk||Food Safety Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has launched an online training programme to address the challenges in ensuring uninterrupted supply of food while containing the risk of contracting SARS-COV-2, which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), for workers, customers and all those involved in the chain.“Covid-19 is posing a serious challenge for food supply chains worldwide ... Keeping these issues in mind, FSSAI had issued detailed guidelines for food businesses during the Covid-19 pandemic … In a bid to enable and equip food businesses to function and reduce the risk of contagion, the FSSAI has launched a training programme for food businesses…,” the food regulator said in a statement.The online training programme is launched under FSSAI’s flagship operation, Food Safety Training and Certification Programme (FoSTaC), through its various empanelled training partners. Food businesses can visit www.fostac.fssai.gov.in to enrol in the certification programme.“The training programme caters to all stakeholders in the food ecosystem comprising manufacturers, packers, transporters, retailers, and food delivery partners and aggregators. The agencies/non-governmental organisations (NGOs) serving food in places, including community kitchens, should also get their food handlers trained for Covid-19 precautionary measures. A certificate of participation shall be issued to the trainees through the FoSTaC portal,” the FSSAI said.The training programme seeks to emphasise on food hygiene and sanitation to prevent the spread of the viral outbreak.“Practising social distancing by the staff is of utmost importance. It’s the responsibility of the employer to ensure the norms are properly followed. The module that FSSAI has created is pretty exhaustive and will help in putting in place infection control practices among food businesses,” said a senior official in the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, requesting anonymity.FSSAI guidelines, which were issued earlier, advocated for mandatory use of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits such as masks, gloves, and headgear. It was suggested that a local emergency response team must be established in large food businesses to deal with suspected Covid-19 cases, and a person should be designated as the coordinator.“Proper hygienic practices such as the washing of hands, frequent use of alcohol-based hand sanitiser, cleaning, disinfection, and avoid close contact with a sick person need to be followed. Besides, wearing personal jewellery and watch should be discouraged along with the use of mobile phones at workplaces,” the guidelines had suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fssai-trains-food-businesses-to-mitigate-covid-19-risk/story-FgMc81tkGDk89P4aF8PNAJ.html
06-05-2020||India||Industries, tea gardens in Assam resume operations as lockdown norms relaxed||Industries and tea gardens in Assam which were shut for over a month have started resuming operations after the Centre and state government announced relaxations for the extended lockdown.Assam industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said on Wednesday that 820 industries employing 28,000 workers and 783 big tea gardens and 1.18 lakh small tea gardens have started functioning in the state since Monday.“Over 800 tea factories are functioning and 10.33 lakh persons engaged in tea gardens and factories have started work. Monitoring is being done to ensure compliance of Covid-19 guidelines,” he said.The tea industry is the biggest industry in the state. But with lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19 coinciding with the start of the plucking season, the sector was severely hurt.Assam produced 715.49 million kg of tea in 2019, which was 51.51% of India’s total tea production. But due to the lockdown, the production figure is expected to dip by 32 million kg which translates to losses of more than Rs 500 crore.With relaxation of lockdown norms tea auction has restarted and warehouses resumed operations.Patowary said that the state government has engaged the services of Ernst & Young (E&Y) to study the impact of the lockdown on the industrial sector in Assam and suggest a policy framework to attract industries planning to move out of China.“There are speculations that many American, Japanese, Korean companies are contemplating shifting production facilities from China to India. To woo these companies, the Assam government has taken up the matter with Centre and Japanese and US trade and business organisations to try and attract some of them to Assam. The state has strategic location advantage, vast natural resources, robust industrial infrastructure and reliable connectivity,” said Patowary.The industries and commerce department of Assam is also in touch with the department of for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) of Government of India and Japan External Trade Organisation (JETRO) for setting up a Japanese industrial township in Assam to attract investment from Japanese companies.The minister also said that all government departments have been asked to extend the validity of trade licenses, permits, clearances to industries, shops and business establishments from March 31, 2020 to June 30, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/industries-tea-gardens-in-assam-resume-operations-as-lockdown-norms-relaxed/story-lr9PcIZwKUniTJ3lgJEzIK.html
06-05-2020||India||Will take a call after considering all aspects: Bengal govt on MHA letter on Indo-Bangla trade||The West Bengal government on Wednesday said it will take a call on the movement of essential goods through the Indo-Bangladesh borders after considering all aspects. State’s Home Secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay said this in reply to the Union Home Ministry letter. “We will take a call after considering all aspects. There are a lot of things that need to be looked into,” he said. The Centre during the day came down heavily on the West Bengal government for not allowing movement of essential goods through the Indo-Bangladesh border, saying such acts will have international implications. The MHA in a letter to the chief secretary also said the state government has not implemented repeated directions of the Centre for free movement of cargo and this amounts to violation of the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-take-a-call-after-considering-all-aspects-bengal-govt-on-mha-letter-on-indo-bangla-trade/story-MKAXxzAKXT2rbGASca2y9L.html
06-05-2020||India||Terror perpetrators trying to take advantage of Covid-19 pandemic, need to defeat both viruses: Venkaiah Naidu||The perpetrators of terror activities in India are under a false impression that they can take advantage of the situation arising out of coronavirus pandemic, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said on Wednesday, stressing that both the destructive viruses of COVID-19 and terrorism need to be simultaneously fought and defeated. In an apparent reference to Pakistan, he said one of India’s neighbours continues with its “nefarious and evil design” of abetting and promoting terrorist activities as well as using social media extensively to spin a fake narrative about the safety of certain communities in the country. India, with the second-largest Muslim population in the world, has remained deeply committed to the welfare of all minority groups since it became independent and is one of the pioneers of practising secularism in the real sense, Naidu said, adding there is no need for anybody to preach India on how to treat its people. “The perpetrators of terrorist activities are under a false impression that they can take advantage of the situation arising from the pandemic and succeed in their abominable practice,” he said in a Facebook post. Terrorist groups are trying to send infiltrators from across the border to create trouble in the country, he said apparently referring to the recent spate of encounters between security forces and terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir. Terror is a matter of grave concern for the entire world and every nation must stand united to defeat and wipe out terrorism, he said. “There is no room for complacency. The world while fighting the pandemic, must simultaneously declare war against terrorism,” he said. “It is unacceptable that these attempts to create schisms and divisions between communities and peddle hate and fear should continue unchecked,” he said. “We have to seek remedies for both the natural health pandemic as well as the man-created destructive mindset,” the vice president said. Both viruses, Naidu said, are destructive and impede human progress and drastically reduce the quality of life. “All nations must speak in one voice and come together in identifying and isolating nations which are sponsoring terrorism. The world, the vice president noted, has a health challenge that is threatening to change the way we live and work. It is a challenge we are collectively and individually coming to grips with. “We must not allow any other concern to assume dangerous proportions that will retard human welfare and divert our energies away from the most important task at hand,” he felt. “Pluralism, tolerance and celebration of diversity and goodwill towards all neighbours, both far and near, have been the cornerstones of the state policy (in India)” Naidu noted. Quite deplorably, India’s neighbour is using social media extensively to spin a fake narrative about the safety of certain communities living in India, he said. “This kind of false propaganda aimed at creating dissensions among different communities in India needs to be nipped in the bud. He said “equally disturbing is the attempt by some people within India, including a minuscule section of the media, to portray a wrong image of the country through false propaganda. All such attempts are highly condemnable. “ Naidu said India cannot allow the virus of terror, misinformation, and hatred assault it.  “We cannot allow anyone to fish in troubled waters and foment trouble and support terrorist organizations and activities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terror-perpetrators-trying-to-take-advantage-of-covid-19-pandemic-need-to-defeat-both-viruses-venkaiah-naidu/story-0ANzcDXP1e7xctlQGGCJbL.html
06-05-2020||India||‘Of course, we’ll share it with the world’: Israel’s ambassador to India on Covid-19 breakthrough||Israel’s ambassador to India, Ron Malka, on Wednesday reacted to reports of Israel’s breakthrough on Covid-19 antibodies. Commenting on the status of Covid-19 clinical trials, Malka said he is awaiting details on the same, news agency ANI reported.“The processes are not finalised, we are at an advanced stage, yes, of course, we will share it with the world,” Malka told reporters.Malka also said that the coronavirus crisis has brought India and Israel closer.“Both countries are sharing their best practices in combating Covid-19 and facilitating new processes,” the envoy added.Also read: Jodhpur’s Covid-19 testing rate higher than US, Spain, Italy, say officialsI am awaiting details on it, the processes are not finalised, we are at an advanced stage, yes of course we will share it with the world: Israel’s Ambassador to India Ron Malka on Israel’s breakthrough on antibodies and if clinical trials have begun #COVID19 https://t.co/FPBzhrvyzhMalka’s comments came a day after Israel’s Defence Minister, Naftali Bennett, said scientists at the country’s top biological research institute have made a “significant breakthrough” in developing an antibody to tackle Covid-19.“I am proud of the institute staff for this terrific breakthrough,” Bennett said, adding that “their creativity and the Jewish mind brought about this amazing achievement”.Israel’s Institute for Biological Research (IIBR) is supervised by the Prime Minister’s Office and mandated to develop a vaccine for coronavirus. Bennet visited the labs at the institute on Monday and was shown the “antibody that attacks the virus in a monoclonal way and can neutralize it within the bodies of those ill”, a statement from his office said.The statement added that the antibody’s development had been completed and that the institute was in the process of patenting it.“In the next stage, researchers will approach international companies to produce the antibody on a commercial scale,” the statement stated. (With inputs fro PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/of-course-we-ll-share-it-with-the-world-israel-s-ambassador-to-india-on-covid-19-breakthrough/story-dMWd0ya1D7iuNaTjF5Aj9L.html
06-05-2020||India||In Karnataka’s Rs 1600-cr lockdown relief, Rs 5,000 for barbers, taxi drivers||To help stimulate economic activity in the state and to compensate for the loss of livelihoods, the Karnataka government unveiled an economic stimulus package worth Rs 1610 crore.As part of the package, the government has decided to pay Rs 25,000 per hectare up to a maximum of one hectare. Sixty thousand washer men (dhobis) and 2,30,000 barbers would also be given a one-time compensation of Rs 5,000.Also 7.75 lakh auto rickshaw and taxi drivers will be given Rs 5,000 each as a one-time measure as due to lockdown they have had no earnings.Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa made these announcements while addressing a press conference.The CM said the monthly fixed charges of electricity bills for MSMEs, who have suffered huge production losses due to the lockdown, will be waived for two months.Electricity consumers of all categories, the CM said, would be given incentive and concessions if they pay the bill in time. No electricity connections would not be disconnected till the end of June for consumers who have not paid their bills, the CM added.Weavers also were given a package with Rs 109 crore being set apart for weavers’ loan waiver schemes.Also 54,000 handloom weavers in the state would get Rs 2,000 each as a one-time measure.Pointing out that there are 15.80 lakh registered building workers in the state, Yediyurappa said they would get Rs 5,000 each as a one-time measure.To fund all these relief measures, the state has hiked liquor prices by 11%. This hike comes on the back of a 6% hike which was announced in the budget earlier, bringing the total hike on retail liquor prices by 17%.Siddaramaiah, leader of the opposition in Karnataka assembly, criticised the package as being completely inadequate and said that at least half of the losses suffered by farmers should be compensated.“Government should come forward and buy the vegetables, fruits and flowers grown by the farmers. The Rs 10,000 per acre compensation does not suffice even to spray pesticides on them. Also what about tanners, road side vendors, carpenters and others? It is unfortunate that the government has not done anything for large sections of the society which are suffering.”KPCC President DK Shivakumar also lashed out at the government for announcing ‘meagre and inadequate compensation package.’ He also demanded that a special assembly session be called to discuss the challenges faced by the public and how to address that.Reacting to this demand, CM Yediyurappa said that he is meeting a delegation of Congress leaders who have sought his time in the next few days and thus there was no need for any special session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-karnataka-s-rs-1600-cr-lockdown-relief-rs-5-000-for-barbers-taxi-drivers/story-FbT6Qiv1yIUw7sXDfcGUkJ.html
06-05-2020||India||After Covid-19 pandemic, world will need new systems: RSS||The world should come together to avoid the recurrence of the Covid-19 pandemic and create new systems involving responsible individuals, organisations and countries, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh(RSS) joint general secretary Dattatreya Hosable said on Wednesday.The senior RSS functionary, in an interaction with foreign media persons through videoconferencing, said the limitations of ideologies of both “global capitalism and global communism” have exposed themselves in dealing with the pandemic.“The world will have to search for the emergence of a future world order, a new regime. Political ideologies based on politico-economic thoughts which have ruled the world for the last century have failed in today’s world. Unbridled materialism and consumerism will have to be questioned; and I hope humanity will try to free itself from this,” he said.To a separate question on the message to the Arab leadership on the perception that Indian Muslims are being discriminated against, Hosable said RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat has already made it clear that the entire community cannot be made a scapegoat for the acts of a few. “...Naming the whole community is not in the right spirit. The virus does not discriminate,” he said, adding that a few prominent Muslim leaders wrote to Bhagwat and welcomed his stand on the issue.The Sangh functionary also expressed hope that there will be a detailed inquiry carried out to investigate the origin, reason and impact of the pandemic.In response to a question on the US President’s Donald Trump’s statement on the need to investigate the reason and origin of the coronavirus, he said when there is a global crisis of this magnitude, it is for the international community to probe or fix responsibility.“…In any such conditions, it happens that the entire community through organisations with mandate and infrastructure and standing in the global system will go into that. Virus is virus; whether man-made or not is premature to say. It is in the interest of humanity is it good to probe; it is for better preparation in future,” Hosable said.The Sangh, which has steadfastly pushed for indigenisation, also had a message for the government: draft a detailed economic policy that will allow India of attract investments without harming the self-reliance and natural resources.“We will have to be very judicious; new measures will have to be announced so that MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) and agriculture can stand on their own feet; but at the same time any countries cannot close its doors to the others,” he said.Commenting on Hosable’s statement, political commentator Shirish Kashikar said: “It is clear that all countries have to bring changes; India is the second most populous (country), and will have to be the first and others will follow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-covid-19-pandemic-world-will-need-new-systems-rss/story-fz9fAmlrYDrR0xrRpVn2NJ.html
06-05-2020||India||Rajasthan High Court stays action of FIR against BJP chief JP Nadda||The Rajasthan High Court has stayed the entire proceeding, including the effect and operation of the FIR lodged in Hanumangarh district, against Bharatiya Janata Party national president Jagat Prakash Nadda.Manoj Saini, former chairman of Hanumangarh Block Congress Committee, had lodged an FIR at the Town Police Station against Amit Malviya and Nadda for misleading people and tarnishing the image of Congress National President Sonia Gandhi. Also read: Rajasthan youth quarantines himself on neem tree amid Covid-19 lockdownNadda had filed a petition in the High Court seeking quashing of the FIR lodged against him. During the hearing on Tuesday, Senior Advocate RD Rastogi told the court that the sole averment in the FIR is regarding a tweet made by Amit Malviya whereas the present petitioner has no role and is being alleged to be controlling the office of Amit Malviya. The tweet has been made from the private account of Malviya and not from the official handle of the organization which is being headed by Nadda, Rastogi reasoned. “This Court prima-facie finds that the tweet has been made by Amit Malviya and the present petitioner has no role in tweeting the information in question. The tweet is apparently from the private tweeting handle, and therefore, no role at this stage seems to be made out against the present petitioner,” observed Justice Pushpendra Singh Bhati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-high-court-stays-action-of-fir-against-bjp-chief-jp-nadda/story-NGfZKxPaXwYoMjcp3BermK.html
06-05-2020||India||AIIMS Rishikesh’s system to remotely monitor Covid-19 patients is a handy containment tool||All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh has launched a remote health monitoring system to cut the health staff’s exposure to coronavirus while bringing down the cost of hospitalising positive patients. The device has been named Monal after the state bird.Through this system, information on the health parameters of a coronavirus positive patient will get displayed in the control centre of the hospital while the patient recovers at home. If the health condition of any patient linked to this system suddenly worsens, then this device will inform the monitoring team and emergency help can be rushed to the patient in time. Professor Ravi Kant, director of AIIMS Rishikesh said that the device offers three main benefits.“This will prevent health care workers from unnecessary exposure to infection. Along with this, the ever-increasing demand for PPE kits will be curbed as patients will be monitored from a distance, and at the same time, the patient will receive healthcare at home while under intensive supervision of doctors day and night,” said Kant.Dr. Mohit Tayal, assistant professor from the department of radiodiagnosis, who was involved in the development of the device, says it is similar to a smartwatch that a suspected patient will have to wear on the wrist, which in turn will use sensors to monitor the patient’s health vitals.“It requires a suspected patient to download the application, which can be used to report their symptoms after registering with their mobile number. If the symptoms are similar to those of Covid-19, then a health team will visit to verify and take the person’s sample for test. If the doctors feel that the person is a potential case, then they will be given this device and home quarantined, after which their vitals will be monitored from a command centre at the hospital,” said Dr Tayal.Dr Tayal added that a person will be hospitalised if the vitals deviate from the normal range. “But otherwise, the main idea is to confine a potential patient to his home and control community transmission of the disease as a positive patient can spread the virus to dozens of people when quarantined at a healthcare facility,” added Dr Tayal.Dr Madhur Uniyal, staff officer at the institution said that the devise’s cost was even less than the cost of keeping a coronavirus positive patient in the hospital for a day.“As a result of this, the institution will be able to easily provide the benefit of medical services to more patients with fewer resources,” said Dr Uniyal.The device runs even on 2G internet and has already been tested on around 200 suspected patients.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat launched the system on Tuesday via video conferencing in presence of senior officials of AIIMS Rishikesh.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19While dedicating this device to the country and the state, Rawat named it after Uttarakhand’s official bird Monal, and said, “This device will bring a revolution in the battle against the coronavirus outbreak.”The device will be available for download on both iOS and Android platforms from the next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-rishikesh-s-system-to-remotely-monitor-covid-19-patients-is-a-handy-containment-tool/story-CDNMaymIr4kNrfo71lHGsK.html
06-05-2020||India||Public transport may open soon with some guidelines, says Nitin Gadkari||Public transport, which has been shut since the first lockdown announcement on March 24, may soon be in operation, roadways minister Nitin Gadkari assured transporters on Wednesday.Opening of transport and highways will go a long way in instilling confidence among the public, said the minister, adding that public transport may open soon with some guidelines. He, however, cautioned towards maintaining social distance and adopting all safety measures like hand wash, sanitising, face masks, etc while operating buses and cars. The minister was addressing the members of Bus and Car Operators Confederation of India through video conferencing. The nationwide lockdown, necessitated by the coronavirus outbreak, is in place till May 17. No railway, flight services are allowed in this period. However, the railways did run over 100 Shramik Special trains to ferry stranded migrants.Gadkari expressed confidence that the country and its industry will together win both the battles – the one with coronavirus, and the one with economic slowdown. Members of the confederation made suggestions for improving the condition of public transport which include extending interest payment exemptions, restarting public transport, extending age life limit, deferring state taxes, extending MSME benefits, extending insurance policy validity, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-transport-may-open-soon-with-some-guidelines-says-nitin-gadkari/story-XasTrnryxu1TxVdKrUSrCM.html
06-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rana Kapoor, his wife and daughters named in ED chargesheet in Yes Bank scam and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rana Kapoor, his wife and daughters named in ED chargesheet in Yes Bank scamThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet in connection with YES Bank scam against the bank’s former Chief Operating Officer and managing director Rana Kapoor, his wife and daughters before a special PMLA court in Mumbai on Wednesday. Read moreLiquor in Uttar Pradesh to cost more. Here’s what you will have to payLiquor is going to cost more in Uttar Pradesh after the state cabinet on Wednesday approved proposal to make alcohol costlier. The government will earn additional revenue of Rs 2350 crore after this decision and the new prices will come into effect from midnight. Read more Less than 10% of migrant workers in shelter homes want to return home: Govt officialLess than 10% of migrant workers—around 680 of around 7,100—who have taken shelter in the 240-odd centres operated by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), want to head back to their home states at the earliest, a senior government official said Tuesday, citing a report submitted by the Board to the chief secretary’s office. Read more 11-year-old is Pune district’s youngest Covid-19 casualty, 4 deaths reported on TuesdayThe city reported four deaths on Tuesday, including that of an 11-year-old boy who is now the youngest casualty. A total of 65 fresh cases were registered, taking the count to 1,943. Read more Sanofi to enroll thousands for its coronavirus vaccine trialsFrench drugmaker Sanofi said it plans to enroll thousands of subjects globally for trials of an experimental vaccine for the coronavirus it is developing with GlaxoSmithKline Plc , and that it has started to discuss advanced purchases with several countries. Read moreMany have backstabbed Yuvraj Singh including Kohli, Dhoni: Yograj SinghFormer India cricketer and Yuvraj Singh’s father Yograj Singh, in a recent interview, said that his son Yuvraj was ‘backstabbed’ by many people including current captain Virat Kohli and MS Dhoni. Read more Amitabh Bachchan on shooting KBC promo amid lockdown: ‘So yes I worked, got a problem with that’Amitabh Bachchan has started shooting for the 12th season of popular quiz show Kaun Banega Crorepati (KBC) amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Read moreMan jumps out of bed naked, fights python. All to save his catIn what is not just an act of bravery but also a gesture of love, a man got engaged in a fight with a python to save his beloved cat. The adorable kitten is lucky to have such a human who without worrying about his own life saved it from the grasp of a two-and-a-half-meter-long python. Read more Loteria, coding, gnomes: Google’s most popular Doodle games will cure your boredom during coronavirus lockdownThe coronavirus pandemic has claimed more than 250,000 lives so far, and with nationwide lockdowns around the globe, more and more people are spending time at home. Read more Bihar Board Inter Scrutiny 2020: Online application begins from May 8, here’s how to applyBihar School Examination Board (BSEB) will accept online scrutiny applications from the candidates of Bihar Board intermediate examination between May 8 and 25. Read more Watch: Can lab-made antibodies stop coronavirus disease?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-yes-bank-s-rana-kapoor-family-named-in-ed-chargesheet-all-the-latest-news/story-QM2W7xpd1f8xJIlvA8XH0H.html
06-05-2020||India||Jodhpur’s Covid-19 testing rate higher than US, Spain, Italy, say officials||More tests per million of population are being carried out in Jodhpur for Covid-19 than in many countries like the USA, Spain and Italy, district officials said Wednesday.Jodhpur reported 32 news cases on Wednesday to take the total number of Covid-19 cases to 794.Although the number of Covid-19 cases in Jodhpur has been rising, officials say that is because of more targeted testing and strong contact tracing which led to the detection of more than 760 cases.“In terms of population of Jodhpur city, the samples taken so far are much higher than the average of other cities. So far, more than 25,200 samples have been taken and the tests helped us to identify more infected patients,” said District Collector Prakash Rajpurohit.Click here for full Covid-19 covergae.An analysis tracing of 712 people who were found positive by Tuesday afternoon showed that there were only 36 patients who got themselves tested at Mathuradas Mathur Hospital or All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Jodhpur when they felt symptoms of Covid-19. While 404 infected people were identified with contact tracing and 272 were found positive in targeted sampling. Many of these positive patients did not have any symptoms.Rajpurohit said, “Our goal is maximum testing, so that every possible infected person can be identified. By doing this continuously, the risk of virus infection will be minimized. With more testing, the number of positive patients can increase, but there is no need to worry about it. This will ultimately help in creating a virus free environment.”“We have done a comparative study of testing done per million per day in other countries, according to which 449 tests are being done daily in Jodhpur city. In Spain, the average is 435,while it is 205 in the USA, 375 in Italy and 307 in Germany,” Additional District Collector Mahipal Bhardwaj said.The Department of Medical and Health has now started sending messages on mobiles phones of all those who have tested negative for Covid-19. Areas where there have been no new positive cases for a long time are being removed from the list of containment zones, he added.Principal of SN Medical College, Dr. GL Meena said that the latest testing machine of Covid-19 will be installed soon. It will now be possible to test 3,000 samples simultaneously daily. Jodhpur is the only city in Rajasthan where testing is being carried out in AIIMS and National Institute for Implementation Research on Non-Communicable Diseases (NIIRNCD).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jodhpur-s-covid-19-testing-rate-higher-than-us-spain-italy-say-officials/story-xxHASeie0QkgPRmwyAnGkK.html
06-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: India to send nearly 1,000 tonnes of paracetamol raw material to Europe||India will supply Europe with about 1,000 tonnes of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) for common pain reliever paracetamol, a top exports body said, easing export controls on over-the counter medicines used to cope with COVID-19 symptoms.The Indian government in March put a hold on exports of several drugs including paracetamol to secure supplies for its people after the coronavirus outbreak disrupted the industry’s supply chain globally. COVID-19 is the respiratory disease caused by the novel coronavirus.Europe has sought up to 800 tonnes of paracetamol APIs every month, said Dinesh Dua, chairman of the Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council of India (Pharmexcil).Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“We have been under immense pressure from the European Union for the last 10 days,” Dua said.The European Union delegation in India did not immediately reply to an email from Reuters requesting comment on the planned shipment. Indian authorities have asked drugmakers to ensure the country is adequately stocked for up to four months of domestic requirements, Dua said. India, the world’s main supplier of generic drugs, has shipped 1.9 million tablets and other forms of paracetamol to 31 countries, the foreign ministry said late last month, adding that consignments of anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol were being sent to 87 countries on a commercial basis.Europe is India’s biggest buyer of paracetamol APIs and imports around 12,000 tonnes annually, according to Pharmexcil estimates. The common pain reliever is also sold as acetaminophen.The novel coronavirus outbreak has killed more than a quarter of a million people and Europe has accounted for 57% of the global death toll.India has so far reported more than 49,000 cases of COVID-19. The outbreak has not shown any signs of slowing despite a severe lockdown that has confined its population of 1.3 billion to their homes since late March. Health experts warn a surge of infections can overwhelm the country’s medical services. Indian pharmaceutical companies get almost 70% of the active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) for their medicines from China, where the virus had emerged late last year. “The country is vulnerable in terms of importing the drug’s intermediates from China,” Dua said.Pharmexcil counts dozens of pharmaceutical firms such as Pfizer Ltd
06-05-2020||India||Rana Kapoor, his wife and daughters named in ED chargesheet in Yes Bank scam||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet in connection with YES Bank scam against the bank’s former Chief Operating Officer and managing director Rana Kapoor, his wife and daughters before a special PMLA court in Mumbai on Wednesday.ED sources said that the chargesheet is filed against Rana Kapoor, his wife Bindu, daughters Rakhee Kapoor, Roshni and Radha and entities allegedly associated with them Morgan Credits, RAB Enterprises (India) private limited and Yes Capital India Private Limited.The agency has pegged the amount at around Rs 5,050 crore with 168 bank accounts under scrutiny of the central agency. The ED has provisionally attached 59 paintings, including an MF Husain painting of Rajiv Gandhi, seized during the raids.Special public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves appeared before the special court and sought permission to file the chargesheet. Rana’s counsel Subash Jadhav requested that a copy should be supplied to the accused today itself. Subsequently, the court directed the agency to provide the copy to Rana.The chargesheet carries statements of key management persons of Yes Bank over the alleged irregularities. The agency had begun investigation based on the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) case for an alleged sham transaction with Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL).The agency has claimed that Yes Bank bought debentures worth Rs 3,700 crore of DHFL. In lieu of it, DHFL sanctioned a Rs 600-crore loan to Doit Urban Ventures Pvt Ltd, a company in which Kapoor’s daughters are directors. The loan was given without adequate collateral.The agency has been claiming that during his tenure, Kapoor was instrumental in sanctioning loans worth Rs 30,000 crore, out of which accounts worth Rs 20,000 crore have turned into a non-performing asset (NPA). Kapoor, it has been alleged, accepted illegal gratification while granting loans and money was diverted through these companies.Kapoor is under investigation for suspected money laundering along with his family members, through several shell companies that are being probed for diversion of funds. He is also under probe for his alleged role in engendering massive non-performing assets that led to a moratorium by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Yes Bank. He was arrested on March 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rana-kapoor-his-wife-and-daughters-named-in-ed-chargesheet-in-yes-bank-scam/story-qX3Z4BVEVhzkwoGVMQMRWM.html
06-05-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in North-East crosses 100; reaches figure in 42 days||With 15 patients testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Assam and Meghalaya on Tuesday, the number of cases in northeast India has now crossed the 100-mark.Assam with 45 cases has the highest number of patients, followed closely by Tripura with 42 and Meghalaya with 12 cases. Manipur had two cases, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram one case each and Nagaland without any—taking the region’s total to 103 cases.The first case in the region was detected on March 24 when a 23-year-old woman who returned from the UK to Manipur was found positive. The same day, a 50-year-old pastor from Mizoram who had returned from the Netherlands also tested positive.The region reached the 50 cases mark on April 17—24 days after the first patient was tested positive. The figure doubled in the next 18 days.There have been recoveries too. With all their patients testing negative in consecutive tests, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have no active Covid-19 cases at present.In Assam, 33 patients, including the patient from Nagaland who was tested and treated in Guwahati, have recovered. Ten patients in Meghalaya have recovered and Tripura has recorded two recoveries.Fortunately, the number of Covid-19 fatalities in the region has also been low to date. Only Assam and Meghalaya have recorded one death each.At present, Tripura with 40 has the highest number of active cases, followed by 11 in Assam and only one in Meghalaya.While Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Mizoram have not reported any new case in more than a month, the number of cases has risen slowly in Assam with two people testing positive on Tuesday. Meghalaya has not recorded any new case since April 20. There has been a sudden spike in cases in Tripura, which had claimed Covid-19 free status on April 24 after the two patients had tested negative.But on May 2, two Border Security Force (BSF) personnel from the 138th battalion in Ambassa were found positive. A day later, 12 more people from the same battalion tested positive.The trend continued on May 4, with 13 new cases including two children from the same BSF battalion testing positive and on May 5 (Tuesday) another 13 tested positive—taking Tripura’s tally to 42—two recoveries and 40 active cases.The Tripura government has asked BSF to inquire the source of the infection in the battalion and reasons for its sudden spike. Due to the sudden rise in cases, Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has declared Dhalai district, where the BSF battalion is stationed, as a red zone—the only one in the North-East.Four of Assam’s 33 districts and one of Meghalaya’s 11 districts are in the orange zone. All other districts in the seven states in the region are in the green zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-north-east-crosses-100-reaches-figure-in-42-days/story-nfl3vyHdfUDMemJguEe4aP.html
06-05-2020||India||Massive fire breaks out in Thane chemical factory, no casualties||A major fire broke out at a chemical godown in Bhiwandi Rahnal village in Thane district on Wednesday.More than six fire tenders have been pressed into action to put off the fire. No casualty has been reported so far.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-chemical-godown-in-thane-6-fire-engines-at-spot/story-h3aoTshBM9erJik8oTY3UI.html
06-05-2020||India||No space, no problem! Rajasthan youth quarantines himself on neem tree amid Covid-19 lockdown||An 18-year old boy of a small village of Bhinder block of Udaipur, Rajasthan has set a new example on social responsibility amid the Covid-19 outbreak. The boy quarantined himself on a Neem tree near his house due to lack of a separate room for isolation. The youth had recently returned from another state and decided to isolate himself for precaution.Ishwar Lal Rawat, who belongs to Daabkiya village of Bhinder, quarantined himself on the tree as there was no extra room at his house. He wanted to keep himself away from the other members of his family.Three members of the same family returned to the village from Maharashtra and Gujarat. Two of them, including Ishwar, returned on May 3 from Surat while their brother, Pappu, reached on May 4. Upon getting the information of their arrival, a medical team approached them to get them quarantined.Also read: 548 doctors, nurses, paramedics infected with Covid-19 across IndiaIn the view of limited space within their house, Ishwar decided to quarantine himself on a Neem tree situated near his house. His family members also showed their support.The 18-year-old said he will follow all the government orders and will contribute in the battle against coronavirus.The process of home quarantine for the rural people is common these days, during the coronavirus outbreak, with scores of migrant workers returning to their native places.But at some places, people are ignoring the directions of the government, in that case, Bhinder’s Ishwar Rawat sets an example for others to follow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-space-no-problem-rajasthan-youth-quarantines-himself-on-neem-tree-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-X3RfuJ2zLSgoUBKypJKSsK.html
06-05-2020||India||548 doctors, nurses, paramedics infected with Covid-19 across India: Report||Coronavirus has infected around 548 doctors, nurses and paramedics across the country so far, according to data maintained by the Centre, official sources said on Wednesday. The figure does not include field workers, ward boys, sanitation workers, security guards, lab attendants, peons, laundry and kitchen staff among others. According to an official source, it has not been ascertained from where these doctors, nurses and paramedic staff have acquired the infection. The figure includes doctors, nurses and paramedics from Centre-run and state government-run facilities across states and union territories. “No epidemiological investigation of the cases were done. So there is no clear segregation on how many contracted the disease at workplace and how many got it from the community,” the official source said. Several doctors, who tested positive for Covid-19, are also reported to have died in the country. Though their exact numbers were not immediately known. The official said that 69 doctors in the national capital have so far contracted the disease. Covid-19 has claimed 1,694 lives and infected 49,391 people nationwide till Wednesday morning. Besides, 274 nurses and paramedics have so far been infected by the virus. As many as 13 healthcare personnel, including seven resident doctors and a professor, have tested positive for coronavirus over the past two months at the Centre-run Safdarjung Hospital, the sources said. Around 10 healthcare workers, including a resident doctor and five nurses, have contracted the disease so far at the AIIMS. Besides, some security guards have also been infected in the premier hospital. Besides, several healthcare workers working in various central and Delhi government hospitals have also been infected by the disease, according to the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/548-docs-nurses-paramedics-infected-with-covid-19-across-india-report/story-o2pM3w2adM4g3PXI6TBlkN.html
06-05-2020||India||Over 1 lakh migrants ferried in more than 100 Shramik Special trains: Railways||Over 100,000 stranded migrants have been ferried in more than 100 Shramik Special trains since the beginning of the services on the first day of this month, according to the railways ministry. Till Tuesday, Gujarat sent the maximum number of such trains (25) to other states, while Bihar received the most (13). Kerala sent 13 trains, according to internal data of the ministry. Other originating states include Telangana, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Rajashthan, Andhra Pradesh and Punjab. States where trains have terminated include Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra. Till 1pm on Wednesday, 22 trains have already left originating stations, taking the number of trains ran till afternoon to over 100. Twenty more are likely to be deployed during the day. Eighty-eight special trains were operated by the national carrier across various zonal railways till Tuesday; most of these mainly originating from Bengaluru, Surat, Sabarmati, Jalandhar, Kota and Ernakulam, a ministry official said. Shramik Special trains, which began on May 1, are bound for a single destination without any stoppages. Usually, they have 24 coaches with each carrying a little over 50 in place of the total capacity of 72. These trains will run for distances of over 500km with at least 90% occupancy. A controversy has erupted over these trains with opposition parties alleging the Centre was forcing migrants to pay for ticket fares for their return to their home states.In its guidelines issued on Sunday, the railways ministry said state authorities shall collect fares after distributing tickets among migrants who are boarding these special trains, and hand over the amount to the Indian Railways. The railways has also said it will charge sleeper class fares and an additional Rs 50 for one point-to-point journey, while it also added that states can coordinate and pay on passengers’ behalf.In response to the Opposition’s criticism, the Union government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the railways was bearing 85% of the fare cost, and states had to pay 15% to allow migrants return home free of cost.Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh tweeted on Wednesday that the railway ministry should “come clean on how it is charging full fare from every single migrant labourer travelling back home. All claims that the Centre is picking up 85% of the tab are completely false! Such complete lack of empathy for the poor is unheard of”.Generally, the railways recover about 57% of cost of travel on an average and the remaining is given as subsidy. On an average, it pays 43 paise per rupee for each ticket as subsidy. This is not a traditional subsidy, but is instead cross-subsidised from the money railways makes from its freight operations. Another controversy erupted on Tuesday, after the Karnataka government cancelled 10 trains from the state planned over the next five days. The trains were scheduled to ferry passengers to Bihar.Tejasvi Surya, Parliament member from Bengaluru south, said the state’s move will eventually benefit the workers.“It will help migrant labourers who came here with hopes of a better life to restart their dreams. Also, it will kickstart economic activities full throttle. Karnataka will emerge out of this stronger!,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-over-100-shramik-special-trains-railways-ferried-100k-migrants-data/story-nx4ILHCVPELUkSedNaIPWP.html
06-05-2020||India||MoEF modifies definition of high tide line to spare Goa’s khazan lands||The Union Ministry of Environment Forests and Climate Change has amended the Coastal Regulation Notification 2011 to ensure that the High Tide Line (HTL) in Goa will be demarcated along the bunds (embankments) along rivers and creeks even if such bunds have since been breached or lie in a state of disrepair. The amendment came following a request by the Goa government.Prior to this, the HTL was demarcated depending on how far landward the saline water travelled during the high tide, which in case of a breached bund meant the HTL was demarcated further landward having huge implications on which land is defined as Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ). In a notification issued on May 1, the MoEF has added a clause to section 2 of the CRZ 2011 notification to allow for situation where “there exists a bund or a sluice gate constructed in the past, prior to the date of notification issued vide S.O. 114(E) dated 19th February, 1991, the HTL shall be restricted up to the line long along the bund or the sluice gate. “And in such a case, area under mangroves arising due to saline water ingress beyond the bund or sluice gate shall be classified as CRZ-IA irrespective of the extent of the area beyond the bund or sluice gate. Such areas under mangroves shall be protected and shall not be diverted for any developmental activities,” the amendment reads. The amendment allows for an exception to be granted to the current rule which mandates that “the distance upto which development along tidal influenced water bodies is to be regulated shall be governed by the distance upto which the tidal effects are experienced which shall be determined based on salinity concentration of 5 parts per thousand (ppt) measured during the driest period of the year and distance upto which tidal effects are experienced shall be clearly identified and demarcated.”The low lying lands known as ‘khazan lands, are protected from the high tides by a network of dykes and tide gates and have traditionally held multiple uses being used either as aquaculture ponds to breed fish and prawns in the monsoons, to plant rice during the winter growing season or to harvest salt in the summer, are now facing threats due to breaches in the dykes allowing for ingress of sea water as well as from reclamation for tourism purposes. Goa’s khazan lands date back to 400 AD, when the earliest references are found in literature, to lands that were protected from the sea and tides through a network of bunds and sluice gates that controlled the flow of water and ensured that the lands were cultivable. The network is considered an engineering marvel. According to government figures Goa boasts of 18,000 Ha. of khazans which is about 5% of the total geographical area of the state. Around 4,000 Ha. are estimated to have been lost over the last 30 years after they were inundated. Goa has been lobbying for this change ever since the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM) which has been tasked by the state government for drawing up the coastal zone management plan insisted that in areas where there was ingress of saline water would have to be marked as ‘tidal influenced water bodies’ and lands up to 100m from the water line would be notified as Coastal Regulation Zone bringing fresh areas under the stringent CRZ regulations. In August last year the Goa Environment Department wrote to the Ministry of Environment and Forests explaining the issue. The Coastal Zone Management Plan is a mandatory requirement under the CRZ notification. Goa is the last state to approve its Coastal Zone Management Plan under the CRZ notification 2011 which has been pending since 2014. An earlier draft plan placed before the government was rejected with the government telling the NCSCM that it could not be finalised owing to discrepancies. The Coastal Management Plan will now have to be redrafted according to the new definitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moef-modifies-definition-of-high-tide-line-to-spare-goa-s-khazan-lands/story-BBnqQubpwkzlV5VwqWZOHI.html
06-05-2020||India||Rajasthan’s Bikaner turns to ‘orange’ zone from ‘red’ with 3-layer Covid-19 tracking||A month back, Rajasthan’s Bikaner was in Covid-19 ‘red’ zone but within few days the local administration turned the tide in their favour and has turned Bikaner into ‘orange’ zone by using a three-layer tracking system. The district is left with only one active case now.On April 3, 2020, the first case was reported in the district which later increased to 38 cases in total out of which 36 have now recovered and discharged from the hospitals.Those discharged from the hospitals have been sent into quarantine again for observation. One patient had died during the initial days. Among them, 14 patients have been released from these centres as well.Also read: Post-Covid-19, the world will change. Here are 7 ways how this could happen“Right after the first case, micro-planning for teams was done by giving clearly demarcated areas for conducting a survey with one supervisor for every 10 survey teams. The survey teams were trained regarding COVID/ILI symptoms, checking persons having foreign travel history and prioritizing population affected in the disease epicentre,” Kumar Pal Gautam, district collector, Bikaner said. “We made a three-layer contact tracking list in which the first list had the people who were in direct contact with the patient. Second list had contacts of these people and the third list was contacts of people on the second list. All of these people were sent in institutional quarantine and were tested within two hours,” Gautam added.“The effort of the local administration came in handy as the total number of cases, in the beginning, was only from five localities. “The people belonging to the areas under curfew were screened nearly five times to make sure that not even a slightest chance is missed and people with severe ILI (influenza-like illness) symptoms were tested. All the results came out to be negative. Except one, all the positive cases have been discharged from the hospital and have been sent to quarantine centres for another check-up and kept in strict vigil. Nearly 14 people have been discharged from the quarantine centres as well,” informed the District Magistrate. “Notably, the containment efforts came out to be successful after the strict quarantine within 2 hours,” added the Bikaner collector.Gautam further said that to contain the virus, 175 people were kept in quarantine centres and more than 18,000 people were put in strict home quarantine. “A team of 60 officials meticulously tracks and works on the three-layer contact list. This was the biggest single unit that worked round-the-clock and tracked individuals falling under contact. Everyone was tracked, quarantined and then if required, tested,” said Gautam.While speaking on the availability of the essentials, the district collector informed that the teams are continuously delivering the products in containment areas and there has been no shortage of any item in the district. “Following the ‘protocol’ of the election, sector magistrates were also deployed along with area magistrates. Dairy products and essential goods were delivered directly to the houses and everything was being taken care of at a rigorous level,” said the district collector.Notably, luxury hotels in the district were spotted and listed as quarantine centres and every patient had one person to look after his/her daily needs, meals and everything else. Every individual placed in the duty of the patients who were tested positive had a duty to look after the patient on one-to-one basis. The process helped in extra care of the patients and helped them to recover well. 34 out of 36 cases were from the same cluster and 28 from the same family. Nearly, 111 contacts were sent to isolation after thorough tracing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-s-bikaner-turns-to-orange-zone-from-red-with-3-layer-covid-19-tracking-system/story-fpy4YvpD6k0V15gkWSprSI.html
06-05-2020||India||Locals clash with police over Covid-19 victim’s cremation in Gujarat||Two policemen and an ambulance driver were injured when a mob allegedly attacked them to stop a civic team from performing the last rites of a COVID-19 victim at a crematorium in Gujarat’s Anand district, officials said on Wednesday.The incident took place in Vallabh-Vidyanagar town on Tuesday night, following which 56 people residing near the electric crematorium were arrested, Deputy Superintendent of Police B D Jadeja said.“Nearly 100 locals residing near the crematorium in Hariom Nagar area surrounded a Khambhat civic team that reached there on Tuesday night with the body of a person who died of coronavirus at a hospital in Karamsad,” he said.They asked the civic personnel to take the body somewhere else, claiming its cremation will spread coronavirus in the area, Jadeja said.Before police reached the spot, the mob, armed with sticks and stones, allegedly attacked the driver of the ambulance in which the body was kept. The locals also broke window panes of a car belonging to the Khambhat municipality, police sub-inspector T R Gadhvi said.“Though officials tried to convince the locals that they were following all the safety protocols and guidelines for coronavirus, the mob did not listen. When the police reached the spot, they also hurled stones the security personnel,” he said.“A head constable and a Home Guard received head injuries,” Gadhvi said, adding the police lobbed a teargas shell and baton-charged the mob to disperse them following which the situation was later brought under control.The ambulance driver also sustained injuries in the attack, Jadeja said.Fifty six people from the area were arrested and booked on charges of rioting, assault, criminal conspiracy, attempt to murder and under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, Gadhvi said.The civic team later performed last rites of COVID-19 victim at the crematorium, he added. PTI COR PJT PD GK GK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locals-clash-with-police-over-covid-19-victim-s-cremation-in-gujarat/story-si2KWpBguqq0qkZvKQB3eJ.html
06-05-2020||India||85 more BSF personnel turn Covid-19 positive||85 more Border Security Force (BSF) personnel have tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday raising the number of Covid-19 infections in the Central Armed Police Forces close to 400.The central paramilitary forces now have a total of 383 active cases across the country and maximum of these are from the BSF (152), while 146 of the infected personnel are from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), 45 from the ITBP, 15 from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and 13 cases are from Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB).Around 10 lakh strong border guarding forces are deployed for counter-insurgency, border guarding and law and order duties across the country.The spike in Covid-19 infections in CAPFs in last one week has raised concerns among its brass, which has asked the troopers to maintain highest levels of personal hygiene and maintain social distancing at work.An official communication from BSF’s Delhi office in the CGO complex said that all the 85 found infected were performing essential duties. The press release further adds that each establishment of the BSF is following the standard operating procedures that are in place to contain the coronavirus disease. On May 2, two Border Security Force (BSF) personnel from the 138th battalion in Ambassa, Tripura were found positive. A day later on May 3, 12 more personnel from the same battalion, too, tested positive.Also Read- 13 more BSF personnel test Covid-19 positive in Tripura, state’s tally rises to 4213 new cases emerged in the same battalion on May 4 followed by another 13 on May 5.24 members including some retired army officers had tested positive at the Army Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi on Tuesday, they were then shifted to the Army Base Hospital designated for treating coronavirus cases. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/85-more-bsf-personnel-turn-covid-19-positive-on-wednesday/story-9qxL0hmEUQE6eHrivwh4iJ.html
06-05-2020||India||Bengal starts psychological counselling of citizens to beat lockdown stress||West Bengal health department authorities have started counselling sessions for people suffering from mental stress due to the ongoing lockdown restrictions that have been imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Initially, the lockdown was enforced for 21 days from March 25, then extended for another 19 days till May 3 and from Monday further prolonged for 14 more days. Kolkata is among other metros, such as national capital Delhi and Mumbai, which is part of the 130 districts that have been earmarked as Covid-19 red zones, where lockdown 3:0 was enforced from Monday.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“Earlier, we had started psychological counselling of Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in hospitals and in quarantine centres. Now, we’ve launched a facility, where any person can call and avail of tele-counselling,” said a senior state health department official.The counselling session is available between 11am and 5pm on all seven days of a week.Any person seeking counselling can call on the helpline numbers of the health department and book a slot. Later, the person can call at the appointed time to receive counselling over the phone, the official said.Prolonged lockdown restrictions have necessitated the need for counselling, he added.“The growing fear of Covid-19 has triggered immense anxiety, stress, and insecurity in the minds of people. This stress is manifesting in various forms. People with pre-existing mental conditions are feeling threatened with an overload of information about the pandemic. Psychological crisis intervention is urgently needed for the timely prevention of hazards from the secondary mental health crisis. Counselling may also help overcome issues related to anxiety and stress and restore emotional balance,” said Kasturi Thakur, a clinical psychologist at a Kolkata-based state-run medical college and hospital. Covid-19 patients, who are undergoing treatment, and suspects, who have been kept in either institutional or home quarantine, are already undergoing counselling.Earlier, the state government had directed chief medical officers of all the districts to arrange counselling sessions in all institutional quarantine centres and other such facilities.The Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare had also flagged the issue of mental stress of Covid-19 suspects, patients, and those who have recovered. The ministry had released a presentation “Minding our minds during the Covid-19” in April on how to cope up with fear, anxiety, panic, and other stress-related ailments, listing dos and don’ts.“We’ve deployed two psychologists and two psychiatrists, who are not only counselling Covid-19 suspects, but even doctors, nurses, and other healthcare workers treating these patients at the hospital. We’ve provided all our staff with the number of the psychologists and psychiatrists to make use of tele-counselling between 8 am and 8 pm,” said a senior doctor of a state-run hospital that is treating Covid-19 patients.A doctor of another state-run hospital said that the decision to deploy psychologists at quarantine centres was taken following reports that several patients were suffering from stress-related disorders during their 14-day quarantine period, where they have to remain isolated from their family members. Some refused to eat, some were not cooperating with doctors, some were too silent and some even made escape bids.“Many patients and even healthcare staff are suffering from anxiety, fear, depression, and other kinds of stress. Talking to a psychologist helps them to ventilate their stress. This is the key to a crisis situation. Tele-counselling is the best possible option, as it helps us maintain social distancing norms,” said Amit Kumar Bhattacharya, professor at the Institute of Psychiatry in Kolkata’s SSKM Hospital and Medical College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-starts-psychological-counselling-of-citizens-to-beat-lockdown-stress/story-btbvGDGCdsDusiPdYiwN3H.html
06-05-2020||India||Jharkhand labourer collapses after 400 km walk, home was another 500 km away||A 40-year-old Jharkhand man heading home, mostly on foot from Nagpur, collapsed near Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh on Sunday and died a few hours later in a local hospital on Monday morning.“The deceased Ravi Munda (40) was a labourer from Saraikela in Jharkhand, who was working in some private company in Nagpur. His body has been handed over to his brother and cremation will be done in Bilaspur on Wednesday with the help of police,” said IG Bilaspur zone, Dipanshu Kabra.“Munda was travelling to Jharkhand - mostly walking- along with seven others,” said Bilaspur SP Prashant Agarwal, indicating that Munda also hitched an occasional ride on the way.Munda was travelling from Nagpur to his hometown. On the night of April 3, he began losing his consciousness near Bilaspur following which he was rushed to the Chhattisgarh Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS) where he expired on Monday morning, the police officer added.“We sent his samples for coronavirus test and it was found to be negative on Wednesday,” the SP added.The SP further said that Munda’s brother stayed back in Bilaspur for cremation, while the others went ahead with their journey on Monday.Doctors said Munda suffered some organ failure. “No postmortem was done since it was not a medico-legal case,” the SP said.Several instances of migrant labourers perishing while undertaking a long walk home have been reported after the imposition of nationwide lockdown prohibiting the movement of people. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-labourer-collapses-500-km-from-home-after-1200-km-walk-from-mumbai/story-1ab3WVc1VVOvig88wTxDpJ.html
06-05-2020||India||Liquor price to be hiked in Tamil Nadu by Rs 20 from May 7||Prices of liquor will be raised by a maximum of Rs 20 from May 7 in Tamil Nadu, where the retail outlets will open for business for the first time in over 40 days due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the state government said on Wednesday.The revision was being effected following a 15 percent increase in excise duty on Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), an official release here said.Accordingly, the rate of a normal brand of 180 ml of IMFL will go up by Rs 10, while premium ones will see a price increase of Rs 20, it said.The decision to hike the rates comes a day ahead of state-run TASMAC retail outlets set to reopen in Tamil Nadu, with the government giving the nod to resume sales citing Centre’s relaxation in this connection and tipplers from border districts thronging shops in Karnataka and AP on May 4.The country had entered the third phase of the ongoing coronavirus-triggered lockdown on Monday, albeit with some relaxations, including on resuming liquor sales.Incidentally, the Andhra Pradesh government had twice increased the liquor rates in the past two days, totally effecting a 75 percent increase to ‘discourage’ people from consumption and safeguard their health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/liquor-price-to-be-hiked-in-tamil-nadu-by-rs-20-from-may-7/story-i1e0ojgR44uyha2q8nYlmJ.html
06-05-2020||India||African swine fever kills thousands of pigs in Assam: What you need to know||Assam has reported the first instance of African swine fever in the country in Assam where the disease has killed around 2,900 pigs across 306 villages of the state. Assam’s animal husbandry minister Atul Bora has said, despite the go-ahead from the Centre, the state government will not cull the animals immediately and choose an alternative option to prevent the spread of the disease.African swine fever, Atul Bora has said, was detected towards the end of February this year, but it started in April 2019 at a village in Xizang province of China bordering Arunachal Pradesh.What is African swine fever?African swine fever (ASF) is a severe, highly-contagious hemorrhagic viral disease of domestic and wild pigs. This transboundary animal disease (TAD) can be spread by live or dead pigs, domestic or wild, and pork products.It is caused by a large DNA virus of the Asfarviridae family, which also infects ticks of the genus Ornithodoros.Signs of African swine fever and classical swine fever (CSF) may be similar but the ASF virus is unrelated to the CSF virus.African swine fever is a disease listed in the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) Terrestrial Animal Health Code and must be reported to the OIE.Transmission and spreadRoutes of transmission can include direct contact with infected domestic or wild pigs.It can be through indirect contact by consumption of contaminated material—food waste, feed, garbage, contaminated fomites such as shoes, clothes, vehicles, knives, equipment, due to the high environmental resistance of ASF virus.It can also be transmitted through biological vectors—soft ticks of the genus Ornithodoros where presentPublic health riskAfrican swine fever is not a risk to human health. While swine flu can spread from animals to humans, African swine fever does not and therefore is not a public health threat.Signs of African swine feverSigns and mortality rates can vary according to the virulence of the virus and the type/species of pig.Acute forms of ASF are characterised by high fever, depression, anorexia and loss of appetite, haemorrhages in the skin (redness of skin on ears, abdomen and legs), abortion in pregnant sows, cyanosis, vomiting, diarrhoea and death within 6-13 days (or up to 20 days). Mortality rates may be as high as 100%.Subacute and chronic forms are caused by moderately or low virulent viruses, which produce less intense clinical signs that can be expressed for much longer periods. Mortality rates are lower, but can still range from 30-70%. Chronic disease symptoms include loss of weight, intermittent fever, respiratory signs, chronic skin ulcers and arthritis.Different types of pigs may have varying susceptibility to ASF virus infection. African wild suids may be infected without showing clinical signs allowing them to act as reservoirs.DiagnosisAfrican swine fever may be suspected based on clinical signs but confirmation must be made with laboratory tests, particularly to differentiate it from classical swine fever (CSF). Prevention and controlCurrently, there is no approved vaccine for ASF.Geographical speedHistorically, outbreaks have been reported in Africa and parts of Europe, South America, and the Caribbean. More recently, since 2007, the disease has been reported in multiple countries across Africa, Asia and Europe, in both domestic and wild pigs.China has been battling African swine fever since August 2018, after the disease spread rapidly throughout the world’s top pork producer, killing millions of pigs and sending pork prices soaring.African swine fever was first detected in 1921 in Kenya.(Sourced from the World Organisation for Animal Health)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/african-swine-fever-kills-thousands-of-pig-in-assam-what-you-need-to-know/story-U4ZVnpB36k6NEU9R8Mz0DO.html
06-05-2020||India||Centre tells Bengal to open B’desh border, cites international commitments||The Centre on Wednesday came down heavily on the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal for not allowing movement of goods traffic through border crossings between India and Bangladesh that could jeopardize India’s international commitments to the neighbouring country.In a scathing letter to West Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, union home secretary Ajay Bhalla stated that “the unilateral action on the part of government of West Bengal to stop the cross land border movement of essential goods would have larger implications for the Indian government with regard to its legally binding international commitments.”Bhalla told that by doing so, West Bengal was not just violating the ministry of home affairs’ orders under Disaster Management Act including the guidelines but also Articles 253, 256 and 257 of the Constitution of India. Article 253 of the Constitution deals with the legislation for giving effect to international agreements while articles 256 and 257 give powers to the Centre for issuing directions to the state that are obligatory for latter.“It has been reported that goods traffic through border crossings between India and Bangladesh, falling in West Bengal, has still not resumed. As a result, a large number of trucks carrying essential supplies, bound for Bangladesh, are stranded at different border crossing points,” the home secretary wrote in his letter.“A number of drivers of such vehicles, while returning from Bangladesh, have also not been allowed to cross the border, and are stranded in Bangladesh,” Bhalla added.He reminded the state government of lockdown measures issued on May 1 according to which no state/union territory shall stop movement of cargo for cross-border land trade under treaties with neighbouring countries.He directed the Bengal chief secretary to allow access land border transportation through all Indo-Bangladesh borders “without any further delay” and send the compliance report by Wednesday.During a meeting between cabinet secretary Rajeev Gauba and the states last month, West Bengal home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay claimed that everything was under control in his state till Bhalla reminded him of hundreds of loaded trucks stuck at the Indo-Bangladesh border in West Bengal that need to be unloaded for Bangladesh. The state had argued that there is an issue about mingling of workers who handle goods from both sides. Bhalla reminded the state that the trucks contain essential supplies for Bangladesh and they cannot remain stranded in such a way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-tells-bengal-to-open-b-desh-border-cites-international-commitments/story-hDUmdiuiwxFEP1PAGx3vbN.html
06-05-2020||India||Govt provided direct cash benefits of Rs 34,800 crore to 390 million poor till May 5||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government has so far provided cash assistance of Rs 34,800 crore to the poor since it announced the Rs 1.7 lakh crore Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) on March 26 to alleviate distress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, the finance ministry said on Wednesday.The package, equivalent to around 0.8% of India’s gross domestic product (GDP), included the distribution of food and cash to the poor for three months starting in April. Besides direct financial assistance, PMGKY, targeted at 390 million beneficiaries, included free distribution of wheat, rice, pulses and cooking gas cylinders. In a statement, the finance ministry said the government was front-loading payment of Rs 16,394 crore towards the first instalment of payment to 81.9 million beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KiSAN) scheme PM-KISAN, launched on December 1, 2018, provides cash support of Rs 6,000 per year to farming households across the country in three equal instalments. While launching the Rs 1.7 lakh crore relief package on March 26, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Rs 2,000 first instalment under PM-KISAN this fiscal year would be front-loaded and paid immediately.The finance ministry statement said Rs 10,025 crore had already been credited to over 200 million (98.33%) women account holders under the Jan Dhan Yojana; it was towards the first instalment of three monthly payments of Rs.500 to women to tide over difficulties caused by Covid-19 and its aftermath. The government has also credited Rs. 2,785 crore to 55.7 million women Jan Dhan account holders in the second instalment as of May 5, it said.The finance ministry said Rs 1,405 crore has been disbursed to about 28.2 million elderly, widows and disabled. On March 26, Sitharaman had promised an ex-gratia payment of Rs 1,000 to 30 million poor senior citizens, widows and divyang (disabled) to cope with economic disruptions caused by Covid-19.About 22 million building and construction workers have received financial support amounting to Rs 3,492.57 crore, the statement said.Besides cash transfers, the government has already distributed foodgrains to millions of poor, it said. The PMJKY promised 5 kg wheat or rice and 1 kg of preferred pulses free every month till June this year to 800 million poor.According to the finance ministry statement, 960,000 members of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) had availed of the benefit of online withdrawal of non-refundable advances from their EPFO accounts amounting to Rs. 2,985 crore. The government also transferred 24% EPF contribution to nearly 4.5 million employees’ accounts amounting to Rs 698 crore, it said.To help low-wage earners in the organised sector, the government on March 26 announced that it would pay 24% of monthly wages into the PF accounts of people who earn below Rs 15,000 per month, employed in businesses having less than 100 workers, for the next three months.“This would prevent disruption in their employment,” Sitharaman had said while announcing the welfare package.The government has also notified the increased wage rate under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme (MGNREGA) effective from April 1, 2020, the finance ministry said.Sitharaman had raised wages for MNREGA workers under the PMJKY package by Rs 20 a day with effect from 1 April to provide an additional Rs 2,000 benefit a year to workers.PMGKY had also promised insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh per health worker engaged in the fight against Covid-19. “Insurance Scheme for Health workers in Government Hospitals and Health Care Centres has been operationalised by New India Assurance covering 22.12 Lakh health workers,” the finance ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-provided-direct-cash-benefits-of-rs-34-800-cr-to-390-million-poor-till-may-5/story-NUoYdV8z2nxbe7eW7BFiAI.html
06-05-2020||India||Riyaz Naikoo, top Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist, killed in Pulwama encounter||Top Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Riyaz Naikoo has been killed along with two associates by a joint team of security forces in Kashmir’s Pulwama district, a senior security official said on Wednesday.Riyaz Naikoo, who was leading the banned Hizbul Mujahideen in Kashmir valley, had been trapped in the operation in Beighbora village of Pulwama district earlier in the day. Jammu and Kashmir director general of police Dilbag Singh was supervising the operation.Also read : Riyaz Naikoo, Kashmir’s most wanted terrorist, carries Rs 12 lakh rewardA senior police officer described Riyaz Naikoo’s elimination as a huge success.Naikoo is learnt to be close to the Pakistan-based Hizbul chief, Syed Salahuddin, who was declared a global terrorist by the US in 2017.Naikoo had taken over as chief of the terror group after the outfit’s Kashmir commander Burhan Wani was gunned down in July 2016.The tech-savvy Naikoo, who used to give private tuitions to school children before joining Hizbul Mujahideen, had played a crucial role in holding the terror group’s hold in the valley after the group’s Zakir Musa split the outfit in 2017 to form his own group Ansar Ghazwatul Hind.Zakir Musa’s new outfit was claimed to be an affiliate of Al Qaeda. Musa didn’t get to lead the new outfit for long. He was killed in an encounter in Tral in May last year. Also read : Who is Riyaz Naikoo, Kashmir’s most wanted militant?Naikoo, however, had been awfully lucky. In Kashmir, where the career span of terrorists rarely exceeds four years, Naikoo lasted eight years.He had been cornered by the security forces in Kashmir on several occasions but had managed to slip out every time. One reason, a J&K police officer told Hindustan Times, that when the police got the initial input about the presence of Kashmir’s most-wanted terrorist, police chief Dilbag Singh quickly got into the picture to oversee the entire operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/riyaz-naikoo-top-hizbul-mujahideen-terrorist-killed-in-pulwama-encounter/story-aPZOgGE1lfaaYDwXHoy7RK.html
06-05-2020||India||Facebook post about Uttarakhand CM’s death fake, case filed||A case has been registered against those who circulated a fake post about the death of Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, said the state police. The matter came to light after the state police headquarters received four screenshots of the fake Facebook posts, claiming that CM Rawat is dead.“On Wednesday morning, we received some screenshots of Facebook posts mentioning the sudden death of CM which was as shocking as it was fake. We took suo moto cognisance of the matter and decided to take strict action immediately,” said Ashok Kumar, director general (DG), law & order, Uttarakhand police.DG Kumar said the Dehradun police has been asked to register a case in the matter.“A case is being registered by Dehradun police against all those who posted the fake news. Nobody will be spared, including those who posted it and the conspirators. All will be arrested soon,” said Kumar. The officer said the state police have already warned people that stern action will be taken against those who are found to be spreading rumours or fake news. “We had already warned of strict action against such people. However, this has crossed all limits. What was circulated by some people on Facebook was highly condemnable and absolutely fake,” said Kumar. One of the posts by a user named Narendra Mehra read, “Dukhad samachar mukhyamantri manniya Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat ka dil ka daura padne se akasmik nidhan. Bhagwan punya aatma ko shanti pradan kare (Sad news. Chief minister Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat passed away due to cardiac arrest. May his soul rest in peace).”Another Facebook user named Kaintura Sarat posted, “Bahut dukhad ghatna. Abhi abhi Uttarakhand mukhyamantri ka nidhan ho gaya hai (Very upsetting news. Uttarakhand chief minister passed away).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-post-about-uttarakhand-cm-s-death-fake-case-filed/story-pVLYMhXYkStPSCEimQUvII.html
06-05-2020||India||Petrol prices go up by Rs 2 per litre, diesel by Re 1 in Uttar Pradesh||The retail price of petrol went up by Rs 2 per litre and diesel price by Re 1 in Uttar Pradesh after the state government raised value-added tax (VAT) on the auto fuels, officials said on Wednesday.“New prices will be applicable from today midnight,” UP’s finance minister Suresh Khanna was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Delhi had raised auto fuel prices on Tuesday.Retail prices of fuels fluctuate in tandem with international oil markets. If international prices jump, states which levy ad valorem duties on petrol and diesel gain revenue proportionately, but they lose revenue when international oil rates fall. The Centre levies specific excise duty on the two fuels. Pump prices of petrol and diesel are different in different states because of variations on sales tax or VAT rates and other local levies. State-run oil companies have not been revising the rates of the two auto fuel rates, making up for their present and potential inventory losses, since March 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-prices-go-up-by-rs-2-per-litre-and-diesel-price-goes-up-by-re-1-per-litre/story-x4ZYxoCJny0Na8DxLZ0KTK.html
06-05-2020||India||Maharashtra an area of concern for us: Harsh Vardhan in Covid-19 review||Maharashtra is a cause for concern with 34 of its 36 districts affected by the coronavirus disease, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan told state authorities while reviewing the Covid-19 situation on Wednesday.In the online meeting with state health minister Rajesh Tope, Vardhan highlighted that seven districts — Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Sholapur—have been reporting heavy case load, and need special focus to contain the spread of the disease. The western state has 26 containment zones, which are earmarked pockets in red or orange zones where there are no relaxations of lockdown rules. The two districts that are in green zone (no case reported in at least 21 days) are Gadhchiroli and Wardha, which are about 200km apart.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageTill 2pm on Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 15,525 of 49,391 cases in India, and 617 of the country’s 1,694 deaths.“Maharashtra is an area of concern for us at the moment as higher number of cases is being reported from the state. Experts from the central team are stationed there to help the state government. The teams from National Centre of Disease Control (NCDC) are also closely monitoring the situation, and looking at ways by which we can reduce the number of cases,” Vardhan said during the review.“The Centre is ready to help in every way possible — be it manpower increase, capacity building, technical assistance etc. or any kind of handholding that is required to manage the situation. We have to get into the minute details to devise a better strategy for disease control,” he said.He also directed experts from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Nagpur, to take help in local surveillance.“Even though rapid response teams of all medical colleges are active at the ground level, I would ask AIIMS, Nagpur, to also proactively assist the state government in managing the disease in the district since they are located in the district. We are in constant touch with all district magistrates who are managing the situation on ground. The idea of this review is to redefine the strategy in these severely affected areas for better outcome,” he added.Apart from Maharashtra, the Union health minister later in the day is also scheduled to review the situation in Gujarat, which is another state reporting high case load of Covid-19.Last week, the health minister conducted a digital meeting with Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar, and is expected to hold meetings with other states in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashta-an-area-of-concern-for-us-harsh-vardhan-in-covid-19-review/story-LT21CQg9VafJJPMj3mbmCN.html
06-05-2020||India||Hizbul’s Riyaz Naikoo trapped in Pulwama; Timeline of encounters in J-K||Security forces have trapped a top terrorist of Hizbul Mujahideen and two others after an hours-long gunbattle in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama.Riyaz Naikoo and two others were trapped after the Security forces launched the operation on Tuesday night on a specific input Beigpora Gulzapora in Awantipora.Here is a timeline of recent encounters and terror attacks in Kashmir:April 29: Terrorists lobbed a grenade at Nowhatta Chowk in Srinagar towards a joint checkpoint of the state police and security forces, resulting in injuries to four security force one police personnel.April 29: Terrorists fired on a civilian in Beighpora Kralgund area of Handwara. The injured person was identified as Ali Mohd Beigh.May 3: Five security forces personnel, including the commanding officer of 21 Rashtriya Rifles, were killed in an encounter at Changimulla, Handwara. Two terrorists, including a senior Lashkar-i-Taiba operative Haider, were also killed in the encounter.May 4: Terrorists fired indiscriminately upon a joint party of police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) deployed at Wangam crossing in Handwara. The fire was retaliated and during the ensuing firefight three CRPF personnel were killed. A 14-year-old boy was also killed in the crossfire.May 4: One Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel was injured when terrorists lobbed a hand grenade at Nowgam SrinagarMay 5: Five people, including a CRPF personnel and four civilians, were injured in a grenade attack by terrorists in Budgam district.May 6: Security forces arrested an overground worker of Hizbul Mujahideen at Sathura Tral in Pulwama district. In another operation, a terrorist was killed in Sarshil Khrew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hizbul-s-riyaz-naikoo-trapped-in-pulwama-timeline-of-encounters-in-j-k/story-gUSioM75IQO5mbUzGnPeCK.html
06-05-2020||India||In letter to CM Mamata, BJP questions Bengal’s Covid-19 data||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has alleged “discrepancies and infirmities” in the health bulletin issued by the government of West Bengal. BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya, who is the national general secretary of the party, has said in a letter to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee that he remains concerned at the quality of information being furnished by the state on coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. “...bulletin released on May 4 have some glaring discrepancies with regard to the data. I have listed them and hope that your administration will rise to a higher level of transparency and provide information, which people can use to assess state government‘s preparedness to take on the Goa challenge and defeated,” the letter says. He has also said there is no mention of the number of people deprived of tests and thereafter “clandestinely” buried or cremated. “Non-availability of such data may be costly for epidemiological analyses and also deprives the families of the deceased from getting due compensation announced by the government,” the letter says.The Trinamool Congress government and the BJP have been sparring on the issue of the state‘s handling of the coronavirus disease pandemic.In the letter issued on Tuesday, Vijayvargiya has said Alipurduar district is shown to have no cases but multiple mainstream media reports have shown at least four cases in the district.The health bulletin of the West Bengal government dated May 4 shows no deaths due to Covid-19 in Paschim Bardhaman district, but the chief secretary is himself on record at a press conference on April 21 admitting to one death in the district, the letter says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-letter-to-mamata-bjp-questions-bengal-s-covid-19-data/story-Z8tsen2gchlAELZkG4R5oI.html
06-05-2020||India||Riyaz Naikoo, Kashmir’s most wanted terrorist, carries Rs 12 lakh reward||The gunfight in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district has brought the spotlight back on Riyaz Ahmed Naikoo, the most wanted terrorist in the valley.Security forces had launched the operation to nab Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Riyaz Naikoo on Tuesday night on a specific input Beigpora Gulzapora in Awantipora.“Contact established in the third operation at #Beighpors #Awantipur. Top terrorist commander is trapped. Exchange of fire on. Details shall follow,” J&K police tweeted.Riyaz Naikoo took over as the chief of Hizbul Mujahideen after the outfit’s poster boy Burhan Wani was killed in a gunfight with the security forces in Kokarnag area in Anantnag district on July 8, 2016.A post-graduate, he carries a reward of Rs 12 lakh on his head.A resident of Naikoo Mohalla in Durbug of Awantipora, Riyaz Naikoo has been listed as a category “A++” militant, which is given to the most-wanted terrorist in the Valley. He took over as chief of the Hizbul Mujahideen in the Valley after the killing of his associate Sabzar Bhat in May 2017.“Naikoo is now considered to be the overall commander of Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) for the entire Valley. In the last one year, the security forces cornered him many times but each time he has managed to escape,” a central security force official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, had said while speaking to HT.Naikoo, the officer had said, has assiduously cultivated an image of a moderate militant.He is said to have worked as a mathematics teacher at a local school before joining the terrorist ranks. He was known to have a passion for painting roses before he picked up the gun.Naikoo had released a video in 2017, saying he would welcome the return of Kashmiri Pandits in the Kashmir Valley and claimed that terrorists were not enemies of the Pandits.Riyaz Naikoo is also believed to be behind the revival of the “Gun Salute” that terrorists give to their fallen comrades at their funeral.Security officials also believe Naikoo has managed to draft many young people from south Kashmir into militancy due to his image.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/riyaz-naikoo-kashmir-s-most-wanted-terrorist-carries-rs-12-lakh-reward/story-QEM18LWyY1AjsPXnqGqD4H.html
06-05-2020||India||‘What after May 17?’: Sonia Gandhi seeks answer from Centre||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday asked the central government to spell out its strategy whether it will lift or continue with the nationwide lockdown on May 17.“What after May 17? What criteria is the government using to judge how long the lockdown will continue?” she said in her opening remarks at a video-conferencing of the party’s chief ministers and senior leaders.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first announced the 21-day nationwide lockdown to contain the deadly coronavirus disease from March 25 to April 14. The restrictions were first extended till May 3 and then further extended till May 17.The Congress president also thanked the farmers, particularly of Punjab and Haryana, for ensuring food security due to the bumper wheat crop despite all odds.Addressing the meeting, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said, “We need to know, as Soniaji said, what will happen after the lockdown 3.0?. The CMs need to deliberate and ask as to what is the strategy of the government of India to get the country out of lockdown?”Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said the central piece of strategy to fight Covid-19 is to protect the elderly and those who are diabetic and with heart conditions.The meeting comes days after Gandhi announced that her party will pay for the train travel of stranded migrant workers, a move that triggered a slugfest between the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The opposition party accused the government of being insensitive to the plight of stranded migrant workers while the BJP claimed that railways was bearing 85% of the fare cost, and state governments had to pay 15%, thus allowing migrants to go back home free of cost.On his part, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said his government has set up two committees to strategise – one on how to come out of the lockdown and other on suggesting ways and means for the economic revival.“Our concern is the people sitting in Delhi are deciding on classification of zones without knowing what is happening on the ground,” he said.His Rajasthan counterpart Ashok Gehlot demanded financial assistance from the Centre to states to sustain the impact of the Covid-19.“Until an extensive stimulus package is given, how will states and the country run? We have lost Rs 10,000 crore of revenue. States have repeatedly requested the Prime Minister for a financial package but we are yet to hear from the Centre,” he said.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said states are facing an acute economic crisis and need immediate financial assistance.“Chhattisgarh is one state where 80% of small industries have restarted and nearly 85,000 workers have returned to work,” he claimed.His Puducherry counterpart V Narayanasamy said the Centre is deciding on zones without consulting the states. “This is creating an anomalous situation. People sitting in Delhi cannot tell the states, No state or chief minister is consulted. Why? The Prime Minister is not saying a word on the economic package for states,” he said.Former finance minister P Chidambaram said states are bleeding in terms of finances but no money is being allocated by the Centre. “The media too has brought out the unavailability of finances with states,” he added.For his part, former union minister M Veerappa Moily said the strategy to declare the lockdown or coming out of it has not been stated at all by the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-after-may-17-sonia-gandhi-seeks-answer-from-centre/story-p5dwKexYjYcuVsWIL7mLqK.html
06-05-2020||India||‘Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra matter of concern, will hold meeting with CM’: Health minister||Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday expressed concern over the coronavirus situation in Maharashtra and said he will hold a meeting soon with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to discuss the course of action.“The situation in Maharashtra is certainly a matter of concern right now as 34 out of 36 districts are affected by Covid-19,” Vardhan told reporters on Wednesday.“I will hold a meeting with CM as well to discuss further course of action to control spread of the virus in the state,” the health minister added. The situation in Maharashtra is certainly a matter of concern right now as 34 out of 36 districts are affected by #COVID19. I will hold a meeting with CM as well to discuss further course of action to control spread of the virus in state: Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan pic.twitter.com/g2Ez09pNLMMaharashtra continues to be the worst-hit state in the country with 15,525 total Covid-19 cases. Nearly 2,819 have recovered from the disease in the state or have been discharged from hospitals while 617 patients have succumbed to death. Also read: ‘What will happen after lockdown 3.0?’ Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh question govtMumbai, Pune and Thane are the worst affected regions in Maharashtra. While Mumbai has reported nearly 10,000 coronavirus cases so far (9,945), Pune has over 2,000 Covid-19 cases and 1,404 are infected in Thane.  The total number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 49,000-mark on Wednesday with 49,391 people infected across India. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 33,514 active coronavirus cases in the country, 14,182 patients have been cured or discharged while 1,694 people have died from the deadly contagion.The virus has infected more than 3 million people across the globe. More than 2.5 lakh people have died due to Covid-19 across the globe while more than one million patients have recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-situation-in-maharashtra-a-matter-of-concern-will-hold-a-meeting-with-cm-health-minister-harsh-vardhan/story-zxvlRC4MF6vdLdnhX79lGP.html
06-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mizoram claims it is free from Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.With lone patient testing negative, Mizoram claims ‘Covid-19 free’ statusMizoram has announced that it is free of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as the north-eastern state’s lone patient has recovered. The patient, a 50-year-old pastor who had visited the Netherlands, tested Covid-19 positive on March 24. Read more Survey reveals over 50% urban Indians maintain social distancing even at home, sleep and eat separatelyAs the number of coronavirus cases in India near the 50,000 mark, a survey has found that nearly 90% of Indians have taken the coronavirus pandemic seriously and have strictly adhered to the social distancing norms. Read moreChargesheet filed against foreign jamaatis, AU profShahganj police have filed the chargesheet against 18 persons including seven foreign ‘jamaatis’ and a professor of Allahabad University (AU), who was also named in the FIR lodged against them under Epidemic Act and other relevant sections of IPC. Read more24 cases in two days: Veggies come at a premium as Meerut mandi closed for 3 daysTwo dozen Covid 19 cases inside the vegetable mandi in the past two days have thrown a scare among traders as well as buyers. Read moreSingapore court jails Indian-origin man for abusing policeAn Indian-origin man in Singapore was on Wednesday sentenced to seven months in prison for verbally abusing police and safe-distancing enforcement officers who were urging compliance with the Covid-19 measures. Read more Arogya Setu app on privacy issue: Read full statement hereIndia’s Covid-19 contact tracing app Aarogya Setu released a statement today responding to the claims of French hacker Robert Baptiste of a privacy issue in the app. Read moreTwilight fans, rejoice! Edward Cullen’s perspective is going to be out soon in Midnight SunStephenie Meyer’s long-awaited prequel to her hugely successful human-vampire love story series, Twilight is releasing on August 4, the author announced on her website (www.stepheniemeyer.com). Read moreBrighten up your day with this goofy pup trying to protect its homeWhen one reads the sign ‘Beware of the dog’ they generally picturise a stern looking Doberman or a German shepherd guarding the gates. In this case, a rather silly looking guard is there to greet you at the gate of this house. Read more Watch- Covid-19: States eye liquor revenue | What you need to know||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-manipur-claims-it-is-free-from-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-SFQHeqQv8WX0bJir76OT7M.html
06-05-2020||India||‘Creaky and cumbersome’: PM Modi orders overhaul of drug regulatory system||At a late Tuesday afternoon meeting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi showered praise on academics, industry and start-ups for setting aside their reservations and joining hands to power India’s research to develop tests, vaccines and drugs for Covid-19. But PM Modi had one lurking concern.This was about the ability of the regulatory framework to keep pace with industry and scientists. PM Modi, who has on occasions spoken how the bureaucracy and its systems weren’t able to keep pace, said India’s regulatory system for new drugs and vaccines was still “creaky and cumbersome” at the best of times. This, Prime Minister Modi told the meeting of top government officials, had to change. Fast.“The prime minister underscored that we not only had to have the highest quality, ethical standards but also the highest speed,” a senior government official who was present at the meeting of the task force on coronavirus vaccine development, drug discovery, diagnosis and testing told Hindustan Times.Among those who were present at the meeting were principal secretary to the PM PK Mishra, principal scientific adviser to the government K VijayRaghavan, advisor to PM Amarjeet Sinha, biotechnology department secretary Renu Swarup, Indian Council of Medical Research director general Balram Bhargava, Union health secretary Preeti Sudan and Rajesh Bhushan who will take over as health secretary three months later.“This means we need to overhaul the regulatory system, that too at warp speed,” one official later told HT. He explained one aspect of the concern around the regulatory framework that the prime minister had articulated.In the United States and Europe, there are provisions to conduct human trials on emergency clearance basis. In India, it can take drug companies months to even conduct trials on mice.Besides, an official explained by way of an example, if a drug such as Remdesivir of Gilead Sciences turns out to be a success in the United States, it will take a considerable time to reach the medicine to Indian patients due to red tape in the entire system of drug approvals. “We really need to revamp the approval processes at the drug controller’s office,” he said.In the course of Tuesday’s meeting, when a participant spoke about India’s dependence on one country for supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API), Prime Minister Modi underlined that companies need to take pride in manufacturing API also rather than relying on other countries. It should be a matter of pride… not just low costs, PM Modi said.In the early part of the task force meeting, PM Modi was told that there were 30 Indian vaccines in different stages of development including a few that were going on to the trial stage. In drug development, officials told the meeting that they were looking at repurposing existing drugs to treat Covid-19 in addition to working on new drugs and linking a high performance computational approach with laboratory verification to keep research on the fast track.An official statement issued after the meeting had stressed that the prime minister took note of the “extraordinary coming together of academia, industry and government”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/creaky-and-cumbersome-pm-modi-orders-officials-to-overhaul-drug-regulatory-system/story-dcS1Vfk9FpMtHzxDmHh6SK.html
06-05-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh government to pay for education of poor children from Class 1 to PhD||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Tuesday that the Madhya Pradesh government will bear the education expenses of children from poor families under the Sambal scheme. He further said that the BJP government in the state will pay for the children’s education from Class 1 to PhD.“The Madhya Pradesh government will bear the cost of education for poor children from Class 1 to PhD under the Sambal scheme. The state government will also pay the fees of private colleges for higher education. The poor are requested to encourage their child to study,” Scindia said on Twitter. #संबल_योजना के तहत गरीब भाई-बहनों के बच्चों की पहली कक्षा से लेकर पीएचडी तक की पढ़ाई का खर्च मप्र सरकार उठाएगी। उच्च शिक्षा के लिए प्राइवेट कालेज की फीस भी सरकार भरेगी। गरीब अपने बच्चों को पढ़ने के लिए प्रेरित करें।He also said that the Sambal scheme is for all the underprivileged classes of the society, and that the previous Congress government had discontinued the scheme due to political grudge. “Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan again started this scheme today,” Scindia said in another tweet, tagging Chouhan.The scheme was launched by Chouhan on Tuesday, and he announced that Rs 1,863 crore was transferred on the first day electronically. He gave the details of the scheme on Instagram.He also announced that the government is merging ‘Super 5000’ scheme with this under which the students from the underprivileged section, who score the highest marks in Class 12, will be given an additional amount of Rs 30,000.“The Sambal scheme is starting in a new format today. Hope this will rid the poor of their problems, and make their lives easier,” Chouhan further said in the Instagram post.  आज 1863 हितग्राहियों के खाते में 41.29 करोड़ रुपए ई - भुगतान के माध्यम से ट्रांसफर कर #संबल_योजना को रिलॉन्च किया। संबल योजना हमारे गरीब भाई-बहनों के परिवारों को नया जीवन देने वाली योजना है। जन्म से पहले से लेकर ज़िन्दगी के बाद तक इस योजना का गरीब परिवारों को लाभ मिलेगा इस योजना में हम एक नई "सुपर 5000" योजना को जोड़ रहे हैं। संबल परिवारों के ऐसे 5000 बच्चे जो 12वीं में सबसे ज्यादा नंबर लाएंगे, उन्हें ₹30000 प्रोत्साहन राशि के रूप में अलग से दिए जाएंगे। #संबल_योजना आज से नये रूप में प्रारंभ हो रही है। मुझे विश्वास है कि यह मेरे गरीब बहनों-भाइयों को समस्याओं से निजात दिलाकर उनके जीवन को आसान बनाएगी।A post shared by  Shivraj Singh Chouhan (@chouhanshivrajsingh) on May 5, 2020 at 4:59am PDTThe Sambal scheme was started by the BJP government in 2018, in its earlier tenure. Under the scheme, families below the poverty line and registered labourers of the unorganised sector from the state were provided electricity at cost of Rs 200 per month.Around 1.8 crore people from the weaker sections of the society were covered under the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-government-to-pay-for-education-of-poor-children-from-class-1-to-phd/story-zyNBjHnpXOggpxYDuOUqLM.html
06-05-2020||India||Survey reveals over 50% urban Indians maintain social distancing even at home, sleep and eat separately||As the number of coronavirus cases in India near the 50,000 mark, a survey has found that nearly 90% of Indians have taken the coronavirus pandemic seriously and have strictly adhered to the social distancing norms.While the recent incidents of long queues outside liquor stores would suggest otherwise, a recent survey has found that “a large majority of urban Indians (90%) are practising social distancing (i.e. keeping six feet apart from other people) by avoiding crowded areas, either always or frequently” amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The survey factored-in data between April 20th - 26th from an analysis across 10 markets in urban India. It was conducted by a global public opinion and data company, YouGov, in collaboration with experts at the Institute of Global Health Innovation (IGHI) at Imperial College LondonAccording to the analysis, 87% of Indians admitted to having always or frequently avoided coming in contact with symptomatic people or those who they think might have been exposed to Covid-19. 74% of urban Indians claimed they always or frequently refrained from going to shops amid the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.The survey also revealed that many people took distancing measures even at their home. 56% of those who were surveyed frequently started eating separately at home and slept in different bedrooms (56%).Also read: ‘What will happen after lockdown 3.0?’ Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh question govtCoronavirus cases rise unabated across the globe with over 3 million people infected by the deadly contagion. More than 2.5 lakh people have died due to Covid-19 across the globe while more than one million patients have recovered from the disease.The United States, Spain, Italy, France, the UK are some of the top affected countries in the world.The total number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 49,000-mark on Wednesday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 33,514 active coronavirus cases in the country, 14,182 patients have been cured or discharged while 1,694 people have died from the deadly contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/survey-reveals-over-50-urban-indians-maintain-social-distancing-even-at-home-sleep-and-eat-separately/story-rjwW0EKV0MgfG7ijjVrshN.html
06-05-2020||India||‘What will happen after lockdown 3.0?’ Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh question govt||Congress president Sonia Gandhi said on Wednesday that the party seeks to know what criteria the government is using to judge how long lockdown will continue. She was speaking at a meeting of chief ministers of the Congress-ruled states.“After May 17, what? And after, May 17 How? What criteria is the government using to judge how long the lockdown is to continue,” she said during the meeting.Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who was also present at the meeting, said, “We need to know what will happen after lockdown 3.0.”Sonia Gandhi discussed the impact of coronavirus pandemic with chief ministers of party-ruled states on Wednesday and assessed the steps taken by them to contain the pandemic.She also discussed the issue of migrant labourers and workers stranded at various places and steps taken by the states in bringing them back to their home towns. Rahul Gandhi was also present at the meeting.Gandhi had announced on Monday that the state units of Congress party would pay for the train fares of migrant workers as they prepare to go back to their homes in different parts of the country. She also criticised the central government for charging them for their travel by train.The Congress chief has so far written seven letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi since March 23 on different issues, including seeking safe and free travel of stranded workers to their home towns.The Congress has repeatedly been raising the issue of stranded migrant workers with both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi attacking the Centre for its “failure to put in place a humane policy” to send them back to their homes.Sonia Gandhi has also formed an eleven-member consultative group under the chairmanship of Manmohan Singh to discuss various issue arising out of the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-will-happen-after-lockdown-3-0-sonia-gandhi-manmohan-singh-question-govt/story-XekQ6cOsLYFZQihbIQ4DDM.html
06-05-2020||India||India’s ‘active’ Covid-19 cases rise to 33,514, among top 10 in world||Coronavirus cases rise unabated across the globe with over 3 million people infected by the deadly contagion. More than 2.5 lakh people have died due to Covid-19 across the globe while over one million patients have recovered from the disease. The United States, Spain, Italy, France, the UK are some of the top affected countries in the world. However, when it comes to the ‘active’ number of coronavirus cases, India stands at the 10th spot on the global tally with 33,514 active coronavirus cases. Active Covid-19 cases are the number of total coronavirus cases after deducting the recovered/discharged patients and number of fatalities. According to global data tracker Worldometer, the United States has the most active cases of coronavirus in the world with 964,734 people infected. Spain, Italy, France, Russia, Turkey, the UK, Brazil and Peru are countries with the highest incidence of Covid-19 active cases globally. Also read: Post-Covid-19, the world will change. Here are 7 ways how this could happenGermany, Iran and Canada are the countries that have more coronavirus total cases than India but fewer active cases. Germany has reported 167,007 total cases of which, 24,914 are active cases. Nearly 7,000 have died from the virus in Germany. In Iran, the total number of Covid-19 cases is at 99,970, of which 13,155 are active. Over 60,000 have contracted the Covid-19 in Canada of which 31,010 are classified as active cases. The total number of coronavirus cases in India crossed the 49,000-mark on Wednesday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 33,514 active coronavirus cases in the country, 14,182 patients have been cured or discharged while 1,694 people have died from the deadly contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-india-s-active-covid-19-cases-rise-to-33-514-among-top-10-in-world/story-pGWEUVW5YpwWxY13Dl2r5K.html
06-05-2020||India||Odisha records second Covid-19 death of 77-year-old man||A 77-year-old Odisha man, who had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on April 28, died on Tuesday night in a hospital in Bhubaneswar, taking the toll in the state to two, officials said on Wednesday.The man from Madhusudan Nagar area of Bhubaneswar also had underlying comorbidities of hypertension, diabetes, and kidney disease, said health department officials. He had reportedly been infected with Covid-19 virus from his son, who had earlier been infected.The first death in Odisha due to Covid-19 was reported on April 5 when a 72-year-old man died during treatment at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bhubaneswar. The man’s swab sample had tested positive a day after his death.So far, 177 people in Odisha have tested positive for Covid-19 and out of which 60 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-records-second-covid-19-death-of-77-year-old-man/story-E0FIE8znSKXLKW3hfCJ6jL.html
06-05-2020||India||With lone patient testing negative, Mizoram claims ‘Covid-19 free’ status||Mizoram has announced that it is free of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as the north-eastern state’s lone patient has recovered. The patient, a 50-year-old pastor who had visited the Netherlands, tested Covid-19 positive on March 24. He was the second Covid-19 patient from the region after a 23-year-old girl from Manipur tested positive on her return from the United Kingdom.“We’ve received a report that all the four samples of the patient, collected within 24 hours, have tested negative. He is likely to be discharged from the hospital by the end of this week,” Mizoram health minister R Lalthangliana told HT over the phone from the state capital, Aizawl.“Mizoram can be declared free of Covid-19. We don’t have a single patient. However, 1,366 people are lodged in various quarantine facilities in all the 11 districts of the state,” Lalthangliana said.Mizoram has become the fourth state in the north-east after Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland that don’t have a single Covid-19 positive case.Tripura, too, had recently announced that it was free of Covid-19 positive cases. However, the border state has since reported 42 Covid-19 positive cases, including 38 Border Security Force (BSF) personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-lone-patient-testing-negative-mizoram-claims-covid-19-free-status/story-3DfLMv6G4OWcKJGdQhFtfM.html
06-05-2020||India||Top Hizbul terrorist Riyaz Naikoo trapped in J-K’s Pulwama; security forces launch 3 ops in district||A top terrorist commander of Hizbul Mujahideen was trapped in a village in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama as the security forces launched three operations in different areas of the district, officials said on Wednesday.A terrorist was also shot dead in Sarshali in Awantipora area of the district in one of the operations, which is still underway in the village, they said.The operation to nab Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Riyaz Naikoo, launched by the joint team of Jammu and Kashmir police and security forces on Tuesday night on a specific input, is also in progress at Beigpora in Awantipora.“Contact established in the third operation at #Beighpors #Awantipur. Top terrorist commander is trapped. Exchange of fire on. Details shall follow,” J&K police tweeted.The forces are also conducting house-to-house searches, an officer said.Also read | ‘Assalamualaikum’: How one word changed the course of Handwara encounterA Jaish-e-Mohammed ()JeM terrorist was arrested in Satura village of Tral area of the district late on Tuesday evening. The joint team of police and security forces apprehended the terrorist at Satura crossing, the police said.“On his questioning the Following arms and ammunition were recovered from the arrested terrorist. 1. AK-56 : 01 No. 2.AK Magazines : 05 No’s 3.AK Rds : 150 No’s 4.Chinese Grenades: 03 No’s 05 .Cell phones : 02 Nos (sic),” the police tweeted.The last two months have seen a series of operations in the Kashmir region. In the past three days, eight security force personnel, including the commanding officer of the army’s 21 Rashtriya Rifles, were killed in two separate encounters in Handwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-hizbul-commander-trapped-in-j-k-s-pulwama-security-forces-launch-3-ops-in-district/story-CHzyQggRHiO5uSsHQY1zKI.html
06-05-2020||India||‘Borrow to meet deficits, not impose higher taxes’: Chidambaram’s message to Centre, states||Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram on Wednesday said that the governments must borrow to meet their deficits and not resort to imposing new or higher taxes amid the coronavirus crisis. Chidambaram said imposing higher taxes should not be done at a time when the economic activity in the country has “ground to a halt”.“New or higher taxes will impoverish families further. Governments must borrow to meet their deficits, not impose higher tax burdens when economic activity has ground to a halt,” Chidambaram tweeted on Wednesday. He said the imposition of new or higher taxes makes sense only when the economy is booming.  New or higher taxes will impoverish families further. Governments must borrow to meet their deficits, not impose higher tax burdens when economic activity has ground to a halt.“Tax burdens on the middle class and poor is actually taxing distress,” the former finance minister said. “We have been pleading for cash transfers from the government to the bottom half of the people/families. Instead governments are doing a REVERSE TRANSFER of money from the people to the government! Cruel,” he added.Governments should GIVE money to the people in times of distress, not SQUEEZE and TAKE money from the people. Earlier this week, the Kejriwal government announced an increase in value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to raise money to fight the coronavirus disease. This decision had increased the price of petrol by Rs 1.67 per litre to Rs 71.26 and diesel, by Rs 7.10 to Rs 69.39.The Centre on Tuesday raised the excise duty on petrol by Rs 10 and on diesel by 13 per litre to recoup some of the loss of revenue suffered by the government due to the Covid-19 lockdown. However, the change in the tax structure will not impact the retail sale price of petrol and diesel on account of the excise duty hike.Besides this, some of the states, including Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan, had announced an increase in the excise duty for liquor as alcohol stores lifted shutters after nearly a 40-day lockdown on Monday. Delhi increased the tax by 70%, Andhra by 75%, West Bengal by 30% and Rajasthan by 10%, all to raise funds to fight the pandemics and manage state finances, the governments said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/borrow-to-meet-deficits-not-impose-higher-taxes-p-chidambaram-s-covid-19-message-to-centre-states/story-6LvcXQbzX6nnedueYgU3eK.html
06-05-2020||India||Non-essential activities banned in parts of Odisha from 7pm to 7am till May 17||The movement of all non-essential activities in the jurisdiction of the Police Commissionerate Bhubaneswar-Cuttack will remain strictly prohibited from 7 pm to 7 am till May 17, said Dr Sudhanshu Sarangi, Commissioner of Police, Bhubaneswar.“Movement for all non-essential activities in the jurisdiction of the Police Commissionerate Bhubaneswar-Cuttack shall remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm to 7 am till May 17,” said Sarangi.Odisha on Tuesday confirmed one new Covid-19 case, taking the total number of cases in the state to 176, State Government.In a video conference, chief minister Naveen Patnaik directed the Health Department to take measures to increase testing capacity up to 15,000 per day.In view of the long-distance journey and various other problems like food, water, sunstroke and accidents, the state government has decided that the migrants from Surat will come back only by trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/non-essential-activities-banned-in-parts-of-odisha-from-7pm-to-7am-till-may-17/story-YwWGdUTF4xbev9vBtHDnbL.html
06-05-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Cases cross 15,000-mark in Maharashtra, UP nears 3,000||The number of coronavirus cases in the country breached the 49,000-mark on Wednesday with 49,391 cases. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 33,514 active coronavirus cases in the country, 14,182 patients have been cured or discharged while 1,694people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have breached the 15,000-mark while Gujarat, the second worst-affected state has over 6,000 Covid-19 cases.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraWith 15525 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 617 deaths so far while 2819 patients have recovered.GujaratThe state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 6245. While 368 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 1381 recoveries so far.DelhiAs many as 5104 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Sixty four people have died from the infection while 1468 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Also read: Post-Covid-19, the world will change. Here are 7 ways how this could happenTamil NaduThe southern state has 4058 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 1485 recoveries and 33 Covid-19 deaths.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 3158 on Wednesday. The state has reported 89 fatalities, and 1525 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 3049 positive cases of coronavirus. 176 people have died from Covid-19 here while 1000 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 2880 in Uttar Pradesh. While 987 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 56 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1717 positive Covid-19 patients and 589 cases of recovery. 36 people have died.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 1344 on Wednesday. There have been 140 deaths and 364 recoveries in the state.TelanganaThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 1096 in state so far. 585 people have made a recovery from the virus while 29 people have died from Covid-19.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 741. Eight people have died from the infection while 320 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 671 Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths. 331 people have been cured and discharged.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 548 and 1451 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 25 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen 6 deaths. 256 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 133 in Punjab.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 502 coronavirus cases on Wednesday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 462 people have successfully recovered.In Bihar, 536 people have tested positive for coronavirus, four people have died while 142 patients have recovered. Odisha has 175 Covid-19 positive patients, 60 have recovered while one person has died. Jharkhand has 125 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 33 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 61 coronavirus patients, 39 patients have recovered from the infection, one patient has died. Himachal Pradesh has 42 cases, 2 patients have died and 38 have recovered. Assam has reported 43 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 32 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 59 cases of coronavirus and 36 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 111 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 21 have recovered, one patient has died. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, 32 have recovered.Ladakh has 41 patients, 17 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported 9 cases, 6 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death, 10 patients have recovered.Manipur had two coronavirus cases, and those have recovered. Tripura, meanwhile, has 43 cases, two patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-cases-cross-15-000-mark-in-maharashtra-up-nears-3-000/story-w0S8A8DQD1hL5l3yI0A7pI.html
06-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 49,000-mark, death toll at 1,694||With 2958 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 126 deaths, India’s tally crossed the 49,000-mark, according to Union health ministry’s data on Wednesday morning.According to the Union health ministry’s dashboard at 8am, there are 33,514 active cases of Covid-19 and 1,694 fatalities across the country.The recovery rate of coronavirus disease cases in the country went up to 28.71% from 27.41% a day earlier. There are 14,182 people who have been cured or discharged, the health ministry data showed.Lav Agarwal, joint secretary with the health ministry, had said during the routine press briefing held on Covid-19 on Tuesday that the doubling rate of the respiratory disease had improved from 3.4 days before the lockdown to 12 days now. The nationwide lockdown was first clamped on March 25, which has been extended twice, and the third phase will end on May 17. “Lockdown has yielded very positive results, doubling time has improved from 3.4 days before lockdown to 12 days now. At the same time, it is important that we sustain the momentum,” said Agarwal.He said it was important to trace every contact of infected people.“Conducting surveillance for SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection) and ILI (Influenza-like illness) symptoms in facilities in containment zones and otherwise yields very valuable data and guides further action,” Agarwal said.Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan had said on Tuesday that India had managed to keep a check on coronavirus pandemic by not letting it slip into the community transmissions phase. Globally, more than 3.6 million have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, which causes the disease, and 257,207 people have died, according to Johns Hopkins Covid-19 tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-49-000-mark-death-toll-at-1-694/story-3f5BmqzkP8gS3OulOxPPpI.html
06-05-2020||India||India will remember Covid-19 as blessing in disguise, says health minister||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday that India will remember the coronavirus pandemic as a “blessing in disguise” if people imbibe good hygiene practices.“By now we know that fighting coronavirus is no rocket science. If behavioural changes such as hand, environmental and respiratory hygiene, which are being practised more rigorously during this period, get imbibed in society it will become the new normal,” Vardhan said.“Other than smallpox and polio, no other viral infection has been completely eradicated from this country. Other diseases keep recurring,” the minister said, indicating that Covid-19 might be here for the long haul.The total number of cases came very close to 50,000-mark Wednesday. The Union health ministry data on Wednesday morning showed the country recorded 2,958 new cases and 126 deaths in the last 24 hours (between Tuesday and Wednesday).On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting of a taskforce on the coronavirus vaccine development, drug discovery, diagnosis and testing and reviewed India’s efforts in the fight against Covid-19, news agency PTI reported.There are concerns that India’s tally may increase further with the government announcing plans to bring back a large number of Indians from various countries, in what is being called the world’s biggest ever evacuation programme. PTI reported that over three lakh people have registered for the evacuation from the Gulf region itself.The absolute number of cases and the death toll in India is lower than many others - more than 2.5 lakh people having lost their lives and over 35 lakh having been infected worldwide ever since the emergence of this virus in China last December.The focus now seems to have shifted globally towards developing a vaccine with several world leaders committing more than US $8 billion since Monday for this purpose.The government officials, meanwhile, maintained that India has managed to stave off a community transmission risk and the country remains in a “comfortable” position in terms of managing the Covid-19 crisis.The recovery rate in India has improved to 28.17 per cent, joint secretary at the health ministry Lav Agarwal said during a press briefing on the Covid-19 situation on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-remember-covid-19-as-blessing-in-disguise-says-health-minister/story-VvnZU8GPlMUHRsMXfqHXyL.html
06-05-2020||India||Pfizer injects first US patients in Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial, more on way||Several US companies are racing to develop vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has affected more than 3.5 million and killed 257,207 people across the world.US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer Inc has administered the first US patients with its experimental vaccine and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals said an antibody treatment could be available by this fall. Gilead Sciences Inc is working to expand manufacturing of its virus treatment, remdesivir, for use around the world.Regeneron said an experimental antibody treatment for Covid-19 could be available as soon as this fall, an expedited timeline for a drug that’s scheduled to be studied in humans for the first time in June.Regeneron’s chief scientific officer George Yancopoulos said on Tuesday during a conference call with investors that to meet the fall timeline will “depend on a lot of factors,” including whether the treatment works as well as hoped, “and there is obviously a lot of risk”. “We’ve sort of done it before but now we are trying to take it to the next level,” Yancopoulos said.The trials by Pfizer, which has partnered with Germany’s BioNTech SE, are being conducted at the New York University Grossman School of Medicine in Manhattan and the University of Maryland School of Medicine in Baltimore, the drugmaker said on Tuesday.“The short, less than four-month time-frame in which we’ve been able to move from preclinical studies to human testing is extraordinary,” Pfizer’s chief executive officer Albert Bourla said in a statement.Researchers said they have begun injecting volunteers with the first of four vaccine shot, which uses a gene-based technology known as messenger RNA, from Pfizer and BioNTech. The first person was vaccinated on Monday.The RNA, after being injected into the body, slips into human cells and tells them to produce the viral proteins that then cause the body to develop protective antibodies. It’s not a technology that has been approved for use yet. The RNA technology has an advantage as it can move faster into trials because it doesn’t involve brewing batches of protein or inactivated viral particles in living cells, which can take months.The trial has begun with healthy, young people between the ages of 18 and 55. But as safety is established in that population, it will expand to an older group of study participants—people up to the age of 85.The trial will help researchers evaluate whether the vaccine candidates are safe, which produces the strongest immune response that could fend off the coronavirus and what the doses should be.The study is being conducted on 360 people whose results could come as early as next months. Kathrin Jansen, Pfizer’s head of vaccine research and development, however, said the vaccine will still need to undergo additional testing in more patients. She added they will track the study’s progress to pick the most promising vaccine candidate.Bourla told The Wall Street Journal last week that a vaccine against coronavirus could be ready for emergency use as early as the falls if everything goes well.Pfizer and BioNTech are also in a race with Moderna, Johnson & Johnson and dozens of other biopharmaceutical outfits and academic groups to come up with a safe and effective vaccine against the illness within the next year to 18 months. A handful is in human trials already, including Moderna’s and ones from CanSino Biologics Inc, the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology and Inovio Pharmaceuticals Inc.Moderna is pursuing a similar RNA approach and started testing its vaccine on patients in March.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-injects-first-us-patients-in-covid-19-vaccine-clinical-trial-more-on-way/story-xigfGRFiyutlXCJhBgohqK.html
06-05-2020||India||Record single-day 194 fatalities push India’s Covid-19 toll past 1,600||A record number of new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday pushed the nationwide tally closer to the 50,000-mark and the death toll crossed 1,600.In its 5 pm update on the spread of the deadly virus infection on Tuesday, the Union Health Ministry said that the death toll due to Covid-19 has risen to 1,583 with 194 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours. The number of cases saw a big jump of 3,875 to reach 46,711 cases, it said.Maharashtra reported 841 new cases and 34 more deaths during the day and its overall tally crossed 1,5500 with over 600 deaths.Tamil Nadu reported more than 500 new cases on Tuesday, which took its tall past 4,000, while Gujarat also tested 441 more people positive for the virus, taking its total to more than 6,200.Delhi too reported another big jump of 206 cases on Tuesday, with the total infections doubling to 5,104. About 1,500 cases have been added to the Delhi tally in the last five days. The national capital accounts for 10.3 per cent of the total cases in the country.Till Tuesday, 64 deaths were recorded in the city-state.Experts said that the peak of this deadly virus outbreak was yet to come and may be witnessed in India over the next 4-6 weeks, while another spurt might be seen later during the winter season.However, the absolute number of cases and the death toll in India is still lower than many other countries.The government officials said on Tuesday that India has managed to stave off a community transmission risk and the country remains in a “comfortable” position in terms of managing the Covid-19 crisis, though they cautioned against any laxity at the field level.India’s recovery rate has improved to 28.17 per cent, joint secretary at the health ministry Lav Agarwal said during a press briefing on Tuesday.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-single-day-194-fatalities-push-india-s-covid-19-toll-past-1-600/story-DWnHNsaJdfqpXL6u65gDTL.html
06-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 13 more BSF personnel test Covid-19 positive in Tripura, state’s tally rises to 42 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.13 more BSF personnel test Covid-19 positive in Tripura, state’s tally rises to 42Thirteen new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were found in the Border Security Force’s (BSF’s) camp in Tripura’s Dhalai on Tuesday, taking the tally to 42 in the state. Read more.Terrorist killed in encounter with security forces in J&K’s PulwamaA terrorists was killed in a gun battle with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district, officials said on Wednesday morning, even as a search operation was being conducted to nab Hizb-ul-Mujahideen’s commander Riyaz Naikoo. Read more.Scientists tell PM Modi 30 Covid-19 vaccines in different stages of developmentMore than 30 vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are in different stages of development and a few are going to trial stages in India, experts have informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a meeting of the task force. Read more.‘It’s different if you win and say this’: Nehra does not agree with Kohli’s ‘ODIs not as relevant in 2020’ remarkFormer India paceman Ashish Nehra has become a cricket commentator and pundit since hanging up his boots and has developed a reputation for calling a spade a spade. During a recent conversation with former India teammate Akash Chopra on the latter’s show Aakash Vani, Nehra said that he did not agree with Virat Kohli’s comment that ODIs don’t matter this year. Read more.Met Gala 2020: Everything you need to know about the first virtual Met GalaThe first Monday of May is no longer the same, nor has any other day been since the coronavirus pandemic that has resulted in indefinite lockdown and restrictions all across the world. Read more.India has more internet users in rural areas than urban: IAMAI reportInternet users in rural areas surpassed those in urban areas for the first time, according to the ‘Digital in India’ report by the Internet & Mobile Association of India (IAMAI). As of last November, there were 227 million active internet users in rural areas which is 10% more than around 205 million in urban areas. In total, India had 504 million active internet users. Read more.‘Rishi Kapoor could beat any actor hollow, took my attention away from Saif in Hum Tum’: Sharmila TagoreActor Sharmila Tagore has written about the deaths of Irrfan Khan and Rishi Kapoor. The actors died on consecutive days last week. Read more.Covid-19: Amid Aarogya Setu row, UP CM launches another app to boost immunity | WatchUttar Pradesh government launched a mobile app called ‘Ayush Kavach’. It is aimed at providing information to boost immunity by Ayurvedic means. UP CM Yogi Adityanath said Ayurvedic methods can help fight viruses like the one causing current pandemic. Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-13-more-bsf-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-in-tripura-state-s-tally-rises-to-42-and-all-the-latest-news/story-v10a34sKcsxs2IS7289rcI.html
06-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Indians want economy to open, but don’t want to step out of home, says survey||Indians are facing a paradox during the Covid-19 crisis. According to an Ipsos survey, more than half (51 per cent) of them favour opening up of economy and businesses, but an overwhelming majority (78 per cent) are nervous about leaving their homes for work and travel.There were 28,000 respondents in the global online survey which was carried out between April 16 and 19.People in eight out of the 14 countries surveyed said that they do not want the economy to open till the time the spread of the virus is fully contained. These countries are United Kingdom, Canada, Mexico, Spain, Australia and the United States.But in India, Russia, China, Italy and Germany, more respondents agree that reopening should take place.Interestingly, people in India are were also most undecided on whether the economy should reopen if the virus is fully contained, according to Ipsos.As per the latest update by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in India stands at 46,711, including 13,161 recovered/migrated and 1,583 deaths.The United States has been hit the hardest by the global pandemic. New confirmed infections per day in the US exceed 20,000, and deaths per day are well over 1,000, according to figures from Johns Hopkins University.Public health officials warn that the failure to flatten the curve and drive down the infection rate in places could lead to many more deaths - perhaps tens of thousands - as people are allowed to venture out and businesses reopen.On Monday, a model from the University of Washington nearly doubled its projection of Covid-19 deaths in the US to around 1,34,000 through early August, with a range of 95,000 to nearly 2,43,000.Meanwhile, Britain’s official coronavirus death toll, at more than 29,000, topped that of Italy to become the highest in Europe and second-highest in the world behind the United States. The official number of dead worldwide surpassed a quarter-million, by Johns Hopkins’ count.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-indians-want-economy-to-open-but-don-t-want-to-step-out-of-home-says-survey/story-RVFEZBgrmVqhoBlCidWR0L.html
06-05-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat chief’s son questioned by police about 20 missing people: Report||The Delhi Police’s Crime Branch questioned the son of Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad for two hours on Tuesday, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported.The police questioned hom about the whereabouts of 20 people who worked at the Jamaat’s markaz (centre) in Nizamuddin area and looked after the visitors. These people have been missing since cases were registered against Jamaat, Hindustan reported.The police, during their investigation, came to know about these people through travel agents. They had gone through these people’s phone records and emails and found important information, Hindustan reported.The Crime Branch called Maulana Saad’s son because he is involved in the activities of the Jamaat. He was asked about the activities of the Jamaat headquarters and the officer-bearers of the organisation.He was also asked to get the Maulana tested again for coronavirus disease Covid-19.Maulana Saad has been under fire for organising a congregation of the Jamaat in Delhi in March which fuelled a spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital and other parts of the country.Maulana Saad’s lawyer had earlier told Hindustan Times that the Jamaat chief has completed the 14-day quarantine and got himself tested for Covid-19In an earlier interview to Hindustan Times, Fuzail Ayyubi had said that Maulana Saad is willing to cooperate with the police, and that no illegal activity took place at the group’s markaz.Police had filed a criminal case against Maulana Saad and six other top officials of the Jamaat on March 31 for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings, issued to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease Covid-19 in the national capital.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) booked him for money laundering last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-chief-s-son-question-by-police-about-20-missing-people-report/story-3oNkh2nkxuOC2Ss1ARxcBP.html
06-05-2020||India||13 more BSF personnel test Covid-19 positive in Tripura, state’s tally rises to 42||Thirteen new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were found in the Border Security Force’s (BSF’s) camp in Tripura’s Dhalai on Tuesday, taking the tally to 42 in the state.This comes a day after 13 people, including two children, from BSF’s 138th battalion, headquartered at Ambassa in Dhalai district were found Covid-19 positive. All the cases recorded since May 2 are from the 138th battalion. “ Alert ! 13 persons from138th-Bn #BSF Ambassa found #COVID19 POSITIVE today including 1 Mess worker. Total #COVID19 positive cases in #Tripura stands at 42 (2 already discharged, so active cases : 40). There is no POSITIVE case among civilians. Don’t panic! #TripuraCOVID19Count,” Biplab Deb, Tripura’s chief minister tweeted late on Tuesday evening.Alert!13 persons from 138th-Bn #BSF Ambassa found #COVID19 POSITIVE today including 1 Mess worker.Total #COVID19 positive cases in Tripura stands at 42 (2 already discharged, so active cases : 40)There is no POSITIVE case among civilians.Don't Panic!#TripuraCOVID19CountDeb said the state is conducting the maximum number of coronavirus tests are to ensure safety of the people. He also warned of strict action if anyone is found spreading misinformation. “Our Govt is keeping close vigil on the current situations. Specialised Doctors are taking care of the Positive patients. I urge everyone not to Panic and Co-operate with Government. Don’t believe in rumours, Govt will take strict action if anyone found spreading any misinformation (sic),” Deb posted on his Facebook account.📌UPDATE!We are conducting maximum number #COVID19 tests to ensure further safety of everyone. Our Govt is keeping...BK Sahu, the state’s principal secretary, wrote to BSF inspector general Solomon Kumar Minz to inquire about the source of the cases and the steps taken by them to prevent spreading of the coronavirus disease among people. A senior BSF official said they don’t allow any civilian to enter the camp and no trooper is allowed to interact with civilians. Additional chief secretary SK Rakesh said on Monday while speaking to reporters that some BSF troopers who came back to the state after their holiday in March end may have carried the virus with them.Dhalai district has already been declared as a red zone. Jawaharnagar and the 3-km radius around it along with BSF’s Gandacherra base camp and Kareena Border Outpost in the district were marked as containment zones. North and Gomati districts, marked as orange zone, are likely to come under green zone as none of the recent test reports came positive, officials have said.Currently, the state has one Covid-19 hospital and one health centre. The state government plans to start care centres to tackle milder cases of the coronavirus disease. Two Covid-19 positive patients from the state recovered in April. Samples of 5850 people have been tested in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-more-bsf-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-in-tripura-state-s-tally-rises-to-42/story-0sLrSNL5iIcP6V7GAAXpXM.html
06-05-2020||India||In 5 days, Covid-19 killed 526 people and affected 11,000 in India, shows data||More than 11,000 people have contracted coronavirus disease Covid-19 in India in the last five days. An analysis of Covid-19 data shows that 526 people have died due to the disease in the said time period.Globally, the disease has killed more than 2.5 lakh people.According to Union health ministry, 3,875 people were affected by the disease and 194 died in the last 24 hours (from Monday to Tuesday). The nationwide tally has reached 46,711 whereas 1,583 people have died.The ministry further said that 1,020 people have recovered during the last 24 hours, taking the number of recovered patients to 12,726. India’s recovery rate stands at 28.17 per cent, joint secretary at the health ministry Lav Agarwal said during a press briefing on the Covid-19 situation on Tuesday.Delhi reported another big jump of 206 cases on Tuesday, with the total infections doubling to 5,104 in 11 days. About 1,500 cases have been added to the Delhi tally in the last five days. The national capital accounts for 10.3 per cent of the total cases in the country. Till Tuesday, 64 deaths were recorded in the city-state.Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal have reported a spike in the number of new cases. While Maharashtra reported 841 new cases, the number was 500 for Tamil Nadu. Gujarat also tested 441 more people positive for the virus. The rate of infection in these states is higher than the national average. While Tamil Nadu has an infection rate of 14.3 per cent, in Punjab it is 17.77 per cent.Of the 1,583 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 583, Gujarat comes second with 319 deaths, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 176 and West Bengal at 133.Experts, meanwhile, said the peak of this deadly virus outbreak was yet to come and may be witnessed in India over the next 4-6 weeks, while another spurt might be seen later during the winter season.Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting of a taskforce on the coronavirus vaccine development, drug discovery, diagnosis and testing and reviewed India’s efforts in the fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-5-days-covid-19-killed-526-people-and-affected-11-000-in-india-shows-data/story-1rDwSieNEGzv7UAUmOHWUJ.html
06-05-2020||India||Trademark case: HT Media wins against US-based company||HT Media Limited, publisher of Hindustan Times,and its subsidiary Hindustan Media Ventures Limited, publisher of the Hindi-language daily Hindustan, secured relief in a trademark case against US-based Brainlink International Inc., with the Delhi high court restraining the latter from using the domain name www.hindustan.com or any other mark similar to “Hindustan and “Hindustan Times”.In an order passed on April 28, the HC also barred Brainlink from creating any third-party rights with respect to the domain name until the next hearing. It directed the domain registrar to block the name. Brainlink admitted to not using the domain name since 2000, but had blocked it .Brainlink offered to sell the domain name to HT Media “at an exorbitant price” in an unsuccessful attempt, according to the case made out against the firm.The court observed that the firm’s bad faith could be inferred from the extortionist price quoted for the sale of the trademark and that HT’s “goodwill spills over Internationally” to other countries. Brainlink also filed a suit in New York Court to prevent HT from availing further legal remedies. The suit was an attempt to legitimise the alleged infringement,HT said, and made a prima facie case for an anti-suit injunction before HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trademark-case-ht-media-wins-against-us-based-company/story-AAU6LoFqHkdd1qavVZwbjN.html
06-05-2020||India||30 Covid-19 vaccines in different stages of development: Scientists to PM Modi||More than 30 vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are in different stages of development and a few are going to trial stages in India even as existing drugs are being repurposed, experts have informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a meeting of the task force.Prime Minister Modi on Tuesday chaired a meeting of the task force on coronavirus vaccine development and took a detailed review of the current status of India’s steady efforts in vaccine development, drug discovery, diagnosis and testing.According to a statement released by the Prime Minister’s office after the meeting, Indian companies have come across as innovators in early-stage vaccine development research.The statement said that three approaches are being taken in drug development in the country. “First, the repurposing of existing drugs. At least four drugs are undergoing synthesis and examination in this category,” the statement said.“Secondly, the development of new candidate drugs and molecules are being driven by linking high performance computational approached with laboratory verification. Thirdly, plant extracts and products are being examined for general anti-viral properties,” it added.Several academic research institutions and start-ups have developed new tests, both for the Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) approach and for antibody detection, in diagnosis and testing. Capacity for both these tests has been enormously scaled up by linking laboratories across the country.“The problem of importing reagents for testing has been addressed by consortia of Indian start-ups and industry, meeting current requirements. The current thrust also holds promise for the development of a robust long-term industry in this area,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-30-covid-19-vaccines-in-different-stages-of-development-scientists-tell-pm-modi/story-cAvTRd5hSkOq9YtHC81UuO.html
06-05-2020||India||Podcast: Former CEA Arvind Subramanian on India’s Economic Response to the Covid-19 crisis||After a six-week nationwide lockdown in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, on May 3rd the Indian government commenced a calibrated relaxation of this unprecedented shutdown. To discuss the economic impacts of the crisis and what steps government can take to cushion the blow, this week on the show Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) welcomes back the economist Arvind Subramanian. Arvind served as the chief economic advisor to the Government of India between 2014-2018 and is currently a professor at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard and a Senior Fellow at the Peterson Institute. Milan speaks with Arvind about how Indian authorities should respond to the economic crisis, the utter failure of global economic cooperation, and whether China’s reputational hit offers India an opportunity. Plus, the two discuss Arvind’s long-standing support for a universal basic income (UBI) for India and whether the country has the necessary infrastructure in place to deliver an effective UBI.YOU’RE INVITED: Join Milan, Tanvi, and Sadanand for a special LIVE episode of Grand Tamasha on Tuesday, May 19, at 11am EST / 8:30pm IST. Tune in as they break down the week’s news - and join the live chat to ask questions! Add it to your calendar, and join the live show here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/podcast-former-cea-arvind-subramanian-on-india-s-economic-response-to-the-ccovid-19-crisis/story-SBgKBHnmtrtQaZlQ7XcPuJ.html
06-05-2020||India||India launches big repatriation programme, Telangana extends curbs: Covid-19 news today||Sixty-four flights will bring back about 15,000 Indians stranded in 12 countries due to the Covid-19 crisis in the first week of a massive air operation, the central government said on Tuesday. In Telangana, the state government announced an extension of the lockdown till May 29, becoming the first state to take such a step after the beginning of the third phase of curbs to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease.64 flights will bring home 15,000 Indians in a weekIndia has launched a concerted repatriation programme, by sea and air, to bring back stranded citizens stuck in various parts of the world, but with a strict set of preconditions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), at a time when nations are trying to strike a balance between humanitarian considerations, responsibility towards citizens, and health concerns, in the face of a deadly pathogen. Read more.Covid-19 lockdown: Centre’s economic package may have small trader focusThe government is working on a relief package for small retailers, an official directly involved in drafting it said on condition of anonymity, adding that small retailers have been hit hard by the lockdown. Read more.Covid-19: What you need to know todayLate on Monday, the number of Covid-19 deaths around the world crossed 250,000. That’s a grim number, whichever way you look at it. On Tuesday, the global tally stood at over 252,000 dead, 3.66 million cases, and 1.2 million recoveries. Read more.In fight against Covid-19, increased testing and better infra criticalDiagnostic testing for Covid-19 has been the topic du jour in India – from government offices to boardrooms to online chatrooms. Debates range from whether we are doing enough testing to whether we are testing the right people. Continuous media coverage on availability of test kits, quality of the kits and effectiveness of testing protocols has often led to confusion on how to expand testing capacity. Read more.Covid-19 lockdown in Telangana extended till May 29, says CM K Chandrashekar RaoThe Telangana government on Tuesday announced extension of lockdown till May 29, notwithstanding the extension declared by the Union government till May 17 to contain the spread of Covid-19 across the country. Read more.Discrepancies in Bengal’s Covid-19 infection data, toll doubles in 5 daysWest Bengal’s official Covid-19 death toll has doubled in five days to 68 after it adopted Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocols to record fatalities from the disease and scrapped the committee of doctors that, till April 30, audited these deaths. Read more.India needs big stimulus package, says Nobel laureate Abhijit BanerjeeIndia needs a big stimulus package, bigger than the one it announced in March to revive the economy which is hurting from the coronavirus disease and the lockdown enforced to combat it , Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee said on Tuesday , adding that the emphasis should be on generating demand. Read more.JEE-Mains from July 18 to 23, NEET on July 26: HRD ministryThe CBSE Class X exams have been suspended for 2020 in the subjects where they have not been conducted, although students from North East Delhi, who missed exams that other students have already appeared in, will have to appear for these, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ announced on Tuesday when he interacted with students on their concerns. Read more.As migrants return, states to increase Covid-19 testing capacityOdisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday ordered the health department to increase the state’s capacity to conduct Covid-19 tests by more than fourfold and Bihar decided to conduct pool testing of its returning workers as the two states reported an increase in the number of coronavirus cases. Read more.Day 2 liquor sale: Long queues, higher taxes, doubts over home deliveryIncreased excise duty on alcohol, heavier deployment of police personnel to enforce social distancing, long queues and speculation over home delivery of liquor in some states marked the second day of liquor sales across the country after curbs on sale of alcohol was lifted after 42 days on May 4. Read more.Covid-19 won’t be able to damage Indian agriculture: Narendra S TomarUnion agriculture & rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar spoke to Saubhadra Chatterji and Zia Haq about the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the farm sector, labour shortage during the harvest season, benefits given to farmers and farm labourers, and allocations of jobs under the rural employment guarantee scheme. Read more.Covid-19: Spat intensifies as China calls Mike Pompeo ‘insane’ for lab claimChinese state media labelled US secretary of state Mike Pompeo as “insane” for his claims that the coronavirus originated in a Chinese lab, even as the World Health Organization (WHO) dismissed the theory as “speculative” as Washington hasn’t provided any proof yet. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-launches-big-repatriation-programme-telangana-extends-curbs-covid-19-news-today/story-dKVP3zoiXt4nrCacjV5GKL.html
06-05-2020||India||Terrorist killed in encounter with security forces in J&K’s Pulwama||A terrorists was killed in a gun battle with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district, officials said on Wednesday morning, even as a search operation was being conducted to nab Hizb-ul-Mujahideen’s commander Riyaz Naikoo.The operation is still underway in Sharsali village in Awantipora area of the district, where the terrorists was gunned down, police said.Two operations are underway in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district from late Tuesday night. They were launched by the security forces after they got a tipoff about the presence of terrorists in the area.One of the search operations is currently being conducted in Beighpora Gulzapora, the native village of Hizbul’s operational chief Riyaz Naikoo, who is the senior most active commander in the valley.Also read | ‘Assalamualaikum’: How one word changed the course of Handwara encounterSources said that the operation has been launched to track him down. However, it’s not clear whether Naikoo is trapped in the cordon.A senior police officer confirmed that a couple of operations are on in Pulwama. Currently, the forces are conducting house-to-house searches, the officer said.On Tuesday night, the Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir police moved some earth digging equipment in the village.The last two months have seen a series of operations in Kashmir. In the past three days, eight security force personnel, including the commanding officer of the army’s 21 Rashtriya Rifles, were killed in two separate encounters in Handwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-search-operations-underway-in-jammu-kashmir-to-nab-hizb-commander-riyaz-naikoo/story-DDclNHeKmVxEciyuSUGOkK.html
06-05-2020||India||Gujarat reports biggest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases||The number of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat reached 6,245 on Tuesday after 441 new cases were reported, while a record 49 more patients succumbed to the disease, taking the death toll in the state to 368, health department official said.The state reported the highest single-day positive cases and also death of COVID-19 patients so far. Of these, Ahmedabad accounted for 349 new cases and 39 deaths. Vadodara reported 20 new cases and Surat 17.Of the patients who died on Tuesday, 34 were classified to be co-morbid and high-risk patients, the official added.Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi told reporters that the recovery rate in the state has improved to 22.11 per cent from 9.48 per cent ten days ago.Meanwhile, the Gujarat government on Tuesday formed a committee to ensure the overall management and coordination for sending back migrant workers from Surat to their native places. The moves comes a day after nearly 204 migrant workers were arrested for allegedly pelting stones at policemen, demanding that they be allowed to go home.The workers, mainly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have been charged with rioting and attempt to murder after the fourth incident of violence in Surat in the past 23 days.Secretary to chief minister Aswani Kumar said the committee will be headed by minister of state for health, Kishor Kanani, MM Patel, commissioner of municipalities administration and three other officers.“The committee will coordinate with regional administrations in Botad, Bhavnagar, Amreli, etc and ensure the safe return of migrant workers,” Kumar said.“The state, in coordination with the central government, has successfully sent 42 thousand migrant workers through 35 labour trains to various states like U.P, Bihar, Orissa, etc ...”Director General of Police (DGP) Shivanand Jha said migrant workers from various cities must be patient and cooperate with the authorities. “If people take the law into their hands, strict actions will be taken against them,” said Jha.The Gujarat government on Tuesday also received the permission from the Centre to conduct ‘Solidarity Trial’ for the Covid-19, officials said. “The Solidarity Trial will compare four treatment options against standard of care, to assess their relative effectiveness against Covid-19,” the World Health Organization states.“The Centre has given permission to conduct Solidarity Trial for the ‘Covid-19’ virus at BJ Medical College in Ahmedabad,” said Jyanti Ravi, principal secretary (health) adding that the permissions to conduct similar trials at four other colleges are under process.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-covid-19-cases/story-4U4KZA3VDiHmALsyPLye4J.html
06-05-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh Covid-19 tally crosses 3,000, deaths at 176||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday crossed 3,000 with 107 new infections being reported, government data showed.The statewide tally rose to 3,049.On a positive note, around 1,000 patients were discharged from government hospitals after being cured, official said.Among states that have reported more than 100 Covid-19 deaths, Madhya Pradesh has the second highest fatality rate in the country, trailing only West Bengal. MP’s fatality rate, with 176 deaths, is 5.77% compared to West Bengal’s 10.56%.Indore reported 43 new coronavirus cases that surfaced in the past 24 hours, taking the city’s tally to 1,654, or 54% of MP’s total. Indore with 79 Covid deaths, accounts for 44.84% of the state’s fatalities.Ujjain’s situation continued to be grim. It has reported 184 positive cases, the third highest in the state after Indore and Bhopal, but its fatality rate is the worst with 40 deaths, making for a fatality rate of 21.73% . In the past two days, Ujjain has reported 10 deaths.The central government decided on Sunday to send one medical team each to Indore and Bhopal to control the situation in the two cities.The state’s health minister requested Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Monday to send a team from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhopal ,to Ujjain to bring the situation under control.On Monday night, the state government shifted Ujjain collector Shashank Mishra to the state secretariat in Bhopal and appointed Indore Municipal Corporation commissioner Ashish Singh as the new collector .“There should be a constant watch on patients in Ujjain,” chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said at a review meeting on Tuesday.“If required, the help of doctors from Indore and Bhopal should be sought for those patients who are on ventilators or in intensive care units. The death rate should not go up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-covid-19-tally-crosses-3-000-deaths-at-176/story-UqG9OncgzeXjFAKoHKKtBJ.html
06-05-2020||India||Bearing the loss of loved ones, they return to perform duty||Losing a loved one is traumatic at any given time; more so in a pandemic when fear and anxiety are strife. Several men and women in uniform have returned to duty despite facing severe personal trauma.Take the case of Gouri Behera, a homeguard working in Pipili police station of Puri district. On April 24, Behera got a phone call at work. Her 13-year-old daughter Lopamudra, who was battling liver cancer for over a year. Praying, the 43-year-old jumped onto her bicycle and rode the three kilometres to her home as fast as she could. When she reached, 20 minutes later, her daughter was no more.Two days later — after cremating her child — Behera reported for duty.The sole breadwinner of her family consisting of ailing parents and a younger brother with mental health issues, Behera had little choice. “I have to keep working so that no one in the family goes hungry,” said Behera, who earns Rs 500 for a day’s work. Home guards in Odisha do not have a fixed monthly salary and are paid on the basis of the number of days they serve.Praising her dedication, director general of home guards and fire services, Sunil Roy said Behera is an inspiration, and has urged the state government to include home guards in the Rs 50 lakh insurance scheme that the police personnel are currently covered by in the state.A similar tragedy struck sub-inspector Dusha Palka, posted at the Ambadola police station in Rayagada district. Palka lost his mother on April 21 and joined duty after the cremation.In Chandbali block in Bhadrak district, tehsildar Sushant Sutar has been ensuring that no one goes out of containment zone and enforcing physical distancing, even as his father was battling for life in the ICU of a private hospital in distant Cuttack. Sutar’s father fell from the stairs and was injured last month.In Deogarh district’s Barkote police station, constable Sanjukta Patra has been reporting for duty since April 9, three days after she was discharged from hospital. Patra had suffered a major injury on her spine after a debilitating road accident and was advised bed rest post discharge, but Patra chose to return to work.In Jharsuguda, 24-year-old Chandrika Singh gave birth in January. A home guard, Singh has been bringing her son to work at the Laikera police station. “I took permission from my senior officers to join work. As it was impossible to leave my child at home, I bring him to office. It’s difficult to manage a wailing child, but my mother manages him inside the station when I have to go on the road. I am scared on getting Covid-19, but we have to do our duty,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bearing-the-loss-of-loved-ones-they-return-to-perform-duty/story-mr2DIXspxUHKzYNbUdprhK.html
06-05-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi to discuss pandemic situation with CMs of Congress-ruled states||Congress President Sonia Gandhi will discuss the impact of coronavirus with chief ministers of party-ruled states on Wednesday and assess the steps taken by them to contain the pandemic, sources said.According to the sources, Gandhi will hold consultations with them through video conferencing on Wednesday morning.She will also discuss the issue of migrant labourers and workers stranded at various places and steps taken by the states in bringing them back to their home states.Gandhi had announced on Monday that the state units of Congress party would pay for the train fares of migrant workers as they prepare to go back to their homes in different parts of the country. She also criticised the central government for charging them for their travel by train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-to-discuss-pandemic-situation-with-cms-of-cong-ruled-states/story-RsbiQ7pbMh62QiQStjwC2I.html
06-05-2020||India||Eastern states tweak Covid-19 curfew hours to suit local requirements||A few states, especially those in the eastern parts of the country, are finding it unfeasible to apply the Centre’s latest directive to impose a curfew between 7pm and 7am daily. Many of them are, instead, opting to start functioning earlier in the morning for a very simple reason: the sun rises earlier in the east.In eastern and north-eastern states, many people go to work earlier than their counterparts in the western parts of India. In the north eastern states, people also wind up their work early, once again underlining the wide range of working conditions and styles in a country that stretches from 68°7’ to 97°25’ east longitude.The guideline issued by Union home ministry on May 1, announcing the second extension of the nationwide lockdown, had said, “The movement for individuals, for all non-essential activities, shall remain strictly prohibited between 7pm and 7am.”But states such as Odisha, Assam, Manipur and Nagaland have opted for a timetable that suits their local requirements. In Kohima, the sunrise is at 4.33am (Wednesday) whereas the sunrise in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, in the west, is only at 6.04am.Senior officials in Odisha said the chief secretary recently spoke to Rajeev Gauba, Modi government’s cabinet secretary, seeking a relaxation in curfew hours.“In an eastern state like Odisha, the sun rises before 5.30am and farmers are in the fields by then. Curfew till 7am would hurt the movement of people in rural areas as well as semi-urban areas. So, the chief secretary had suggested easing the curfew hours by two hours,” an official privy to the talks of chief secretary and cabinet secretary said.Among the north-eastern states that have changed their timings are Assam, Manipur and Nagaland. In Assam and Manipur, the curfew timings are from 6pm to 6am.Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said the modifications in timings were necessary. “The MHA’s guidelines make way for state-specific modifications,” Krishna said.In Manipur, deputy chief minister Y Joykumar said, “Manipur is a green zone, and can afford to have a few relaxations.” Manipur’s two positive cases are now cured, and no new case has been reported. The curfew extends a bit longer in Nagaland -- from 5pm to 6am. Nagaland’s lone Covid-19 patient has been sent to Assam and is now cured.Officials in Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma’s office said Meghalaya has decided to go with the MHA’s recommended curfew timings of 7pm to 7am.The curfew in Arunachal Pradesh is from 7pm to 5am, said an official in CM Pema Khandu’s office, as Itanagar has daybreak at around 4.30am. The state’s lone Covid case is now cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eastern-states-tweak-covid-19-curfew-hours-to-suit-local-requirements/story-eLOoTGjHw1ZbBIXzJauWzN.html
06-05-2020||India||IAS officer leads Covid-19 fight in Pune, major hotspot with 1,890 cases||“Why are you going to the office every day?” Pune’s additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal’s seven-year-old son asked her soon after the national lockdown was first imposed on March 25. He was under the impression that only doctors and police officers had to report to duty, Agarwal, said. That evening, however, her son and her husband Prakher Agrawal, employed at an IT company, welcomed her home with a card and some homemade delicacies — clearly the father and son had had a heart-to-heart.An Indian Administrative Services officer of 2008 batch, Agarwal is responsible for bringing the Covid-19 pandemic under control in Pune, as she supervises the health department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and is the chief executive officer of Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited (PSCDCL).The PSCDCL is responsible for updating figures: Covid-19 positive patients, deaths and those recovered. It is also tasked with keeping track of the surveys conducted among the city residents, and communicating the results to the concerned agencies.With Pune being one of the prominent hotspots of the disease in the country — it has recorded 1890 cases till May 4 — the PMC’s staff of 15,000 is in the forefront of the city’s response. “All our 42 departments are working round-the-clock to provide back-up services apart from our medical teams, engineers and clerical staff,” said Agarwal.The PMC has established a Command Control War Room at the Smart City office. A lot of emphasis is placed on data crunching to trace and track areas where the coronavirus cases are emerging from, Agarwal said. “We are maximising our efforts in those areas from where the maximum number of positive cases are emerging and undertaking extensive surveys and testing. This is the reason why Pune started getting more positive patients,” she said.Agarwal’s day starts at 6 am, with surya namaskar. Even after she returns from in the evening, work continues till midnight. Agarwal, like several of her ilk, has been putting in at least 14 to 18 hours of work a day since the pandemic began to sweep through the country.With the health department falling under her charge, she regularly reviews the staff and the contact tracing efforts of positive patients, as well as taking care of quarantined people. “I am also required to visit hospitals dedicated to Covid-19,” said Agarwal, pointing out that as the number of positive cases was increasing in Pune, the number of quarantine facilities and isolation beds was being stepped up. Currently, Pune has 17,000 beds.Once out of the house, she uses masks and gloves and PPE (personal protective equipment) while visiting hospitals. Her biggest concern is staffing. If the numbers of positive patients increase, additional medical staff will be needed, Agarwal said. “From where should I bring them if the situation worsens?” she asked.“This is, undoubtedly, the most challenging situation in my career and life; but I am confident we will win this fight against Covid-19,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ias-officer-leads-covid-19-fight-in-pune-major-hot-spot-with-1-890-cases/story-e78PTrB7ff8yZlpQrkBtNP.html
06-05-2020||India||Coronavirus update- Railways, states to take call on migrants’ train fares: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to intervene with steps taken by the Union and state governments to provide relief and transport to stranded migrant workers, while disposing of a plea seeking directions to the central government to ensure free travel for workers who wanted to return home.The petition, filed by Jagdeep Chhokar and Gaurav Jain, said that migrants were being asked to pay the fare for their journeys, and that they were unable to do so because of the financial burden imposed by the national lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19.But a bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai, which heard the matter through video conferencing, disposed of the public interest litigation (PIL). “Insofar as charging of 15% of railway ticket amount from workers, it is not for this Court to issue any order regarding the same, it is the concerned state/Railways to take necessary steps under the relevant guidelines,” the bench said.The principal point raised by Chhokar was that migrant workers be allowed to travel to their home states during the lockdown, and the top court noted that an April 29 order of the Union government allowing the movement of stranded people satisfied this main prayer.“The substantial relief in the writ petition having been fulfilled we cannot expand the scope of the writ petition to consider other issues sought to be raised by the learned counsel for the petitioners during course of argument”, the court said.The Union government, through solicitor general Tushar Mehta, told the court that the central government, in consultation with the concerned state governments and Indian Railways, was taking necessary steps for the movement of stranded migrant workers.A fierce political war broke out over the issue of train fare for the migrant workers returning home on Monday, with the Congress declaring that the party and its state committees would pay the fare to enable workers to return and accusing the Centre of being insensitive to their plight.The Union government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) responded by saying said that the railways was bearing 85% of the fare cost, and state governments had to pay 15%, thus allowing migrants to go back home free of cost. But the Opposition rebutted the assertion, citing government orders which asked state governments to collect fares from migrants and hand them over to railways.Several state governments on Monday said that they will pick pay for the tickets, with some even promising that any money collected so far from migrant workers will be returned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-railways-states-to-take-call-on-migrants-train-fares-supreme-court/story-kMF6YpJTaBCU9QDXSaX7YM.html
06-05-2020||India||Discrepancies in Bengal’s Covid-19 infection data, toll doubles in 5 days||West Bengal’s official Covid-19 death toll has doubled in five days to 68 after it adopted Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocols to record fatalities from the disease and scrapped the committee of doctors that, till April 30, audited these deaths.Confusion has surrounded West Bengal methodology of determining the numbers of deaths from Covid-19, with the state government initially reluctant to attribute the fatalities of patients with pre-existing conditions such as heart disease or diabetes to the infectious disease.On many days, the West Bengal government did not publish data of deaths and infections. It also recently revised the format of its health bulletin entirely. The government began to give data only for active cases and made no mention of the cumulative figure. This led to confusion over the number of total positives. Experts say that because of the unavailability of data for several days, health care workers have found it difficult to ascertain the pattern of the disease in the state.Bengal, which has now begun publishing cumulative data on infections, has also started taking into account co-morbid conditions such as heart disease, diabetes and other diseases.Between March 23 and April 30, the state attributed the deaths of only 33 people to the coronavirus disease, Covid-19, and that of 72 others, who tested positive for the virus, to co-morbidities.After it was criticised by the central government for doing this, and after doctors in the state recommended that it scrap the audit committee, the state government decided to follow rules set by ICMR, India’s apex medical research body and the nodal body for Covid-19 treatment and procedures in the country.Since May 1, 35 more deaths have been recorded due to the virus and none to co-morbidities. The state said it would not add the 72 previous deaths to its official fatality count. Bengal’s dashboard on Tuesday night was 1,344 cases (85 new), 68 deaths (seven in past 24 hours) and 264 recoveries.“During chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s meeting with doctors’ associations on April 28, we told her that the deaths needed to be declared as per World Health Organization (WHO)’s guidelines, using International Classification of Disease (ICD) 10 coding, in short, by mentioning Covid-19 in the death certificate of every one testing positive. She agreed to our suggestions, and sought 10 days’ time to fix all the errors that we pointed out. It’s good to see she has heeded our suggestions and things are changing for the better,” said Kaushik Chaki, secretary of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum.On the 72 deaths not being included in the net count, Dr Rezaul Karim, who too had met with the CM on April 28, said, “Since the government has acknowledged its mistake and come clean with data, we should bury controversies and should focus on fighting the pandemic.”Responding to a query on audit committee, the state’s Chandrima Bhattacharya, junior minister for health, said, “ Dissecting comorbidity in deaths is an internationally recognised practice.”In the first week of April, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had appointed the audit committee. Bengal was seamlessly sharing data on Covid-19 till March 31, giving data on a 24-hour basis and also cumulative figures for deaths, people testing positive and recoveries. At the time, the state had suffered three deaths and 27 people tested positive.On April 1, when three more deaths were reported and 10 tested positive, the daily bulletin kept the total deaths at three and said that it was “subject to confirmation”.The state did not issue any bulletin for the next two days. From April 4, the bulletin’s format changed: it showed only active cases and mentioned only deaths that had been attributed to Covid-19 by expert committee.After the central team sought an explanation for this, on April 24, the state shared data of deaths due to “co-morbidity” among those who tested positive. The state came up with detailed data on May 4, following another letter from the central team, and said it had reported 214 fewer positive cases by April 30.Taking a dig at the Trinamool Congress government, Sujan Chakraborty, leader of the Left parties in the state assembly, said, “Kerala found innovative ways to fight Covid-19 and everyone can see the results. Bengal has found an innovative way to suppress data related to deaths and of people testing positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/discrepancies-in-bengal-s-covid-19-infection-data-toll-doubles-in-5-days/story-u5R0RywmifvR2ITXJPWVBL.html
06-05-2020||India||PM Modi reviews status of India’s Covid-19 vaccine development efforts||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday chaired a meeting of the task force on coronavirus vaccine development. PM Modi also took a detailed review of the current status of India’s steady efforts in vaccine development, drug discovery, diagnosis and testing.According to a statement released by the prime minister’s office, Indian vaccine companies have come across as innovators in early stage vaccine development research.The PMO has also noted contributions of Indian academia and start-ups pioneering the domain. Over 30 Indian vaccines are in different stages of vaccine development,with few going on to trial stages. PM felt that such coordination and speed should be embedded into a standard operating procedureIt was also observed that with linkage of laboratories all over the country, capacity for both — RT-PCR approach and for the antibody detection — have been enormously scaled up.“The problem of importing reagents for testing has been addressed by consortia of Indian start-ups and industry, meeting current requirements. The current thrust also holds promise for the development of a robust long-term industry in this area,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-status-of-india-s-covid-19-vaccine-development-efforts/story-kALmnVolim3piB9Z06UkqJ.html
06-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Late on Monday, the number of Covid-19 deaths around the world crossed 250,000. That’s a grim number, whichever way you look at it. On Tuesday, the global tally stood at over 252,000 dead, 3.66 million cases, and 1.2 million recoveries. Are more of the new cases asymptomatic? Data on worldometers.info would seem to suggest so – the proportion of mild cases (2.15 million) among active cases (2.2 million) has increased by a full percentage point from 97% to 98% over the past week. And out of 1.46 million closed cases, 83% (1.2 million) were recoveries, and the rest deaths. With 1.2 million cases, the US alone accounts for a third of Covid-19 cases; and with 70,000 deaths, almost 28% of all fatalities.India ended Monday with 46,388 cases and 1,494 deaths. The number of deaths from the coronavirus disease crossed 100 in a day for the first time. India may have somewhat flattened the curve, but it hasn’t defeated the virus yet – like New Zealand and Australia have, for instance.In both countries, the number of daily cases as well as daily deaths has come down. To be sure, as I have previously written, the number to watch is daily deaths. The number of daily cases can be misleading. This could be on account of complete confusion on reporting the numbers, perhaps driven by the desire to make things look better than they are (West Bengal is a case in point) (see page 9); or it could be on account of certain numbers not being aggregated (the private test numbers in Maharashtra weren’t, for instance, and were added to the total in one swoop on Monday, resulting in a spike in daily cases); or it could simply be because test results come in two, three, four, sometimes even five days later. The Delhi high court directed the Delhi government on Monday to ensure all reports came in within 48 hours of a test, but this applies only to Delhi. The number of deaths isn’t as misleading, although even that has seen some confusion arising from misreporting.As India exits the lockdown gradually – phase 3 of the nationwide lockdown is actually a graded exit – this will be the number to watch. In the US, for instance, the number of daily deaths and cases could rise sharply by June 1 as the country reopens, the New York Times reported Monday, citing internal Trump administration documents (see page 12). According to that report, the number of new cases in the US could touch 200,000 a day, and the number of deaths up to 3,000. The corresponding current numbers are 30,000 and 1,750, NYT reported.The trajectory of the disease in India, as this column has repeatedly pointed out, is very different from that in the US. Indeed, it could almost be called benign, if not for the inappropriateness of using such a term for a dangerous virus. Still, the scenario predicted in the US is important because it highlights that victory over the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19 requires persistence, and that there will not be one day of victory – unless you are New Zealand – but many: one when the number of daily cases starts reducing during a lockdown; another when the number of deaths do; still another when the number of daily cases starts reducing after a lockdown is removed; a fourth when a country successfully combats a second wave (and most experts are sure that there will be one); and a fifth and sixth and so on until a vaccine is discovered, and, more importantly, becomes accessible to all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-4i3AqACwc7ehI8djSLTAyL.html
06-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: After liquor tax, Delhi hikes petrol by Rs 1.67, diesel Rs 7.1 per litre||Retail prices of petrol and diesel in Delhi surged on Tuesday after the city-state’s government steeply increased value-added tax (VAT), seeking to raise additional money to offset falling revenues and fund the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) , reducing the price gap between the two automobile fuels, state-run oil marketing companies (OMCs) said .Petrol’s price at the pump increased by Rs 1.67 per litre to Rs 71.26 and diesel’s cost rose Rs 7.10 to Rs 69.39, according to Indian Oil Corp., India’s largest OMC and refiner. Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) raised the VAT a day after lockdown restrictions were eased in the capital and elsewhere in India, allowing standalone stores to open, the self-employed like plumbers, electricians and domestic servants to return to work, and freer public movement, including the return of vehicular traffic. On Tuesday, the government imposed an additional tax of 70% on all varieties of liquor.As the residents of the capital reeled under the double whammy, Delhi’s deputy chief minister and finance minister Manish Sisodia tweeted: “Life isn’t all about rainbows and sunshine. Tough times need Tough solutions - my learning as Finance Minister.” The government almost doubled the levy on diesel to 30%, OMC executives said. The new VAT rate on petrol is also about 30%, they said. Earlier, Delhi used to levy a VAT 27% on petrol and 16.75% on diesel that attracted an additional Rs 250 per kilolitre air ambience charge, official data showed.Delhi is among the states that levies ad-valorem (Latin for “according to value”) duties on petrol and diesel to protect themselves against a steep fall in revenue because of a drop in international prices of crude or demand.Retail prices of the fuels fluctuate in tandem with international oil markets. If international prices jump, these states gain revenue proportionately, but they lose revenue when international oil rates fall. Revenues of states with ad-valorem duties on fuels have been hit badly as oil prices plummeted because of a demand slump resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown.The benchmark Brent crude price, that was around $50 per barrel two months ago, plummeted below $20 on April 21. It is currently hovering around $28 per barrel.The Union government levies a specific excise duty on the two fuels. On March 14, it mopped up an additional Rs 3 per litre from petrol and diesel each to fund Covid-19 relief measures, raising total central levies on petrol to Rs 22.98 per litre and on diesel to Rs 18.83 per litre. Despite the hikes in the central levies, the pump prices of petrol and diesel hadn’t been raised since mid-March because of the decline in crude prices.Since March 16, state-run oil companies have abandoned the practice of daily revision of the two auto fuel rates, making up for present and potential inventory losses. Pump prices of petrol and diesel are different in different states because of variations on sales tax or VAT rates and other local levies. States such as Tamil Nadu and Telengana have higher VAT rates, according to the oil ministry’s data-keeper Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC). Telangana charges 35.20% VAT on petrol and 27% on diesel. VAT rates in Tamil Nadu are 34% and 25% on petrol and diesel, respectively.The Delhi government’s announcement of a hike VAT on the two fuels came a day after it levied a special corona fee on the sale of alcohol. From Tuesday, an additional tax of 70% of the maximum retail price on all categories of liquor sold is being imposed in the capital.In an interview with Hindustan Times, deputy chief minister Sisodia had said losses being incurred by the Delhi government owing to the coronavirus lockdown had been “huge”.“In April last year, the collection was Rs 3,500 crore. This year, till April 30, we have collected only Rs 400 crore. So, factoring in an anticipated growth of 10%, we are losing around 90% on GST [goods and services tax] and sales tax etc. On top of that, there are losses in excise etc. The government cannot disburse salaries with just 10% of the usual revenue,” he said. The Congress party criticized the VAT hike. “Citizens seeking relief in the form of cash and tax cuts being meted out this treatment is a shame. Nowhere in the world would any government have inflicted such hardships on their citizens. We demand immediate rollback of this hike,” Congress leader Ajay Maken said.Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) secretary general Deepak Sood said taxes were being raised at a time when demand should be stimulated with tax cuts.“If taxes are raised, demand would be further depressed, giving a jolt to the economy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-after-liquor-tax-delhi-hikes-petrol-by-rs-1-67-diesel-rs-7-1-per-litre/story-QWZTUalAlBfcA6NwBCs8jO.html
06-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Centre’s economic package may have small trader focus||The government is working on a relief package for small retailers, an official directly involved in drafting it said on condition of anonymity, adding that small retailers have been hit hard by the lockdown. Last month, trader body Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), representing more than 70 million small retailers, demanded bank loans at special interest rates, a government-backed insurance for traders and employees, and a wage protection plan or subsidy that will allow owners of kirana (Mom and Pop) stores to pay their workers.The government’s decision to allow the sale of non-essential products through standalone shops is widely seen as being aimed at small retailers.The government may also consider a revision in the scheme launched last year to provide pension to small traders. The pension plan was aimed to give old age protection and social security to retail traders, shopkeepers and self-employed persons whose annual income did not exceed Rs 1.5 crore.India’s small retailers run 12 million shops, employ 40 million people, and are responsible for an annual business Rs 700 billion, according to a report published by Assocham.“Small retailers need to continue to pay rentals and expenses like electricity, etc, while their stores have been shut in case they are not carrying essential goods or are operating at lower than 100% efficiency due to lack of goods from the companies reaching the retail points of sale. Hence, they are struggling to be viable businesses. At the same time, the tendency of the consumer to go digital and use e-commerce channels has increased due to safety concerns of Covid19 and this is beginning to cannibalise business from small retail too,” said Harsha Razdan, partner and head of consumer markets and internet business at KPMG India. Chandrajit Banerjee, director general, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), too said: “The kirana stores need liquidity as they were not allowed to sell non-essentials and in many areas which were under complete lockdown these stores were not allowed to operate.” The government’s relief and fiscal stimulus plan has been in the making since late March, and it isn’t clear why it hasn’t been announced. Industry bodies have asked for a package of Rs 14-16 lakh crore to help offset the impact of the lockdown.The official cited in the first instance said that the government is also considering a package for oil marketing companies that have been hit hard by a fall in demand. In April, demand declined 70% as compared to a year ago , petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said last week. Since then, there have been signs of a recovery in demand after the government allowed industries to operate, and relaxed restrictions on movement, but the official said this might not be enough to offset the losses of the companies. Also, with 84% of the Centre’s excise collection coming from oil sales, the government is very sensitive to the criticality of fuel sales, this person added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-centre-s-economic-package-may-have-small-trader-focus/story-enK9g5ba2mdjmu2kCpvyFP.html
06-05-2020||India||64 flights will bring home 15,000 Indians in a week||India has launched a concerted repatriation programme, by sea and air, to bring back stranded citizens stuck in various parts of the world, but with a strict set of preconditions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), at a time when nations are trying to strike a balance between humanitarian considerations, responsibility towards citizens, and health concerns, in the face of a deadly pathogen.In the first week of a massive air operation, which will start on Thursday, 64 flights will bring 15,000 Indian citizens home from 12 countries. All those who travel back will have to pay for their tickets, undergo strict screening processes, download the Aarogya Setu app, and go into institutional quarantine after landing.The Indian Navy, on Tuesday, already kicked off one leg of the complex evacuation exercise by dispatching two amphibious warships to Male to evacuate Indians stranded in the Maldives, a spokesperson said. Two more warships may soon be dispatched to the Gulf , an officer familiar with the matter added. The overall plan involves key ministries of the government. Minister for state (independent charge) civil aviation Hardeep Puri outlined the air operation; the ministry of home affairs came out with a set of standard operating procedures that all passengers who avail the facility will have to abide by; and the ministry of external affairs coordinated with foreign governments as well as ministries and state governments within. The government has not termed it an “evacuation” but an exercise for the movement of Indian citizens stranded abroad. On March 22, India suspended all international flights. For 45 days, there has been no international passenger movement to and from India -- except international cargo flights and special flights arranged by foreign embassies, permitted by India. But this has also meant that hundreds of thousands of Indians — abroad for educational, professional, tourism or economic purposes, among other reasons — remain stuck. They have been demanding arrangements to get back home, but apprehensive that they may be carriers of the disease, the government had not done it so far. The first phase of bringing back Indian citizens by air runs from May 7 to May 13. The 12 countries involved in it will be United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Bangladesh, Philippines, Singapore, Malaysia, United Kingdom and United States, according to the flight plan for return of Indian nationals stranded abroad reviewed by HT. At a time when there has been a controversy over the train fares for migrant workers, the government clarified that international passengers will be charged for the journey. Some of the fares (one way) from cities in the Gulf countries such as Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Doha to Kochi, Kerala range from ₹15,000 to ₹16,000. Rescue flights from London to India will cost ₹50,000 while flights from the United States to India have been priced at ₹100,000. “If there was no charge, people wanting to come back would be much higher,” Puri said. He also emphasised that these are commercial services being carried out under “special circumstances”, and that the exchequer does not have the space to pay for repatriation of all stranded Indians abroad. Puri said that only Air India flights will be deployed in this phase — 40 from the national carrier and 24 from its subsidiary Air India Express. “We will consider involving private airlines as well going forward,” he added. According to Puri, the requests received by Indian embassies of Indians wishing to return are increasing by the day, and have now gone beyond the initial estimate of 200,000. “The numbers are quite significant…More than 300,000 people have registered in West Asia alone but we will only bring back those registered as compelling cases. The missions will determine the compelling cases,” said a person familiar with the decision. He added that if someone was living in another country and was comfortable, this was not the time to plan one’s return. The MHA SOP said that priority will be given to “asymptomatic” migrant labourers/workers abroad who have been laid off, short term visa holders faced with expiry (of visas), persons with medical emergency, pregnant women, the elderly, students, and those required to return to India due to the death of a family member. The SOP also adds that these flights will also be used to transport people in the other direction, from India to abroad. Foreign citizens of the destination countries, those who hold a visa of the concerned country of at least a year, green card holders, Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) card holders and in case of medical emergency or death in the family, Indian nationals with a valid six month visa can travel to the country. But this has a caveat; they will have to fulfil any conditions imposed by the destination country they intend to travel. They will travel on the non-scheduled commercial flights being arranged to bring back Indian citizens. And they too will have to bear the cost of travel and follow all health protocols. The Indian Navy, on Tuesday morning, dispatched two amphibious warships to Male to evacuate Indians stranded in the Maldives. Indian warships INS Jalashwa and INS Magar are currently on their way to the port of Male and are expected to bring back 1,000 people, a spokesperson said. Two more warships may soon be dispatched to West Asia for evacuating Indians, while a dozen more are on standby for undertaking any mission assigned to them, a person familiar with the planning in the navy said. Indian Air Force transport planes are also on standby for the evacuation but the IAF hasn’t been given any orders yet.External affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla are overseeing the process of coordinating with foreign governments, Indian missions and state governments. Jaishankar has been holding meetings with other ministries and had a video conference with heads of missions in some of the countries from which Indians are returning, including the UAE, Singapore, the Maldives and the US. At least 20 senior officials of the external affairs ministry have been selected to liaise with the states to which the Indian nationals will return. The foreign secretary will have a video conference with chief secretaries of several states on Wednesday for coordination.The external affairs ministry will upload all information on the people returning to the country on an online digital platform that will be accessible to other ministries and state governments. The data on those who lost their jobs will help state governments rehabilitate these workers by including them in national or state government employment programmes or in private sector jobs, a second person aware of the matter said. This person also insisted that the massive programme was not an evacuation because it is not a government-sponsored exercise. “What we are doing is facilitating the return of our nationals back to the country.” But all the planning has been accompanied with a recognition that India needs to be careful that the returnees do not end up spreading the disease, and possibly squandering away the benefits of the lockdown so far. According to the SOPs issued by the MHA, passengers will have to undergo screening process before taking off, and be allowed only if they are asymptomatic. They will also have to give an undertaking that they are taking the journey at their own risk apart providing personal and health data. In the aircraft, they are expected to abide by health protocols — by wearing masks and maintaining hygiene. Upon their arrival, they will once again undergo the screening process. Those found “symptomatic” after reaching India will be immediately taken to a medical facility, while others will have to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine of 14 days, for which they will have to pay. All passengers will have to download the Aarogya Setu app. The decision came as a major source of relief for many Indians abroad, as well as to their families back home. Swati Arora, a Gurugram-based homemaker, said her husband has been stranded in Kuala Lumpur since February, while she is also due to deliver a child by the end of May and has been requesting authorities for over a month for a way out. “My husband had gone for a work trip and his business visa, which was issued for 28 days, had expired. We have been constantly requesting the MEA and the embassy. We have also been tweeting about it tirelessly. I want my husband to be back in time for the delivery. The embassy has contacted him and a group of others stranded there informing that they will have to pay for their tickets and also quarantine facilities,” she added.(With inputs from Rahul Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/64-flights-will-bring-home-15-000-indians-in-a-week/story-EOiwc8PM1F440Ior1A4fkI.html
06-05-2020||India||Over 5 million people internally displaced in India in 2019: UN report||More than five million people were internally displaced in India due to natural disasters, conflict and violence in 2019, constituting the highest number of new internal displacements in the world during the period followed by the Philippines, Bangladesh and China, according to a UN report.The ‘Lost at Home’ report, published by the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF), said that almost 33 million new displacements were recorded in 2019 – around 25 million were due to natural disasters and 8.5 million as consequence of conflict and violence.Of these, there were 12 million new displacements involving children, including around 3.8 million of them caused by conflict and violence, and 8.2 million due to disasters linked mostly to weather-related events.The report said that natural disasters resulted in more new displacements than conflict and violence. Almost 10 million new displacements in 2019 were recorded in East Asia and the Pacific (39 per cent) – and almost the same number in South Asia (9.5 million).“India, the Philippines, Bangladesh and China all suffered from natural disasters leading to displacement in the millions, which accounted for 69 per cent of global disaster-induced displacements. These were overwhelmingly caused by extreme conditions created by dangerous storms and floods,” the report said, adding that globally, around 8.2 million disaster-related displacements are estimated to have been related to children.In India, the total number of new internal displacements in 2019 stood at 5,037,000 - including 5,018,000 due to natural disasters and 19,000 because of conflict and violence. The Philippines accounted for 4.27 million new internal displacements due to natural disasters, conflict and violence, Bangladesh 4.08 million and China 4.03 million.The report added that today, more children than ever before are displaced within their own countries. At the end of 2019, an estimated total of 46 million people were internally displaced by conflict and violence. “About 19 million children were displaced within their own countries due to conflict and violence in 2019, more than in any other year, making them among the most vulnerable to the global spread of COVID-19,” the report said.The UN agency said the Covid-19 pandemic is only making a critical situation worse. “Forced out of their homes and communities, these children are among the most vulnerable in the world. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic stands to bring even more harm and uncertainty to their lives,” it said.Camps or informal settlements are often overcrowded, and lack adequate hygiene and health services. Physical distancing is often not possible, creating conditions that are highly conducive to the spread of the disease, the report said.“When new crises emerge, like the COVID-19 pandemic, these children are especially vulnerable,” said UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore. “It is essential that governments and humanitarian partners work together to keep them safe, healthy, learning and protected,” she said.The report looks at the risks internally displaced children face –- child labour, child marriage, trafficking among them -- and the actions urgently needed to protect them. It calls for strategic investments and a united effort by governments, civil society, companies, humanitarian actors and children themselves to address the child-specific drivers of displacement, in particular, violence, exploitation and abuse. It also calls on Governments convening under the High-Level Panel on Internal Displacement, established by Secretary-General António Guterres, to invest in actions that will provide protection and equitable access to services for all internally displaced children and their families.Better, timely and accessible data -- disaggregated by age and gender -- is also critical to delivering on this agenda, the report says. “Internally displaced children and youth themselves must have a seat at the table,” it said.The largest number of internally displaced children due to conflict are found in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) and sub-Saharan Africa. Internally displaced persons are concentrated in two regions — the Middle East and North Africa and West and Central Africa. The MENA region recorded over 12 million IDPs as a result of conflict and violence at the end of 2019. Almost all of them lived in just three countries — Syria, Yemen, and Iraq — and around 5 million were children.Sub-Saharan Africa is home to another 19 million IDPs due to conflict and violence. Around 4 out of 10 internally displaced persons lives in the region, half being children.One in four of all internally displaced persons due to conflict and violence in 2019 – 6.5 million people – were living in the Syrian Arab Republic alone. This includes 2.4 million children. Together with the Democratic Republic of the Congo (2.9 million) and Yemen (1.7 million), these three countries account for one in three (36 per cent) of all children internally displaced due to conflict and violence, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-5-million-people-internally-displaced-in-india-in-2019-un-report/story-CV4DXVtZFHDGIzbpTniQ7O.html
06-05-2020||India||CRPF cop among 6 injured in grenade attack in Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam||Six persons, including a CRPF personnel and a policeman, were injured in a grenade attack by militants in Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam district on Tuesday, police said.Militants hurled a grenade at a security forces’ party near a bus stand at Pakherpora in Charare-Sharief area of the central Kashmir district, a police official said. He said a CRPF personnel, a policeman and four civilians were injured in the explosion. The injured have been rushed to a hospital, the official said, adding further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-cop-among-6-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-budgam/story-keAFjUInrCMMFf0j3j3hCJ.html
06-05-2020||India||Handwara encounter: Anti-terror ops will intensify, says Jammu and Kashmir DGP||J&K Director General of Police Dilbag Singh on Tuesday said that during operations forces sometimes suffer losses; however, he said that operations against terrorists will be intensified.Singh was speaking to media after wreath-laying ceremony for three CRPF jawans at Srinagar who were killed in a terrorist attack at Handwara on Monday. He told reporters that CRPF had established a naka at Wangam in Handwara when terrorists attacked them.“There was a civilian movement and when they were asked to come closer, terrorists hiding behind them opened fire.While retaliating, we lost our men too.’’The DGP said the operations against the terrorists will be intensified and will be carried with full force. “The terrorists were being chased for three days before the encounter. Unfortunately, we lost five people there, including three officers,’’ he said, adding that during operations, forces too have to suffer losses.He said fresh infiltration has been reported in Baramulla and many terrorists are active in Sopore as well. “It is because of infiltration that we had to chase terrorists in Handwara forests where we lost our brave soldiers, we also had the inputs and Commanding Officer and others chased them.’’During the wreath laying ceremony, tributes were paid to the three CRPF personnel who were killed in the attack at Handwara. It was attended by advisor RR Bhatnagar, DGP Dilbag Singh, Kashmir IGP Vijay Kumar , and CRPF IGs PK Pandey and Rajesh Kumar. Bodies of the three jawans were later airlifted to their native places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-terror-ops-will-intensify-j-k-dgp/story-LNlyyrkBufxg2tHGbcFA5O.html
06-05-2020||India||Man crashes car into Delhi’s Qutub Minar complex||An allegedly drunk man crashes his speeding car into the periphery of the Qutub Minar complex, according to police and Archaeological Survey of India officials who said the incident left some damage to the important heritage site.The Delhi Circle of the ASI filed a complaint with the police, saying that at around 3:30 am on May 4, a Hyundai Verna collided with the boundary wall and caught fire. “The man drove inside the Qutub Minar campus and had an accident, breaking the wall. The guards posted at the site managed to get him out of the car, before it caught fire,” an ASI official said, asking not to be named. Police and fire brigade officials were alerted, and the man was taken for medical assistance.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that the Mehrauli police received a call at 3.47 am on Monday. “The 31-year-old driver, Arun Chauhan from Mahipalpur, was driving his Hyundai Verna car under the influence of alcohol. He lost control of the vehicle and it crashed into the boundary wall. He was rescued on time and rushed to the hospital,” said DCP Thakur.A case of rash and negligent driving causing hurt, mischief causing damage to property was registered under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act was registered against Chauhan, the DCP said.The ASI official quoted above said the police must be held responsible for letting the man travel at that hour despite their being a complete lockdown. According to police, he had a used cars business, making it unlikely that he was exempted from the lockdown as essential service workers are.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-crashes-car-into-qutub-minar-complex/story-PxEvv6DVONMwKNZwsNCWOJ.html
06-05-2020||India||3 Indian photojournalists from Jammu and Kashmir win Pulitzer Prize||Three Indian photojournalists based in Jammu & Kashmir won the 2020 Pulitzer Prize for feature photography for their coverage of the region during the clampdown that followed the Union government’s decision last August to divest the region of its special status and reorganise it into two Union Territories.The achievement of Dar Yasin, Mukhtar Khan and Channi Anand of the Associated Press (AP) in winning the most prestigious award in American journalism was acclaimed in J&K. Yasin and Khan are based in the Kashmir valley and Anand in Jammu. “It’s not the story of the people I am shooting only, but it’s my story,” Yasin told AP. “It’s a great honour to be in the list of Pulitzer winners and to share my story with the world.” Anand said the award left him speechless. “I was shocked and could not believe it,” he said.The Pulitzer Prizes -- established in 1917 through the will of publisher Joseph Pulitzer -- were announced virtually late on Monday due to the coronavirus disease outbreak.On August 5, Parliament revoked the special status granted to the state of Jammu & Kashmir under Article 370 of the Constitution, and passed provisions dividing the state into two Union Territories, J&K and Ladakh. The moves were accompanied by a clampdown in the region by the Union government, a communications blockade of the region, and the protective arrest of several politicians.The clampdown made it especially hard for journalists and photographers to work and get their reports and pictures through for publication by their organisations.AP says that the three photojournalists, snaking around roadblocks, sometimes took cover in strangers’ homes and hid cameras in vegetable bags. They captured images of protests, police and paramilitary action and daily life — and then headed to the airport to persuade travellers to carry the photo files in memory cards and flash drives and get them to the AP’s office in New Delhi. “It was always cat-and-mouse,” Yasin said. “It was very hard,” Khan told the agency, but “we managed to file pictures.”The Pulitzer Prize news led to the trio being swamped by congratulatory messages.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote on Twitter: “Congratulations to Indian photojournalists Dar Yasin, Mukhtar Khan and Channi Anand for winning a Pulitzer Prize for their powerful images of life in Jammu & Kashmir. You make us all proud.”However, the award created a controversy with the citation referring to Kashmir, part of Indian Union Territory Jammu & Kashmir, as “contested territory”. Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson took to Twitter to ask why the journalists accepted the award and whether Gandhi concurred with the citation. “It’s been a difficult year for journalists in Kashmir & that’s saying something considering the last 30 years haven’t exactly been easy. Congratulations to @daryasin, @muukhtark_khan & @channiap on this prestigious award. More power to your cameras,” former chief minister Omar Abdullah wrote on Twitter.The Kashmir Press Club said the award of the Pulitzer Prize to the photojournalists marked a reiteration that independent journalism and free press are more important than ever in these times, when journalists have been working in tough conditions.“This Pulitzer to the three photojournalists from J&K is an incredible honour and also a proud and big moment for all the media fraternity in J&K as the journalists in the region have always worked in toughest circumstances, risked their lives and always tried to deliver in a rational and objective manner,” it said.Journalists in the Valley called it a watershed moment. “A Pulitzer, probably for the first time awarded to Kashmiri photojournalists, is a huge honour and a watershed moment in the history of Kashmir. And a global recognition of the stellar work produced by Kashmir’s journalists, especially photojournalists, who go out there everyday despite all the risks, working in difficult conditions, documenting the ground realities, writing the first draft of history,” said senior journalist Majod Maqbool.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-indian-photojournalists-from-j-k-win-pulitzer/story-hN3xlFniHQ9jBH7hk2gUHK.html
06-05-2020||India||Former Jammu and Kashmir CM Mehbooba Mufti’s detention under PSA extended by 3 months||The detention of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti under the stringent Public Safety Act was on Tuesday extended by three months, hours before it was to expire. Likewise, the detention of former minister and senior National Conference general secretary Ali Mohammed Sagar, and senior PDP leader and uncle of Mufti, Sartaj Madani, was also extended by another three months, officials said.While Mufti is lodged at her official residence which has been converted into a subsidiary jail, Sagar and Madani are in a government accommodation at Gupkar Road.Former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah questioned the move. “General Secretary of @JKNC_Sagar Sb has also had his PSA extended by a further 3 months. I’m struggling to get my head around the decision & the logic behind it because it smacks of vindictiveness & nothing else. New Delhi needed to make friends in J&K but is doing the opposite,” he tweeted.Srinagar mayor Junaid Mattu pointed out that these leaders had been under detention for the past nine months. “Anguished to hear the PSA detention of @MehboobaMufti Sahiba, Sagar Sahab and Sartaj Madni Sahab has been extended for another 3 months. They’ve already been in detention for 9 long months! My thoughts are with them and their families” Mattu tweeted.Mufti was detained on August 5 last year when the Centre abrogated special status of the erstwhile state and bifurcated it into two union territories -- Ladakh, and J&K. Later, her six-month preventive custody was extended by invoking PSA on February 5 this year. The PSA of Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar was revoked in March this year.Mufti’s daughter, Iltija, moved a habeas corpus petition in the Supreme Court, challenging her detention. The matter could not be taken up on March 18 due to coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mufti-s-detention-under-psa-extended-by-3-months/story-RGi19aslJp5H71CGDEEPEP.html
06-05-2020||India||Congress offers to pay train fares for pilgrims, students; to set up help desks||A day after Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked all state units to pay the train fare of stranded migrant workers who are headed home, the party Tuesday extended the offer to students and pilgrims.Congress general secretary KC Venugopal, wrote to the party’s state units, on this. They were told to make sure such people aren’t required to pay the one-way fare if they cannot afford to do so.Pradesh Congress Committees will form advisory committees to frame guidelines and oversee implementation of the initiative, including outreach, identification and reimbursement of beneficiaries besides coordinating with officers appointed by state governments.Through another circular, Venugopal also directed the state units to establish help desks to enable the stranded migrant workers to approach them.The state units were also directed to deploy teams at each railway station to coordinate the departure of migrant workers and make payments to the railway authorities. In another move, the Congress sought voluntary contributions from the public to meet the travel expenses of migrant labourers.Gandhi’s announcement on Monday that her party would bear the cost of travel of migrant workers who, the Congress alleged were being forced to pay the train fare, triggered a war of words with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which said the railways was paying 85% and states the remainder.Gandhi Tuesday called a meeting of the chief ministers of Congress-ruled states and senior leaders on Wednesday to discuss issues related to the pandemic and the economy.Meanwhile, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said it was unfortunate that the Centre and the states were charging stranded migrant workers for ferrying them home and also offered to pay for their travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-offers-to-pay-train-fares-for-pilgrims-students-to-set-up-help-desks/story-QeDc7c9V9B9eBLtofX3mCJ.html
06-05-2020||India||Delhi ITBP camp sealed as 23 more test Covid-19 positive||Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) suspect that a retired officer who died of Covid-19 had infected many other men as the number of infections in the unit where he stayed rose to 45 on Tuesday and forced it to seal the Tigri camp in Delhi, an ITBP officer said on condition of anonymity. It is also possible some of the men may have been caught the infection when they were posted outside the camp, the officer said. The decision to seal the camp was taken after 23 more men tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The camp houses the 22nd battalion of the ITBP; it has a strength of around 1,000 personnel who all are under observation and 76 are in quarantine.“We are trying to identify the source of infection in the force but preliminary assessment is that a retired ITBP officer, who was staying at Tigri camp and died due to Covid-19 on Sunday at Safdarjung Hospital could be the carrier,” the officer cited above said. “The retired officer had contracted Covid-19 infection sometime in mid-April but there were other comorbidity factors due to which he died,” the officer added. Retired officers are sometimes allowed to stay on in camps on compassionate grounds, including health. ITBP suspects that some personnel may also have contracted the infection while performing law and order duties in different parts of Delhi. Out of these, 43 personnel were deployed for performing internal security duties in the national capital and two with Delhi Police, ITBP said in a statement.ITBP reported its first Covid-19 case April 28. On Monday, the number reached 21 before it more than doubled to 45 on Tuesday; 43 of these were from the Tigri camp and the remaining two were stationed in Delhi’s Rohini.Central paramilitary forces, also called Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), reported a total of 286 Covid-19 cases from across the country until Tuesday. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) reported the most number of cases, 158, of which 142 were posted at its 31st battalion in Mayur Viihar. The Border Security Force (BSF) has reported 67, the Central Industrial Security Force 15 and Sashastra Seema Bal 13.CRPF headquarters was sealed over the weekend and is likely to reopen on Wednesday while the BSF too sealed two floors at its headquarters after a driver tested positive.The spike in Covid-19 infections in CAPFs in the past one week has raised concerns among the top brass, which has ordered troopers to maintain the highest levels of personal hygiene and follow social distancing norms at work.ITBP has designated its largest Covid-19 hospital, in Noida, for troops from all paramilitary forces.“ITBP has started treating the Corona positive personnel at 200 bedded CAPF Referral Hospital based in Greater Noida. This Hospital is now dedicated to corona patients only. Personnel from all Central Armed Police Forces have also been admitted in this Hospital. Currently, 52 have been admitted from the ITBP and BSF (44 from ITBP and 8 from BSF) at the Referral Hospital,” the ITBP statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-seals-camp-as-infections-rise-to-45/story-JgDYkHESCJUvjkrwAmdvfI.html
06-05-2020||India||Manipur notifies operating procedure to evacuate stranded residents||The Manipur government has notified a standard operating procedure (SOP) to facilitate the movement of the people of the state who are stranded outside the state and want to return.“The SOP requires the stranded persons who are coming by private or hired vehicles, to fill in a prescribed format (available in official website www.tengbang.in) and send it by mail to shomemnaipur@gmail.com,” the home department said in a in a press note.“The cell with the home department dedicated for this purpose will issue the pass as soon as possible and also communicate it to the originating and transiting states to facilitate the movement.”Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.On March 29, the website (www.tengbang.in) was launched to reach out to citizens stranded outside the state amid the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19.Advising the applicants to register in the websites of the residents of states for seeking a pass from them whenever applicable, the note also asked the stranded persons who would like to avail public transport like trains to register themselves in the official website and also register on the website of the concerned states for further action.Stating that their concurrence is vital because the trains have to be arranged by the government of the originating state, it also said that the state government has appointed senior officers as nodal officers to interact with their counterparts of the originating governments to facilitate organization of public transport on payment and movement.Eighteen more additional nodal officers were also appointed to assist the state’s senior officers to coordinate with officials of states and union territories, it added. On March 28, P K Singh, the resident commissioner at the Manipur Bhawan in New Delhi, was appointed as the nodal officer to help and guide the stranded citizens of the state.Many citizens from Manipur, mostly students, are stranded in various states amid the lockdown. On May 2, 92 stranded residents of the state were brought back from Guwahati and Mizoram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-notifies-operating-procedure-to-evacuate-stranded-residents/story-HYVCJhMnNc1WGYWMwNyC1K.html
06-05-2020||India||As migrants return, states to increase Covid-19 testing capacity||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday ordered the health department to increase the state’s capacity to conduct Covid-19 tests by more than fourfold and Bihar decided to conduct pool testing of its returning workers as the two states reported an increase in the number of coronavirus cases.A majority of around 10 million migrant workers have either returned or would be heading back to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh in the next few days. Patnaik on Tuesday directed health officials to increase the per-day Covid-19 testing capacity of Odisha to 15,000 from 3,500 now as more migrant workers tested positive after their return to Odisha. Until Tuesday evening, Odisha had reported 175 positive cases; at present, the state is testing 102 samples per 100,000 population compared to 240 per 100,000 in Andhra Pradesh. Still, its performance dwarfs that of West Bengal , which is testing just 25 persons per 100,000 population. Patnaik asked his officials to ramp up testing facilities in Baripada, Balasore, Koraput and Bolangir districts, from where the most number of new cases have been reported. A large number of the returning migrant workers would need to be tested to prevent the further spread of Covid-19 .On Tuesday, the Bihar government said migrants who returned accounted for 65 Covid cases, taking the total number to 535 across 32 of the state’s 38 districts. So far, four Covid related-deaths have been reported in Bihar. Only seven new cases were reported on Tuesday, tweeted Bihar’s principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar.“Going by our experience over the past 10 days, almost 60% to 70% of the tested samples, which came positive, were of people who came from outside the state,” Kumar said.Bihar health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh on Tuesday said the 65 cases among migrant workers were spread across 21 districts of Bihar; he said the government had decided to conduct pool testing.Pooling of samples involves testing them in batches and when pooled sample tests positive, individual samples are assessed. This method reduces the number of test kits used, compared to testing individual samples. On Tuesday, officials said that close to 20,000 migrants and students had arrived in Bihar in special trains and many more were expected to reach in the next few days. The Bihar government has decided on a mandatory 21-day quarantine for the returnees. There were reports of 25 migrants workers running away from a government-run quarantine centre in Katihar district because the facilities were inadequate. “We are human beings and we can’t be held responsible for the spread of Covid-19,” said one of the migrants in the Katihar camp, demanding home quarantine.. Similar complaints were also reported from other districts.In Jharkhand, a large number of migrants who returned claimed that they had not received the Rs 1,000 promised by the state government and had to pay their own railway fare. Vikash Kumar Singh, 28, a worker in a hotel in Karnataka’s Devanahalli, borrowed Rs 900 to pay for his journey to Ranch. He said he had neither received the March salary from his employer nor the Rs 1,000 promised by the Jharkhand government to migrant workers stranded outside the state.“We slept on an empty stomach for several nights. Then I came to know that Jharkhand government is giving Rs 1,000 assistance through an app. I also registered myself with the Jharkhand chief minister’s special assistance scheme app. But I have not received any money till date,” Singh said.Director of information and public relations Rajiv Lochan Bakshi said, “The migrant workers who have registered themselves with the assistance scheme app by April 29 will receive the amount of Rs 1,000, whether they have returned to Jharkhand or still are stranded outside.” According to a government statement, around 306,000 people have registered themselves on the app..Returning migrant workers were greeted with flowers in Dankuni in West Bengal’s Hoogly district and Darbhanga in Bihar. Flower petals were showered on trains carrying the workers, who were received by political functionaries and government officials. In Darbhanga, top police and district administration officers were present at the railway station to welcome as many as 1,200 students from Rajasthan’s Kota, which is famous for coaching centres that prepare students for admission to engineering and other courses. A batch of 1,197 migrant workers from Thrissur in Kerala also returned on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-migrants-return-states-to-increase-testing-capacity/story-zRjT1JeFMSpE4wFJ8SYGTN.html
06-05-2020||India||India terms Pak efforts to raise Kashmir at NAM meet propaganda||The Indian government perceives Pakistan’s efforts to raise the Kashmir issue at a virtual summit of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) on the Covid-19 pandemic as a “propaganda exercise”, people familiar with developments said on Tuesday.Pakistan President Arif Alvi, who represented the country at the NAM Summit via video conference on Monday, used the occasion to criticise India for its handling of the situation in Jammu and Kashmir and for the alleged mistreatment of the Muslim minority.Responding to Alvi’s speech at the NAM Summit, one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity: “Raising Kashmir at NAM is a well-established Pakistani propaganda exercise. The international community is well aware of it and recognises that this is a propaganda exercise that they go through.”The person added, “The international community is also well aware of our position on this issue and I don’t think we need to really dignify this with any response.”In his speech, Alvi didn’t name India but referred to attempts to discriminate against and demonise Muslims in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking before Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he also referred to Islamophobia, hate speech, the “scapegoating” of a community and denial of medical facilities to this community in Pakistan’s “immediate neighbourhood”.Alvi, a close aide of Prime Minister Imran Khan, also highlighted the condition of the Kashmiri people and said their sufferings were compounded by a communications blackout and lack of unfettered access to medical and other essential facilities and high speed internet. He also criticised what he said were efforts to change the demographic profile of the region.In his speech, Modi, without naming any country, said: “Even as the world fights Covid-19, some people are busy spreading other deadly viruses such as terrorism, fake news and doctored videos to divide communities and countries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-terms-pak-efforts-to-raise-kashmir-at-nam-meet-propaganda/story-Dt1loBATMqu5sGAhgVNZBJ.html
06-05-2020||India||Hyderabad centre to grow SARS-CoV-2 in human cells for in vitro testing||The Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) will attempt to grow SARS-CoV-2 in human cell lines, enabling in vitro ( literally, in a test tube) testing of potential drugs and vaccines against Covid-19. Experts said this could expedite testing of new drugs that have not been tried on humans before.According to a statement from the Science and Technology ministry on Tuesday, CCMB will partner with cell therapy company, Eyestem Research Private Limited to develop these cell lines. The research team will use Eyestem’s human lung epithelial cell culture system provided as part of its anti-covid screening (ACS) platform to understand the molecular and pathological characteristics of SARS-CoV-2.“Culturing the virus outside the human host is a technological challenge that needs to be overcome. Eyestem’s cell culture system expresses the ACE2 receptor (an enzyme the Sars-Cov-2 virus uses to enter the body) and other genes that are key determinants of viral entry and replication. We hope that employing this system will allow the CCMB team to grow the virus predictably and thereby open up the potential for the drug screening and vaccine development strategies”, said Dr Rakesh Mishra, Director, CCMB.Before human trials new drugs should be tested in vitro and then in animals, said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of virology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. “For the re-purposed drugs being tried for Covid 19, there is some evidence in vitro because they have been tried for other viruses. For different viruses, different cell lines are need for testing efficacy. If we establish this system of testing Covid 19 drugs, whenever we have a new drug it can be tested quickly in the human lung epithelial cell line,” she added.In another statement, the ministry said Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) and Tata Sons have signed an agreement for licensing know-how for a paper strip based test named Feluda for rapid diagnosis of Covid 19.Dr Anurag Agrawal, Director-IGIB said the technology was conceived and developed at CSIR IGIB and utilizes an indigenously developed cutting edge CRISPR Cas9 technology to specifically recognize the Covid 19 sequence in a sample. A combination of CRISPR biology and paper-strip chemistry leads to a visible signal readout on a paper strip that can be rapidly assessed for establishing the presence of viral infection in a sample. The test is named after Satyajit Ray’s fictional detective Feluda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyd-centre-to-grow-virus-in-human-cells-for-in-vitro-testing/story-v6iPciBwNg18N0pbMUEorJ.html
06-05-2020||India||Chittorgarh emerging as new Covid-19 hotspot in Rajasthan||Nimbaheda, a cement hub in Rajasthan’s Chittorgarh district, has emerged a hotspot of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with 99 cases reported in just over a week. Like in Jaipur’s Ramganj, just one person has emerged the superspreader in the area, infecting 100 people including his wife and daughter.On Tuesday, 66 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state, taking the total tally to 3127. Five more deaths were reported, taking the death toll to 82.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has expressed concern over the rising number of cases and asked that the ruthless containment model of Bhilwara be replicated in Nimbaheda. Meanwhile, Chittorgarh MP CP Joshi from the Bharatiya Janata Party has written to union health minister Harsh Vardhan requesting that a special health team be deputed from AIIMS Delhi to Nimbaheda. Nimbaheda Principal Medical Officer Dr Mansoor Khan admits the administration was caught unawares since no cases had been reported for a month. “We were, in fact, readying for re-opening after the lockdown and were not prepared for this sudden spurt,” he said.He said the cases are being reported from three areas and all are either contacts of the first Covid-19 patient or those residing nearby. However, shortage of doctors and lack of resources has affected work of the health department, Khan said. Of the 90 posts of health staff at the sub-district hospital, only 41 are filled. One senior physician and four doctors who came in touch with the first positive patient have been quarantined, leading to a staff crunch. The health department has posted a senior physician from Udaipur to Nimbaheda.Till April 24, Nimbaheda did not have any Covid-19 case. On April 25, a 46-year-old gold trader was found positive. The man was being treated for cold and cough in a private hospital and had continued to meet people and also keep his shop open. He died on April 30 while undergoing treatment in the government hospital in Udaipur.After he tested positive, the street where he resided was placed under curfew and the town was sealed. Health authorities rushed to trace his contact history and a list of 300 people was prepared. All th positive cases are from that group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chittorgarh-emerging-as-new-hot-spot-in-raj/story-jdFzvvdlWec2PyWybcpENI.html
06-05-2020||India||Kerala HC refuses to stay govt ordinance on salary cut||The Kerala high court refused on Tuesday to stay an ordinance the government brought last week with an aim to make deductions in employees’ salaries as part of efforts to raise funds for fighting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The court agreed to the government’s contention that it has legislative powers to bring such an ordinance during an extraordinary situation and posted the matter for further hearing on June 4.Kerala brought the ordinance on April 30, a day after a single bench of the high court stayed the government’s decision to deduct salaries of employees for six days every month for the next five months (totalling 30 days).The move will be applicable to employees of all state-owned enterprises, public sector undertakings, quasi-government organisations and universities, among others.Hearing a bunch of petitions questioning the ordinance, the government said its move cannot be called a salary cut, and added that it was a deferment of payment in the time of a crisis. The state reiterated its contention that this amount will be paid once the fiscal condition of the state improved.“It is an extraordinary situation and the court cannot question the wisdom of the legislature in bringing out an ordinance...,” the high court observed.The government welcomed the decision. “We are happy. As the court pointed out, it is an extraordinary situation. Instead of a united move, some people are instigating employees,” said finance minister TM Thomas Iaasc.The state is expected to collect Rs 2,000 crore through this move. Employees’ organisations owing allegiance to the opposition parties said they will approach the Supreme Court soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-refuses-to-stay-govt-ordinance-on-salary-cut/story-vvXxR2f0dxGbqKbBW7xLiJ.html
06-05-2020||India||Yet to take a call on Covid-19 rapid test kits’ use, says Centre||India is yet to take a decision on the use of antibody based rapid testing kits (blood tests), said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry. The Indian Council of Medical Research told states to not use the RTKs it sent them after finding huge variations in the results. The kits were imported by it from China and arrived on April 16 after missing two deadlines. They were shipped out to states shortly after, but the apex medical research body told the states to suspend the use of kits on April 21. Following a field assessment, it said on April 27 that the kits were not to be used “The issue is being examined by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) currently, and they are yet to come up with a revised guideline on its use. As and when they are done, they will release the fresh advisory. However, rapid test kits have a limited use, the gold standard for infection detection continues to remain the polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test,” Agarwal said.To be sure, ICMR’s withdrawal of kits pertained only to the kits it was supplying the states. Some states are using RTKs sourced from Korea and do not seem to be having problems with them. India on Tuesday saw the highest jump in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and deaths in a single day, with 3,900 new positive cases and 195 deaths, taking the total number of infected people in the country to 46,433 and the death toll to 1,568, according to health ministry data as of Tuesday afternoon. The ministry’s data lags that in HT’s own dashboard which is based on the data at Covid19india.org, and the information released by state governments. According to HT’s dashboard, India’s tally as of Tuesday night was 49,379 cases and 1,613 deaths, with 2,991 cases and 119 deaths being added since Monday night. Agarwal attributed the sudden jump in cases and deaths to certain states not reporting figures on time.“There were some states that were not sending updating figures in time. So the sudden increase in numbers that you are seeing it is actually not the number of deaths or cases having gone up but the figures being updated. The gap is being addressed now,” he said.“Since we are dealing with a highly infectious disease here, timely reporting and management of cases is extremely crucial. Our case doubling rate has gone up from 3.4 days before lockdown to nearly 12 days now, and we are quite comfortable as far as surveillance and case management is concerned. However, this has to be maintained,” Agarwal added.The health ministry is also focusing on ensuring patients don’t face inconvenience in accessing non-covid related essential medical services. “It is a season of vector-borne disease such as dengue, chikungunya and other related diseases, so states have been asked to stay fully prepared for treating these patients also,’ he said. Apart from a directive on managing seasonal diseases, the health ministry has also issued guidelines on delivery of essential health services by states to critically ill patients suffering from chronic conditions and needing dialysis, chemotherapy, blood transfusion etc. in government and private non-covid facilities as per the relaxations given in various zones. “The states also have to ensure the routine programmes such as immunisation, TB, HIV/aids, anti-natal care etc. do not suffer. These are equally important,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yet-to-take-a-call-on-rapid-test-kits-use-says-centre/story-rUALOgCM70oJnTdrhYkcwI.html
06-05-2020||India||After 3 days, Kerala records fresh Covid-19 cases||Kerala reported three new coronavirus cases on Tuesday -- the first in the state in three days -- as it prepared to receive the first batch of expatriates from West Asia.Four special flights are expected to arrive in the state on Thursday and all returnees will have to undergo at least one week’s quarantine in care homes arranged for them, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. “Many of them are coming without tests there. So we can’t take any risk at this point. It would have been ideal if they undergo tests before taking the flights,” he said.The Kerala government had been planning to send the returnees home after screening them and instructing them to stay in home quarantine for two weeks. But it dropped the plan after coming to know that most of them won’t be tested before they board the flights. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan on Tuesday contested Vijayan’s assertion that the Union government was flying back expatriates from West Asia without any tests being conducted on them.“I don’t know why he is indirectly blaming the Centre like this. On medical side, the standard operating procedure (SOP) is being prepared by the ICMR {Indian Council of Medical Research}. Its SOP came late in the evening and the CM ‘s version was based on some hearsay. We will bring back people only after tests,” he told HT.More than 400,000 people have registered themselves on a portal the state government launched last week for Keralites stranded in other countries, particularly in the Persian Gulf, who wish to return home. But the CM said the Centre had made it clear that such a massive evacuation was not possible at this juncture .The CM said all three new Covid-19 cases were from Wayanad in north Kerala; they contracted the virus from a Chennai-returned truck driver who tested positive two weeks ago. Kerala has 37 active coronavirus cases -- those who are under treatment. Of 33,800 samples sent for testing, 33, 265 returned negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-3-days-kerala-records-fresh-cases/story-pa841atjWK7MqRaHZAXAFJ.html
06-05-2020||India||219 fresh Covid-19 cases in Punjab, 67% linked to Nanded pilgrims||Punjab reported a big spike of 219 coronavirus disease cases on Tuesday out of which 174 of those infected were pilgrims who returned from Nanded gurdwara in Maharashtra, officials said. With the fresh cases, the state tally rose to 1,451 while it reported two fatalities taking the toll to 25.The Nanded pilgrims now account for 67 % (969) of the total 1,451 coronavirus cases detected so far in the state, a health official said. Officials said the death toll in the state rose to 25 after a 55-year-old Hoshiarpur man and a 22-year-old woman from Amritsar succumbed to the infection. So far, 133 patients have recovered from the disease, officials said.The maximum 48 fresh cases surfaced in Gurdaspur, followed by 47 in Tarn Taran and 34 in Fazilka, a medical bulletin said.Twenty-seven people were found infected with the virus in Faridkot; 22 in Sangrur; 15 in Muktsar; 14 in Ludhiana; six in Jalandhar; five in Kapurthala; and one in Patiala.Five Covid-19 patients—four from Patiala and one from Pathankot--were discharged from hospitals after recovery.Amritsar continued to top the coronavirus tally with 218 coronavirus cases in the state, followed by Jalandhar (134); Ludhiana (124); Mohali (95); Hoshiarpur (88); Patiala and Tarn Taran (87 each); SBS Nagar and Sangrur (85 each); Gurdaspur (84); Muktsar (64); Faridkot (45); Ferozepur (42); Fazilka (38); Bathinda (36); Moga (28); Pathankot (27); Barnala (19); Kapurthala (18); Mansa (17); Fatehgarh Sahib (16); and Rupnagar (14). A total of 30,199 samples have been taken so far in the state, of which, 23,352 tested negative for the infection. Reports of 5,396 samples are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/219-fresh-cases-in-punjab-67-linked-to-nanded-pilgrims/story-kuis8YdqePp8oTQ7NTnnOO.html
06-05-2020||India||Covid-19 won’t be able to damage Indian agriculture: Narendra S Tomar||Union agriculture & rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar spoke to Saubhadra Chatterji and Zia Haq about the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the farm sector, labour shortage during the harvest season, benefits given to farmers and farm labourers, and allocations of jobs under the rural employment guarantee scheme. Edited excerpts:You have held a meeting with state rural and agricultural ministers. What are the main demands of the states?The Narendra Modi government’s priority is to protect farmers, rural India, and poor people from the pandemic. We have discussed issues related to farming operations and harvesting, agriculture market and mandi operations, procurement at MSP (minimum support price), provision of seeds and fertilizers, and logistics and movement of agriculture/horticulture produce. As you know, the Centre has given several exemptions to the rural and agricultural sector from the lockdown -- including all farming operations and mandis. This has definitely helped maintaining continuity in the supply chain especially in view the harvesting and sowing season. We are monitoring the situation closely.Farmers are still struggling with labour shortage. Moreover, social distancing and lack of transport have affected farm operations and procurement seems to be taking much longer.There is no denying that this is not a normal situation. But I can guarantee that the Covid pandemic will not be able to damage Indian agriculture. In some states, the stranded farm labourers have been engaged according to our reports and for those who have managed to return, they are working in their home states. I can assure you that farm labourers are getting full wages and are not forced to accept lower wages.Out of total wheat sown, almost 95% has already been harvested. Punjab has deployed 18,000 combines and Haryana has deployed 5,000 combines for harvesting and threshing. Harvesting of pulses is complete. For sugarcane, out of the total sown (acreage) 54.29 lakh hectares, harvesting has been completed all big states barring Uttar Pradesh, where it will continue till mid May 2020. Oilseed harvest is complete except of groundnut, which has been harvested to the tune of 85-90%. Summer crops have been sown in 57.07 lakh hectares this year against 41.31 lakh hectares last year.Farmers have dumped milk and horticulture produce because of inadequate price and markets. Are you planning additional compensations for this?This might have happened in some places due to critical situation occurred in the country in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the government has taken several measures to provide timely benefits to the farmers. The Modi government has already transferred Rs 17,986 crore to farmers since March 24 under the PM-Kisan scheme. Instalment due for the period of April 1 to July 31 has been paid to 81.3 million beneficiaries. Under Kisan Credit Card, Nearly two million applications have been sanctioned since February 20 for a total amount of Rs 18,000 crores.Despite repeated advisories to states about freeing agriculture and allied activities, there are reports that farmers have been stopped from carrying out farm operations?Initially, it might have happened in some locations but now all field functionaries have been sensitised about the exemptions including agricultural operations. A positive impact has been observed in harvesting of Rabi (winter) crops, sowing of summer crops and continuity in supply chain and procurement of agricultural commodities.There is a surge in demand for MGNREGS jobs. How much money is the government ready to spend given its other financial burdens? This year, we have kept a provision of 2.8 billion persondays of work. We are aware that more people might need MGNREGS backup as millions of migrant labourers have returned home. In case the states anticipate more demand for work, it can be further scaled up.We have already approved Rs 33,300 crore of fund for the state out of which Rs 20,752 crore has already been released, liquidating all pending liabilities on wages and material. There is no pending bill on account of wages.On April 14, 1.42 million workers were offered jobs but this increased to 7.79 million (workers) within two weeks. More than 36 million person days of work has already been created under MGNREGS and it will increase further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-won-t-be-able-to-damage-indian-agriculture-narendra-s-tomar/story-3FQxpETds30Fd24rhK4AaO.html
06-05-2020||India||JEE-Mains from July 18 to 23, NEET on July 26: HRD ministry||The CBSE Class X exams have been suspended for 2020 in the subjects where they have not been conducted, although students from North East Delhi, who missed exams that other students have already appeared in, will have to appear for these, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ announced on Tuesday when he interacted with students on their concerns. However, CBSE will conduct Class XII board exams in 12 subjects, with the schedule for these, and also the pending Class X exams being announced shortly. Officials say order CBSE to go ahead on evaluation of answer-sheets is expected soon.Students in North East Delhi missed some Class X exams on account of communal riots in the area. The engineering entrance examination JEE will be held from July 18-23, while the medical entrance test NEET will be conducted on July 26, the minister added. The two crucial exams, and also the Class X and Class XII exams were postponed due to the lockdown imposed to combat the spread of the coronavirus disease. “JEE-Mains will be held from July 18-23, while JEE-Advanced will be held in August. NEET will be conducted on July 26,” Nishank said in the online interaction.At least 1.5 million students across the country have registered for NEET this year, and at last 900,000 have registered for JEE Mains, the entrance exam for the country’s top engineering college.The JEE-Mains is also the qualifying exam for JEE-Advanced. The HRD Ministry’s National Testing Agency (NTA) has also given students an option to change their opted centres for the two tests as some of them may have moved back home during the lockdown.Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16. Responding to a question, the HRD minister clarified that the pending class 10 board examination will only be conducted for students in North East Delhi and not the rest of the country.“No examinations will be held for class 10 students nationwide except for students from North East Delhi. An adequate time of 10 days will be given to all students for preparation of exams,” Nishank said.“These exams will be conducted again for those few students who could not appear in these exams on the scheduled date due to the impact of law and order issues. The new schedule will be announced within two days,” he added.The HRD minister asserted that the government is planning to assess the academic loss of students during the lockdown period.“As a response to the COVID-19 lockdown, the CBSE will assess the loss of instructional time for proportionate reduction in curriculum load for 2021 board exams. In accordance, course committees of the board have initiated work on reduced syllabus in various scenarios,” he said.Regarding the travel of students, who are staying in hostels of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNV) to their homes, Nishank said the process has begun.“Out of 173 schools, more than 62 schools have initiated the process,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jee-neet-to-be-held-in-july-class-x-exams-fro-ne-delhi-hrd-ministry/story-1YmLRRvfhexLmCPVstec9L.html
06-05-2020||India||India needs big stimulus package, says Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee||New Delhi: India needs a big stimulus package, bigger than the one it announced in March to revive the economy which is hurting from the coronavirus disease and the lockdown enforced to combat it , Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee said on Tuesday , adding that the emphasis should be on generating demand. One way to do this would be to just put money in the hands of consumers, he added. Banerjee, 59, who shared the 2019 Nobel prize for economics with his wife Esther Duflo and Michael Kremer for an “experimental approach to alleviating global poverty,” cited the examples of countries that have unveiled sizeable stimulus packages to boost their economies.“That’s the reason a lot of us have been saying that we need a stimulus package,” Banerjee said in a video conversation with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. “That’s what the US is doing, Japan is doing, Europe is doing. We really haven’t decided on a large enough stimulus package. We are still talking about 1% of GDP [gross domestic product]. The United States has gone for 10% of GDP.” On March 26, the National Democratic Alliance government announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore relief package under the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), which is around 0.8% of India’s GDP, to ease economic distress and make sure food and cash reach the poor. Industrial houses are waiting for a bigger package of about Rs.16 lakh crore to stimulate demand and resuscitate economic growth, which the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has predicted will decelerate to 1.9% this fiscal year, the slowest pace in three decades.In his conversation with Gandhi, Banerjee said that the government should go beyond a moratorium on debt payments which the Reserve Bank of India announced last month; it could consider cancelling payments in this quarter and take care of them itself for small enterprises. But an economic revival also needs more than that, he said, adding that money should be put in the hands of the people to generate demand, say Rs 10,000 each. “It is not clear that targeting the MSME sector is the right channel. It is more [about] reviving demand,” he said, adding that delivering money straight to consumers to spend would achieve the objective.The conversation is the second in a series that Gandhi is holding with global thought leaders and experts on the impact of Covid-19 on the economy and possible solutions. The first was with former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan on Thursday.Banerjee told Gandhi that it is important to revive demand without obsessing about targeting the right beneficiaries. “Nothing bad will happen if we give money to the bottom 60%. But to give direct cash transfer to only poorer people is debatable,” he said.Rajan told Gandhi on April 30 that the government should transfer cash directly to the poor and supply food through the public distribution system (PDS) to as many people as possible to help them tide over the impact of the coronavirus disease. He had estimated that the effort would cost the exchequer Rs 65,000 crore..Banerjee said the government must ensure social security for all in need, either by allowing portability of ration cards, or simply the use of the Aadhaar number irrespective of one’s location, or even temporary ration cards, an idea he suggested in an Op-Ed he wrote with Raghuram Rajan and Amartya Sen. “Anybody who wants one, get a temporary ration card -- lasts for three months for now and maybe renewed for another three months, if necessary..,” he said.“I think we have enough stock (of food). I think we can keep going for a while. The rabi {winter-sown} crop has been good this time, so we are going to have tonnes of wheat and rice. So at least wheat and rice, we can keep giving out. I don’t know if we have enough dal [pulses] or not. But I think the government promised dal as well. So hopefully we have enough dal and cooking oil etc,” he said.On lifting the lockdown, extended until May 17, Banerjee called for caution. “You can’t take out the lockdown when a lot of people are getting sick. We need to be aware of the disease’s path before taking a decision on lifting the lockdown,” he added.Banerjee also suggested that the Centre give state governments money to chalk out their own initiatives to reach a wider section of the people and not think about some of the money getting wasted.“Be brave and take risks. When you are in dire straits, being brave is the only option,” he said. Indonesia, Banerjee pointed out is giving out “cash transfers through a community decision making process. The community will decid who are the people who are needy.” This doesn’t do any worse than “centralised tragetting,” Banerjee added. Gandhi also pointed out that there is a feeling that “strong leaders can take on the virus...; that it requires one man to charge in...” . Banerjee said that this has been “disastrous” and pointed to Brazil and the US. “These are two strongmen behaving like... pretending like they understand anything... but even what they say every day is kind of laughable. If anyone wanted to believe in the strongman theory, this is the time to disabuse themselves,” he said.A spokesperson of the finance ministry declined to comment on the issue. Meanwhile, G Kishan Reddy, minister of state for home, said in a tweet, “Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee enlightens the Congress & it’s pseudo intellectual leaders, including Mr @RahulGandhi, by supporting #PMGKY, PMJDY [Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana] among others & the efforts of Hon PM @narendramodi ji.”Sunil Deodhar, national secretary, BJP and Incharge of Tripura said in a tweet: “General public in India is so smart that they sensed well in time what #AbhijitBanerjee said today and made @narendramodi ji & @BJP4India victorious twice with thumping majority.”“So after heavily edited conversation with #RaghuramRajan few days back, today #AbhijitBanerjee makes this “strategic” leadership of @INCIndia fall flat on his face,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-needs-big-stimulus-package-says-banerjee/story-7prqtBHRDZNsA6XrywZ56L.html
06-05-2020||India||Day 2 liquor sale: Long queues, higher taxes, doubts over home delivery||Increased excise duty on alcohol, heavier deployment of police personnel to enforce social distancing, long queues and speculation over home delivery of liquor in some states marked the second day of liquor sales across the country after curbs on sale of alcohol was lifted after 42 days on May 4. Till Tuesday evening, four states – Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan -- had announced an increase in the excise duty for liquor. Delhi increased the tax by 70%, Andhra by 75%, West Bengal by 30% and Rajasthan by 10%, all to raise funds to fight the pandemics and manage state finances, the governments said. To reduce chaos at liquor vends, the Chhattisgarh government set up a new company, Chhattisgarh State Marketing Corporation Limited, to deliver liquor at home in green zones, a government statement said.“A customer can order up to 5,000 ml of liquor at a time for home delivery and the delivery charge will be Rs 120,” the release stated. Except Raipur and Korba districts, the remaining 26 districts of the state are green zones.West Bengal also allowed online sale and home delivery from retail outlets to restrict footfall at the shops, officials said. How did it facilitate online delivery?Will delivery men from stores come home? “We welcome the government’s decision,” said Dilip Pal, a shopkeeper from the Sealdah market in Kolkata. Punjab is likely to take a call on a similar proposal at a Cabinet meeting on Thursday. “For allowing home delivery of liquor, we need to make changes in the excise policy.For that, Cabinet’s approval is needed,” said a Punjab government official. Others states have brought in changes in excise policy through a Cabinet decisions. In Punjab, the proposal to is deliver liquor at home from local vends.In the excise policy for current financial year, the Punjab government had approved a pilot project for home delivery of liquor in Mohali. However, the proposal could not be implemented as curfew was imposed all across Punjab from March 22 to contain the outbreak of Covid-19. Some states, such as Assam and Andhra Pradesh recorded high sales on first few days. Assam, where liquor shops opened from Saturday, earned between Rs 75 crore to Rs 80 crore in the first three days, officials said. Assam earns on an average earns Rs 65 crore per month from liquor sales. “On the first day (Monday), Andhra Pradesh earned around Rs 68 crore through liquor sales,” said a state government official. On the second day, Tuesday, higher revenue is expected as the price of liquor has increased and shops will open for an extra hour, the official said. In Karnataka, the estimated excise revenue on Tuesday was Rs 197 crore as compared to Rs 45 crore earned on Monday. The average for a day in 2018-19 was Rs 54 crore, official estimates showed. Some states, such as West Bengal and Karnataka, issued orders to limit the sale of liquor bottles. In both the states, a person is entitled to buy only two bottles of distilled spirits and six bottles of beer. In Karnataka, where a similar order was issued on Monday morning, action was taken against a vend owner who sold more than the prescribed bottles to a customer, who put out his Rs 52,000 liquor bill on social media. To enforce social distancing norms, local administrations deployed additional police personnel at liquor vends and, in some places, such as Mumbai, bouncers were hired to prevent unruly behaviour and jostling among customers. However, in some places in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, police had to use mild force to disperse the crowds. UP’s excise secretary, Sanjay Bhoosreddy, said the sale of liquor has been smooth and the government expects the revenue to increase in the coming days. In Andhra Pradesh, where liquor is 75% costlier than it was in the pre-lockdown period, people scrambled to buy alcohol despite the price hike even as women in Nellore and Visakhapatnam districts protests at opening of the shops.At Yetapaka village of East Godavari district, people queued up in front of wine shops from 9 am, though the shops are supposed to be open for business from 11 am. In Guntur, the staff issued tokens to the people in queue. Out of 3,468 retail outlets, only around 500, located in red zones and containment areas of orange districts and in malls, remained closed.“The steep hike in liquor prices is to discourage the consumption of alcohol and number of shops would also be slashed by month end,” the official release said, adding that the number of shops may be reduced by 15% by the end of May.Officials said there was huge rush at liquor vends in districts bordering Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Telangana, which are yet to resume the sales. Police on Monday had to carry out a mild lathi-charge to shoo away more than 2000 people who crossed over into Karnataka through porous borders to purchase liquor.In Rajasthan, where excise duty was increased by 10% to shore up money to combat Covid-19, shops opened late as police tried to control unruly crowds. In some places in Jaipur, buyers carried chalk to make marks to maintain social distancing. There were also complaints of overcharging from Jaipur and Chandigarh.Unlike in the rest of India, liquor sales in Goa were devoid of incident because of the state’s high number of liquor dealers per capita. Goa has around 3,000 liquor retailers and 11,000 licensed liquor vendors, a bulk of whom are serving liquor through a bar or restaurant and cannot currently reopen. “Many of our loyal regular customers have visited us to restock on their supplies. There wasn’t any rush as such,” Dattaprasad Naik, the president of the Goa Liquor Traders Association, said.While Kerala decided not to open liquor shops till May 17, the shops will open in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday and in Punjab on Thursday. Tamil Nadu also announced that liquor vends will not open in Chennai till further notice while allowing liquor sale in the rest of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-2-liqour-sale-long-queues-higher-taxes-doubts-over-home-delivery/story-hYjR6nTUQxOb6a8L81wGdJ.html
06-05-2020||India||25 test positive in Delhi’s Army Hospital||The Delhi-based Army Hospital (Research and Referral) has reported 25 Covid-19 cases, including some serving personnel, two army officers said , asking not to be identified. All the 25 people who have tested positive for the deadly virus are from the hospital’s oncology ward, said one of the officers. The people who have tested positive include serving personnel, ex-servicemen and a few of their dependents. No health care professional has tested positive for Covid-19 yet, the second officer said adding that necessary protocol is being followed including contact tracing of the infected people.“After someone tests positive, detailed contact tracing is carried out. The contacts are then placed in high or low risk groups. Quarantine protocol and testing of those in high risk group is carried out. All this can take up to 48 hours,” he added.The positive cases have been moved to the army’s Base Hospital in Delhi Cantt, which is dedicated to Covid-19 patients, said the second official. The people who have tested positive for the coronavirus are serving and retired personnel and a few of their dependents.No health care worker has tested positive for Covid-19 yet, the second official said, adding that necessary protocol is being followed including contact tracing of the infected people.The navy accounts for the single largest case of Indian military personnel being infected with the novel coronavirus, with 26 sailors from a key naval base testing positive for Covid-19 last month. The sailors were from INS Angre --- a logistics and administrative support base under the Western Naval Command. All the cases were traced to a single sailor who tested positive for the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-test-positive-in-delhi-s-army-hospital/story-9E2dHV22PW4dcLT0Cda5fM.html
06-05-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally crosses 5,000 after 206 new infections||Delhi reported another big jump of 206 cases on Tuesday, with the total infections doubling to 5,104 in 11 days, even as the national capital ramped up testing amid concerns of a surge in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases nudged by a graded exit from the ongoing lockdown.About 1,500 cases have been added to the Delhi tally in the last five days. The Capital accounts for 10.3% of the total cases in the country, with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal saying recently that his government was prepared to tackle a spike in infections.After the first three Covid-19 cases were reported in India in January and were contained, a second wave of infections emerged on March 2, as Delhi and Telangana reported one case each. A 45-year-old man who returned from Italy to his house in Mayur Vihar was the first reported infection in the Capital. Since then, it took more than a month for Delhi to record its first 1,000 cases till April 11. The numbers in early April were driven up largely by those evacuated from a religious gathering at Nizamuddin.After the emergence of the cluster – 16,500 people who attended the gathering have so far been identified – it took only eight days for Delhi to add another 1,000 cases to its tally. The last 2,000 cases in Delhi have been reported in just eight days, with the highest number of infections – 427 in a day – being recorded on Sunday. The previous highest single-day tally was on Saturday, with 384 cases.“Delhi saw the first spike in cases in early April after over 2,300 people from Nizamuddin Markaz were evacuated in March-end. Many of them tested positive subsequently, driving up the numbers. However, once the cases from Markaz and those who had come in contact with them came down, many of the new cases were being reported in health care workers and their families,” a district health official said on condition of anonymity.Several clusters of infections have been reported from hospitals. At the Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital in Jahangirpuri, 75 health care workers have so far tested positive. At the state government-run Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, at least 45 people have been confirmed of having contracted the disease. The first cluster of infections from a hospital, however, was reported at the Delhi State Cancer Institute in the first week of April – 26 health care workers, four cancer patients and a two-year-old child were among those who tested positive.An official from Delhi’s health department, who asked not to be named, said: “Now, the concern is with the government relaxing the lockdown norms. More and more people will go out and be exposed to the infection. There will be a spike in cases around two weeks from now.”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that a complete lockdown has affected the economy and livelihoods, and that relaxations were important to ensure life is not completely thrown out of gear. He said that people will have to learn how to live with the disease in their midst and that the Delhi government was prepared to tackle the surge in cases.When the first Covid-19 case was reported in Delhi in March, there was only one sample collection centre, located at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, and the tests were being conducted by the National Institute of Virology in Pune. On Tuesday, 3,744 samples were collected at about 42 centres and tested at 24 centres in the city.“It is possible that we are detecting more cases now that we are testing more. Earlier, only those who were symptomatic were being tested. However, now we know that around 80% people either have no symptoms or very mild symptoms. So we might have missed many cases who have now spread the infection in the community,” said another district official, asking not to be named.“Now, most people from the community – many without any symptoms – are being tested positive. This could be the second generation of transmission from the travellers that we might have missed and soon we will see the third generation of transmission, with the relaxation in norms,” said the district official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capital-adds-1-500-cases-over-five-days/story-RFtmGJyZf48EKvHQlzoppK.html
06-05-2020||India||‘Dangerous’: Private lab in Kolkata conducts Covid-19 tests, FIR filed||An FIR and a fine of Rs 10 lakh was slapped against a private laboratory allegedly conducting illegal Covid-19 tests in north Kolkata on Tuesday. Subsequently, the lab was also shut down. This is the first such instance in the state in which a laboratory has been found to be testing swab samples illegally without any authorisation from the Indian Council of Medical Research.“The state health department had initiated an enquiry after receiving a complaint against the laboratory. The laboratory was sealed,” said a top official of the state health department.An FIR was registered at the Phool Bagan police station. “This is a dangerous practice as there could be chances of leakage while conducting the tests if proper precautions are not taken, resulting in further spread of the disease. A lab is given permission by the ICMR only if it has proper infrastructure to handle such samples,” said a senior doctor from one of the government-run laboratories.At present, West Bengal has 11 government laboratories and six private laboratories approved by the ICMR where swab samples for Covid–19 are tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dangerous-private-lab-in-kolkata-conducts-covid-19-tests-fir-filed/story-PUnRxWfEHx5fjzSAGcJ0XP.html
06-05-2020||India||Covid-19 deaths in Bengal double in 5 days as govt junks casualty audit panel||West Bengal’s ‘official’ coronavirus death toll has doubled in the five days since the state virtually shelved its Covid-19 death audit committee in the face of a raging controversy.While the state attributed 33 deaths to Covid-19 between March 23 and April 30, another 35 deaths were reported in the last five days. This steep rise in the death toll is largely because the state, between April 1 and April 30, attributed 72 deaths to comorbidity, a practice that stopped on April 30. Since May 1, the state has not attributed a single death to ‘comorbidity’. However, on Tuesday it maintained that the death toll stood at 68. This meant, even though the state was no longer attributing deaths to comorbidity, it would not include those already attributed to comorbidity, into its official death toll. Taking all deaths into account, Bengal’s Covid-19 death toll stood at 140 on May 5, with a total of 1,344 persons testing positive, including seven dying and 85 testing positive in the last 24 hours.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“During chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s meeting with doctors’ associations on April 28, we told her that the deaths needed to be declared as per World Health Organisation (WHO)’s guidelines, using International Classification of Disease (ICD) 10 coding, in short, by mentioning Covid-19 in the death certificate of every one testing positive. She had agreed to our suggestions, and sought 10 days’ time from us to fix all the errors that we had pointed out. It’s good to see she has heeded our suggestions and things are changing for the better,” said Kaushik Chaki, secretary of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum.Asked if the state now considered the introduction of death audits a mistake, Chandrima Bhattacharya, junior minister for health, said, “Why should it be a mistake? Dissecting comorbidity in deaths is an internationally recognised practice.”Figures related to the deaths of Covid-19 patients went totally awry in the state since the beginning of April, when CM Banerjee appointed a committee of doctors to find out which patient died of coronavirus infection and which of co-morbid conditions. Bengal was seamlessly sharing data on Covid-19 till March 31, when the state put the death toll at 3 and the cumulative number of persons testing positive at 27. Till then, the state gave data for past 24 hours and also cumulative figures for deaths, persons testing positive and recoveries.The first change happened on April 1, when 3 more persons died and 10 tested positive. The health department’s daily bulletin left the cumulative death figure at 3 and said that the declaration of the latest 3 deaths was “subject to confirmation”. The state did not issue any bulletin for the next two days and, from April 4, the bulletin’s format changed, with the state sharing data only for active Covid-19 cases instead of the cumulative numbers and mentioning only those deaths that had been attributed to Covid-19 by the expert committee.The first time the state came up with data on the deaths attributed to co-morbidity was on April 24, two days after an inter-ministerial central team sought Bengal’s explanation on the rationale behind its Covid-19 death declarations. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, on April 24, attributed 18 deaths to coronavirus infection and 39 to co-morbidity. On April 30, Sinha attributed 33 deaths to Covid-19 and 72 to ‘comorbidity’.After the state came up with detailed data on May 4, following another letter from the inter-ministerial central team, it also became clear that the state had reported 214 fewer cases of persons testing positive by April 30.Taking a dig at the ruling Trinamool Congress government, Sujan Chakraborty, the leader of the Left parties in the state Assembly, said, “Kerala found out innovative ways to fight Covid-19 and everyone can see the results. Bengal, unfortunately, has found an innovative way to suppress data related to deaths and of people testing positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-deaths-in-bengal-double-in-5-days-as-govt-junks-casualty-audit-panel/story-RFvtl7g3WPf4SGRbdOQbQM.html
06-05-2020||India||Second economic stimulus package likely soon: CEA||The second economic stimulus package can be expected “very soon”, Chief Economic Adviser Krishnamurthy V Subramanian said in an interview on Saturday, although he declined to put a time-frame or a magnitude to it.Prime Minister Narendra Modi met with home minister Amit Shah and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday in the context of a stimulus package and an official familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that in a series of meetings on this theme the Prime Minister has, over the past few days reviewed trade, commerce, coal and mining, defence, aviation, power, agriculture, and the education sectors.The PM chaired a meet on strengthening the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME). “Chaired a meeting on strengthening our MSME sector, which plays a pivotal role in economic development,” he tweeted. He discussed interventions in the financial sector and structural reforms needed to spur growth. At the meeting with the finance minister and other officials, he also discussed strategies and interventions to support MSMEs and farmers, enhance liquidity and strengthen credit flows. The PM discussed ways to ensure financial stability and measures taken to enable businesses to recover quickly.  Watch | ‘Was the government blindsided on migrants’: CEA answers | On The RecordCoronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe focus of the package, when it is announced, will be making the Indian economy self-reliant and turning the current crisis into an opportunity, a second person familiar with the matter said, asking not to be identified.The ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the lockdown enforced to slow its progress have roiled the economy. On Friday, the government announced a graded exit from the lockdown over two weeks starting May 4. However, in so-called red zones, the most affected or most at-risk parts of the country, many of the restrictions will continue. The IMF has said India will grow by 1.9% this calendar year.“We have to keep in mind, this is not something that is specific to India, but a global pandemic. This is an extremely uncertain period, so any projection we make will have to be continually recalibrated as things evolve.IMF has said India will grow at 1.9% when the global economy is going to shrink at 3%... They put in several caveats as they should. Even with the Spanish Flu, there was a V-shaped growth after. With that in mind, overall, I would say between 1-2% of GDP is something I would think,” Subramanian said.Meanwhile, the government has already received specific proposals of policy reforms and fiscal incentives from various stakeholders and industries but a final decision will be taken after careful assessment of various sectors of the economy, the two officials cited above said. Industry has proposed a comprehensive stimulus package worth Rs 16 lakh crore, which includes welfare measures, policy reforms and fiscal concessions, to revive the economy. The government has come in for criticism over the delay in announcing a stimulus package.Subramanian said that the delay was because of the government’s desire to come up with a “comprehensive” one. “Primarily, the work is on trying to make it very comprehensive. Not just in terms of the stimulus, but bringing in some reform measures as well. Policy-making is also about balancing different interests. Do recognise that during the period of the lockdown, economic activity has remained down.”The primary focus was containing the spread of the pandemic, and providing relief to the poor, the two officials said. Now, the next big agenda of the government is to bring the economy back on track.“A stimulus is expected sooner than later and it is a work in progress. But, it will neither be the first stimulus, nor the last. The government will provide relief to every sector in a caliberated manner so that the limited resource can be utilised most effectively. The immediate focus would be on rural economy, informal sector, MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) and those big industries that would have rippling impact on the three. Public money will be spent in a measured way so that maximum desired results for the entire economy are ensured,” the first official said.Subramanian, however, did not put a number to the possible package. However, he added that reports of a stimulus as much as 10% of the GDP in the US and 15% in the UK are exaggerated. “Take the UK, which has a 350-billion pound guarantee programme. Now entire cost of that is not 350-billion pounds but a fraction of that — possibly 35 billion. So the number that is floating around of 15% of GDP, isn’t accurate — actual number is 3.7% of GDP. Similarly, the US number is 6.7% of the GDP and not 10%. That’s something we have done carefully, we’ve looked at each of those numbers.”He also said that India can’t compare itself to the US . “40-50% of the US population pays taxes while in contrast the number in India is less than 10%. We cannot cherry-pick some of these aspects, there are significant differences that you have to keep in mind,’’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-economic-stimulus-package-likely-soon-cea/story-CxJz153qKFAs215Fx0Y9kN.html
06-05-2020||India||Muffins with chapatti: Along with ration, these thoughtful treats are delighting the tiny tots||The coronavirus pandemic has caused widespread chaos. With panic, desperation and gloom all around, there is certainly no time for niceties, one would think. With so many going hungry, corona warriors are focusing on providing basic ration to as many as possible. Gurpreet Wassi, a Delhi-based entrepreneur who has been carrying out relief mission across the city one day that she needed to do something additional, at least for the kids. As hungry children hurriedly gathered to take their share of food, she thought that mere roti or khichdi won’t do, something sweet can bring a smile on their faces. “I wrote a post on my Facebook if anyone could help me with muffins, as it is very tough to arrange for such items these days. Luckily, two companies came ahead to support me. They prepare fruit buns that can be eaten alone. Along with that, a bakery also agreed to make muffins for the children.”Wassi says there’s always joy in the eyes of the children as they receive these treats. “I have also seen children eat muffins with chapattis happily… these are bizarre times, and it’s nice to see them relish it with so much love,” says Wassi.Vineet, an 11th standard student in the rural area of Tauru, Mewat is also distributing cakes to the kids living in JJ colonies, along with rashan. “Kids love anything sweet and because of the lockdown, they haven’t eaten chocolates or candies for weeks. So I thought of giving them cakes along with dry ration that we put together for their families. The sparkle in their eyes was priceless,” he says. Satish Yadav, SDM, Tauru, says, “It’s heartening that NGOs as well as individuals are approaching us. They want to distribute ration to the underprivileged people. We support them so that the distribution happens smoothly. We have formed a committee at the micro level to ensure that everyone gets meals, but this special touch of adding chocolates and candies in the kits was really sweet. The kids were pleasantly surprised,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muffins-with-chapatti-along-with-rashan-these-thoughtful-treats-are-delighting-the-tiny-tots/story-W9ODCAHfvYm7L9UwJULqsK.html
