10-05-2020||India||To escape 28-day quarantine, 20 Odisha migrants jump off train||At least 20 migrant workers returning to Odisha on a Shramik Special train from Ahmedabad got down from the train by pulling the chain in Angul district hours before they were to be quarantined.The incident took place this evening near Majhika in Angul district. “Many managed to flee, but locals apprehended some of the violators. Later, they were handed over to the police,” said police officials in Angul.Though about a dozen migrants escaped taking advantage of the darkness, locals apprehended 7 persons roaming suspiciously near the track. They admitted having escaped from the ‘Sharmik Special’ train, said Angul SP Jagmohan Meena.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe state government has now made it mandatory for the arriving migrant workers to stay in 28 days of quarantine including 21 days of institutional quarantine to prevent the community spread of Covid-19.Migrants returning from states like Gujarat, Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have led to a rapid surge of Covid-19 cases in Odisha since last fortnight, with close to 300 of the 377 cases coming from them. Since last week, there have been quite a few incidences of migrants jumping quarantine in Odisha.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Last week, 150 migrants in Beguniapada block of Ganjam district fled the quarantine centres after complaining of lack of water and quality of food. Later, 128 of them were caught. Similarly, some of the migrants in Bhadrak district coming in a bus from Surat had got down several kilometres ahead of the quarantine centre and gone straight to their homes. The Ganjam district administration threatened to arrest people jumping quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-escape-28-day-quarantine-20-odisha-migrants-jump-off-train/story-wLhtKdCupVILmF8q1pE8SP.html
10-05-2020||India||16 more Covid 19 cases from BSF camp in Tripura takes state’s tally to 148||Tripura recorded 16 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday from a Border Security Force’s (BSF) camp on Sunday at Ambassa in Dhalai District, nearly 100 kilometres from Agartala, officials said.Among those who tested positive in the BSF’s 86th Battalion camp are one BSF official, six women and nine children. The new cases took the tally of active cases in the state to 148.All these positive cases were found from the 86th Battalion and 138th Battalion of BSF since May 2. Both the battalions are closely located at Ambassa. However, no community transmission was found among the civilians in Dhalai so far, officials said.Dhalai district had already been declared a ‘ red zone’ due to rise in Covid-19 cases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb took to Twitter to announce the latest cases.“ALERT ! 16 persons found #COVID19 POSITIVE in Tripura from 86th-Bn #BSF (Official:1, Female:6, Children: 9). We are conducting max number of tests. 75 Samples from 3rd-Bn BSF tested but all reports are NEGATIVE,” he wrote. ALERT !16 persons found #COVID19 POSITIVE in Tripura from 86th-Bn #BSF (Official:1, Female:6, Children: 9).We are conducting max number of tests. 75 Samples from 3rd-Bn BSF tested but all reports are NEGATIVE.➤ Total active cases:148➤ Transferred out:02➤ Recovered:02In addition to Jawharnagar with three kilometres radius around it, BSF’s Gandacherra base camp and Kareena Border OutPost, a Border OutPost of BSF 3rd Battalion located at Dhalaighat village, nearly 95 kilometres from Agartala were declared as containment zones. The first two patients in the state had recovered in April.The state government has converted one Bhagat Singh Youth Hostel in Agartala into a Covid-19 care centre with 300 beds to tackle the rising cases of infection.With the addition of these 300 beds, the state currently has a total of 410 beds for Covid-19 treatment including 80 beds at GBP hospital and 30 beds at IGM Hospital. Protesting against the government’s decision to convert the youth hostel, the local residents on Sunday blocked the road for a few hours, but they later withdrew their protest after the police intervened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-reports16-more-covid-19-cases-in-tripura-state-s-tally-now-at-148/story-84DGoOEjXuLAkx1TWUVOzN.html
10-05-2020||India||CBI questions two IAS officers in UP PF scam, it has links to DHFL||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Sunday questioned two IAS officers of Uttar Pradesh cadre--Alok Kumar and Aparna U--in connection with the alleged irregularities in the investment of over Rs 4,300 crore of provident fund belonging to Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited employees in scam-hit DHFL (Dewan Housing Finance Ltd), run by Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan, and other housing finance companies, officials said. Wadhwans are currently in CBI custody in connection with the Yes Bank probe. While Kumar, a 1988-batch officer was questioned for over eight hours, Aparna U, 2001-batch officer, was questioned for nearly six hours during Saturday.According to UP Government’s web site, Kumar is presently posted as Principal Secretary UP Infrastructure and Industrial Development while Aparna is posted as Secretary in Irrigation and Water Resources department of state government.During the investigation of UPPCL PF scam, the CBI has found that over Rs 4,323 crore of hard-earned savings of UPPCL employees under provident fund was allegedly invested in DHFL and other housing finance companies during Kumar’s tenure as Chairman, UPPCL in 2017-19, officials said. Aparna U too was involved in the investment of Rs 3,245 crore in DHFL and other companies out of Rs 4,323 crore, they added. According to CBI FIR in the case, it is alleged that a total of Rs 4,122.70 crore was invested in the DHFL, out of which Rs 2,267.90 crore are still outstanding, officials said. It is also alleged that the officials of UPPCL conspired to get the provident funds deposited in schemes of DHFL circumventing the rules that did not encourage such investments. The CBI took over the investigation into the scam from the UP police on March 5 this year. The Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL) is facing multiple probes after a report suggested that the company, through layers of shell companies, allegedly siphoned off Rs 31,000 crore out of bank loans of Rs 97,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-questions-two-ias-officers-in-up-pf-scam-it-has-links-to-dhfl/story-cPIL5h0XCPzQTuKSDOm0lM.html
10-05-2020||India||Pune lab develops India’s 1st indigenous Covid-19 testing kit named Elisa||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan announced on Sunday that India has developed indigenous Covid-19 testing kit. Elisa, developed by Pune-based Institute of Virology, detects antibodies for Covid-19.“National Institute of Virology, Pune has successfully developed the 1st indigenous anti-SARS-CoV-2 human IgG ELISA test kit for antibody detection of #COVID19,” Harsh Vardhan tweeted on Sunday evening.“This robust test will play a critical role in surveillance of proportion of population exposed to #SARSCoV2 infection,” he said further in the tweet. National Institute of Virology, Pune has successfully developed the 1st indigenous anti-SARS-CoV-2 human IgG ELISA test kit for antibody detection of #COVID19 .This robust test will play a critical role in surveillance of proportion of population exposed to #SARSCoV2 infection pic.twitter.com/pEJdM6MOX6India’s tally of Covid-19 positive cases crossed the 62,000-mark on Sunday after the country reported more than 3,200 new cases in the last 24 hours.According to Union health ministry, the country recorded 128 deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 2,109.The number of people who have recovered stood at 19,357.The highest number of cases continued to be reported from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi and Tamil Nadu.The health ministry further said that as many as 6542 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Seventy three people have died from the infection while 2020 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.The number of Covid-19 positive cases crossed the 20,000-mark in Maharashtra on Sunday, according to Union Health Ministry data. The state reported 1,165 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 20,228.It took Maharashtra only nine days to go from 10,000 cases to 20,000 cases.Authorities are now focusing on 10 states that account for the most number of cases and deployed central teams to 10 states that have witnessed or are witnessing high caseload and a high spurt of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-lab-develops-indigenous-covid-19-testing-kit-named-elisa/story-2f8yb3Cnd9rW2AWQxqEDwK.html
10-05-2020||India||Styrene gas leak survivors will have to wait some more days to return home||Around 15,000 villagers in the surrounding areas of LG Polymers India Ltd on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam will have to wait for some more days to return to their homes as the residential localities are yet to completely sanitised following the leakage of styrene gas that killed 12 people on Thursday, officials said on Sunday.At a review meeting held by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday, the officials told him that though the styrene vapour residue in the ambient air in the area has come down to safe levels, experts were making an assessment of the situation in the five villages surrounding the plant.State minister for industries Mekapati Gautam Reddy told Hindustan Times that the temperature levels in the styrene gas storage tank had come down to the normal level and even National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) representatives had endorsed it.“However, there is an issue of contamination of food, drinking water and other essentials in the houses of these villagers because of the styrene gas impact. They have to be removed. Even clothes in their houses have to be thoroughly washed. We are yet to assess the contamination of ground water in these villages. So, it is always better to allow people only after ensuring that everything is safe and secure in the villages after getting green signals from the experts,” Reddy said.The chief minister, too, directed the officials to see that the villagers were allowed only after taking proper sanitation and safety measures. “It requires a massive sanitation drive. A large number of animal carcasses have to be removed from the area and drains have to be cleaned, so that they would not pose further problems to the villagers,” the minister said.Till such time, the evacuees have to stay put in their relief camps. “We cannot tell immediately as to how long they would have to stay there, but we hope to restore normalcy in the area in a couple of days,” Gautam Reddy said.The minister said the anxiety of the evacuees to return to their villages was understandable, as they were worried about their belongings. “They all left homes unlocked and ran for their safety on the fateful day. And the police had to break open the doors of some other houses to bring out people who had fallen unconscious while they were asleep,” he said. He said directions had been issued to the Visakhapatnam police authorities lock the houses which were deserted by the people and keep a vigil on the other houses whose doors were broken. “We shall ensure that their belongings are safe,” Reddy said.Visakhapatnam district medical and health officer Tirumala Rao said 411 patients were undergoing treatment in various hospitals and many of them had completely recovered. “We shall discharge them and send them back, only after getting clearance from the government,” he said.The chief minister asked the officials to complete the distribution of compensation that he had announced for the bereaved families, the affected persons and the villagers who were evacuated from their homes on account of the disaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/styrene-gas-leak-survivors-will-have-to-wait-some-more-days-to-return-home/story-gehQWN1jGe1JUyC1ajrxVO.html
10-05-2020||India||Railways starting train services gradually from May 12: Important facts you need to know||Indian Railways on Saturday announced that it would resume the train services gradually, starting May 12, after 51 days of suspension since March 22 due to the coronavirus outbreak in the country and the subsequent lockdown imposed to restrict people’s movement and intermingling. Further details including train schedule will be issued separately in due course. Here are some of the most important facts you need to know about the resumption of train services.1. Railways resume operations from 12th May 2020, initially with 15 pairs of trains that will translate into 30 return journeys.2. The 15 train services will connect New Delhi with Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi railway stations.3. Booking and reservations for these trains will begin at 4 pm on Monday, May 11 only through IRCTC website. There will be no booking done at railway stations or IRCTC counters. Booking of tickets through agents shall not be allowed. Even platform tickets will not be issued.4. No provision of Tatkal and premium Tatkal accommodation. 5. Only passengers carrying valid confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the railway stations. All the passengers will have to wear face masks or a face cover. 6. Passengers will also be screened at the station of their departure. Only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the trains.7. Gradually more special services will begin on new routes based on the availability of coaches keeping in mind the 20,000 coaches that have been set aside for Covid-19 care centres and those that are being used to run up to 300 Shramik Special trains every day for stranded migrants.8. All coaches in these 15 special trains will be Air-conditioned9. Fares charged on these special trains will be equivalent to Rajdhani fares10. All precautions and social distancing norms will be followed at stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-starting-train-services-gradually-from-may-12-most-important-facts-you-need-to-know/story-SQf3YWU4rrJ9ZtH6FyMiGN.html
10-05-2020||India||Odisha’s Covid-19 cases double in a week as migrant workers return from Surat||The surge in Covid-19 positive cases in Odisha since last week continued unabated with 83 more people testing positive on Sunday the largest single-day spike as the migrant workers from Gujarat and other States pushed the state towards becoming a coronavirus hotspot.With 83 testing positive, all of whom were migrant workers barring one, the total number of positive cases in Odisha touched 377, more than double from 163 cases just a week ago.The steepest rise came on the day the state reported its third Covid-19 death, after officials said a 40-year-old man of Ganjam district who had returned from Surat on May 6 and was quarantined in Dhunkapada grampanchayat and later died on May 8 had tested positive after his death.The situation in Ganjam district, the epicentre of Covid-19, seems to be spiralling with 125 cases reported in less than a week. All the 125 people who tested positive had returned from Surat. A seven-member team including director of health services and representatives from WHO, Indian Council of Medical Research and Regional Medical Research Centre is currently visiting Ganjam to assist the district administration in containment, surveillance and medical response.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The other Covid-19 hotspots that have become headache for the State government are Jajpur district (60 cases), Balasore (42) and Bhadrak (31). Among the 377 who tested positive, 290 had come from Surat and Bengal, the two biggest sources of Covid-19 cases in Odisha followed by 41 with Nizamuddin links.So far infections have been reported in 21 of the 30 districts.With the migrants inflating the Covid-19 positive cases in the state, officials were worried by the prospect of cases ballooning in the next couple of weeks as 4-5 lakh more migrants are likely to arrive in Odisha.So far, 57,000-odd migrants have returned to Odisha from other States of which Ganjam alone accounted for over 32,000 returnees.What has added to the worries of the district administration is people jumping quarantine. Odisha Assembly Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro on Sunday alleged that migrants are slipping out of quarantine centres at night to be with their family members even as the officials said those violating quarantine norms would be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-covid-19-cases-double-in-a-week-as-migrant-workers-return-from-surat/story-Aml2zBdNlzMNfBJPPX80YO.html
10-05-2020||India||Coronavirus latest: Tamil Nadu overtakes Delhi, becomes third most Covid infected, Chennai among 4 worst-hit cities||Tamil Nadu has overtaken Delhi on Sunday as the country’s third most coronavirus affected state/union territory with the total number of infections crossing the 7,000-mark, according to a health bulletin released by the state, reported PTI. The southern state has seen a surge in coronavirus positive cases in the last few days and Sunday was no different with 669 new infections and three deaths taking the state’s tall to 7,204-- about 600 less than Gujarat (7,796) and approximately 700 cases more than national capital Delhi (6,542).1,959 positive patients have so far recovered from the virus in the state including 135 people, who were discharged on Sunday from various hospitals.Of the 669 new infections, 412 patients were men and 257 were women. The health bulletin said they had contracted the disease from other identified contacts.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesTamil Nadu’s capital, Chennai, is the worst-hit city in the state with 3,839 positive cases; it also accounts for 509 of the 669 new coronavirus cases reported in the last 24 hours in the state. Chennai is country’s fourth worst-hit city after Mumbai, Delhi and Ahmedabad.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19In comparison, the situation in other southern states is much better than Tamil Nadu. Andhra Pradesh with 1,930 cases is a distant second, followed by neighbouring Telangana which is in the 3rd spot with 1,163 positive cases followed by Karnataka and Kerala in the 4th and 5th spot respectively, with 794 and 505 cases, according to the latest data made available by the health ministry’s Covid dashboard.India’s coronavirus count on Sunday has gone past the 60,000-mark with 62,939 positive cases including 41,472 actives cases and 2,109 deaths, reported the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-tamil-nadu-overtakes-delhi-becomes-third-most-covid-infected-chennai-among-4-worst-hit-cities/story-6QRfVAXO4jKLhWZ5TSMYJP.html
10-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Karnataka sees biggest single day jump with 54 new Covid-19 cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnataka sees biggest single day jump with 54 new Covid-19 casesKarnataka recorded its single biggest day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 54 more people testing positive to take the cumulative tally to 848 including 31 deaths and 422 discharges, the state health department said. Read more. Thackeray set to enter Legislative Council unopposed after Congress withdraws nomineeMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is set to enter the Legislative Council unopposed after the Congress on Sunday said that it would withdraw one of its two nominees for the May 21 elections to nine seats. Read more. Passenger train ops to start from Tuesday; only online booking allowedThe Indian Railways will gradually restart passenger train operations from May 12, initially with 15 pairs of trains, the railways ministry said on Sunday.Read more. Kerala reports 7 new cases as expatriates, migrants threaten a third-waveKerala reported seven new coronavirus cases on Sunday-- the highest in the last week—including three who returned from the middle-eastern countries. Four other cases are of transmissions from primary carriers, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Read more. What does the US-China rift mean for the world? | OpinionThe rhetoric between the world’s two largest political powers — the United States (US) and China — has heated up. The trend began several years ago, during Barack Obama’s presidency.Read more. How designer Neeta Lulla created Juhi Chawla’s look in 2.5 hours for the Tandav song in movie DarrThe 1993 Yash Raj thriller Darr remains one of the most iconic films in Bollywood till date. Actor Juhi Chawla who was the female lead in the film looked absolutely beautiful in the film and her costumes that were created by designer Neeta Lulla who had previously worked with Yash Raj Films during Chandni and Lamhe that had Sridevi as the female lead opposite the late Rishi Kapoor and Anil Kapoor. Read more. Fire sweeps through park without burning trees or grass, surreal video amazes peopleA video, which is mesmerising and baffling in equal parts, has gone crazy viral online. The clip shows a park covered with a white veil which burns away. What’s surprising is that the fire doesn’t touch the green grass, tree barks, or even the wooden bench.Read more. Covid-19 will go away without vaccine: Donald Trump on health crisisDonald Trump, President of the United States of America, asserted that the Covid-19 pandemic might ‘go away’ without a vaccine. He made the comment while being asked about the importance of a vaccine in the fight against the Sars-Cov-2 coronavirus. Trump said that after the virus ‘goes away’, there might still be some flare-ups, but the authorities would be able to ‘put them out’. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-karnataka-sees-biggest-single-day-jump-with-54-new-covid-19-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-uVvvqUjbaAL5YsUY1ibbOM.html
10-05-2020||India||Six year-old in Odisha suffocates to death after getting trapped in car||A six-year-old boy in Odisha’s Ganjam district choked to death after accidentally locking himself in a car parked near his maternal grandparents’ house on Sunday, police said.Police officials said the boy had been to Halandakhola village in Jagannathprasad block of Ganjam district with his mother Sunita to attend the 11th day rituals of his maternal grandmother. As everyone was occupied with their works, the six-year-old hopped into a car parked outside. As soon as he stepped in, the door closed he was trapped inside the vehicle.“With all doors and windows of the car closed, the minor probably suffocated inside and collapsed on the seat. When the boy’s mother could not find the child for a long time, she finally looked into the car and found him motionless inside,” said a police official of Tarasingh police station.He was rushed to Bhanjanagar Sub-Divisional Hospital where the doctors declared him dead.The boy’s father Bikram Pradhan works in Surat and is currently stranded there due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-year-old-in-odisha-suffocates-to-death-after-getting-trapped-in-car/story-SBqaWx2SgqMX0MZeYA7R9I.html
10-05-2020||India||Bengal sends teams to plug gaps in containment zones of three districts||Hooghly and South 24-Parganas, two districts in south Bengal which have registered a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases over the past one week, are fast turning out to be major concerns for the West Bengal government.Additionally, there are the red zone districts of Kolkata, Howrah and North 24-Parganas that have set the alarm bells ringing. Out of the 1,786 cases reported till May 9, 85% of the cases were registered in these three red zone districts. Another red zone district, East Midnapore, has registered a decline in containment areas.“While the number of containment zones in South 24-Parganas has shot up from one to 30 in the past one week, the number of positive Covid-19 cases in Hooghly has shot up from 40 to 71 in the last one week,” said a senior official of the state government who was not willing to be named. This has prompted the state government to deploy three expert teams in the districts of North 24-Parganas, Hooghly and South 24 Parganas to identify gaps in containment zones of the three districts. Along with Kolkata and Howrah, cases are being reported on a daily basis from these three districts. “Each team will have four doctors, all experts in community medicine. The team will look into quality control and supervise the teams that are already deployed in containment areas. Increase in containment areas and rise in Covid figures in a district are an indication that there could be some gaps in containment zones. The expert teams will try to find out these gaps,” said the official.The teams will check whether samples of high-risk patents, SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection) patients and ILI (influenza-like illnesses) patients are being tested, identify clusters from weekly reports and comment on the measures in containment areas, the official said. There are at least 566 containment zones in the state. Out of them, Kolkata has 326 containment areas. North 24-Parganas, with 92 such areas, comes next, followed by Howrah with 76 containment areas. South 24-Parganas and Hooghly have 30 and 23 zones, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-sends-teams-to-plug-gaps-in-containment-zones-of-three-districts/story-gBg5aumw2SO01K6pzp7xdK.html
10-05-2020||India||Western disturbance brings dust storm, thunderstorm in northwest India||Dust storms and thunderstorms were reported in several parts of northwest India, including Delhi, on Sunday with the weather department attributing them to a western disturbance (WD) and a simultaneous cyclonic circulation.Thunderstorms may continue over the western Himalayan region and some parts of the northern plains till May 12, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s Sunday bulletin.Another fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region from May 14. It is likely to bring rain and thundershowers to the northern plains on May 15 and 16, the weather department said.There is also an orange alert for parts of Uttarakhand, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir for May 13 and 14 when thundershowers and gusty winds are expected. An orange alert implies that agencies should be prepared for extreme weather.The western disturbance on May 14 will be the fourth such weather event in May. Because of consecutive western disturbances and associated clouds and strong winds, the maximum temperature has not risen in most parts of northwest India as it normally does in this time of the year.“In Delhi, we record maximum temperature of up to 45 degrees during this time of the year. But this May, we have recorded 40.8 degrees Celsius only yesterday (Saturday). Maximum temperature will fall now by a couple of degrees till the impact of WDs weakens. We are not expecting rain or thundershowers in Delhi on Monday, but it will remain cloudy. The northwesterly winds due to WDs are meeting easterly winds in the lower levels — which is enhancing thunderstorm activity here,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, the regional weather forecasting centre.According to him, the maximum temperature may not peak until May 17. Following the dust storms and thundershowers on Sunday, the maximum temperature in Delhi fell to 35.5 degrees Celsius, four degrees below normal.“In April or May, the intensity of WDs reduce. There could be many reasons for this unusual pattern of active WDs this year. It could be linked to European climate anomalies because WDs originate in the Mediterranean, mid latitude circulation features may also be impacting,” M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, told HT in April.Western disturbances are low pressure systems that generally originate over the Mediterranean region and are known to bring winter rain in India. Their intensity reduces in summer when they move to upper latitudes. Scientists say changes in their pattern may be due to weather anomalies in Europe, or they could also be linked to favourable sea temperatures over the Pacific.Due to a trough (area of low pressure), scattered rain and thundershowers are also likely over central and south peninsular India during next four-five days. Thunderstorms accompanied with lightning, hail and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) at some places are also likely over these regions in the same period. Heavy rainfall is likely over some places in Kerala and Tamil Nadu on Monday, and over Kerala and Coastal Karnataka on May 13 and 14. Thundershowers will continue over northeast India during next four-five days, the IMD’s bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/western-disturbance-brings-dust-storm-thunderstorm-in-northwest-india/story-QRyyD3RZjHiqY6Gsmtal4K.html
10-05-2020||India||Karnataka sees biggest single day jump with 54 new Covid-19 cases||Karnataka recorded its single biggest day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 54 more people testing positive to take the cumulative tally to 848 including 31 deaths and 422 discharges, the state health department said. Shivamogga district which was in the green zone reported eight new cases.State health department officials said that the majority – 31 of the 54 new cases had travel history to a dargah (shrine) in Ajmer, Rajasthan. Eight of the people who came from Gujarat and tested positive had also visited the Ajmer dargah.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Meanwhile, the government has sealed two hospitals in Bengaluru after their alleged negligence led to death of a 56-year-old patient identified as P-846. The patient is to have been taken to a private hospital with respiratory difficulties on May 4 but despite standing instructions from the government that any SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection) case be tested for Covid-19, it wasn’t done.As the patient’s condition deteriorated, she was directed to another private hospital on May 6 and there too no swab sample for Covid-19 was taken and she passed away on May 7. A swab sample taken after her death tested positive for Covid-19. Health officials said action would be taken against both the private hospitals for negligence.Five different Shramik Special trains left Bangalore on Sunday for West Bengal, UP, MP, Bihar and Jammu and Kashmir carrying migrants stranded in Karnataka.The state government has also geared up to receive its first set of 240 Kannadigas who are returning from London and whose flight is expected to land in the early hours of Monday. Health department officials said that all precautions have been taken and preparations have been done to quarantine incoming passengers for the next two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-sees-biggest-single-day-jump-in-covid-19-with-54-new-cases/story-UQlat9YGxEXyk8ho8rqEMM.html
10-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Yogi asks high-level teams to camp in Agra, Meerut, Kanpur||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered on Sunday high-level medical teams and senior bureaucrats to camp in Agra, Meerut and Kanpur for Covid-19 containment as these three districts have recorded a spike in coronavirus cases.Yogi Adityanath issued this directive at a review meeting with chairpersons of 11 committees set up for Covid-19 management. “Send high-level medical teams to Agra, Meerut and Kanpur to contain the spread of Covid-19 and monitor pandemic containment and treatment,” the chief minister said at the meeting. He also asked senior bureaucrats to go to the three districts. The chief minister directed infrastructure and industrial development commissioner (IIDC) Alok Kumar, and principal secretary, medical education, Rajneesh Dubey to camp in Agra. He also said he wanted a senior doctor of SGPGIMS (Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow) and senior police officers to go to Agra. Besides, he asked principal secretary, irrigation, T Venkatesh to camp in Meerut with senior health, medical education and police officers. The details of the officials who would be sent to Kanpur were not mentioned.The chief minister asked officials to make all ventilators functional, prepare a list of anaesthetists and train them to operate ventilators. Emphasising on boosting the immunity of the general public, he asked the officers concerned and the respective district administrations to encourage the use of Ayush Kavach Covid app created by the state’s ayush department. “This would help and guide people towards immunity enhancement because it has a lot of Ayurveda and yoga-related tips,” Adityanath said.He said a list of migrants returning to UP should be arranged so that the government could manage their safe homecoming. The state government is committed to the safety of the returning migrants, he said, adding that it must be ensured that no migrant would have to take a long walk home. Laying stress on strict adherence to the lockdown, he asked officials to ensure enhanced alertness on both inter-state and international borders of UP. All Covid-19 hospitals must have sufficient PPE (personal protective equipment), N-95 masks, sanitisers and other related paraphernalia, he said. All the community kitchens must maintain the highest level of cleanliness and they should be sanitised frequently, he said. These kitchens must supply good and sufficient food to the needy, he added. While all migrants must be screened, those with symptoms must be tested, he said. Those who test positive should be provided with the best of treatment, he said, adding that healthy migrants should be sent home with ration kits.Along with the Team-11 officers, medical education minister Suresh Khanna; health minister Jai Pratap Singh and minister of state for health Atul Garg were present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-yogi-asks-high-level-teams-to-camp-in-agra-meerut-kanpur/story-clb1KIIoizTVS9VdRLdnTO.html
10-05-2020||India||Thackeray set to enter Legislative Council unopposed after Congress withdraws nominee||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is set to enter the Legislative Council unopposed after the Congress on Sunday said that it would withdraw one of its two nominees for the May 21 elections to nine seats.“We have decided to field only one out of two nominees for the MLC elections, which means the MVA (Maha Vikas Aghadi of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) will have five nominees for as many seats (out of the total nine)”, state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat was quoted as saying by PTI. Earlier in the day, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut had said that Thackeray was not willing to contest the legislative council polls unless elected unopposed, adding that the ruling alliance partner Congress was firm on contesting two seats, which was likely to force a contest.The BJP has fielded four candidates. The coalition government in Maharashtra had earlier asked Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to nominate Thackeray to the legislative council.On April 30, the Governor shut the nomination door on Thackeray and requested the Election Commission to hold elections for nine seats to the state legislative council at the earliest to end the political uncertainty in the state.Thackeray, who took over as chief minister on November 28, is not a member of either House of the legislature and must be elected to one of the houses by May 28 to keep his job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-set-to-enter-legislative-council-unopposed-after-congress-withdraws-nominee/story-zHTRXcuXsdukslm115oO9N.html
10-05-2020||India||In UP villages, migrant workers allege harassment upon return||Fear of the coronavirus disease and the stigma associated with the Covid-19 are stalking several Uttar Pradesh villages where migrant workers have returned.These migrants say that they, and even their family members in some cases, are being singled out, and harassed by villagers who suspect them to be carriers of the infection.Armed with sticks, a group of villagers last Tuesday allegedly surrounded Shekhar, a migrant worker who returned to his village in Basti district of eastern UP. The villagers were angry because he had ventured out of the primary school, where he was being quarantined, to relieve himself, Shekhar said.“The villagers were scared of contracting the coronavirus disease, so they didn’t touch me. Otherwise, I would have been killed that day,” Shekhar said.“They hurled abuses at me and threatened to beat me if I ventured out of the school,” he added. Shekhar said he had not been tested for Covid-19. He also claimed that he did not have any symptoms of the infection.Misconceptions, lack of information and caste system prevalent in villages had made things worse, some of them alleged.Ravi Maurya, a migrant worker of Prayagraj, who returned to his village by a ‘Shramik Special’ train, said, “Most of the villagers who have returned home belong to the lower castes. The upper caste villagers harass us more. An upper caste villager started abusing me one day just because I was standing on the roof of my house. Even though I am not infected, the villagers fear that I will spread the coronavirus even from roof of my house.”Migrants from villages in Barabanki, Ayodhya and other districts also complained of similar harassment.Dinesh Verma, a migrant worker from Pratapgarh district, alleged that a local grocery shop owner asked his wife to not visit his shop. “I have to request my relatives to help me in procuring things of daily need,” he said.For its part, the government has asked the village heads to ensure that the migrants adhere to home quarantine.Pankaj Yadav, husband of the village head of Mahadewa village in Basti, helps his wife in day-to-day work. The task includes asking migrant labourers to stay home and other villagers to stay away from them.“It would have been much easier to keep the migrant labourers in quarantine at government schools. Ensuring quarantine at home is very difficult and it also leads to problems with other villagers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-up-villages-migrant-workers-allege-harassment-upon-return/story-A7b4WvgCpMAuTIoaYqtMIK.html
10-05-2020||India||Coronavirus latest: Kerala reports 7 new cases as expatriates, migrants threaten a third-wave||Kerala reported seven new coronavirus cases on Sunday-- the highest in the last week—including three who returned from the middle-eastern countries. Four other cases are of transmissions from primary carriers, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.The state, which has maintained a relatively healthy graph with high recovery and low mortality rates, has heightened vigilance after the return of expatriates from the Gulf began under the Vande Bharat Mission along with the movement of migrants. Seven flights from the Middle East and a navy ship from Maldives carrying stranded residents has arrived in the state during the last few days.The state government is conscious of the need to step up vigilance at this crucial juncture and is thus observing a complete lockdown on Sunday to prevent a third wave of infections.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe first coronavirus case in the country was reported in Kerala when a couple of students from China tested positive upon their return in January and the second wave was seen in March when some infected returnees from foreign countries jumped quarantine to become the super spreaders of the disease.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Most of the returnees from Arab countries arriving now, apart from the UAE, have not been tested for the disease, which is a cause of concern for the administration. Most of the 500 passengers, who landed in the state on Saturday from Oman, Kuwait and Qatar were not subjected to anti-body tests to detect coronavirus infection.In a positive development, North Kerala district Kasaragod, once a hotspot with 180 cases, has turned Covid-free with the discharge of the last patient on Sunday. According to the latest data, 489 out of a total of 512 positive cases in the state have been discharged, leaving 23 under treatment in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-kerala-reports-7-new-cases-as-expatriates-migrants-threaten-a-third-wave/story-EB7fmLhOPFloRajuO87w1N.html
10-05-2020||India||Saluting the spirit of ‘khaki warriors’!||Saluting the phenomenal hard work of frontline warriors in the state capital, director-producer Sanjiv Jaiswal has come up with a film on Police Commissionerate Lucknow. Uploaded on its official Twitter handle, the social media is widely circulating and praising the commendable work the men in khaki are doing on various fronts.Lucknow Commissioner of Police (CP) Sujeet Pandey shared that the short film was made to make public aware about the efforts of the cops as one of the front warriors during Covid-19 pandemic. He also informed that the police efforts and work has been lauded by all sections of the society as they not only strictly enforced the lockdown but also helped people in the time of crisis by delivering medicines and food.Sanjiv has earlier written and directed films like ‘Pranam’ and ‘Shudra: The Rising’. He has also produced ‘Fareb’ and ‘Anwar’. The film maker was shooting Shudra’s sequel ‘Bagawat’ with Rajniesh Duggal when the lockdown halted the shoot.“The concept came after a discussion of my partner-friend Nitin Mishra with CP Sujeet Pandey. Then I wrote this script and after a go ahead we took the permission to shoot the film in various part of the city. We covered main spots of the city and shot various aspects of police personnel during the time of crisis,” said Sanjeev who has also given a voiceover in the film.The video shows how 12,000 cops are serving the 36-lakh population of the state capital. “From feeding poor and hungry, helping patients, providing all possible support in hotspots besides, enforcing the lockdown they have been doing so much. The film also shows the human side of the police force who are working 24x7 with the motto – ‘Suraksha aapki, Sankalp humara!’Sanjiv shot the film with an assistant and edited it at his workstation with limited resources. The Twitterati has showered the cops with praise and admiration, @nabanitachou1 wrote: You are your strength. @TaqviAzmat tweeted: millions of salute to Indian Police while Asad Sheikh wrote ‘Thank you #lkopolice #uppolice for being with us on every path in this pandemic away from family, you protect us all #the real heroes.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/saluting-the-spirit-of-khaki-warriors/story-uQYXUW1eOxK4ZIJzDEBRSM.html
10-05-2020||India||334 Covid-19 ‘super-spreaders’ found in Ahmedabad: Official||As many as 334 coronavirus ‘super-spreaders’ have been found in Ahmedabad so far, and it is the main reason for the order to keep shops of groceries and vegetables closed till May 15, officials said on Sunday.‘Super-spreaders’ are the infectious disease carriers who could transmit the pathogen to a large number of people.They could be vegetable vendors, grocery and milk shop owners, petrol pump attendants or garbage collectors, who by the nature of their job carry the risk of getting infected and infecting others.Till Saturday, Gujarat reported 7,797 coronavirus positive cases and 472 deaths. Of these, Ahmedabad alone has reported 5,540 cases and 363 deaths.An official here said they believe there are around 14,000 high-risk potential super-spreaders in the city, and they have decided to screen all of them in next three days.A similar exercise has also been undertaken in the suburbs and rural areas of the district, he said.The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) started targeting such people from April 20 as part of active surveillance, and has so far collected 3,817 samples of such suspects, out of whom 334 turned out to be positive, the official said.After a provision store owner in Vejalpur area here tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, all customers who visited the store over last 15 days to make purchases were asked to remain home quarantined, the official said.In Dholka town on Ahmedabad outskirts, a watermelon vendor was found coronavirus positive during a similar screening exercise, and was identified as a super-spreader.Nearly 96 people, who were his primary and secondary contacts, mostly family members, fellow vendors and regular customers, were quarantined. Of them, 12 tested positive for Covid-19, district development officer Arun Mahesh Babu said.Additional Chief Secretary Rajiv Gupta, appointed the for supervision, monitoring and coordination of works related to coronavirus in the city, said nearly 2,000 suspected super-spreaders were screened in two days after the AMC ordered closure of all shops, except milk and medicines, in the city for a week from May 7.“All the suspects will be tested by Wednesday,” the official said.The city has been placed under complete lockdown till that time.The AMC has also made it mandatory for owners and staff of shops and super markets to get their medical screening done by approaching their respective wards, and obtain ‘health screening cards’ based on test results.Both the Ahmedabad city and district administrations have undertaken the exercise to screen all super-spreaders to ensure they do not carry the risk of transmission before they go out to operate in the market, and also to regulate the number of such vendors, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/334-covid-19-super-spreaders-found-in-ahmedabad-official/story-VcbWq1wGTOzraboC0lEnVJ.html
10-05-2020||India||Deer gets kiss of life after crashing through roof of Mumbai slum||A spotted deer that crashed through the roof of a shanty in Powai shortly after midnight was rescued by animal welfare groups a couple of hours later on Sunday.Residents of the slum in Powai were woken up shortly after midnight when the deer crashed through the roof.The incident happened around 1.30 am in Mahatma Pule Chawl close to the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP). A slum dweller claimed that the deer was being chased by a predator.A seven member rescue team including animal welfare groups from Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare (RAWW), Plants and Animals Welfare Society (PAWS-Mumbai), and forest officials rescued the animal in a couple of hours.“We are not sure about the cause of the sudden fall though there are several rumours. It is an unusual rescue,” said Jitendra Ramgaokar, deputy conservator of forest (Thane). “The deer fell from a height into the settlement located at the base of a hill. The animal was in shock for a while, and could not move inside Karan Parihar’s home (a resident of the slum) for some time.”The chital, or spotted deer, which is found in SGNP, was taken to the rescue centre. “The deer only had minor injuries. A full checkup will be done and based on the presence of its herd in the same rescue area, the animal will be released,” said Vijay Barabde, range forest officer from SGNP.This is the second such incident in less than a month. Another spotted deer which jumped from a hill in Hanuman Tekdi on April 21 died due to the impact. “In both cases the animals were being chased by a predator and to save themselves jumped from the hill,” said Aaba Kubal, a resident of the slum who informed animal rescue groups.Pawan Sharma, president, RAWW said, “The animal ended up in a tough spot. The joint rescue was completed amidst hundreds of slum dwellers who had gathered.”“On April 21, the deer had fallen from a great height but in the latest incident it was a much shorter jump and the tin-shed broke his fall,” said Sunish Subramanian Kunju, PAWS-Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deer-gets-kiss-of-life-after-crashing-through-roof-of-mumbai-slum/story-SN6rSQQ4dh8YKNkLBHZWiN.html
10-05-2020||India||7,740 dedicated Covid -19 health facilities in 483 districts identified: Health Ministry||A total of 7,740 dedicated Covid -19 facilities in 483 districts have been identified, the Union health ministry said on Sunday, asserting that adequate health infrastructure is in place to fight the pandemic. The public health facilities dedicated to Covid -19 management are categorised into three categories -- Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH), Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) and Dedicated Covid Care Centre (DCCC). As on Sunday, 7,740 facilities in 483 districts have been identified in all States/Union Territories that include hospitals and facilities of the State/UT governments as well as the central government, a health ministry statement said. There are 6,56,769 isolation beds, 3,05,567 beds for confirmed cases, 3,51,204 for suspected cases, 99,492 oxygen-supported beds, 1,696 facilities with oxygen manifold and 34,076 ICU beds, it said. All the States/UTs have been requested by the central government to notify and upload the assigned three types of Covid dedicated facilities on their websites for public information and 32 States/UTs have already uploaded the information while the rest are in the process of doing it. In view of the need for further increasing the testing capacity for Covid -19 at National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the procurement of a high-throughput machine as per the recommendations of an Empowered Group was approved. The Cobas 6800 testing machine has been successfully installed at NCDC here, the statement said. NCDC is providing support for testing of samples from Delhi, NCR, Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir and various other states, as per need. Presently the testing capacity at NCDC is about 300-350 tests per day and with Cobas 6800, which has a capacity to test around 1,200 samples in 24 hours, the capacity at NCDC will be significantly enhanced. So far, a total of 19,357 people have been cured, including 1,511 patients who recovered in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said. This takes the total recovery rate to 30.76 per cent. The death toll due to Covid -19 rose to 2,109 and the number of cases climbed to 62,939 in the country on Sunday, registering an increase of 128 deaths and 3,277 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the ministry. The health ministry has also explained the basis of classification of Covid -19 dedicated facilities into the three categories. The Dedicated Covid Hospitals are hospitals that offer comprehensive care primarily for those who have been clinically assigned as severe. These hospitals shall have fully equipped ICUs, ventilators and beds with assured oxygen support. These hospitals shall have separate areas for suspect and confirmed cases. The Dedicated Covid Hospitals shall serve as referral centres for the Dedicated Covid Health Centres and the Covid Care Centres. The Dedicated Covid Health Centres are hospitals that offer care for all cases that have been clinically assigned as moderate. The DCHCs shall have separate areas for suspect and confirmed cases. These hospitals shall have beds with assured oxygen support and every DCHC is mapped to one or more Dedicated Covid Hospitals. The Covid Care Centres shall offer care only for cases that have been clinically assigned as mild or very mild cases or Covid suspect cases. These are makeshift facilities which may be set up by the States/UTs in hostels, hotels, schools, stadiums, lodges, etc., both public and private. These facilities shall have separate areas for suspected and confirmed cases. Every DCCC is mapped to one or more DCHC and at least one DCH for referral purposes, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-740-dedicated-covid-19-health-facilities-in-483-districts-identified-health-ministry/story-Xnad7ZOpoIu62Y2hZXlNYP.html
10-05-2020||India||Bihar to increase working hours in industrial units to 12 hours from 8, order likely on Monday||Bihar government has decided to extend the working hours from 8 hours to 12 hours in industrial institutions and offer some more relaxations in the provisions of the factories act to achieve higher productivity and attract more investments in the state following a graded easing of the lockdown to counter the slump in economic activities.The labour department is likely to issue an order in this regard on Monday. Bihar labour resources minister Vijay Kumar Sinha said the changes were in accordance with the guidelines issued by the centre.“We are also going to relax some more provisions in the factories act (1948) to make it more flexible to attract investment in the state in the coming months and to generate employment. We have taken the decisions as per the guidelines issued by the central government. Our objective is to enhance productivity and also safeguard the interest of workers,” he said.Asked whether the new working hours will also apply to the people employed in retail shops, the minister said the ambit of the order might increase after weighing the situation in the coming weeks. “Once the situation eases a bit, we will be able to take a decision depending on the requirement. The ambit of relaxations might increase,” he said.Punjab government has already extended the daily working hours in factories from nine to 12, while Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have amended labour laws to boost industrial activity and attract big-ticket investments.Deputy chief minister cum finance minister Sushil Kumar Modi told HT that several states have extended the working hours and the state government was studying the relaxations given by other states in relation to labour laws. Also Read: Some states put freeze on labour laws to get business goingAuthoritative sources said the state government’s labour and industries department has held wide-ranging discussions on the relaxations in labour laws and the factories act in the last few days to evolve a strategy for the optimum utilisation of labour, and also to attract more investment in the state given the rise of unemployment after the recent reverse migration of labour to Bihar during the lockdown following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic.‘‘A few incentives would be given to industrial units for enhancing productivity,” said a senior officer in the industry department.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe state government has already kick-started commercial activity following the relaxations offered by the central government.As per official figures, 671 food processing units, 95 rubber and plastic units, 678 general services units and 408 industrial units under BIADA (Bihar Industrial Area Development Authority) have been working since permission for the resumption of industrial activities was granted. In Bihar, there are 2,800 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) while four are large industries including cement factories. Sources said a total of 32,000 workers are working in various industrial units.“The industry department will follow the order issued on any labour-related issues,” said, Shyam Rajak, Bihar industry minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-to-increase-working-hours-in-industrial-units-to-12-hours-from-8-order-likely-on-monday/story-Kairb6Og5znH0PDm6BCWpI.html
10-05-2020||India||2 yoga teachers among 3 men nabbed for molesting Japanese woman in Rishikesh||Uttarakhand police said they have arrested three persons including two yoga teachers for allegedly molesting and stalking a Japanese woman for sexual favours on Sunday in Rishikesh.Police said the woman had lodged a complaint against four people out of which three were as Harikishan Singh (43), Chandrakant Dahal (32) - both yoga teachers and Somraj (22) a kitchen staffer at a yoga training centre - were arrested. The fourth accused is yet to be arrested.Arun Mohan Joshi, deputy inspector general, Dehradun said, the foreign national had lodged the complaint on Saturday following which police initiated the action. “In her complaint, she had stated that she came to Rishikesh a few months ago to learn yoga at a yoga training centre in the popular tourist town. At the centre, all four accused who were employed there, started harassing her with obscene talks for sexual favours,” said Joshi. Disturbed by the advances and harassment, the woman lodged a complaint with the Rishikesh police.“Based on the complaint, we immediately registered a case against the accused for molestation and stalking under sections 354(a) and 354(d) of IPC followed by a probe. Of the four, the three accused mentioned above were arrested from their residences in Rishikesh,” said Joshi. He said, “They will soon be produced before the local court. A probe is on to nab the fourth accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-yoga-teachers-among-3-men-nabbed-for-molesting-japanese-woman-in-rishikesh/story-8k5gJyplcrtc4C9vvHSjgP.html
10-05-2020||India||Central team expresses concern over growing number of Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh||While appreciating Andhra Pradesh government’s efforts in stepping up testing for Covid-19 in the state, the central team from All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health (AIIHM & PH) on Sunday expressed concern over the growing number of Covid-19 cases in the state.On Sunday, the state recorded 50 new positive coronavirus cases and one more death, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state to 1980 and death toll to 45. Kurnool accounts for the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh with 566 patients. 16 people have died after getting infected with coronavirus in Kurnool.The central team members Dr Madhumita Dubey and Dr Sanjay Sadhukhan, who toured Kurnool town in the morning, held a meeting with senior officials of the district to review the Covid-19 situation in the state in general and Kurnool in particular.Also read: 14 states see dip in number of active Covid-19 cases, shows dataDubey said the state government should come out with new appropriate strategies to contain the fast-spreading virus in tune with the growing number of cases. She suggested that testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine should be done faster and, if necessary, the government should take the help of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) for contact tracing.She advised the state government to enhance the capacity of human resources, quarantine centres, Covid-19 care centres and hospitals to face the challenges effectively in case there was a largescale outbreak of coronavirus in the coming days.The central team member appreciated the way Andhra Pradesh was leading in conducting tests in a big way, which was resulting in identifying more positive cases. So far, the state government ha conducted 1,73,735 Covid-19 tests, including 8,666 tests in the last 24 hours alone.Dubey said the central team had come to Kurnool to extend handholding to the state and the district administration in preventing any further spread of Covid-19. “After examining the situation in all aspects, we shall make appropriate recommendations to the state government,” she said.Professor Sadhukhan said since it was not possible for the government to continue the lockdown for an indefinite period, the government should mentally prepare the people to live with coronavirus after the lifting of the lockdown. “We need to educate the people on how to maintain self-restraint to prevent the spread of the virus,” he said.District collector G Veerapandian explained the efforts that are being made by the Kurnool district administration in containing the virus and to bring down the death rate. He said though the number of cases was going up in the district, the recovery was also equally faster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-expresses-concern-over-growing-number-of-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-pradesh/story-HvG5oH5eAbjq9KOwR8fOkK.html
10-05-2020||India||An ‘upset’ Uddhav Thackeray won’t contest MLC polls if not elected unopposed: Sena||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is not willing to contest the legislative council polls due later this month unless elected unopposed, said senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, adding that the ruling alliance partner Congress was firm on contesting two seats, which is likely to force a contest. Raut said that the ongoing political drama has upset the Shiv Sena chief, who has sent a message to Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat to withdraw party’s second candidate.Raut clarified that Uddhav is not afraid of contesting an election but the current situation doesn’t warrant political battles. He added that the legislative council polls for 9 seats on May 21 were being held to avoid a constitutional and political crisis in the state.Raut was referring to the constitutional requirement for a chief minister or a minister of the state to get elected to either of the two houses within six months of taking oath. Uddhav is currently not an MLA and his six months as Maharashtra CM come to an end on May 28. Late on Saturday night, Thorat announced that Rajkishor Modi, the party’s Beed district president, will be its second candidate. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has already fielded four candidates. The Nationalist Congress Party and the Shiv Sena have announced two candidates each. With Congress also fielding two candidates, it would require a contest between the candidates of the ruling coalition.“Do we tell people that while they are locked up in their homes; when there is a question mark over their livelihoods and health, political parties in Maharashtra cannot unanimously decide on an election? This would be a blot on Maharashtra’s tradition. Uddhav Thackeray never was and will never be interested in such politics. He is upset over this development. He wanted to contest only if it was unopposed. We are not scared of contesting, but this is not the time to contest elections. It is time to tackle the situation. We have taken this election out of no choice as the state was heading towards instability,” Raut told reporters on Sunday.He added that if there is voting on May 21, all 288 MLAs would have to come to Mumbai and it would not send a “good message” to the people of Maharashtra at a time when it is battling Covid-19.Also Read: Covid-19 cases double in Maharashtra in 9 days, tally now above 20,000Raut, however, added that there is no “tension” between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies over the issue and all leaders are currently in talks with each other to find a middle ground. He also expressed confidence that the MLC elections will be contested unopposed.Clikc here for Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe Sena leader added that both BJP and Congress didn’t have adequate numbers to get all their candidates elected. “The BJP too does not have enough numbers to get their fourth candidate elected. It is their responsibility as well that election is held unopposed. They [BJP] do not have enough votes for their candidate; they would have to engage in horse-trading. They should also think if an election should be forced upon Maharashtra at such a time,” Raut said adding that Thackeray and Devendra Fadnavis should discuss this issue.“I think Devendra Fadnavis and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray should discuss this issue. I am not saying they should take a step back or we should. The election should happen unopposed. The chief minister of a state is in the fray. The situation in the state is serious and people want a stable leadership. At such a time, nobody should take advantage of the situation to suit their politics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-says-an-upset-uddhav-thackeray-won-t-contest-mlc-polls-if-not-elected-unopposed/story-xcaNqSJOCgqiT1aVKA6AXI.html
10-05-2020||India||Cash crunch forces many Telangana expats in Persian Gulf to drop travel plans||Thousands of migrant workers from Telangana stranded in Persian Gulf countries and desperate to return to home, have backed out from travelling in Vande Bharat special flights being operated by Air India to evacuate Indians from abroad.They say they are simply not in a position to bear expenses for their travel and also pay for their 14-day quarantine on their return to India.The first Vande Bharat flight landed at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) in Hyderabad late Saturday with 163 people, including two infants from Kuwait. Most of them hail from Hyderabad while some were from Nizamabad and Karimnagar districts.“Only those who could afford to bear their travel expenses and also for their stay in paid quarantine centres in Hyderabad were brought from Kuwait. Those who cannot have to stay back,” E Chitti Babu, a senior official in-charge of Telangana NRI cell in state secretariat, said.He said the charges for paid quarantine facilities range from Rs 5,000 to Rs 30,000 for the 14-day period, depending on the facilities for the NRIs. “For an ordinary accommodation, it is Rs 5,000, for a two-star hotel facility, it is Rs 15,000 and for three-star accommodation, it is Rs 30,000,” he said.Chitti Babu said a couple of more flights, one from the US and another from the UK, would be bringing stranded Telugus to Hyderabad. “Similarly, some more flights from Abu Dhabi and Dubai would also be operated for the Telangana people,” he said.But thousands of people, who had gone to the Gulf countries in search of livelihood, are not in a position to return because they are not in a position to bear the expenses.According to P Basanth Reddy, president of the Hyderabad-based Telangana Gulf Migrants Welfare Association president, many people from Telangana stranded in Kuwait had registered their names with the local authorities for returning to India, but backed out after coming to know that they will have to pay quarantine charges as well. “Thousands of poor migrant labourers from Telangana, who have been languishing in the Gulf countries like Dubai, Kuwait, Bahrain and UAE, have not been getting their wages for months. How can they be expected to bear their own expenses for their return in these present conditions?” Reddy asked.A migrant worker Ganga Reddy stranded in Dammam in Saudi Arabia told Hindustan Times that the situation in his place was horrible and many people are desperate to return home. “We are afraid that we might contract Covid-19 and we are desperately looking up to the Telangana government to help us come back,” Reddy, who is from Nizamabad district, said.Basanth Reddy said his association was trying for sponsors to bring as many as people as possible from the Gulf countries. “We are also helping the families of these migrants back home, as they are in utter poverty,” he said.All India Congress Committee spokesman Dasoju Sravan demanded that the Telangana government bring back stranded labourers in the Gulf countries free of cost. He said there more than 12-15 lakh workers from Telangana, including both men and women in the Gulf countries.Many of the labourers are being laid off from their employment due to Covid-19 pandemic. Most of them do not have access to proper livelihood and medical care and are compelled to live in most hazardous conditions and are worried about the spread of Covid-19.“In these circumstances, the government of Telangana should coordinate and collaborate with central government and bring back whosoever is desirous to return to India at free of cost. It is improper on the part of the government to charge airfares to return to India as the labour is already in most vulnerable situation without income,” Sravan said.The Telangana NRI cell in-charge, however, ruled out the possibility of the government bearing the travel expenses of the Gulf migrants. “We have no such plans as of now,” Chitti Babu said.Meanwhile, the returnees from Kuwait were screened thoroughly at every stage in the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport before they were shifted to the quarantine centres of their choice in the early hours of Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cash-crunch-forces-many-telangana-expats-in-persian-gulf-to-drop-travel-plans/story-6rlwvGy5XxMmpJE3LFDUSO.html
10-05-2020||India||A third of Rajasthan districts report no or 1-2 active Covid-19 cases||As Rajasthan improves the recovery rate in its coronavirus patients, a third of its districts now have either no or one to two active cases. According to the state health department data on Sunday, two districts have zero active cases, five districts have one case each while two districts have two active cases each. Two districts – Bundi and Sriganganagar – have not reported a single case since the outbreak in Rajasthan in last week of March.On Sunday afternoon, the state’s Covid-19 recovery rate was 58% with 2,176 of total 3,753 patients having been cured. 1,924 of them have even been discharged from hospitals, according to the health department data.Jhunjhunu and Hanumangarh now have no active Covid-19 cases. Baran, Dausa, Karauli, Pratapgarh and Sawai Madhopur have one case each. Out of 33 districts in the state, 31 are affected by the infection.Also read: Rajasthan’s Jhunjhunu has no positive case since April 25According to the 2 pm report of the state health department, there are 1,470 active cases in the state, including 42 of Border Security Force (BSF) cases. The state Covid-19 tally is 3,753, 45 new cases were reported on Sunday. Jodhpur now has the highest number of active cases at 452. The number of active coronavirus cases in Jaipur is 378.Health department’s additional chief secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said the state’s recovery rate was increasing for a week as the number of cases went down. “We have tested 166,428 samples until Sunday afternoon. 3753 of them tested positive, 158,830 tested negative and 3,841 were under process,” he said.There have been 107 Covid-19 deaths in the state, including one reported from Jaipur on Sunday. The 45 coronavirus cases reported until Sunday afternoon included 11 from Jaipur, 9 each from Kota and Udaipur, 5 from Ajmer, 3 from Jodhpur, 2 each from Nagaur and Pali, and one each from Jalore, Dungarpur, Bikaner and Tonk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-third-of-rajasthan-districts-report-no-or-1-2-active-covid-19-cases/story-DD3YKRZyssz6LlnmEVX0eM.html
10-05-2020||India||‘Miss you with every breath Ma’: Sushma Swaraj’s daughter on Mother’s Day||The daughter of late Sushma Swaraj, former foreign minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, has posted an emotional message on Mother’s Day. The senior BJP leader died in August last year after a cardiac arrest.“Happy Mother’s Day @SushmaSwaraj. Miss you with every breath Ma (sic),” her daughter Bansuri Swaraj tweeted on Sunday.Sushma Swaraj had served as the external affairs minister from May 26, 2014, to May 2019 and Swas India’s first full-time woman foreign minister. Indira Gandhi held additional charge of the ministry when she was prime minister.Swaraj was replaced as external affairs minister in the second term of the Narendra Modi government by former diplomat S Jaishankar.Swaraj entered the Haryana assembly in 1977 and became a minister in the state cabinet at the age of 25. She was a former chief minister of Delhi and had been a part of every BJP government at the Centre except the current one. She served as minister for information and broadcasting as well as health minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led BJP government from 1998 to 2004. She won the 2009 election to the 15th Lok Sabha from the Vidisha Lok Sabha constituency in Madhya Pradesh and became the leader of opposition.Sushma Swaraj, during her stint as the external affairs minister, was recognised as perhaps the minister most accessible to ordinary people, who actively sought her out for help when they found themselves in a crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/miss-you-with-every-breath-ma-sushma-swaraj-s-daughter-on-mother-s-day/story-qQrkewcmpSmTcPImzsbHdM.html
10-05-2020||India||India needs ‘whole-of-govt approach’ for ‘strategic uncertainties’: Army Chief||The time has come for India to adopt a “whole-of-government approach” in decisively confronting the “strategic uncertainties” looming on its horizon as well as non-traditional threats like pandemics, Army Chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane has said, strongly pitching for broadening the country’s national security doctrine. Talking about complex geo-political power play in India’s neighbourhood, Gen Naravane said the Indian armed forces are determined to “cement” the country’s reputation as a net security provider in the region. “There is an entire spectrum of strategic uncertainties that looms on the horizon and a whole-of-government approach is the need of the hour to deal with them,” the Army Chief told PTI. Though Gen Naravane did not elaborate, his comments came in the backdrop of Pakistan-supported Taliban’s aim for a role in power structure in Afghanistan and China’s persistent efforts to expand military ties with countries like Sri Lanka, Nepal, Myanmar and the Maldives. “In dealing with issues of global nature, the armed forces with their inherent capabilities and capacities will cement India’s reputation as a net security provider in the region, taking security as a holistic concept,” Gen Naravane said. India is learnt to have been worried over the extremely fragile and dynamic situation in Afghanistan after the US sealed a historic deal with the Taliban providing for withdrawal of American troops from the war-ravaged country. The Army Chief further said that India needs to broaden its understanding of national security and must examine non-traditional threats like pandemics “de-novo” as they have the potential to inflict severe damage on the country. “We need to act and prepare ourselves accordingly.” He said the “traditional threats” facing India remained “unabated” and the armed forces are fully geared up to deal with them. Gen Naravane said that there has been no let up in Indian Army’s “posture” while guarding the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China because of the coronavirus pandemic. The LAC is the de-facto border between the two countries. “Along the LAC, patrolling continues as before though we have put the ceremonial border personnel meetings on hold. There is also greater reliance on hotlines,” he said. The Chief of Army Staff said the effort has been to adhere to the directives issued by both the governments following two informal summits between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping. “As far as our deployment along the border with China is concerned, the focus is on mutual understanding and respect for the sanctity of LAC and ensuring that no untoward incident takes place due to our differing perceptions of the LAC,” he said. “Our focus has been to ensure all misunderstandings are mitigated amicably through discussions and existing mechanisms,” Gen Naravane said. The India-China border dispute covers 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas. Gen Naravane said troops deployed along borders in remote and high altitude areas are at minimum risk of getting infected by the coronavirus as the areas are inaccessible to ordinary people. He said only troops who are medically validated as being coronavirus-free are being allowed to replace the personnel deployed in key formations and frontiers. “You have to keep in mind that in most of these places, due to the nature of deployment and living arrangements, social distancing is not feasible. However, wherever possible, social distancing and hygiene measures are being strictly enforced,” he said. Gen Naravane said ensuring safety of his force from the pandemic is his foremost priority as the Army will be able to assist the country in dealing with the challenge if the troops are fighting fit. “The need for maintaining social distancing and hygiene norms assumes significant importance in the forces because of the higher density of personnel living inside barracks and the increased attendant possibility of the virus spreading within the forces,” he said. He said all the units and formations have been issued comprehensive instructions to maintain social distancing wherever feasible and adhere to highest hygiene standards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-needs-whole-of-govt-approach-for-strategic-uncertainties-army-chief-gen-naravane/story-X7UphthriaBEhOJXAZOGVL.html
10-05-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh CM exercises first major rejig in 4th term, 50 IAS officers get new postings||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan carried out the first major bureaucratic reshuffle in his fourth term as the CM on Saturday night affecting as many as 50 IAS officers, as per the state government’s order.Of the top officials, former chief secretary M Gopal Reddy has been posted as chairman of the Revenue Board, Gwalior.A 1985 batch IAS officer, Reddy was appointed the chief secretary by then chief minister Kamal Nath but incumbent chief minister Chouhan replaced Reddy with Iqbal Singh Bains barely a week after he was appointed the chief secretary.A 1989 batch IAS officer and additional chief secretary (ACS), Anurag Jain continues to remain as the additional chief secretary (Finance) and gets the additional charge of the Planning, Economics and Statistics department.Another 1989 batch IAS officer, ACS Mohd Suleman who was brought in to head Health and Family Welfare department to control Covid situation on April 8, will also look after Medical Education and Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief and Rehabilitation departments.Also read: 14 states see dip in number of active Covid-19 cases, shows dataAnother ACS Vinod Kumar (1989 batch) is the head of the General Administration Department (GAD) now. Additional chief secretary JN Kansotia (1989) will look after Animal Husbandry department while principal secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar Rajora (1990), who used to look after the industries department, will head the labour department immediately after the state government’s major labour reforms.Malay Shrivastava (1990) is the new head of Public Health Engineering (PHE) department as a principal secretary while Pankaj Rag (1990) has been posted as the principal secretary of Parliamentary Affairs, Sports and Youth Welfare. Ashok Shah (1990) will now head the Woman and Child Development department as a principal secretary. Principal secretary Manoj Govil (1991) has been moved from finance to the commercial tax department.Principal secretary Manu Shrivastava (1991), who used to head the Energy and Renewable Energy department has been posted as a member of the Revenue Board, Gwalior.Principal secretary Kalpana Shrivastava (1992) who was commissioner of Bhopal division for more than a year will now head Horticulture and Food Processing department.Another principal secretary Sanjay Dubey (1993) who headed Urban Development and Administration and also Madhya Pradesh Metro Rail Company Ltd will now head the Energy and Renewable Energy department. Another 1993 batch IAS officer principal secretary Neeraj Mandloi will now head Public Works Department (PWD).Another 1993 batch IAS officer and principal secretary Anupam Rajan, who was previously heading the Woman and Child Development (WCD) department, will now head the higher education department.However, Rajan has been given an additional charge of principal secretary, Department of Public Relations too, a crucial position in the government as far as image building of the chief minister is concerned amid the Covid-19 situation. Rajan has served as the commissioner of Public Relations during Chouhan’s previous tenure.A 1994 IAS officer Sanjay Kumar Shukla, who headed Public Health Engineering, Medical Education departments and Jal Nigam, is the new principal secretary of Industrial Policy and Investment Promotion Department amid the state government’s thrust on resuming economic activities and creating more job opportunities for the youth in the state.Principal secretary Public Health and Family Welfare Dr Pallavi Jain Govil (1994) who was in the eye of a controversy after more than 100 health department personnel were infected with coronavirus. She will now head tribal welfare and scheduled castes welfare departments. Another 1994 IAS officer and principal secretary Deepali Rastogi - who was in charge officer for coordination with Maharashtra for bringing back labourers from there when 16 labourers were killed in a mishap in Aurangabad district on Friday morning - will head Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) department.Principal secretary Shivshekhar Shkula (1994) will continue to head Food and Civil Supply but has the culture department too in addition. Another principal secretary Prateek Hajela (1995), who was moved from the post of commissioner (health services) immediately after a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation will now serve as principal secretary Social Justice.Other officers include DP Ahuja (1996), Nitesh Kumar Vyas (1996), Faiz Ahmad Kidwai (1996), Amit Rathore (1996), Caralyn Khaongwar Deshmukh (1996) and Sukhvir Singh (1997).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cm-exercises-first-major-rejig-in-4th-term-50-ias-officers-get-new-postings/story-zzfSwH4u1U9B3xaTLhByFJ.html
10-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times | 75% of Delhi’s Covid-19 patients asymptomatic or have mild symptoms: Kejriwal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.75% of Delhi’s Covid-19 patients asymptomatic or have mild symptoms: KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday nearly 75% patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the Capital are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Read more. PM Narendra Modi to review phased exit from lockdown in meeting with CMs tomorrowPrime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a video conference with chief ministers of states and Union Territories on Monday afternoon to review India’s progress in containing coronavirus disease while gradually restarting economic activities in a phased manner. Read more. Army confirms India-China face-off, minor injuries to both sidesThe army on Sunday confirmed that a heated confrontation took place between Indian and Chinese soldiers in north Sikkim on Saturday, resulting in injuries to troops on both sides. Read more. Revisiting Hubei: How did Covid-19 events unfold in China?More than 4 million people across the globe have been infected with coronavirus while over 2.5 lakh people have lost their lives. The virus, which originated in China’s Hubei province last year, quickly spread to the rest of the world to infect people in over 200 nations. Read more. Aussies said ‘stay away from him’: Suresh Raina on Indian cricketer whom Australia feared the mostWhen going gets tough, the tough get going – Some Indian cricketers like Sachin Tendulkar, Virender Sehwag, VVS Laxman, Rahul Dravid and Harbhajan Singh were the best examples of the saying. Read more. Mother’s Day: Priyanka Chopra unable to hug mother Madhu Chopra, mother-in-law Denise, says it ‘makes my heart heavy’Bollywood actor Priyanka Chopra has shared a beautiful message for all mothers as she wished her own mother Madhu Chopra and mother-in-law Denise Jonas on Mother’s Day. Priyanka has shared a video which is a montage of her pictures with her mother, mother-in-law and others whom she considers mother figures in her life.Read more. Word of the Week: Standing out from the flock, in the worst wayThe word “egregious” actually began as a term of praise, meaning exceptional, distinguished, eminent, or excellent, since it descended from the Latin word egregius or “extraordinary,” from the phrase ex grege “rising above the flock.” Read more. Cat v/s bowl: who will win this war? WatchOur furry little feline friends are known to be a little mischievous. Whether it is telling their hoomans to back off as they sleep on their bed or avoiding being part of family portraits, it is almost as if cats find joy in these playful pranks. Read more. India boxer Vikas Krishan teaching boxing, chess to parents amid lockdownIndia boxer Vikas Krishan spoke to Hindustan Times’ Karan Prashant Saxena about his routine amid covid-19 lockdown. Vikas revealed that despite the lack of resources he hasn’t stopped his training. He said that he has been shadow boxing in front of the mirror and making use of whatever is at his disposal. Vikas has also been teaching boxing and chess to his parents amid lockdown. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-75-of-delhi-s-covid-19-patients-asymptomatic-or-have-mild-symptoms-kejriwal/story-a47g4DrUlPi1ebzAOhmzAJ.html
10-05-2020||India||A Jodhpur man has twice turned Covid-19 positive after testing negative||Probably for the first time in Rajasthan, a Covid-19 patient who was discharged from infectious disease institute (IDI) in Jodhpur after testing negative, has again tested positive.The 61-year-old from Shastri Nagar, who had travelled to Turkey recently, tested positive for Covid-19 on March 22 along with his wife and nephew.He was discharged from the IDI on April 28 after he tested negative for the third time.But the elderly tested positive for Covid-19 in a repeat sample on Saturday-- nearly 10 days after his discharge—and after more than a month of hospitalization during which he thrice tested negative—on April 4, 6 and 27. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19According to the medical department, the man has been tested 11 times and has twice turned positive soon after testing negative. He was discharged on April 28 only after his last test result on April 27 was found to be negative. Having already spent more than a month in the hospital, the elderly patient has now been quarantined at home till May 24.A senior professor in the department of medicine in the Dr S.N. Medical College said on condition of anonymity that it is possible for a recovered patient’s inactive viral RNA to test positive again. He added that a few similar cases were reported in China. He added that the old man was healthy despite having tested positive again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-jodhpur-man-has-twice-turned-covid-19-positive-after-testing-negative/story-3VL8M0jQS0sstgqMKzsUaI.html
10-05-2020||India||List of states and Union territories in India with no Covid-19 cases||Coronavirus cases breached the 62,000-mark on Sunday. The Ministry of Health updated the national tally to 62,939. According to the latest figures updated by the health ministry, there are 41,472 active coronavirus cases in the country, 19,357 patients have been cured or discharged while 2,109 people have died from the deadly contagion.All patients in states like Manipur, Arunachal, Mizoram and Goa have recovered. The Union territory of Dadar Nagar Haveli reported its first Covid-19 earlier this week.However, there are still some corners in the country where the Covid-19 has not spread its menace. Also read: Covid-19 cases in North-East double from 100 to past 200 in just 4 daysHere’s taking a look at states/Union territories in India where no coronavirus case has been detected till date. SikkimThe North-East state has not reported a single Covid-19 case so far. Other states in the region like Assam, Tripura and Meghalaya have reported a rise in coronavirus cases.Assam has reported 63 Covid-19 cases, two people have died while 34 people have recovered. Tripura has 134 cases, two patients have recovered. In Meghalaya, 13 people are infected, 10 patients have recovered. One patient has died.One case was detected in Nagaland who as migrated to Assam for treatment.LakshadweepThe Union territory, which is a beautiful archipelago consisting of 36 islands, remains untouched by Covid-19. Andaman and Nicobar, on the other hand, reported 33 coronavirus cases, all patients have recovered.Besides these, all remaining states and Union territories in the country have reported cases of coronavirus.Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, and Tamil Nadu are states where coronavirus cases are way beyond the 5,000-mark. Maharashtra continues to lead the national Coviod-19 tally with over 20,000 cases. Mumbai alone has over 12,000 coronavirus cases.In Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, the coronavirus cases have crossed the 3,000-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-list-of-states-and-union-territories-in-india-with-no-covid-19-cases/story-nP8CXKZZnHM6pdSSVSJMrJ.html
10-05-2020||India||In Meghalaya, shops and vehicles to operate from Monday amid Covid-19 lockdown||Meghalaya will allow shops to reopen and vehicle to run across the state, except in the state capital of Shillong, from Monday amid the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Meghalaya had recorded another case of Covid-19 on Saturday taking the state’s tally to 13. While one patient has died, 10 others have recovered and two are under treatment. All cases in the state have links with the first patient, a doctor from Shillong, who died on April 15.“The deputy commissioners and district transport officers have been asked to work out the modalities for regulating (public and private transport) on a rotation basis,” Prestone Tynsong, the deputy chief minister, was quoted as saying by news agency PTI on Saturday.All passenger vehicles have been asked to run with 50% occupancy.In Shillong, Tynsong said, automobile and stationery shops will be allowed to resume business but they will have to follow social distancing norms. However, the relaxations will not apply to the two main commercial hubs of Lewduh market and Khyndailad market for now, he stated.The state has ordered mandatory home quarantine for people who recently visited two medical facilities in Assam, where a Covid-19 case and a death due to the disease have been registered.A postgraduate student at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital tested positive for Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19, on May 7. A Covid-19 related death was reported on the same day at Dr B Barooah Cancer Institute in Guwahati.“People who have visited the two medical institutions (in Assam) with effect from April 23 are requested to call 108 helpline number so that necessary instructions can be given to them (for home quarantine),” Tynsong said.The deputy chief minister said there was no need to panic and assured that the government was committed to taking care of all such people placed under quarantine.Ten patients of the coronavirus disease have recovered in the state and two are active cases.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-meghalaya-shops-and-vehicles-to-operate-from-monday-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-yg77j8XuLEWK5Iw5WQ98TP.html
10-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand evacuates 26,000 migrants, awaits five special trains||Uttarakhand has so far evacuated about 26,054 of its residents from other states till Sunday noon amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said.Kaushik revealed the figures at a press conference at the state secretariat on the measures being taken by the state government to tackle the pandemic and bringing back migrants. “So far there are about 1.80 lakh registrations on the government website for returning to the home state. We have so far brought back 26,054 of our stranded residents from other states in state transport corporation buses,” he said.He said that most of the people who have returned to Uttarakhand were stranded in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Punjab. The minister also informed that the state government has been in talks with the Centre for running at least five special trains to evacuate stranded residents from far away states. “We have demanded trains from Thiruvananthapuram, Hyderabad, Pune, Surat and Ahmedabad from the Centre. The talks are in the final stage and we have got oral approval but are waiting for a written approval which will be the final one. Once it is received then the special trains would start in the next few days,” said Kaushik.He also spoke about the measures being taken for the evacuees to ensure that the infection doesn’t spread in the state. “After bringing the people to the designated centres at Haridwar or US Nagar, they are being screened for possible Covid-19 infection. As we have to do it thoroughly, it is taking some time -- about one or two days before the migrants are allowed to go to their homes. I want to appeal to all those people to have some patience as it is for their own health and safety as well as others in their neighbourhood,” said Kaushik. He also said that the government has earmarked adequate budget for village heads to make proper quarantine arrangements if any migrant in their village doesn’t have the facility for home quarantine. “The village heads will be responsible for making quarantine arrangements for them in nearby schools or any community centre,” he said.Apart from the residents who are returning to Uttarakhand, Kaushik said that about 25,730 people of other states stranded in Uttarakhand have also registered to return to their home states. “We have already sent 7,207 of them to their states in our state buses. We are making arrangements for the others in coordination with governments of their respective states,” he said adding that about 40,714 people stranded in others districts within the state have also been sent to their home districts. The minister said there has been no response from the Bengal government on the evacuation of 600 of its people in Uttarakhand.“We have communicated to the West Bengal government several occasions but haven’t received any proper response from them. Their residents here want to return and are tense. However, we are helping them in every possible manner by providing them food and other help. We are even counselling them to have patience,” said Kaushik.Earlier on Saturday evening, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in a video message said that he had spoken to the Centre for a special train from Delhi where about 50,000 of Uttarakhand residents are stranded. “The ministry of railways has given permission for it and the train may soon start to bring our residents back. We have already made an advance payment of Rs 50 lakh to the Indian Railways for special trains so that they don’t charge the residents for a ticket. We are committed to bring all our residents back to their home,” said Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-evacuates-30-000-migrants-awaits-five-special-trains/story-KtshR8JFFmQO6S6uFbRtaI.html
10-05-2020||India||Netizens in India, Nepal troll Beijing after ‘fake’ claims on Mount Everest||Beijing’s state-run CGTN’s tweet featuring Mount Everest ‘located in China’s Tibet Autonomous Region’ sparked a row among the netizens of India and Nepal who trolled the Communist country for spreading fake news regarding its claims in the region with a ‘#BackOffChina’ trend on Twitter. “#backoffchina Stop Spreading false new Mt.Everst is located in nepal not in china,” said a Twitter user from Nepal.“This is our Mount Everest (8848 ht) we don’t want this to used and marked as yours. nepal government should act upon this. This is unprecedented words that has beem used here. this is unacceptable. #backoffchina,” tweeted another.CCTN had on May 2 posted a tweet of an ‘extraordinary halo’ over Mount Everest. However, the words claiming Mount Qomolangma was the world’s highest peak ‘located in China’s Tibet Autonomous Region’ have drawn aggression from people with some of them also urging the Government of Nepal to take strict action over the social media post.Twitter users asserted that Mount Everest was in Nepal and not in China and that it will always be the ‘pride of Nepalese’. Some even shared memes of China’s President Xi Jinping and tagged Nepal’s government to bring a spotlight on the claim.“Dear @CGTNOfficial Mount Everest is in the Nepal. Not in china’s Tibet. So Please stop spreading Fake News,” said a user from Kathmandu.“Mount Everest lies in Nepal, not China. Discard such false notions Xi. #FreeTibet,” said another.“#backoffchina Stop Spreading false new Mt.Everst is located in Nepal not in China,” tweeted the third.As per experts, Nepal and China had signed a border dispute resolution agreement in 1960 according to which it was decided that Mount Everest will be divided, and southern part of it will belong to Nepal and Northern part to Tibet Autonomous Region which China claims as its own.Speaking to ANI about the CGTN tweet, Professor of Chinese studies at Jawahar Lal Nehru University, Srikant Kondapali, said, “It is a not a new thing, China is trying to consolidate its claims on Tibet and Everest.”“The Everest on the Tibet side is treacherous and very less used by the Chinese side, there is no trace of tourism from that side, as it is very steep and also visa is an issue,” Srikant added.The majority of tourism and expeditions on Mount Everest take place from Nepal, now with help of technology, China is also developing Tibet side of Everest and recent projection by the official website clearly reflects the ambitious plans of China and this move may become a bone of contention between Nepal and China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/netizens-in-india-nepal-troll-beijing-after-fake-claims-on-mount-everest/story-cvaywLkLQFDOKl5qOusKoM.html
10-05-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi to review phased exit from lockdown in meeting with CMs tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a video conference with chief ministers of states and Union Territories on Monday afternoon to review India’s progress in containing coronavirus disease while gradually restarting economic activities in a phased manner. The meeting will also be attended by home minister Amit Shah, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan along with senior officials from the centre including the home and health secretary.Hindustan Times had today reported that this meeting will likely discuss the next stage in the exit from the nationwide lockdown and will focus on a further increase in economic activities and also on ways to tackle the pandemic in containment zones.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesCabinet secretary Rajeev Gauba held a meeting with the chief secretaries and the health secretaries of all states on Sunday to review the status of Covid-19 management. According to the Centre, the states were in favour of a two-pronged strategy to increase economic activities while containing the disease. Gauba had also held two meetings with state officials on Saturday to identify areas for reopening after May 17- when the third phase of lockdown ends. The meetings also discussed the situation arising out of a sharp rise in positive cases in a few pockets of the country.Some officials familiar with the context of the prime minister’s meeting said more concessions were likely to be introduced after May 17, but the number of Covid-19 hotspots and containment zones is unlikely to change.The government had classified all 773 districts in the country into three zones- Red, Orange and Green, to indicate the level of economic activity and restrictions in place in each of these districts. 130 districts were identified as part of the Red Zone, 284 as Orange Zone and 319 as Green Zone.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19On Sunday, the total number of coronavirus cases in India climbed to 62,939, while total number of fatalities rose to 2,109.The prime minister’s meeting with chief ministers will also happen in the backdrop of two tragedies- the Vizag Styrene gas leak case that killed 13 people and led to injuries to several others and the Aurangabad train accident in which 16 migrant workers were killed. The National Disaster Management Authority issued guidelines after the Vishakapatnam incident for restarting industries after the lockdown to prevent a repeat of such industrial accidents.The meeting with the chief ministers is likely to also focus on the flight of migrant workers, which presents a difficulty for a full-scale resumption of manufacturing, industrial and construction activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-meet-cms-tomorrow-review-phased-exit-from-lockdown/story-rN8RmOrJUkTah6EEHY7WgI.html
10-05-2020||India||Govt sends warship with medical teams to Indian Ocean nations||India has despatched a warship with two medical teams and medical supplies to assist authorities in the Maldives, Mauritius, Madagascar, Comoros and Seychelles to prevent and control Covid-19 and dengue fever.The Indian Navy’s INS Kesari, a 5,600-tonne landing ship, was deployed in response to requests for assistance from the Indian Ocean countries in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, the external affairs ministry said on Sunday. The warship is carrying consignments of Covid-19-related essential medicines and food supplies.The two medical assistance teams on board the warship will be deployed in Mauritius and Comoros to help their governments deal with the Covid-19 crisis and dengue fever (in Comoros).The vessel will also deliver consignments of Covid-19-related medicines to Mauritius, Madagascar, Comoros and Seychelles and 600 tonnes of food supplies to the Maldives. It is also carrying a special consignment of Ayurvedic medicines for Mauritius, the ministry said.The consignments for Madagascar and Comoros include hydroxychloroquine tablets. India supplied 50,000 hydroxychloroquine tablets to the Maldives last month and more supplies were also sent to Mauritius and Seychelles.India had also deployed a team of select medical personnel to the Maldives to augment the preparedness of authorities there to fight Covid-19. The Indian Ocean archipelago had so far reported 766 Covid-19 cases and three deaths.The Indian Navy has also played a key role in the repatriation of some 1,000 Indian nationals from the Maldives since last week. The navy deployed two massive warships to Male to bring back the Indians.The operation to help the Indian Ocean countries, named Mission Sagar, was inspired by the prime minister’s vision of “Sagar” – Security and Growth for All in the Region. It is also in line with India’s “time-tested role as the first responder in the region”, the external affairs ministry said.India has already supported the efforts of the governments of the Maldives, Sri Lanka, Mauritius and Seychelles to control and prevent Covid-19 by providing them consignments of essential medicines.Last month, India activated a currency swap arrangement with the Maldives and said it would provide $150 million to help the country mitigate the economic impact of the pandemic. The facility is part of the $400 million currency swap agreement signed in July 2019 between the two countries.India has also deployed a medical rapid response team to Kuwait and provided hydroxychloroquine tablets to many countries in the neighbourhood as grants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sends-warship-with-medical-teams-to-indian-ocean-nations/story-CYPvMNfsqinowFUWIruOzN.html
10-05-2020||India||Desperate migrant workers protest in Bhilwara, demand passage to home||Hundreds of migrant workers, mostly from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, Sunday morning staged a protest in Bhilwara, once a Covid-19 hotspot in Rajasthan, demanding that authorities arrange for their return to their native places.The migrant workers protested for over an hour at Pansal crossing in Bhilwara city before they dispersed.District Collector Rajendra Bhatt said around 500 labourers mostly working in factories gathered demanding arrangements to return home. “The district administration has registered their names and other details, and will send them home in two-three days,” Bhatt said.He said the labourers complained that their landlords were demanding rent even as they are not in a position to pay. The factory owners have given them salary till April and now they are on their own. They have made up their mind to return home. All efforts are being made to send them, he added.The protesters dispersed after the assurance by the district collector.A district administration official on anonymity said the factory owners have conveyed the government that they have provided salary till April and are not in position to provide further and that the government should look for other ways such as using funds of employee state insurance to pay the workers.He said in rural areas the factories are working but they are shut in urban areas due to curfew. The protest happened a day after Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot appealed to migrant workers not to continue to walk and cycle back to their homes. In his appeal, Gehlot had said that the government was making appropriate arrangements to transport the workers to their respective places through buses and trains.He also directed the officials to make arrangements of food and shelter for the workers who have already left on foot, and ensure that no worker stays hungry and thirsty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/desperate-migrant-workers-protest-in-bhilwara-demand-passage-to-home/story-6dgJ91VYXMMpwF0DbE6NJI.html
10-05-2020||India||Historian Hari Sankar Vasudevan dies of Covid-19 in Kolkata||Noted historian Hari Sankar Vasudevan died of Covid-19 at a private hospital near his residence at Salt Lake on the eastern outskirts of Kolkata around 12.40am on Sunday. He was 68 and is survived by his wife, historian Tapati Guha Thakurta.Vasudevan was an expert on European and Russian history and India-Russia relationship. He was a professor at Calcutta University. He graduated from Cambridge University, where he also completed his post-graduation and PhD. He authored many books.An official of the private hospital said he was admitted on May 4 and tested positive the next day. He had been on ventilator since May 6. On Saturday night, he suffered two cardiac attacks.Vasudevan was the director of China Centre of the Calcutta University. Earlier, he served as the director of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Institute of Asian Studies, Kolkata, of the ministry of culture.Between 2003 and 2005, Vasudevan was a professor at Central Asian Studies and acting director at the Academy of Third World Studies, Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi.Between 2011 and 2014, he was member the Indian Council of Historical Research.Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar offered his condolence to Vasudevan’s family on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/historian-hari-sankar-vasudevan-dies-of-covid-19-in-kolkata/story-6yoMiE5egq7Hivi7F9k5aI.html
10-05-2020||India||Army confirms India-China face-off, minor injuries to both sides||The army on Sunday confirmed that a heated confrontation took place between Indian and Chinese soldiers in north Sikkim on Saturday, resulting in injuries to troops on both sides.The army statement came on a day Hindustan Times reported that scores of Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a tense face-off at Naku La in Sikkim and the scuffle left 11 soldiers injured.“Incident of face-off as referred to in the (HT) article did take place. Aggressive behaviour by the two sides resulted in minor injuries to troops,” the statement said.The army said “temporary and short duration face-offs” between border guarding troops do occur as boundaries are not resolved. The statement said two sides disengaged after dialogue and interaction at local level. “Troops resolve such issues mutually as per established protocols,” the statement added.Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured during the confrontation that involved around 150 soldiers.The Asian giants have a long-standing border dispute that led to a war in 1962. The festering feud causes around 400 face-offs every year along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The face-off at Naku La was not the first time Indian and Chinese soldiers got into a fistfight. In August 2017, Indian and Chinese soldiers threw stones at each other and also exchanged blows near Pangong Lake in Ladakh.The clash near the LAC aggravated bilateral tensions as it happened at a time when the two neighbours were locked in a long standoff in the disputed Doklam plateau close to Sikkim.The 73-day Doklam standoff between India and China along the Sikkim border was likely to be the new normal, the Centre for Joint Warfare Studies (CENJOWS) said in 2017, making a strong case for building military capabilities “as China respected strength.”In a paper titled Looking Beyond Doklam, the CENJOWS, a think tank set up by the defence ministry, said it was crucial for India to demonstrate strength as peace along the disputed border will be “constantly and continuously” under stress with “increase in frequency, intensity and depth of (Chinese) transgressions leading to more and more standoffs.”On Doklam, China had accused India of trespass and preventing its troops from building a road in the remote Himalayan plateau that is claimed by both China and Bhutan. The standoff ended with withdrawal of troops by both armies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-confirms-india-china-face-off-minor-injuries-to-both-sides/story-8VJk43aU1O7Vw0jWtV9ARP.html
10-05-2020||India||Earthquake of 3.4 magnitude reported in Delhi||An earthquake of 3.4 magnitude occurred on Sunday afternoon around 1.45pm near Sonia Vihar, almost the same location as a previous earthquake of 3.5 magnitude on April 12.According to officials at the National Center for Seismology helpline, people called and reported tremors from near the epicentre in Sonia Vihar.The location coordinates of the event is latitude 28.7 N and longitude 77.2 E, depth 5km. Seismologists said it’s too early to say why there is another earthquake with the same epicentre in just over a amonth.“There are many faults in and around Delhi. There is the Sohna fault, and Mathura and Mahendergarh faults, which can contribute to earthquakes. There are several lineaments (an expression of an underlying geological structure such as a fracture) also. One lineament could have activated other lineaments. But we need to refine our recordings and findings to see what happened,” said AP Pandey, a seismologist at NCS.The location coordinates, according to NCS for the previous earthquake was also latitude 28.7 north and longitude 77.2 east, depth 6.5km. It’s not unusual for epicentre of these relatively small earthquakes to be in Delhi and neighbouring Haryana, seismologists had said. But in April, the experience was much more intense for people in Delhi because of less noise associated with traffic movement owing to the ongoing lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-3-4-magnitude-reported-in-delhi/story-8fiGIDlwokBYcEjsCLLSLI.html
10-05-2020||India||Remembering RN Kao, India’s legendary spymaster||Rameshwar Nath Kao, the legendary spy master of India, was born on May 10 in 1918. As we pay tribute to the greatest spy that India ever had, here is a look at his life.Kao founded India’s external intelligence agency, the Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) in the 1960s.He and his officers under him played a vital role in merger of Sikkim in India.Ramji Kao straddled the world of secret intelligence during India’s formative years as a nation. He was deputed to the Intelligence Bureau (IB) in 1947 and trained under the watchful eyes of the legendary Bhola Nath Mullick.He handled some of the legendary cases, like the ‘Kashmir Princess’ probe in the mid-1950s and contributed to the liberation of Bangladesh in 1971.He was a close adviser and security chief to three Indian Prime Ministers, and was one of the founding fathers of the Directorate General of Security (DGS) after India’s conflict with China in 1962.He later went on to head the Aviation Research Centre (ARC) and R&AW. Kao was the first chief of the ARC.But being a spymaster was not the only quality that Kao possessed. He was also a sculptor, according to a book. He also mentored two generations of R&AW spies. The team was called ‘Kao-boys’.A lesser known fact about Kao is that he had recorded his past events in a tape recorder and wanted them released to the public after his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remembering-rn-kao-india-s-legendary-spymaster/story-nVDUr6OaQpdMIR6iFRcWoM.html
10-05-2020||India||NDMA issues guidelines for restarting manufacturing units||The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has issued detailed guidelines for manufacturing industries on measures they have to take when they restart units, days after the gas leak at a plant in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam that killed 12 people.The authority has said industries to consider the first week of restarting any machinery or chemical unit as the “trial or test” period and “not try to achieve high production targets”.“Due to several weeks of lockdown and the closure of industrial units during the lockdown period, it is possible that some of the operators might not have followed the established SOP (standard operating procedure). As a result, some of the manufacturing facilities, pipelines, valves, etc. may have residual chemicals, which may pose risk. The same is true for the storage facilities with hazardous chemicals and flammable materials,” NDMA said on Saturday.“When Lockout/Tagout procedures are not in place, many energy sources can prove to be hazardous to operators/supervisors who are servicing or maintaining electrical, mechanical or chemical equipment. When heavy machinery and equipment are not maintained periodically, they can become dangerous for the operators/engineers,” it added.“Combustible liquids, contained gaseous substances, open wires, conveyor belts and automated vehicles make manufacturing facilities a high-risk environment. Improper enforcement of safety codes and improperly labelled chemicals can further pose serious health hazards.”To minimise the risk at any unit, the guidelines said, employees who work on specific should be sensitised and made aware of the need to identify abnormalities like strange sounds or smell, exposed wires, vibrations, leaks, smoke, abnormal wobbling, irregular grinding or other potentially hazardous signs which indicate the need for an immediate maintenance or if required shutdown.The factories or units have to also ensure that all lockout and tagouts, the specific practices and procedures to ensure the safety employees from the unexpected startup of machinery and equipment, are in place on a daily basis and inspection of all equipment as per the safety protocols carried out during the restart phase.The guidelines ask the industry to take the help of local administration in case it has any difficulty in managing crucial backward linkages that may be critical for their safe functioning. District magistrates have been asked to ensure that, in such instances, the industrial unit may be facilitated to run their end to end operations, in the overall interests of industrial security.NDMA has also detailed the steps that specific industry needs to take when they reopen. For example, storage or raw material units have been asked to inspect any signs of spills, wear and tear during the lockdown. They have also been asked to check for already opened storage vessels, containers, bags or silos for possible oxidation, chemical reaction, rusting or rotting etc as well as check supply pipelines, valves or conveyor belts for any signs of damage or wear and tear.The manufacturing units have been told to carry out a complete safety audit of the entire unit before taking up starting activities and they should first clean the pipelines, equipment and discharge lines.Factories working 24 hours have been asked to consider one hour gap between shifts, except factories/plants requiring continuous operations.They have also been asked to operate with 33% managerial and administrative staff as per the Union ministry of home affairs’ (MHA’s) guidelines but while deciding which particular person to be included at any given point of time, overriding priority should be given to personnel dealing with safety.Factories are also to prepare accommodation to isolate workers if needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndma-issues-guidelines-for-restarting-manufacturing-units/story-YHj2rH84DB8eEfGnvFMZTI.html
10-05-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in North-East double from 100 to past 200 in just 4 days||A sudden rise in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Tripura and a steady increase in patients in Assam have resulted in the tally in the North-East to cross the 200-mark on Saturday.It took just four days for the figure to double from 100 to 200 plus Covid-19 cases. The first case in the region was detected in Manipur on March 24 and it took 24 days for the figure to reach 50 and another 18 days to cross 100 on May 4.Till Sunday morning, the seven states in the region had 212 cases. Tripura leads the tally with 132 cases, followed by Assam with 63, including one patient from Nagaland who was tested and treated in Guwahati, and Meghalaya with 13.Manipur had two cases and one each in Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh—all patients in these three states have recovered and have been discharged. No fresh cases have been reported there in over a month. Nagaland hasn’t recorded any case till date.There has been a sudden spike in cases in Tripura, which had claimed Covid-19 free status on April 24 after the first two patients had tested negative.But on May 2, two personnel of the Border Security Force’s (BSF’s) 138th battalion in Ambassa were found positive. A day later, 12 more people from the same battalion tested positive.The trend continued in the next few days with more positive cases getting confirmed among BSF personnel and their family members of the force’s 138th and 86th battalion—both stationed in Ambassa of Dhalai district in the state.“17 persons found Covid-19 positive in Tripura today from 86th battalion of BSF, Ambassa. No civilian found positive among them,” Biplab Kumar Deb, Tripura chief minister, tweeted late on Saturday.Alarmed with the spurt in Covid-19 cases without any known source of infection, the Tripura government has asked BSF authorities to conduct an inquiry. The state has also requested Delhi-based National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to send a team to the state to probe the cases and arrest spread of the respiratory disease.Assam has also witnessed a rise in cases following the opening of the state’s borders for residents returning back from other parts of the country after the Union home ministry allowed inter-state movement.Two women from Jorhat, who returned from Mumbai in an ambulance, as well as the driver of the vehicle, were found to have been infected with Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 63 cases.Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the two women were bringing back a cancer patient. Questions have been raised on why the ambulance driver was allowed to leave the state.“The driver left for Mumbai and we allowed him to go as he was asymptomatic. Now on our request he has been stopped in Bihar for hospitalization (sic),” Sarma tweeted on Sunday morning.Till Sunday morning, Assam had recorded 34 recoveries and two deaths. Twenty-seven Covid-19 patients are still recovering in various hospitals.After a gap of 19 days, Meghalaya recorded another positive case on Saturday taking the state’s tally to 13 cases. While one patient has died, 10 others have recovered and two are under treatment. All cases in the state have links with the first patient, a doctor from Shillong, who died on April 15.“Unfortunately we have another positive case in Shillong. It’s a person working in the same house (the first patient’s house),” Conrad Sangma, Meghalaya’s chief minister, tweeted on Saturday.“As a precaution, health department was retesting all the primary contacts (of the first patient) and in the process we found this positive case. The person is safe and healthy and showing no symptoms (sic),” he added.(With inputs from Priyanka Deb Barman in Agartala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-north-east-double-from-100-to-past-200-in-just-4-days/story-iQliVrMGLlVgISGdG3LjaL.html
10-05-2020||India||Once the gateway of Covid-19, Rajasthan’s Jhunjhunu has no positive case since April 25||Rajasthan’s Jhunjhunu, once the gateway of Covid-19 in the state, has not reported any positive case from last 15 days and has also seen a 100% recovery of all patients. Reports of all 42 Covid-19 positive cases here have came out as negative, 35 patients have been discharged already.Of the total 42 coronavirus cases, Buhana, Malsisar and Chirawa reported 1 case each while seven cases each came from Jhunjhunu rural and Jhunjhunu urban. Khetri reported 4 Covid-19 cases, Nawalgarh, 7, and 14 coronavirus patients were reported from Udaipurwati.The first case of coronavirus in Rajasthan was detected in Jaipur in a man who had a travel history to Mandawa town of Jhunjhunu district. He had come as a tourist in a group of 23 persons and stayed at a hotel.Also read: 14 states see dip in number of active Covid-19 cases, shows data“The contact history of the first positive person was of 59 persons and they were sent for an examination to SMS Medical College, Jaipur. To rule out any possibility, the survey of whole Mandawa municipal area was conducted by 45 teams in which 42,28 houses were visited and 24,873 persons were screened. Total 52 (influenza-like illness) ILI cases were found who were later examined by medical officers. None of them was found suitable for sampling. The first episode got closed there,” said Umar Deen Khan, district collector, Jhunjhunu.On March 14, a family, which had recently come from Italy, developed the symptoms with high-grade fever, cough. The members of the family visited the district hospital for examination but didn’t get any relief. After three days, they again visited the hospital and doctors took their samples for Covid-19. On March 18, all three of them were found positive.“The cases created a great panic in Jhunjhunu as well as in the state. Immediately, the additional chief secretary, medical and health department, Rohit Kumar Singh sent a team of senior officers from the directorate to handle the situation. The next day, Dr Pratap Singh Dootar, additional director, was given the charge of chief medical & health officer who had worked in Jhunjhunu for a long time on the same post. He took over the charge and worked on the future strategy with district administration to control the virus,” added Khan.In order to control the spread, a strategic committee was formed which consisted of the collector, Dr Pratap Singh Dootar; Jhunjhunu superintendent of police JP Sharma; Ramniwas Jat, CEO and Rajendra Agrawal, Additional District Magistrate, Jhunjhunu.The team worked under the guidance of additional chief secretary, health, Rohit Kumar Singh; Jaipur range inspector general S Sengathir and transport department secretary Ravi Jain.The Jhunjhunu district magistrate said 1,500 teams were formed to tackle the coronavirus challenge. The teams carried out intense screening of the entire district for early detection of cases. A door-to-door survey of the whole district was conducted. The teams visited 40,2670 houses visited and screened 23,98,146 people. A total of 5,444 samples were taken out which 5,282 came out negative and the results of 120 samples are awaited.“The key areas identified to contain the virus were people with a history of a visit to China Italy, Spain, Iran and other foreign countries, people who came from other states, those who participated in the Tablighi Jamat congregation in Nizamuddin, Delhi and people who had come from other districts. Information about all high-risk people was collected through various sources,” said KhanFor quarantine and isolation of the suspects, the district administration identified 19 places with a capacity of 3800 people. On the basis of the inputs of the teams that conducted on-ground surveys, further strategy was formed.“In Mandawa, Nawalgarh and Gudha, the transmission of the virus took place through contact spread. For example, in Mandawa, three people got positive who had come in contact with the first positive case. In Gudha, 12 persons tested positive who had come in contact with another positive case. But, due to aggressive sampling and by shifting the people who had came in contact with the positive cases the chains of infection was broken and no secondary transmission took place,” Khan stated.The DM said that Jhunjhunu is among the top five districts in terms of total samples test and the rate of positive cases is only 0.75%. “Another good indicator is that Covid-19 has not spread in any group of service providers - administration, police and medical staff. However, we are still on our toes and not taking the situation lightly,” said Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-the-gateway-of-covid-19-rajasthan-s-jhunjhunu-has-no-positive-case-since-april-25/story-L5qtyXVgobZgm5u86ziyMK.html
10-05-2020||India||Former Chhattisgarh CM Ajit Jogi slips into coma, on ventilator support, says doctor||Former Chhattisgarh chief minister Ajit Jogi has slipped into coma on Sunday, the doctors attending to him said.According to a medical bulletin issued by the hospital where he is admitted, the doctors said that his brain could not receive oxygen because of the respiratory arrest he suffered on Saturday. This situation affected his brain and led to coma, they further said.The 74-year-old bureaucrat-turned politician has been put on ventilator at Shree Narayana Hospital in Raipur and doctors have described his condition “extremely critical”.According to Jogi’s family members, he fell unconscious at his residence on Saturday morning.Ajit Jogi’s son Amit said that the health of his father deteriorated suddenly while he was having breakfast.As per a health bulletin released by the hospital on Saturday, Ajit Jogi was given cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) at his residence by a senior intensivist before he was rushed to the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-chhattisgarh-cm-ajit-jogi-slips-into-coma-on-ventilator-support-says-doctor/story-VuUWSLoKQy5pzdq89X8WFL.html
10-05-2020||India||Former Chhattisgarh CM Ajit Jogi suffers cardiac arrest, slips into coma||Former Chhattisgarh chief minister Ajit Jogi, who was admitted in a private hospital here after suffering a cardiac arrest, has slipped into coma, a senior doctor attending him said on Sunday.Jogi’s neurological activity is “almost nil” and he is on ventilator support at the Shree Narayana Hospital, where the 74-year-old Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) head was admitted on Saturday afternoon after he fell unconscious at his residence here, he said.“His heart functioning is normal at the moment. The blood pressure has been controlled by drugs. But there was disruption in oxygen supply to his brain after the respiratory arrest yesterday, that possibly led to damage to his brain. In medical parlance it is called hypoxia,” the hospital’s medical director Dr Sunil Khemka said in a bulletin.“As of now, Jogi’s neurological activity is almost nil. In simple words, we can say he has slipped into coma. He is on ventilator. We are making all efforts to improve his health, but the situation is worrisome at present,” he said.In the next 48 hours, it will be assessed how Jogi’s body is responding to medicines, the official said, adding that the leader is being treated by a team of eight specialist doctors.A bureaucrat-turned-politician, Jogi, currently an MLA from Marwahi seat, served as the first chief minister of Chhattisgarh from November 2000 to November 2003 in the then Congress government, after the formation of the state.He parted ways with the Congress in 2016 after he and his Amit Jogi got embroiled in a controversy over the alleged fixing of bypoll to Antagarh seat in Kanker district in 2014.He subsequently formed his own outfit JCC (J).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-chhattisgarh-cm-ajit-jogi-slips-into-coma-on-ventilator-support-doctor/story-iYtCoVEG0AjRbZMyRkU4qN.html
10-05-2020||India||5 states in North-East free from Covid-19, govt hails discipline of people||The entire country is grappling with the rapid spread of coronavirus disease, which has infected more than 62,000 people and killed more than 2,000.But there are five states in the North-East which do not have a single Covid-19 patient. These are Manipur, Sikkim, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram.Mizoram’s Covid-19-free status can be attributed to the discipline of its people, Chief Minister Pu Zoramthanga said on Sunday.“Mizoram is a very disciplined state. With the help of the church, NGOs and administration, we have so far survived this crisis and are determined to continue to do so in the future,” he told news agency PTI.He, however, said acknowledged the threat from “corona carriers” looms large over the state, which shares a 510-kilometre border with Myanmar and a 318-kilometre border with Bangladesh.“This is a great threat for us as there are high chances of people from Myanmar and Bangladesh infiltrating into Mizoram due to the open borders. We are taking all measures to stop it.” he said.While Bangladesh has reported 13,134 cases of coronavirus with 206 deaths, Myanmar has 177 cases.Union minister Jitendra Singh had said on Saturday that the entire northeastern region has emerged as the model of coronavirus management and the rest of the country should emulate it.He said that people in the northeast of India - Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Tripura and Assam - have been following the lockdown-related guidelines in letter and spirit.“By tradition and by lifestyle, people of northeastern region are civilised and disciplined. That is why they could very easily follow the lockdown guidelines. There has been no problem in ensuring implementation of the lockdown-related guidelines there,” Singh said.Five out of eight northeastern states are free from the deadly virus now and Sikkim never had a single case throughout.The number of Covid-19 cases in India, meanwhile, reached 62,939 on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-states-in-north-east-free-from-covid-19-govt-hails-discipline-of-people/story-zJuUIpJZAw3YP6t0aNDFzM.html
10-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Tripura sees rise in Covid-19 patients and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 state tally: Over 20,000 cases in Maharashtra, Tripura sees rise in patientsThe number of coronavirus cases in the country breached the 60,000-mark on Sunday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 62,939. Read moreChhattisgarh demands additional levy amount of Rs 4140.21 cr on coal from CentreChhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has written a letter to Union Minister of Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi again requesting for the state’s rightful share of additional levy collected from coal block allottees of the state. Read moreLabourers refuse to work at Bengal cement plant, allege violation of social distancing normsAround 350 contractual labourers at a cement factory in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Saturday refused to join duty, saying the management did not take measures to ensure social distancing in the production area. Read moreChinese city near North Korea raises virus alert: ReportShulan, a Chinese city in the northeastern province of Jilin bordering North Korea, raised its coronavirus threat alert level to high risk from medium, the official Xinhua News Agency reported. Read moreUAE offers to host IPL 13, BCCI ‘yet to decide’After Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC), the Emirates Cricket Board has offered to host the suspended edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL) in the United Arab Emirates. Read moreMother’s Day 2020: How I met my mother as a thirty-somethingWe probably don’t give ourselves enough credit for most things in life. This isn’t going to be a lecture on imposter syndrome or anything to its likening, but we must remember this... We don’t give ourselves enough credit for most things. Period. Read moreDelhi cop singing Teri Mitti to kid scoring Lionel Messi like free kick, 7 videos which went viral this weekThe Internet is a treasure trove of videos which never fail to spark all sorts of reactions. From excitement to aww-worthy, the clips evoke different emotions in people and that’s probably the reason they went all sorts of viral. Read moreWatch| India and US working on three vaccines for covid-19’: Ambassador TS Sandhu||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-tripura-sees-rise-in-covid-19-patients-and-all-the-latest-news/story-hSBFMAMX7MHnfJdBfNUfvO.html
10-05-2020||India||With country’s highest Covid-19 mortality rate, West Bengal a concern for Centre||Eleven more people have died due to coronavirus disease Covid-19 in West Bengal, raising the death toll in the state to 99, authorities have said.At least 108 more people have tested positive for the virus in the state, taking the number of confirmed cases to 1,786, Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said on Saturday. The state has recorded 527 new cases and 38 deaths in the past seven days.Thirteen of West Bengal’s 23 districts have reported new cases of Covid-19 in the last week, and the worst affected city is Kolkata. It is mainly because of the sharp increase in the numbers in Kolkata that Bengal’s overall graph is also rising.Overall, 911 persons tested positive in Kolkata and 116 of them died, with 64 deaths attributed to Covid-19 and 52 to co-morbidity.The situation is most critical in boroughs number 1 to 9 sprawling across north and central Kolkata and parts of south Kolkata, and borough no 15 in western Kolkata, covering mostly the Garden Reach area. Of the total 326 containment zones in the city, 255 are between wards no 1 and 90 of the total 144-ward Kolkata Municipal Corporation.The Centre had recently rapped the state government over its Covid-19 management which, it said, was characterised by a very low rate of testing in proportion to the population, and the highest mortality rate in the country - of 13.2 per cent.The state government, however, said less number of active cases was detected in the initial days due to lack of infrastructure, and this resulted in an apparently high rate of deaths in the state.As for the return of migrant labourers and pilgrims stuck in other states, the Home Secretary said that the state government is taking necessary steps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-country-s-highest-covid-19-mortality-rate-west-bengal-a-concern-for-centre/story-JM8vn2KIiHStKjtFbOZtFJ.html
10-05-2020||India||Covid-19 cases double in Maharashtra in 9 days, tally now above 20,000||The number of Covid-19 positive cases crossed the 20,000-mark in Maharashtra on Sunday, according to Union Health Ministry data. The state reported 1,165 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 20,228.It took Maharashtra only nine days to go from 10,000 cases to 20,000 cases, whereas it had taken 53 days to reach 10,000 cases after the first case was reported on March 9.Maharashtra also recorded 48 deaths on Saturday, the highest the highest in a single day so far. The total number of fatalities linked to the coronavirus disease stands at 779 in Maharashtra.The mortality rate has, however, come down in the state. From 7.21 per cent on April 12, the mortality rate has improved to 3.83 per cent now, state health authorities said.While 86.48 per cent or 16,482 of the total Covid-19 cases till Friday are from Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), 85.77 per cent or 627 of the total 731 deaths are also from these regions. These are the most populated areas in the state, accommodating around 30 per cent (or 35 million) of the state’s total population on over 11,600 square km, which is less than five per cent of the state’s total area.On Saturday morning, a special flight carrying Indian nationals from London landed at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj airport, with 326 passengers. Another flight with 243 Indians from Singapore is expected to land in Mumbai on Sunday afternoon and another from Manila at 11 pm.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday approved free travel by state transport buses for migrants, workers, locals and tourists to travel within the state, or who are at state borders and want to travel elsewhere in the state.So far, Maharashtra has conducted 2,27,804 tests for Covid-19, of which of 20,228 have tested positive in the state. Between Friday night and Saturday night, Maharashtra conducted 15,454 tests and 1,165 people tested positive, which is 7.53 per cent of the total people tested. 2,41,290 people are currently under home quarantine, while 13,976 are under institutional quarantine. Three thousand eight hundred patients have fully recovered from various hospitals, after testing positive in the past nine weeks.Maharashtra Police have registered a total of 1,00,245 cases for lockdown violations, most of these are against people who gathered at one place. A total of 19,297 people were arrested since the state was put under lockdown on March 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-double-in-maharashtra-in-9-days-tally-now-above-20-000/story-Z4IcFfxwIUnbQ2OWOAKFDK.html
10-05-2020||India||Thunderstorm and rain in Delhi, residents get relief from spell of heat||Parts of the national capital on Sunday received spells of shower coupled with gusty winds and a sudden dust storm. This came as a relief after days of hot weather in Delhi. The Indian Meteorological Department had predicted thunderstorm with rain for the national capital today. According to the Met department, the temperature in Delhi was predicted to range between 38 degrees Celsius (maximum) and 27 degrees Celsius (minimum) on Sunday.On Saturday, Delhi recorded the maximum temperature of 40.9 degrees Celsius, the IMD stated. Also read: Rain on the cards in Chandigarh from May 10 onwards#WATCH Dust storm envelops #Delhi in a sudden change of weather; Visuals from Gazipur area pic.twitter.com/GEot2byafdThe Met department has predicted thunderstorms accompanied with lightning, hail and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) at isolated places in parts of northwest India. The IMD in its weather summary and forecast bulletin predicted isolated to scattered rain/thundershowers, due to the Western Disturbance, over Western Himalayan region and plains of northwest India mainly between May 10 and 13 with peak activities on May 10.“The Western Disturbance likely to move further northeast wards and interact with the low level circulation and easterlies over northwestern parts of India causing increase of moisture incursion in the region,” the IMD bulletin read.North-East India and southern states are also predicted to receive rainfall in the coming days.“Convergence of moist southwesterly winds in the lower levels aided by favourable upper level wind pattern is likely to cause scattered to fairly widespread rain/thundershowers over Northeast India,” the IMD noted.Heavy rainfall is also likely at isolated places over West Bengal and Sikkim and adjoining North-Eastern states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thunderstorm-and-rains-in-delhi-residence-get-relief-from-spell-of-heat/story-tI19TR41AQoETXJjiPIXVP.html
10-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh demands additional levy amount of Rs 4140.21 cr on coal from Centre||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has written a letter to Union Minister of Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi again requesting for the state’s rightful share of additional levy collected from coal block allottees of the state.The chief minister said that the additional levy of Rs 4,140.21 crore being deposited to the coal ministry by the eight companies, which have been allotted coal blocks in the state, should be made available to the state government immediately for effective implementation of coronavirus lockdown measures.Referring to his letter sent on January 23, Baghel said that the state government had earlier demanded the additional levy of more than Rs 4,140.21 crore deposited to the Centre by eight former coal blocks allottees out of the total cancelled blocks at the rate of Rs 295 per metric ton for mining. But, the state is yet to receive the information about the action taken by the Union Coal Ministry in this regard.Baghel also referred to the State Government’s opinion given in reply to the Union Coal Ministry’s letter dated 27 August 2015. He also mentioned the order issued by the Supreme Court in this regard, stating that the additional and prescribed amount of levy should eventually be payable to the state government.Baghel, in his letter, contends that as per Constitution, the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, the rules of the Mines and Minerals Act 1951, Mineral Concession Rules 2016 and the Chhattisgarh Land Revenue Code, the state government has the ownership to collect royalty, levy and other taxes on minerals. He added that there is also a provision in favour of the state government. The chief minister emphasized that the state government has the entitlement to receive the amount of additional levy deposited to the Coal Ministry, at the rate of Rs. 295 per metric ton by the former coal block allottees.Baghel said that Chhattisgarh is also under lockdown for the last one and a half months to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Several protective measures have been implemented in the state for the prevention of the infection. As a result, only 59 corona positive cases have been found in the state so far. 43 people in the state have recovered from coronavirus and 16 are currently under treatment.The state government has taken immediate steps to prevent coronavirus infection. It has also taken measures to prevent migration of labourers of the state, provide health and food grains to the labourers living in the state and look into the arrangement of the movement of people from other states as per the guidelines issued by the Government of India.The chief minister said that providing the state’s rightful share of the additional levy amount will help the state government work more strongly and effectively in the public interest of the state during the situation arising from Covid-19 pandemic.Baghel has requested the Union Coal Minister to take action to provide the additional levy amount of about Rs 4140.21 crore as soon as possible in the state interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-demands-additional-levy-amount-of-rs-4140-21-crore-on-coal-from-centre/story-P91klOmCLQawALaEjgrdlM.html
10-05-2020||India||At NSA Ajit Doval’s mega Kashmir meet, a stinker for Pak and a piece of advice||At his five-hour long meeting to review the operational strategies and tactics of security forces in Jammu and Kashmir, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval showered praises on security forces for the successful elimination of Kashmir’s Hizbul Mujahideen chief Riyaz Naikoo over the week. In that praise, Doval also slipped in a message: the importance of developing actionable human intelligence and operational synergy among forces fronting the counter-terror operations.The Special Operations Group of the Jammu and Kashmir Police had been working on people in the Kupwara district who had had access to Riyaz Naikoo. As J&K police chief Dilbag Singh told this newspaper later, one of them was a man who had played a role in building the secret bunker in his native village in south Kashmir’s Pulwama. The intelligence was pinpointed. The security forces didn’t give up when they couldn’t locate him in the first round and kept up the search.Riyaz Naikoo’s elimination, a serious setback to terror group Hizbul Mujahideen in south Kashmir, is considered one of the most successful security operations in recent months in Jammu and Kashmir.In a video of Naikoo’s boss mourning his death, the Hizbul founder who also leads the Pakistan’s ISI-backed alliance of terror groups United Jihad Council, Syed Salahuddin said the mujahideen (terrorists) had broken the back of the enemy (India) in Handwara Rajwar recently “but the enemy (India) has the edge”.PAK PRIMED FOR TERRORPakistan deep state is in control of PM Imran Khan’s Kashmir policyIslamabad has primed its terror factories for big action in India this summerImran Khan’s remark accusing India of looking for a ‘false flag’ sets the basePak PM’s statement is preemptive denial, implies will not pull in the reins on terror Attempts by terrorists to infiltrate from Pakistan to increase over next few weeksNew terror outfits such as TRF to claim responsibility for attacks to give Pak an alibiAjit Doval told security forces to aim higher, spot every terrorists infiltrating from PakAnalyse infiltration routes to spot gaps in counter-infiltration grid along LoCFocus on human intelligence, it led to spectacular op that eliminated Riyaz NaikooStep up offensive against foreign terrorists in Kashmir valleySecurity forces should improve synergy for pinpointed action; display mutual respectAjit Doval’s meeting with top army commanders and chiefs of all intelligence and paramilitary forces deployed in Jammu and Kashmir was convened to sharpen this edge.Pak’s deep state is inchargePakistan, by all accounts, is determined to bear down on India. This is the first summer after India scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August last year and Islamabad has been prepping ever since.It had floated The Resistance Front late last year, a name stripped of the religious label designed to message to the world that they are India-bred. Lashkar-e-Taiba, the terror group notorious for brutal killings in Kashmir, had been tasked to handhold this newly-minted terror group and let them take the credit for all terrorist action to ward-off international pressure.Doval’s meeting felt that it was clear that the deep state was clearly incharge of Pakistan’s Kashmir policy. And Imran Khan, quite like India had anticipated right in the beginning, was letting the army run the show.Also Read: Pak launches terror’s new face in Kashmir, Imran Khan follows up on TwitterImran Khan’s recent tweet on Kashmir that attributed violence in Kashmir to an “indigenous resistance movement” and accused India of finding a pretext to launch a “false flag operation” also found a reference at the meeting.This remark has been interpreted in New Delhi to imply that the TRF model of funding terror and denying a role in terrorism in Kashmir was the template. As long as it works.What it means for KashmirA senior government official who was present at Doval’s marathon meeting - he let the officers do most of the talking - told Hindustan Times that Pakistan’s determination to have a stab at pushing terror this year coincided with his simultaneous effort to try to internationalise developments in Kashmir. The decision to place the Pakistan Air Force on alert this week pointed in this direction.For security forces in Kashmir, this implied that they would have to scale up the counter-infiltration grid along the Line of Control and the counter-insurgency grid in the Kashmir valley. Doval told security forces deployed along the line of control to ensure that terrorists from Pakistan don’t slip past them, day or night. Last month, about 25-30 of them did.There will be more attempts this month.Intelligence agencies have had to update their estimate of about 230 terrorists at the terror launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir within just about three weeks when their number shot up to 450.The biggest contingent is aligned to the Lashkar-e-Taiba (244) and the Jaish-e-Mohammed (129), which plans to carryy out simultaneous attacks on 11 May. The Hizbul Mujahideen, which has a depleted strength in South Kashmir, had about 60.The army and Border Security Force shared their plans how they intended to minimise the possibility of terrorists slipping in, plans that officials said did require some tweaks.And a word of adviceNSA Ajit Doval underscored that the blueprint put on the table at the meeting would require absolute synergy between different security forces. There cannot be a mismatch, he told them. The advice was given in context of reports that he had received about lack of coordination between ground commanders from different forces.Some of this lack of mutual respect is reflected in the controversy around “unpleasant” comments made about the Central Reserve Police Force by Jammu and Kashmir Inspector General of Police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar.Kumar, according to a leaked report filed by a CRPF officer to his seniors, said at a meeting that the CRPF wasn’t contributing enough to the counter-terror effort but only taking credit when it was the army and the J&K police that did most of the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-big-kashmir-meet-to-blunt-pak-s-terror-offensive-ajit-doval-also-has-some-advice/story-mCJyQAHHOgGBWXQy6YzcOM.html
10-05-2020||India||14 states see dip in number of active Covid-19 cases, shows data||The number of Covid-19 positive cases has reduced in at least 14 states, an analysis of Union health ministry data shows. According to Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Live Hindustan, the number of active cases has actually reduced in these states.It has quoted health ministry to say that in Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu Kashmir, the increase in number of these cases is minuscule. In rest of the states, the number is either decreasing, or has stayed stable, Live Hindustan said.The analysis is based on the trends of active cases released by the health ministry till May 9. The number of active cases is a count of patients admitted to hospitals. It doesn’t include discharged or deceased patients.The number of active cases has reduced in Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Meghalaya, Puducherry, Mizoram and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Ladakh.The development in Madhya Pradesh is of particular importance. The state has seen a dip in number of active cases since May 4. There were 1,979 active cases of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh on May 4, which was reduced to 1,761 on May 9. Rajasthan has been witnessing a fall in number of active cases since May 8. Mizoram and Dadra and Nagar Haveli have just one patient each.However, 14 other states have seen an increase in number of active cases. These states are Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Tripura, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Chandigarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Maharashtra, Odisha and Punjab. Uttar Pradesh had seen a dip in number of active cases since May 4, but there was a slight increase on May 9. Himachal Pradesh has seen the number of active cases grow from two to 10. In Jammu and Kashmir too, the number of active cases has increased from 413 to 450, according to Live Hindustan.All Covid-19 patients have recovered in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Goa and Arunachal Pradesh. And no single case has been reported from Daman and Diu, Lakshwadeep, Nagaland and Sikkim.India reported more than 3,200 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 128 deaths in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said on Sunday morning.According to the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard at 8am, 62,939 people have been infected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, including 2,109 fatalities so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-states-see-dip-in-number-of-active-covid-19-cases-shows-data/story-iCeIi4MVVNyx7gjoycYsGN.html
10-05-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Over 20,000 cases in Maharashtra, Tripura sees rise in patients||The number of coronavirus cases in the country breached the 60,000-mark on Sunday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 62,939. There are 41,472 active coronavirus cases in the country, 19,357 patients have been cured or discharged while 2,109 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have breached the 20,228-mark while Gujarat, the second worst-affected state has over 7,500 Covid-19 cases.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.Also read: Covid-19 pandemic sets back Delhi’s infra projects by six monthsMaharashtraWith 20228 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 779 deaths so far while 3800 patients have recovered.GujaratThe state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 7796. While 472 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 2091 recoveries so far.DelhiAs many as 6542 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 73 people have died from the infection while 2020 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 6535 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 1824 recoveries and 44 Covid-19 deaths.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 3708 on Sunday. The state has reported 106 fatalities, and 2026 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 3614 positive cases of coronavirus. 215 people have died from Covid-19 here while 1676 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 3373 in Uttar Pradesh. While 1499 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 74 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1930 positive Covid-19 patients and 887 cases of recovery. 44 people have died.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 1786 on Sunday. There have been 171 deaths and 372 recoveries in the state.TelanganaThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 1163 in state so far. 750 people have made a recovery from the virus while 30 people have died from Covid-19.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 836. 9 people have died from the infection while 368 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 794 Covid-19 cases and 30 deaths. 386 people have been cured and discharged.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 675 and 1762 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 31 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen 9 deaths. 290 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 157 in Punjab.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 505 coronavirus cases on Sunday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 485 people have successfully recovered.In Bihar, 591 people have tested positive for coronavirus, 5 people have died while 322 patients have recovered. Odisha has 294 Covid-19 positive patients, 63 have recovered while two people have died. Jharkhand has 156 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 78 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 67 coronavirus patients, 46 patients have recovered from the infection, one patient has died. Himachal Pradesh has 50 cases, 2 patients have died and 38 have recovered. Assam has reported 63 Covid-19 cases, two people have died while 34 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 59 cases of coronavirus and 43 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 169 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 24 have recovered, two people have died. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, all patients have recovered.Ladakh has 42 patients, 17 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported 9 cases, 6 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 13 cases and one death, 10 patients have recovered. One patient has died. Manipur had two coronavirus cases, and those have recovered. Tripura, meanwhile, has 134 cases, two patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, all patients have recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-over-20-000-cases-in-maharashtra-tripura-sees-rise-in-patients/story-16uOV8vTFZkQvy9TU9wLFK.html
10-05-2020||India||After lull of 13 months, poachers kill rhino in Assam’s Kaziranga; steal horn||Poachers have killed a rhino in Assam’s Kaziranga National Park with an AK-47 assault rifle and taken the animal’s horn, striking after a gap of more than 13 months, forest department officials said on Sunday.Discovery of eight empty shells of an AK-47 assault rifle at the spot where the rhino’s carcass was found have led forest officials to suspect the role of some local insurgent groups, who are in possession of such sophisticated arms.This is the first instance of rhino poaching in Kaziranga this year. There was no instance of poaching the 430 sq km park since April 1, 2019, and it had recorded three poaching deaths last year. “The carcass of the adult male rhino was found by our personnel on Saturday evening at the Agaratoli range of the park with its horn missing. It seems the poaching incident took place on Wednesday,” P Sivakumar, director of the national park, said.All the five national parks, 18 wildlife sanctuaries and zoos in Assam have been closed for tourists since mid-March due to the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19. But there have been instances of movement of poachers during this period.“There was some information about the movement of eight persons allegedly belonging to some extremist group from Karbi Anglong in the Panbari area with three AK series rifles. Combing operations were carried out based on the information,” Sivakumar said.“This is the first case of use of AK-47 rifles to kill rhino in the Agaratoli range of the park. Only trained groups who know how to handle such arms can indulge in such kind of poaching. We suspect they had come from the nearby Karbi Anglong district,” he added.Last month, villagers on the eastern side of the park had caught a suspected rhino poacher with arms and handed him over to the police and forest officials.“Kaziranga did its best to keep poachers away in last 13 months. Unfortunately it was the poachers’ day (sic),” Rohit Choudhury, a wildlife activist, tweeted.With a population of around 2,400, Kaziranga is the largest habitat of the one-horned rhino in the world. It is also a hunting ground for poachers who target the animal for its horn—prized as medicine in China and some other Southeast Asian countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-lull-of-13-months-poachers-kill-rhino-in-assam-s-kaziranga-steal-horn/story-tSSd76BkCoDGapuRNVucmK.html
10-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Navy ship carrying 698 stranded in Maldives arrives in Kochi||The Indian Navy ship INS Jalashwa, carrying 698 Indians stranded in Maldives due to international travel restrictions owing to coronavirus lockdown, arrived in Kerala’s Kochi port on Sunday. The warship had started its journey from the island on Friday night.Out of these evacuees, 440 are from Kerala, 110 from Tamil Nadu and 45 from Karnataka. “OP# Samudra Setu #Jalashwa with 698 Indian citizens embarked from Maldivesat Kochi, Kerala,” a spokesperson of Indian Navy tweeted.According to the Indian Navy, there are 19 pregnant women among the 698 Indian nationals.Rest of the passengers are from other parts of the country including Goa (1), Haryana (3), Andhra Pradesh (8), Assam (1), Himachal Pradesh (3), Maharashtra (3), Rajasthan (3), Telangana (9), Lakshadweep (4).Each passenger was charged US $40, one of the passengers told Hindustan Times over phone. The Navy spokesman said that they were charged only to meet the expenses required during the trip which was part of series called ‘Samudra Setu’ operation. The evacuees disembarked at Kochi port and will have to undergo test for coronavirus disease Covid-19 before undergoing 14-day quarantine.Kochi district administration has made all arrangements in this regard, said Ernakulam district collector S Suhas.According to initial reports, majority of the evacuees have lost their jobs due to slowdown of the economy of the island which is a major tourist destination. Teachers and medical personnel from Kerala are most sought after in the island nation which shares many similarities with the southern state.The Navy had ealier said that the INS Jalashwa mission highlighted India’s commitment to safeguarding its diaspora anywhere in the world.While travelling back to Kochi, Kerala, the warships of the Western Fleet had joined the warship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-navy-ship-carrying-698-stranded-from-maldives-arrives-in-kochi/story-L3bquALpDBwez8jE9ZJj3J.html
10-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases near 63,000-mark, death toll at 2,109||India reported more than 3,200 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 128 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health said on Sunday morning.According to the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard at 8am, 62,939 people have been infected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, including 2,109 fatalities so far.The number of people who have recovered stood at 19,357.The highest number of cases continued to be reported from Maharashtra, with more than 20,000 cases, Gujarat, Delhi and Tamil Nadu.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said India has now raised its testing capacity to 95,000 per day and a total 1,525,631 tests have been conducted so far across 332 government and 121 private laboratories.“We do not anticipate a very worst type of situation in our country like many other developed countries but still we have prepared the whole country for the worst situation,” Harsh Vardhan said at a meeting to review the status of Covid-19 outbreak in northeastern states on Saturday.Authorities are now focusing on 10 states that account for the most number of cases and deployed central teams to 10 states that have witnessed or are witnessing high caseload and a high spurt of cases. “The teams will assist state health departments of respective states to facilitate the management of the outbreak,” the health ministry said in a statement on Saturday.The expert teams consist of a senior official from the health ministry, a joint secretary-level nodal officer, and a public health expert. These teams will be sent to Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.Globally, the virus has now infected more than 4 million people and claimed the lives of 279,313 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-cases-near-63-000-mark-death-toll-at-2-109/story-JU6sjcYXwH2PlHS9EqDauI.html
10-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Mamata is scared’, BJP launches social media campaign & all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Mamata is scared’: BJP’s social media campaign after no press meet by Bengal CM in 9 daysThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday launched a social media campaign taking a swipe at West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for staying away from the media for more than a week. Read moreUttarakhand’s Rudraprayag forest division launches app to monitor forest firesFor real time monitoring of forest fires, the Rudraprayag division on Saturday launched a mobile application. Called Forest Fire Rudraprayag, the application will help officials monitor such incidents better with real time location of active fires on Google Map. Read more Recovered from Covid-19, Odisha woman has a messageShe has never been in hospital bed for more than a day in her whole life, yet the computer instructor working in a Bhubaneswar-based university did not show anxiety once about her health despite spending about a month in a Covid-19 hospital. Read moreMumbai Police pay tribute to cop who died of Covid-19The Mumbai Police on Sunday paid tribute to assistant sub-inspector (ASI) attached to Vinoba Bhave Nagar police station who died of the coronavirus disease Covid-19 on Friday. Read moreIn leaked call, Obama describes Trump’s handling of Covid-19 as ‘chaotic’Former President Barack Obama described President Donald Trump’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic as “chaotic” in a conference call with former members of his administration, a source said on Saturday. Read moreMother’s Day 2020: These apps might be the best gifts (you can install) for momThe nation-wide lockdown has all of us stuck at home and making do with only essential deliveries. Groceries, medicines and essentials are what we truly need to survive this lockdown and most of us are lucky enough to have it, and more. Read more‘Till government is sure of safety, national training camps should not restart’ - Vikas KrishanAs the Indian Olympic Association continue to discuss with athletes, coaches, and other stakeholders regarding how to restart the national training camps, amid coronavirus pandemic, India boxer Vikas Krishan is of the view that the government should wait it till they are completely satisfied with the safety issues. Read moreMother’s Day 2020: From Aishwarya Rai to Kareena Kapoor, check out pics of these Bollywood moms and their kidsThe world is ready to celebrate Mother’s Day on Sunday and so is Bollywood. The film industry also includes some young and cool moms such as Kareena Kapoor, Aishwarya Rai and others who keep fans updated with what happening in their life with their adorable kids. Read moreMan gives boss his Netflix password. Find out what happens next in this hilarious Twitter threadPeople are often told to keep their personal and professional lives separate. But that can be harder to do than expected given that most spend a majority of their waking hours at work. It is especially hard to do so when one actually likes and gets on well with their colleagues. Read moreWatch: 45 Chinese nationals in Nepal demand flights to go home, detained||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mamata-is-scared-bjp-launches-social-media-campaign-all-the-latest-news/story-VSaOV3l9cyTEmKkXqyJgYJ.html
10-05-2020||India||3 grenades, 54 rounds of ammunition recovered near India-Pak border in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir police recovered many rounds of ammunition and grenades near the international border with Pakistan in Samba district on Saturday, officials said on Sunday.“We recovered three grenades and 54 rounds of AK ammunition during a search operation in hilly area of Goran in district Samba,” Shakti Pathak, Samba’s senior superintendent of police, said.“It is a forest area bordering Kathua district and had remained an infiltration route for the terrorists in the past,” Pathak said.The senior police official said that investigations have been initiated.Meanwhile, national security adviser Ajit Doval reviewed the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir during a high level meeting.Ajit Doval was briefed in detail by the top security and intelligence brass on Pakistan’s terror moves in Kashmir. Top officials of the Indian Army and J&K Police also participated in it.The high-level meeting came in the backdrop of militant activity in north Kashmir’s Handwara, Baramulla and Sopore triangle that cost lives of six soldiers including, a colonel-rank officer.This comes days after top terrorist of the Hizbul Mujahideen, Riyaz Naikoo, 35, was killed in an encounter with security forces at his village in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district earlier this week.The successful operation came just four days after the killing of five security men, including the Commanding Officer of a Rashtriya Rifles battalion and a Major, during an encounter in north Kashmir’s Handwara. Two terrorists of the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba, too, were killed in the gunfight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-grenades-54-rounds-of-ammunition-recovered-from-forest-close-to-indo-pak-border-in-j-k/story-taQMEGPgQkDtUifS5dyB0J.html
10-05-2020||India||‘Lockdown getting extended, didn’t want to remain stranded’: Aurangabad train tragedy survivor||Days after the tragedy in Maharashtra in which 16 labourers were run over by a goods train, one of the survivors said that they decided to walk towards their home as they didn’t want to remain stranded due to lockdown till the rainy season.“We were 20 in one of the groups of labourers walking. Four of us including my nephew and myself could survive as we were asleep a little away from the railway tracks,” said Sajjan Singh Dhruve, a resident of Mandla in Madhya Pradesh.Dhruve and his nephew Indal Singh sustained minor injuries in the mishap. They and two other labourers were part of a group of 20 labourers which left Jalna in Maharashtra for Shahdol, Umaria and Mandla districts in Madhya Pradesh.“We had some money with us but not any conveyance to reach home. Due to lockdown and no work we were running short of money. Lockdown is getting extended time and again. Our concern was if we would remain stranded till rainy season begins we would not be able to even walk home. Hence, we wanted to reach home early while walking,” he added.Shahdol is 858 kilometres, Umaria 862 kilometres and Mandla is 667 kilometres from Jalna.“All the labourers in the iron rod factory at Jalna where we worked requested the management to make an arrangement for our travel to reach home. The authorities of the factory sent an e-mail too to the administration in this regard but there was no response. I had talks with my village sarpanch at least thrice. He assured me that he would do something but there was no result,” said Dhruve.The bodies of the 16 labourers killed in the mishap near Aurangabad division reached Jabalpur in a ‘Shramik Special’ train.“Our apprehension was that there might not be any relief from the lockdown for a long time. Then we decided to walk and reach home anyhow. Had the factory management or the government made arrangements for our travel the tragedy would have not struck us,” said Dhruve.“It was on Thursday evening when we started walking. We later got along the railway tracks and had walked for about 40 kilometres up to Karmad when we got tired and hungry. It was about 4 in the morning. We all had food on the tracks itself. While 16 of the group later got into sleep on the tracks itself, four of us including my nephew and myself slept a little away from the railway tracks,” he added.He said that the labourers slept wherever they could find place. “There was nothing in our mind as to who would sleep on the railway tracks and who would not. We wanted to take rest for a while and then walk again on way to Aurangabad. We were fast asleep. Four of us sleeping some distance away from the railway tracks woke up as we got hit by stones. We saw a goods train standing on the track where 16 of us were sleeping. We couldn’t understand for a while as to what had happened. When the train started running then we realised about the tragedy,” said Dhruve.Dhruve lost consciousness after seeing the bodies of his fellow labourers and was taken to a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-getting-extended-didn-t-want-to-remain-stranded-aurangabad-train-tragedy-survivor/story-B6hppmqOlwpas9Y2Dx86eK.html
10-05-2020||India||After Vizag gas leak, Centre issues guidelines for restarting industries post-coronavirus lockdown||The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) under the Union Home Ministry has said that the manufacturing units which will restart after the Covid-19 lockdown ends, should consider the first week as the trial period.“Due to several weeks of lockdown and the closure of industrial units during the lockdown period, it is possible that some of the operators might not have followed the established SOP. As a result, some of the manufacturing facilities, pipelines, valves, etc. may have residual chemicals, which may pose risk,” the NDMA said in a letter to states.“While restarting the unit, consider the first week as the trial or test run period; ensure all safety protocols; and not try to achieve high production targets,” it added.The order also said that state governments should be prepared to implement a disaster management plan for major accidental hazard units.“To minimise the risk, it is important that employees who work on specific equipment are sensitised and made aware of the need to identify abnormalities like strange sounds or smell, exposed wires, vibrations, leaks, smoke, abnormal wobbling, irregular grinding or other potentially hazardous signs which indicate the need for an immediate maintenance or if required shutdown,” the NDMA said.It also said that factories should ensure 24-hour sanitisation, especially in the common areas that include lunch rooms and common tables which will have to be wiped clean with disinfectants after every single use.For accommodation, sanitisation needs to be performed regularly to ensure worker safety and reduce spread of contamination, the guideline further said.The order has been sent to all the state chief secretaries after gas leak at LG Polymers plant in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam in which 11 people were killed.The gas leak happened before dawn, affecting villages near the factory. About 1,000 people were admitted to the hospitals with breathing difficulties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-vizag-gas-leak-centre-issues-guidelines-for-restarting-industries-post-coronavirus-lockdown/story-H7cL5POQ1UQss7UeXxrgTO.html
10-05-2020||India||Bengal suggests rail route for trade with Bangladesh after rap from Centre||The trade between India and Bangladesh can continue through Gede in south Bengal’s Nadia district during the coronavirus lockdown, the West Bengal government has proposed to the Centre.The move comes after the Centre came down hard on the Mamata Banerjee government on Wednesday for not allowing movement of goods traffic through border crossings between the two neighbouring countries during the lockdown - a move it said could jeopardise India’s international commitments.“One of the proposals that has come up in the letters that were exchanged between the Centre and the state is to continue international trade between India and Bangladesh through Gede via trains. This is safer and acceptable,” said Alapan Bandyopadhay, state home secretary.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, in his letter to West Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, had stated on Wednesday that goods traffic through border crossings between India and Bangladesh, falling in the state, didn’t resume.Bhalla told that by doing so, West Bengal was not only violating the Ministry of Home Affairs’ orders under Disaster Management Act but also Articles 253, 256 and 257 of the Constitution of India.To this, Bandyopadhay had earlier stated that there were some local problems which had cropped up at Petrapole in North 24 Parganas.“In case of Petrapole there has been some public issue. People at the border are in emotive commotion. The whole thing is being navigated. We will address the issue in due time after careful consideration of all the aspects involved. There are several issues concerning trade between India and Bangladesh. They would be considered after detailed discussion,” Bandopadhyay had said on Wednesday soon after the centre’s letter.Bangladesh is India’s biggest trade partner in South Asia. India’s export to Bangladesh for the financial year 2018-19 was $9.21 billion and imports from Bangladesh for the same period was $1.22 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-suggests-rail-route-for-trade-with-bangladesh-after-rap-from-centre/story-rhazuYvyVERp0U0q9fqq8L.html
10-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Rudraprayag forest division launches app to monitor forest fires||For real time monitoring of forest fires, the Rudraprayag division on Saturday launched a mobile application.Called Forest Fire Rudraprayag, the application will help officials monitor such incidents better with real time location of active fires on Google Map. Using the application, people can report forest fires through geo-tagged images.The application also enables people to track the location of fire fighting vehicles and crew on a real-time basis.“Our main aim with this application is to reduce the response time. We have mapped our fire crew stations, plantations, van panchayats along with type of forests. As soon as a new fire is detected by Forest Survey of India, we can put the input received from FSI on our system and know the exact location of the fire, whether it is in a pine forest or a plantation or civil forest,” said Vaibhav Singh, divisional forest officer of Rudraprayag division.He said that officials will be able to inform a crew station and concerned person about the fire incident using the application.“By the time we send the secondary team, someone will already be there to deal with the situation. Anyone using the application will be able to find out how far the fire is from their current location and plan to use resources accordingly. The same will be monitored from the master control room,” said Singh.The mobile application also has information on fire awareness along with a provision for people to volunteer and help the forest department in controlling fires.The application has features like mapping of all fire crew stations so as to ascertain the first respondent, elaborate list of actions based on colour code circulated to the public, mapping of forest types along with density in master control room to determine the threat and ease of spreading of fire. It also has details of a person in-charge for plantations, nurseries, van panchayats to help in the fight against forest fire.This week, to spread awareness amongst locals about preventing forest fires, Rudraprayag division had also put up posters using famous dialogues from films like Sholay, Dabang, Dirty Picture and so on.Around 1,500 such posters were made, and 200 of them being put up in every forest range. The posters also give information on punishment for setting forests on fire, that is, a fine of Rs 5,000 and imprisonment up to two years. It also has the fire control room numbers mentioned so that people can call and alert the department about any fire incident.So far, no case of forest fire has been reported from the Rudraprayag division this year, but total 18 incidents of forest fire have been reported from Uttarakhand with a loss of 11.03 hectares of forest area.In Uttarakhand, 0.17% of total forest cover is extremely fire prone, 1.60% comes under very highly fire prone, 9.32% under highly fire prone, 21.66% under moderately fire prone and 67.25% under less fire prone category. Since the formation of the state in the year 2000, over 44,554 hectares of the forest area has been damaged in forest fires accruing a loss of over Rs 185 lakh, revealed an RTI reply by the Uttarakhand government last year.Uttarakhand forest department has around 174 watchtowers and 1,437 station crews across the state to keep a tab on the forest fires and take measures to check them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-rudraprayag-forest-division-launches-app-to-monitor-forest-fires/story-rnX8sQLWuxs7076IJVSoHN.html
10-05-2020||India||India’s case count crosses 60k, Modi to focus on economy in key meet: Covid-19 news today||India’s Covid-19 cases crossed 60,000 and fatalities rose above 2,000 with 3,172 new infections and 117 deaths on Saturday. According to officials, Prime Minister Narendra Modi may meet chief ministers as early as Tuesday to discuss the next stage in the exit from the nationwide lockdown. The focus of the meeting will be on further resuming economic activities.India’s coronavirus cases hit 60,000, fatalities exceed 2,000The number of fatalities due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed 2,000 and total infections rose above 60,000 on Saturday, doubling in roughly 11 days, as the country prepares to resume more economic activity while bracing for a spike in infections because of increased movement. Read moreInjustice with migrants in West Bengal, says Amit ShahUnion home minister Amit Shah has written to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee that the Centre was not receiving the “expected support” from her government in helping migrant workers reach home, an allegation the Trinamool Congress (TMC) rubbished as “outright lies”. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayHow do you coexist with a virus? How do life, work, and play go on when a highly infective and potentially fatal disease is still extant. It is unlikely the Covid-19 disease will be wiped off the face of the Earth, like small pox was. It is unlikely that there will be a tipping point, a safe-after date, beyond which the virus will not pose a threat to humanity. Read moreCovid-19 cases surge in 4 states after returning migrants test positiveA spurt in Covid-19 cases in Bihar, Odisha, Rajasthan and Jharkhand since May 1,has been linked to migrant workers who have returned from various cities across the country, state officials said, confirming the fear that rural India is no longer safe from the coronavirus pandemic that has affected 62750 people nationally so far. Read more55 arrested after police, migrants clash in Gujarat’s SuratPolice in Gujarat’s Surat fired tear gas shells on Saturday to disperse angry migrant workers, who had taken to the streets at Mora demanding that trains be arranged for their return to their homes in Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, and Bihar. Read moreIndian Covid-19 test kit production scaled up to lower importsPune-based MylabDiscovery Solutions has increased its manufacturing capacity from 20,000 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests a day in early April to 200,000 tests now, after tying up with Serum Institute of India (SII) Ltd, ensuring that just one domestic manufacturer can meet India’s current testing needs, which are projected to cross 100,000 by the end of the month. Read moreICMR will develop indigenous vaccine to treat Covid-19India has taken the first step in developing the first make-in-India vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech partnering to develop a vaccine candidate, the research body announced on Saturday. Read morePrivatise MGNREGS to revive aggregate demandThe impact of the ongoing lockdown is evident in the manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index number for April that came out on Monday (a contraction after 32 months of expansion; and the lowest since the index began, 27.4). Read moreSecond White House Covid-19 infection raises questions about workplace safetyUS vice-president’s press secretary became Friday the second White House official to test positive for Covid-19 in recent days raising questions about protection from the virus at the country’s safest workplace as American businesses seek to reopen and pick up from where they left off before the lockdown. Read moreUS FDA gives emergency use approval to Covid-19 antigen testsThe US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Friday issued an emergency use authorisation (EUA) for Covid-19 antigen tests. It is a new type of test that is easy to carry out and can help with early detection of the virus, right at the doctor’s clinic itself. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-case-count-crosses-60k-modi-to-focus-on-economy-in-key-meet-covid-19-news-today/story-NUNGBhHSbsDpvjAu0csaGJ.html
10-05-2020||India||Indian, US firms working together on 3 possible Covid-19 vaccines: Envoy||Asserting that India and the United States are engaged in “close” cooperation on exchange of information regarding Covid-19, Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu has highlighted that there are at least three possible vaccines for coronavirus on which Indian and American companies are working together.Speaking to ANI on Saturday (local time), Sandhu said that India is a “reliable partner” to the US and has been able to fulfil whatever assistance Washington has required.“Both International Centre for Medical Education and Research (ICMER) and here the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institutes of Health (NIH), have been collaborating for a number of years. There is close cooperation exchange of information. Plus, as I said, collaboration, the at least three vaccines, on which Indian companies, and the United States companies are working together,” Sandhu said.“We are an important part of the supply chain, and this particular crisis has certainly shown to the United States, if not the world over that India is a reliable partner, whatever assistance they required in terms of the supply chain. India has been able to fulfil that, and this has been acknowledged by the highest level in the US government, but also at the people level,” he added.The US and India have been cooperating during Covid-19 crisis and are providing all possible assistance to each other. The leaders of the two countries are in regular touch since the outbreak of the virus.The US has provided almost $5.9 million towards health assistance to India to curb the spread of Covid-19.Meanwhile, Indian has exported Hydroxychloroquine tablets after President Donald Trump requested.Trump had then thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for allowing the export of HCQ, deemed a possible cure against the disease.Sandhu stated that the United States government has been cooperative with India during one of the biggest evacuations of its citizens. “The United States government has been cooperative with us so we are in close touch with them, whatever permissions etc. And whatever facilities required, they have provided,” he said.The evacuation process under Vande Bharat mission begins today. The first flight will be from San Francisco to Mumbai and Hyderabad on May 09 (local time) with 200 passengers on board. On May 10, an Air India flight from New York with 300 passengers on board will come to Mumbai and Ahmedabad.Later on May 11, passengers from Chicago will land in Mumbai and Chennai. Lastly, on May 12, there may be a flight from Washington DC to Delhi and Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-us-firms-working-together-on-3-possible-covid-19-vaccines-envoy/story-aonaE3oJa2ivGlgpo3POPL.html
10-05-2020||India||Recovered from Covid-19, Odisha woman has a message||She has never been in hospital bed for more than a day in her whole life, yet the computer instructor working in a Bhubaneswar-based university did not show anxiety once about her health despite spending about a month in a Covid-19 hospital.The 30-year-old woman from Surya Nagar area of Bhubaneswar was back home on May 1 after spending 26 days in a Covid-19 special hospital in Cuttack, first with her family members and then alone. Her 60-year-old father was the first in the family to get tested positive for the coronavirus disease after showing symptoms like persistent cough and high temperature.After he tested positive, the health authorities took the woman’s nasal swabs as well as her family members’ and of tenants in their house. On April 4, she was told that seven people in their household, including her 51-year-old mother, have tested positive for Covid-19. The other persons who tested positive were her 55-year-old uncle, 50-year-old aunt, and three other women in the tenant’s family.“When I was taken to the hospital in an ambulance it was surprising for me as I never felt anything. There was no cold or cough or any discomfort. I have hardly been sick in my life. So this was a strange experience,” said the woman.But more than her testing positive, she was worried over her 60-year-old father being in AIIMS Bhubaneswar all alone. “He had multiple complications including asthma, high blood pressure and diabetes. From whatever I had read, these complications were awful for anyone getting infected with Covid-19. He is mentally challenged and that worried me and my family about his capacity to cope up with the virus,” she said.First christened as Case No 5 in government records, the state government officials later made his name public. Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation commissioner PC Chaudhury, who revealed the name of 60-year-old patient said it was being done to find out if any outsiders came in contact with him apart from his family. The move, however, came in for a flak with several people slamming the government for being selective. The man, among the handful critical Covid-19 patients of Odisha was finally discharged on May 7 even though he had tested negative for the disease on April 8. However, he was under treatment for other ailments like diabetes and asthma and was discharged from the hospital on Friday after recovering from his illness.At the hospital, the woman’s mother, aunt and uncle were the first one to recover as their swab samples tested negative within a week of admission. But her swab samples taken twice in four days after her admission tested positive again.“I knew it would take some time before I can test negative for the virus. I had stopped checking WhatsApp messages worried over friends asking me about my health. I stuck to a schedule of yoga and pranayam in the morning followed by breakfast and then some reading about miracles of Saibaba. I used to listen to songs of Lord Jagannath. In the hospital, we were asked to gurgle with hot water 5 times a day and drink at least 5-6 litres of water. The nurses used to come to take body temperature twice a day and doctor once everyday,” she said. She tested negative twice in the end of April.Since she returned home, the woman has been in self-quarantine. She put her WhatsApp status as ‘I am not lucky, I am blessed’. “My friends have been supportive, but some neighbours think me and my family members still carry the virus. When my family members went out after completing the quarantine, some neighbours complained how we can be allowed out. It was a little unsettling,” she said. Now raring to join her workplace after the lockdown is over, the woman said there people should not be scared of the disease. “I implore all people to have faith in the doctors and the nursing staff, who are doing a commendable job in containing the disease. If my father who had several complications could be cured, others too. No one should hide in their homes to avoid being hospitalised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recovered-from-covid-19-odisha-woman-has-a-message/story-LzV06ZKh1GEWz8gXWBU50I.html
10-05-2020||India||‘Mamata is scared’: BJP’s social media campaign after no press meet by Bengal CM in 9 days||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday launched a social media campaign taking a swipe at West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for staying away from the media for more than a week. The campaign is being called Bhoy Peyechhe Mamata, which means Mamata is scared in Bengali.Top state and national leaders of the BJP began tweeting and posting on Facebook, using the hashtag #BhoyPeyechheMamata to charge that Banerjee was avoiding the media because of her failures, which they said have been exposed by the Narendra Modi-led Union government.The campaign and the social media posts came on the day that Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress took jibes at Prime Minister Modi for never taking a question at any press conference since taking charge in 2014. West Bengal’s ruling party also accused the BJP of prioritising electoral interests in light of the 2021 assembly elections over saving lives in the current coronavirus pandemic. Since March, Mamata Banerjee has been at the forefront of the state’s battle against Covid-19 and has interacted with the press almost every day. But since April 30, she has not met the media.Instead, the state’s chief secretary and home secretary are briefing reporters on administrative issues, while TMC spokespersons have been actively disseminating political messages. “PPE kit discrepancies, death toll embezzlement, ration corruption from the beginning till now @MamataOfficial’s administration has misled the people. Be patient! People will answer. #BhoyPeyecheMamata (sic),” Shiv Prakash, the BJP’s national joint general secretary (organisation), wrote on Twitter on Saturday. The party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya tweeted, “Doctors crying for PPE, patients lying with dead bodies. Migrant labour not allowed to leave state. Bengalis not allowed to come back home. Hospitals not taking patients. Police attacked @MamataOfficial government is absolute disaster. #BhoyPeyecheMamata (sic)”.“Where are you Mamata Banerjee? Covid 19 cases are increasing, no of tests are still low and not giving permission to bring back Bengali migrant labour’s from other states? #BhoyPeyecheMamata,” Mukul Roy, BJP’s national executive member, tweeted.“People of Bengal are looking for their health minister, who also happens to be the Chief Minister, as number of Covid cases keep rising, doctors continue to protest, testing remains absymally low and reported data is wholly unreliable. Please help! #BhoyPeyecheMamata#SaveBengal (sic),” Amit Malviya, BJP’s IT cell’s national head, also tweeted.On Saturday afternoon, Trinamool Congress had taken digs at PM Modi for avoiding press conferences.“We hold long press conferences and take all questions. Our chief minister always leads from the front at any hour of crisis. But the Prime Minister has not taken a single question from a press conference, ever since taking charge in 2014,” Derek O’Brien, the TMC national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member, said.O’Brien alleged that while the Bengal government and the state’s ruling party was preoccupied with fighting the coronavirus pandemic, the BJP was focussed on the Bengal Assembly elections due in 2021.“The BJP started its 2021 electoral campaign on the day the inter-ministerial central teams (IMCT) reached Bengal on April 20,” O’Brien said.Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, the party’s Lok Sabha MP, alleged that “all the moves taken by the Centre regarding the handling of the Covid-19 situation in Bengal were, in reality, political moves. The Centre could not stand the fact that Mamata Banerjee was leading the battle from the front and was doing better than the Centre.” IMCT had accused the state administration of negligence and mismanagement.Meanwhile, following a fortnight-long controversy and since May 3, the West Bengal government has been sharing detailed information including district and state-wise daily number of new Covid-19 cases, active cases, cumulative numbers of persons testing positive and the number of deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-is-scared-bjp-s-social-media-campaign-after-no-press-meet-by-bengal-cm-in-9-days/story-6S0YX5KO5xUd9TLzB2irnJ.html
10-05-2020||India||Senior BJD leader Subash Chouhan who had switched over from BJP last year dies||Senior Biju Janata Dal (BJD) leader Subash Chouhan, who had switched from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) just before the Lok Sabha election last year, died at a hospital in Odisha’s Bhubaneswar on Sunday morning days after he was diagnosed with liver cancer.He was 54.Chouhan, who hailed from western Odisha district of Bargarh, was being treated at the Bhubaneswar-based hospital for the last couple of days. A bachelor, he is survived by his parents and brother.The former Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Bajrang Dal member was made the chairperson of the Western Odisha Development Council, an official body that looks after the development of 10 western districts including Bargarh, Sambalpur, Kalahandi, Bolangir and Nuapada, in September last year.Known for his organisational skills, Chouhan had joined the BJD in March last year after a feud with BJP leader and Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan whom he accused of denying him the party ticket for the Bargarh Lok Sabha constituency. In the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, he had narrowly lost the election as a BJP candidate from the Bargarh seat.After he joined the BJD, Subhash Chouhan was appointed as the ruling party’s general secretary and one of its spokespersons. He was made the BJD’s observer for Kalahandi, Bolangir, Bargarh and Sambalpur districts for the 2019 parliamentary elections and spearheaded chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s election campaign at the Bijepur assembly constituency.During his three-decade-long association with the RSS and later Bajrang Dal, Chouhan was RSS’ joint prachar pramukh between 2000 and 2003 and the national convenor of Bajrang Dal. Chouhan had shot into controversy in 1999 when he alleged that the slain Australian missionary Graham Staines was proselytising tribals in the hinterlands of Keonjhar and Mayurbhanj districts. In all these years, he held forth on his strong views on proselytisation by the missionaries in Kandhamal and other districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjd-leader-subash-chouhan-dies-of-liver-ailment-in-bhubaneswar/story-YHT6ZNfZxHXlEoLa52i5JN.html
10-05-2020||India||Covid-19: ‘No water in toilets’, claim people quarantined at hospital in Bengal’s Asansol||People kept in quarantine at ESI Hospital in Asansol created a ruckus on Saturday claiming that the toilet facilities do not have a water supply.“People kept in quarantine at ESI Hospital in Asansol, created a ruckus on Saturday, alleging that the toilet facilities there don’t have water supply and the people are not being given access to proper drinking water. They also alleged that they’re not being tested for COVID-19,” said one of the people in the quarantine facility.Another person said, “The number of people kept here is 32 and yet only 1-litre water is provided for all of us. Even the food is coming in a dirty vehicle.”“At present, we do not want anything but just get us tested for coronavirus and if found negative let us go. Until we get the report we won’t eat anything,” one of them in quarantine at ESI Hospital added.As per the latest update by the West Bengal government, the total number of coronavirus cases in the state is 1,786, of which 1,243 are active and 99 people have succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-no-water-in-toilets-claim-people-quarantined-at-hospital-in-bengal-s-asansol/story-4FuYD735G3IdUvgzuoZB8H.html
10-05-2020||India||First evacuation flight from UK with 326 returnees lands in Mumbai||Air India’s first evacuation flight with 326 Indians from London landed at Mumbai Airport on Sunday. According to Indian high commission in the UK, the flight took off from London on Saturday on board 326 people. It landed at Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport.On Monday, India announced had that it will begin phased repatriation of its citizens stranded abroad from May 7.The government said that Air India will operate 64 flights in the first week from May 7 to May 13 to bring back around 15,000 Indian nationals.On day three of the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’, flights carrying Indians from the Gulf countries, the United Kingdom, Bangladesh and Malaysia arrived in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-evacuation-flight-from-uk-with-326-onboard-lands-in-mumbai/story-QHBcPZ1p1dCOr30hdhErSP.html
10-05-2020||India||5 labourers dead, 11 injured after truck overturns in Madhya Pradesh’s Narsinghpur||Five labourers died and 11 got injured after the truck they were travelling in overturned in Patha village in Narsinghpur on an intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.“A total of 18 people were in the truck laden with mangoes. When the truck overturned near Patha village in Narsinghpur, five labourers died and 11 got injured” said Deepak Saxena, District Collector of Narsinghpur.He further said, “The labourers were going in the mango laden truck from Telangana’s Hyderabad to Agra in Uttar Pradesh.”More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-dead-11-injured-after-truck-overturns-in-madhya-pradesh/story-PjODtlrG67gtTfkA7NTBeI.html
10-05-2020||India||India, China face-off along Sikkim border, several soldiers injured||Scores of Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a tense face-off along the India-China boundary in north Sikkim on Saturday, two senior officials said on the condition of anonymity.The aggressive confrontation between the troops from the two sides happened near the Naku La sector (ahead of Muguthang), a pass at a height of more than 5,000 metres, said the first officer cited above.Several soldiers were injured in the border stand-off as they exchanged blows.“Four Indian soldiers and seven Chinese troops suffered injuries during the confrontation that involved around 150 soldiers,” said the second officer cited above.He said the face-off was resolved at the local level.Two officials Hindustan Times spoke to in the Army Headquarters denied knowledge of the face-off.The Naku La area was traditionally not prone to face-offs, a former top commander said.This is not the first time Indian and Chinese soldiers have exchanged blows along the border. In August 2017, Indian and Chinese soldiers threw stones at each other and also exchanged blows near Pangong Lake in Ladakh, close to the de facto border between the two countries.The clash near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) aggravated bilateral tensions as it happened at a time when the two neighbours were locked in a long stand-off in the disputed Doklam plateau close to Sikkim.The 73-day Doklam stand-off between India and China along the Sikkim border was likely to be the new normal, the Centre for Joint Warfare Studies (CENJOWS) said in 2017, making a strong case for building military capabilities. The stand-off ended with the withdrawal of troops by both armies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-face-off-along-sikkim-border/story-uuZwwSwTzVnZREmpqP0gEJ.html
10-05-2020||India||Step up anti-terror ops in Jammu and Kashmir: NSA Ajit Doval to forces||National Security Adviser Ajit Doval on Saturday carried out a complete operational review of the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir and told top army commanders and paramilitary forces to tighten the counter-infiltration grid along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan and the counter-insurgency network in the Kashmir valley.The high-level meeting was convened against the backdrop of militant activity in north Kashmir’s Handwara, Baramulla and Sopore triangle that cost lives of six soldiers including, a colonel-rank officer. It is also in this region that the security forces eliminated a top Lashkar terrorist, Haider.Then there is an intelligence alert about plans by the terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed to carry out simultaneous suicide attacks at army and paramiliary bases on Monday, May 11.Top government officials told HT that the NSA also took note of the increased air activity by the Pakistan Air Force along India’s western border that coincided with Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, and later the foreign office in Islamabad releasing statement that alleged India was looking for a “pretext for a false flag operation targeting Pakistan”.Officials said there was consensus that the Imran Khan government’s effort to distance itself from the terrorists it supports was a pre-emptive move and indicated a renewed push from Pakistani terror launch pads over the next few weeks.The meeting noted how Pakistan was funding outfits such as The Resistance Front or the JK Pir Panjal Peace Forum to claim that terrorism in the valley was indigenous and not sponsored by it. An official said, placing the Pakistan Air Force on high alert was also designed to further Imran Khan’s narrative that asks the international community to intervene lest there is a confrontation between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. The NSA also told officials to step up the engagement with terrorists in the Kashmir valley.The five-hour-long meeting was attended by, among others, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, Intelligence Bureau director Arvinda Kumar, Research and Analysis Wing chief Samant Kumar Goel, Border Security Force director general SS Deswal and Central Reserve Police Force chief AK Maheshwari.A senior counter-terror official told HT that the meeting analysed the infiltration routes used by terrorists from Pakistan and suggested tweaks at the ground level that could ensure that the terrorists were detected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/step-up-anti-terror-ops-in-jammu-and-kashmir-nsa-ajit-doval-to-forces/story-8DmjaVO31xOQQaniuI3B6N.html
10-05-2020||India||‘I am perfectly healthy’, says Amit Shah on health rumours||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday refuted rumours about his health and said he is well and not suffering from any disease. He said some people have spread these rumours through social media and many have even tweeted praying for his death.“The country is currently fighting a global epidemic like corona and as I keep busy being the home minister of the country, I did not pay attention to all of this. When this came to my notice late at night, I thought that all these people should enjoy their imaginary thoughts. So I did not give any clarification,” he said on Twitter.Shah said millions of his party workers and well wishers have expressed their concern over the rumours. “I cannot ignore their concern. So I want to clarify today that I am perfectly healthy and I do not have any disease.”Shah thanked his well-wishers and party workers for their concern about his health. He also thanked those behind the rumours. “I have no ill will or malice towards people who have spread these rumours. Thank you to you too.”Shah cited Hindu beliefs and said it is believed that such rumours strengthen one’s health. “Therefore, I hope that all such people will leave these meaningless things and let me do my work and also do their own work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-perfectly-healthy-says-amit-shah-on-health-rumours/story-U9fso2fABjk0q1IL0jSAcI.html
10-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||How do you coexist with a virus?How do life, work, and play go on when a highly infective and potentially fatal disease is still extant.It is unlikely the Covid-19 disease will be wiped off the face of the Earth, like small pox was.It is unlikely that there will be a tipping point, a safe-after date, beyond which the virus will not pose a threat to humanity.And finally, even when a vaccine is discovered, it will be some time before everyone in the world has been inoculated against the virus (and knowing how flu viruses work, anyone who wants to be safe may well have to take a shot every year).Yet, life and work (even play) cannot wait. This is not a passing tornado or a storm where one can hunker down and wait for the crisis to pass. There is not going to be an it’s-safe-to-go-out-now moment in this case.Which brings us back to the original question.How do you coexist with a virus?Much of it depends on who you are. If you are a person over the age of 65, or 70, or 75 — different countries will define their senior citizens differently — be prepared to face significant restrictions on what you can and can’t do, and where you can and can’t go. This could last till a vaccine is discovered and widely available, or until we achieve herd immunity (60-65% of the population is infected, which means it is immune).Schools and offices will continue to function, but again, with significant restrictions and very strict sanitation and social distancing protocols. Many people will be encouraged to work from home, and a lot of learning and assessment will move online.Travel, especially international travel, will be restricted, cumbersome and expensive. The UK has already said it will enforce a 14-day quarantine for air passengers; many other countries will insist on similar quarantines; and that will pretty much kill business travel. No one is going to want to make a four-day business trip to another country if it is book-ended by 14-day quarantines. To be sure, there will be green travel channels, even between countries, but these will emerge over time, as more people, companies, and countries get used to living with the virus. Domestic travel will be easier, but not entirely without curbs. And both domestic and international travel may require screening for the coronavirus disease, perhaps even rapid testing.Huge recreational events are out for now. If a vaccine isn’t in place and widely available by early next year, it is unlikely that the Olympic Games will take place. Indeed, mammoth multilateral sporting games are probably going to be the very last thing on anybody’s list of what’s safe. Theatre and musical performances will move online, and we will probably see significant innovations in the space, thanks to virtual reality and augmented reality. Gyms, health clubs, and swimming pools may not open for a long time, and while restaurants will, dining out will be a very different experience and also an expensive affair.Fear of the coronavirus disease will restrict our movements and interactions, and while there may be few of us willing to risk it all, families, societies, organisations, service providers, even governments will try and insist that people follow basic safety protocols in everything they do. And all of this will happen. This is how individuals, companies, and governments are thinking right now.This, then, is the new normal.By early next year, if there is no vaccine (or even if there is), we will all know how to be safe, and how to carry on with life and work in a new world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-W6vblbEBExVcwo0XzR6ixL.html
10-05-2020||India||AAP MLA, aide held in 52-year-old doctor’s suicide case||Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party lawmaker Prakash Jarwal and his aide, Kapil Nagar, were arrested on Saturday in connection with a case of alleged extortion and abetment to suicide of a 52-year-old doctor last month. A Delhi court had issued non-bailable warrants against the two on Friday. “After questioning, Prakash Jarwal and Kapil Nagar have been arrested in the case,” said deputy police commissioner (south) Atul Kumar Thakur. A case was registered against the two after the doctor’s son blamed them for his father’s death on April 18. The doctor also supplied water tankers to the Delhi Jal Board. The family had accused Jarwal of extortion, an allegation denied by the MLA. A police officer said notices were sent to Jarwal and Nagar to join the investigation. But they never turned up. Jarwal’s lawyer Mohammad Irshaad had applied for an anticipatory bail. Later he said his client was arrested when he went for routine questioning. “We will move court for a regular bail on Monday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-mla-aide-held-in-52-year-old-doctor-s-suicide-case/story-aaYETHugVZBZv9gPqZrVwN.html
10-05-2020||India||Reviving economy in Covid-19 fight to top agenda of PM meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi may meet chief ministers as early as Tuesday, May 12, to discuss the next stage in the exit from the nationwide lockdown enforced to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), government officials familiar with the matter said. They added that the focus of the meeting will be on a further increase in economic activities and on tackling the pandemic in containment zones.On Saturday, Cabinet secretary Rajeev Gauba held two back-to-back meetings to identify possible areas that can be opened up after May 17. In one of the meetings, the focus turned to areas that have witnessed a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in the past week, a person familiar with the discussion said on condition of anonymity. According to the government officials cited in the first instance, who asked not to be named, plans are afoot for the PM’s fifth meeting with the CMs since March 20. The meeting comes ahead of May 17, when the second extension of the lockdown ends, although, with more activities permitted, and people allowed to move around in many parts of the country, this period has been more a graded exit than a continuation of a hard lockdown. The lockdown, enforced on March 25, was originally supposed to end on April 14. It was then extended to May 3, and then again to May 17. According to the people familiar with the matter, there will definitely be more concessions in terms of what’s allowed, but that there will likely be no changes in Covid-19 hotspots and containment zones. A second person familiar with the happenings at Gauba’s meeting described it as a preliminary discussion during which several ideas were tossed around about industries or sectors that can be opened up. “A final decision is expected only next week and after one or two more rounds of meetings,” this person added on condition of anonymity. “But one thing looks increasingly clear,” said this person. “It will take some time before the rail and aviation sectors can resume operations.”Apart from the economy and the management of the disease in hot spots, the meeting between Modi and the CMs could also see some discussion on the migrant workers who have returned home, and stranded Indians who are being flown back from many parts of the world. Modi’s last meeting with CMs—through video conference—was held on April 27. Most of the states expressed their willingness to partially lift the Covid-19 lockdown during that. Days after the meeting, the government issued federal guidelines allowing the functioning of industries and offices, movement of people, and the opening up of stores selling non-essentials outside the containment zones with an eye on reviving the economy. At the same time, it said the lockdown would run for another two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reviving-economy-in-covid-fight-to-top-agenda-of-pm-meet/story-yNuRc1T3pDWESmm7150JOI.html
10-05-2020||India||Injustice with migrants in West Bengal, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah has written to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee that the Centre was not receiving the “expected support” from her government in helping migrant workers reach home, an allegation the Trinamool Congress (TMC) rubbished as “outright lies”.The state government is doing “injustice” to Bengali migrant workers stranded across the country by not allowing “Shramik” (worker) trains run by the railways to reach the state, Shah wrote in the letter,according to ministry of home affairs (MHA) officials.Shah said the Centre had already facilitated the return home of more than 200,000 workers, adding that migrants from West Bengal employed elsewhere too were eager to go back home.“West Bengal government is not allowing trains with migrants reaching the state. This is injustice with WB migrant labourers. This will create further hardship for them,”Shah wrote.States with large migrant populations such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have received the maximum number of workers returning home on Shramik trains.West Bengal, senior officials said, has received only two special trains so far and hasn’t cleared any more trains.Until Friday, more than 250,000 migrants had been sent home on 251 Shramik trains.The TMC hit back at Shah.“Amit Shah’s letter is full of outright lies. Two trains have already reached and eight more are expected to reach Bengal in the coming three days. Overall, 80,000 people have been brought back using various means of transport. Amit Shah just woke up from his 40-day sleep but when one writes a letter still in his sleep, the person gets the facts all wrong,” TMC Rajya Sabha leader and national spokesperson Derek O’Brien said on Saturday.O’Brien presented a document showing that two trains each from Punjab and Tamil Nadu and three from Karnataka are in the draft schedule of special trains, as of May 8, for reaching seven districts of Bengal between May 10 and 12, carrying 12,714 passengers altogether. Another train is scheduled to arrive in Malda district on May 10, carrying 1,7 21 passengers from Telangana.“We have a seven-stage plan to bring back the migrants. We are doing it in a staggered manner. We did not announce a lockdown without an iota of planning. We don’t want to bring the migrant workers without a proper plan as we are considering all possible implications to find the best way to do it,” O’Brien said.Shortly after the TMC leader’s remarks, the railway ministry tweeted: “Indian Railways has so far run more then 300 trains mainly for states like UP, Bihar, Odisha, MP etc. But for WB till today morning we had received approval for only 2 Shramik special trains, 1 from Ajmer Sharif & other from Ernakulam. After request of Hon’ble HM, today afternoon WB has approved 2 trains from Punjab, 2 from TN, 3 from Karnataka & 1 from Telangana, which are being arranged. However, WB has not approved any train from Maharashtra, while there is a requirement of 16 trains to WB and presently 6 requests are pending for which approval is still awaited from WB.”The issue of migrant workers is the latest flashpoint between the Centre and the West Bengal government amid a row over the state’s efforts to control the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The two sides have clashed over a visit by interministerial central teams (IMCTs) for an assessment of the situation in seven West Bengal districts. While the teams claimed that they didn’t get any support from the state government in assessing measures put in place to control Covid-19, the state government accused the Centre of politicising a public health crisis.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla had on Thursday slammed the West Bengal government for a low rate of testing and high rate of mortality – 13.2%, by far the highest for any state. The Centre has also accused the Trinamool Congress government of not allowing cross-border movement of goods trucks to Bangladesh, potentially jeopardising trade commitments made to the neighbour.Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and TMC youth wing chief Abhishek Banerjee wrote on Twitter that the Union home minister should apologise if he failed to substantiate the charges in his letter with facts. The Congress added another political twist.“The chief minister has given permission to eight more trains after Shah wrote to the state,” alleged Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who is an MP from Berhampore in West Bengal. O’Brien denied the allegation.Bengal has reported 1,786 Covid-19 positive cases and 99 deaths until Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/injustice-with-migrants-in-w-bengal-says-shah/story-OU4qs8ZpesB3MB5tUZHuNO.html
10-05-2020||India||India’s coronavirus cases hit 60,000, fatalities exceed 2,000||The number of fatalities due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed 2,000 and total infections rose above 60,000 on Saturday, doubling in roughly 11 days, as the country prepares to resume more economic activity while bracing for a spike in infections because of increased movement.According to data compiled from numbers released by state authorities, there were 3,049 new infections and 117 new deaths recorded on Saturday. In all, there have now been 62,715 people infected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, and 2,025 fatalities. Roughly 19,165 people have recovered from the disease.The highest number of cases continued to be detected from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi, with the national capital reporting a lower-than-usual number as officials changed the classification of the 24-hour period.According to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, India has now raised its testing capacity to 95,000 per day and a total 1,525,631 tests have been conducted so far across 332 government and 121 private laboratories. “We do not anticipate a very worst type of situation in our country like many other developed countries but still we have prepared the whole country for the worst situation,” Harsh Vardhan said at meeting to review the status of Covid-19 outbreak in northeastern states. The health minister said there are now 8,043 hospitals dedicated for Covid-19 patients with a total capacity of 1.67 million beds and the country was adequately prepared to handle a surge in cases. Globally, the virus has now infected over 4 million people and claimed the lives of at least 277,000 people in what is the worst pandemic the world has seen since the Spanish Flu in 1918. The health minister’s remarks came a day after a top government official said India now needs to learn to live with the virus. “We will have to learn to live with the virus, for which it is important to make critical behavioral changes and incorporate all the preventive guidelines that health ministry has been issuing on following hand hygiene, cough etiquettes and social distancing measures, as part of your daily routine. It is an everyday battle for us to keep the infection at bay,” said Lav Agarwal, health ministry joint secretary, in a briefing on Friday.Authorities are now focusing on 10 states that account for the most number of cases. “The ministry of health and family welfare has decided to deploy central teams to 10 states that have witnessed/are witnessing high case load and high spurt of cases. The teams will assist state health departments of respective states to facilitate management of the outbreak,” the health ministry said in a statement on Saturday.The expert teams consist of a senior official from the health ministry, a joint secretary-level nodal officer, and a public health expert. The states where the teams are being sent are Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.The outbreak in India began on March 2 and by the end of the month, the country was under a sweeping lockdown that helped avert a situation of the kind seen in several populous countries where tens of thousands have now died. But pressure to relax the curbs is now growing, with large number of people having lost their livelihoods – especially those from lower economic groups such as factory workers and daily wage earners who have been walking in the thousands to their hometowns hundreds of kilometers away.The movement has also raised fears of infections growing as the tens of thousands taking the trains come in potential contact that could spread the virus. Similar concerns also surround Indians returning from abroad. On Saturday, at least two foreign returnees who reached Kerala on May 7 in two separate first-day flights -- one from Dubai and another from Abu Dhabi – tested positive for the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-coronavirus-cases-hit-60k-fatalities-exceed-2-000/story-LrlAtsv1puqmppgWyqOMXL.html
10-05-2020||India||Aurangabad train tragedy: Bodies of 16 labourers brought home to MP||The bodies of the 16 labourers, who were run over by a freight train near Maharashtra’s Aurangabad on Friday, were brought to their native Madhya Pradesh on a special train on Saturday. The labourers were from Shahdol and Umaria districts and were sleeping on train tracks after a long journey on foot en route to Madhya Pradesh when they were killed. They were in a group of 20 people, who had left Jalna for their villages the previous evening without waiting for their employer to pay their wages as factories remained shut due to the nationwide lockdown imposed since late March to check the Covid-19 spread. The labourers -- 11 from Shadol and 5 from Umaria -- had unsuccessfully tried to get passes for the special trains that the railways started last week for the people stranded across the country because of the lockdown. Tens of thousands of workers have been walking home from big cities after losing their jobs due to the lockdown. “Two special bogies were attached to the train, which carried about 1,300 labourers from Aurangabad, to bring back the bodies. The bodies were later sent to Shahdol and Umaria. There were two injured labourers from Mandla, who were sent in an ambulance,” said Jabalpur police superintendent (railways) SS Jain.Last rites were performed in presence of administrative authorities, according to officials. Jabalpur collector Bharat Yadav said all the labourers, who came from Aurangabad, belong to villages in Jabalpur, Shahdol and Rewa and were subjected to medical examinations at the railway station before they were sent to their native homes on buses with arrangements for food and water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aurangabad-train-tragedy-bodies-of-16-labourers-brought-home-to-mp/story-y60VHfkLg6CpXbxjTfrCjJ.html
10-05-2020||India||States told to document food needs of migrants amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Centre on Saturday said it is planning measures to ease difficulties that migrant workers were facing and states ought to prepare local databases urgently to be able to respond to their immediate needs of food and shelter as thousands of them left jobless because of the Covid-19 lockdown continued to leave cities. Union food and public distribution minister Ram Vilas Paswan said he has asked food ministers of states to document and locate migrant workers in major cities, give them provisional ration cards and provide estimates of ration to federal authorities.“The Prime Minister is worried. I am worried. But we need a system to take food to the migrants. That is why we have recommended state food ministers that at least basic details such as location, number of migrants, clusters, and food requirements must be prepared urgently,” Paswan said. Paswan said 810 million beneficiaries, nearly two-thirds of the population, of the public distribution system, who are eligible for subsidised food, were receiving their regular ration. Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, these beneficiaries are also being given double their current food entitlement free of cost for three months. The scheme was launched on March 26 to protect the poor from the impact of national lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19.“We have told food ministers if there are needy people who may or may not have a ration card, or are outside the system, like migrant workers, we have enough stocks,” Paswan said. He said states could also organise kitchens by utilizing funds under the State Disaster Relief Fund and National Disaster Relief Fund to tide over the immediate crisis.Some states have to start provisioning for migrant workers, Paswan said. “The Centre will provide grains as per the current requirements. But we need estimates. How do you intervene otherwise?” he asked. “The Delhi government has said it was reaching 10 lakhs [1 million], such people, for instance.”India has an estimated 140 million migrant workers who keep the urban economy afloat. They belong mostly to poorer states such as Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, and Bihar and shift to more prosperous ones like Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu to work as manual labour. Many haul bricks and building material at construction sites or work in shifts in factories. Jobless migrant workers were caught in a survival battle as factories, shops, and labour sites were shut with the imposition of the lockdown on March 25. Many of them began walking home hundreds of miles away under harsh conditions, hungry, thirsty and tired, and set off an unprecedented crisis. Federally held food stocks currently stand at around 56 million tonne, while 6 million tonne is needed for the next three months. “How would it feel if the weakest members of a family starve despite the household’s granary being full?” asked economist Jean Drèze, a long-time advocate of the right to food. He said food should be given without documentation to everyone who needs it. Drèze has urged for universalizing access to the public distribution system. Construction is the single largest source of employment for migrant workers in India. According to the National Sample Survey Office data, 33.3 million people moved out of farming to the construction sector between 2004-05 and 2011-12.The plight of migrant workers could have been cushioned by a federal programme launched last year to make subsidized rations portable. The programme, known as ‘One Nation One Ration Card’, is still work in progress. The scheme is still not fully geared for seamless inter-state transactions. Inter-state portability, whereby a migrant gets food in a state other than his own, is being tried in select clusters of 12 contiguous states. Paswan said he had approved the on-boarding of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu on the ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ platform. According to Chinmay Tumbe, the author of ‘India Moving - A History of Migration’ and faculty at Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad, India’s migration is circular in the sense that people keep moving from city to city until they return home at one point before moving out again. This means a portable food distribution system has to be capable of continually tracking migrant workers, who make up 29% of the nation’s workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-told-to-document-food-needs-of-migrants/story-eSlT6b3a4MfTRyCmm4qnCM.html
10-05-2020||India||55 arrested after police, migrants clash in Gujarat’s Surat||Police in Gujarat’s Surat fired tear gas shells on Saturday to disperse angry migrant workers, who had taken to the streets at Mora demanding that trains be arranged for their return to their homes in Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, and Bihar. This is the fifth such protest in Surat over the last month amid job losses because of the national lockdown that was imposed in March to check the Covid-19 pandemic.“Thousands of workers gathered on streets at the Mora village next to the industrial belt of Hazira. They were demanding that they be sent to their home states. When police stopped them, they pelted stones and attacked them,” said Surat’s police commissioner D N Patel.He said the police resorted to “mild” lathi-charge and tear gas shelling to disperse the crowd. “We have arrested 55 people so far and around 50 others have been detained. More accused are been identified with the help of drones and CCTV footage,” Patel said.A team of State Reserve Police has been deployed in the area to monitor the situation.On Monday, 204 people were arrested in Surat on charges of attempt to murder and rioting after migrant workers allegedly attacked policemen as they gathered to demand their return to their native place. On April 29, five people were detained and another 300 booked for alleged rioting and violating the Covid-19 following a clash between migrant workers and police.The state government on Tuesday formed a committee to ensure the management and coordination for sending migrant workers from Surat to their native districts. Gujarat police chief Shivanand Jha said attacks on “corona warriors” will not be tolerated at any cost and the attackers will face strict actions.“During the lockdown, some people are making efforts to mislead the citizens of the state to protest against the lockdown while the lockdown is for the benefit of the citizens. Such individuals will be traced and subjected to legal action,” Jha said.Ashwani Kumar, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani’s secretary, said 327 special trains have been operated for migrant workers across India. “Out of that, Gujarat has operated 147 trains, or 45% of the total trains, to ensure a safe return of over 2.04 lakh migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The chief minister has urged the migrant workers to be patient as the process for sending them back home demands time,” said Kumar.Ramdev Kumar, a construction worker from Rajasthan, said, “We have run out of money and other resources. We work hard on daily basis to feed our families. But for 50 days, we have not had any work. That is why we want to return to our native places...”. .Surat is India’s diamond hub and according to an Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad study, migrants account for about 70% of its workforce and 50% of that of Ahmedabad.Gagan Bihari Sahu, an associate professor at Surat’s Centre for Social Studies, said that the nationwide lockdown has hit migrant workers badly. “The production has come to a standstill, machines are quiet and markets are closed. In spite of the government’s appeal, many employers have either removed their workers, deducted salaries or simply closed doors,” he said. “How are these migrants and their families going to sustain...”Migrant workers have continued to walk and cycle back to their homes even as the railways last week began running special trains and some state governments deployed buses for the people stranded because of the Covid-19 lockdown. Some do not have documents needed to register for the trains. Others do not want to wait any longer. And in other cases, the trains have not been approved by states that have to receive the migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/55-arrested-after-police-migrants-clash-in-surat/story-KC2XFIGcbwtAPeeMyeTkXO.html
10-05-2020||India||Covid-19 cases surge in 4 states after returning migrants test positive||A spurt in Covid-19 cases in Bihar, Odisha, Rajasthan and Jharkhand since May 1, has been linked to migrant workers who have returned from various cities across the country, state officials said, confirming the fear that rural India is no longer safe from the coronavirus pandemic that has affected 62750 people nationally so far. This realisation has also caused panic among health experts, as till now nearly 80% of the cases recorded have been seen in urban areas, where the infrastructure needed to treat a victim of a pandemic, is better.Ever since a nationwide lockdown was announced starting March 25, migrant workers from across the country began to walk and cycle back to their home states even as a few states like Delhi deployed buses to ferry some of them home. Last week, the Indian Railway began running special trains for migrants separated from their families on account of the lockdown and stranded without any earnings. However, as they have begun to reach their home states and are being placed in quarantine centres, governments are grappling with the ramifications of the pandemic reaching rural areas.According to the union health ministry, across India there is a shortfall of primary healthcare centres and community healthcare centres by 22% and 30% respectively. The largest shortfall is in states like West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh —incidentally, most of the migrant workers who travel the length and breadth of the country for work in factories and other industries, like construction, hail from these six states.“Although Asha workers in rural areas monitor health, there is no quality infrastructure to deal with a pandemic like coronavirus. Around half of the health personnel posts in rural India are vacant,” said Amulya Nidhi, member of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, a network of non-governmental organisations working in the area of public health.New cases linked to migrants Bihar, where 70% of the new cases since May 1 have been detected in migrant workers, has not as yet revealed where they have returned from. But Jharkhand and Odisha, which has seen a similar spurt in cases, have revealed that information. So far, Surat, a textile hub in Gujarat which has the second highest number of Covid cases in the state after Ahmedabad, has emerged as one of the biggest centres of Covid-19 for migrant workersIn Jharkhand, one-third of the 154 positive cases spread over 13 districts have been reported in the past week, around the time that migrant workers began to reach their home state. According to the state health department’s bulletin issued on Saturday morning, 20 confirmed cases were found in Garhwa district and two cases were detected in Koderma district. “All the 20 migrant labourers, aged between 18-40 years, had arrived in Garhwa on May 5. They were part of 51 passengers who came here by a bus from Surat. All of them are in quarantine,” said district’s said sub-divisional officer Kamleshwar Narayan. The quarantine centre is an under-construction jail. At present, it houses 158 migrants, a majority of whom have returned from Surat, Narayan said. “Results of samples collected on May 6-7 have not yet come,” he said, indicating that these numbers may well rise.While Covid-19 positive migrant workers have been shifted to a dedicated hospital in the district, Koderma was reverted to an orange zone after two workers who arrived from Surat and Varanasi, tested positive.All the 100 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours in coastal Ganjam district of Odisha are returnees from Surat, said Ganjam district collector Vijay Aamrita Kulange. In other Covid-19 hotspots such as Jajpur, Bhubaneswar, Balasore, Bhadrak and Rourkela, most of those who have tested positive in the past fortnight are migrant workers who have returned from Surat.In Bihar, 100 workers tested positive on Saturday taking the total number of cases to 589. “Going by our experience over the past 10 days, almost 60% to 70% of the tested samples which came positive were of people who came from outside the state,” said Bihar’s principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar. That’s 224 new cases already. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said that migrant workers housed in quarantine centres at Khagaria, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur and Begusarai have tested positive till now.As the number of cases increase, state governments have decided to expand the period of quarantine for returnees to 28 days. “Returnees from other states will have to undergo an institutional quarantine of 21 days followed by home quarantine for next 7 days,” Odisha’s chief spokesperson on the state’s pandemic efforts, Subroto Bagchi, said. On Saturday, Kulange said, Section 144 was imposed around all Covid-19 temporary medical camps/institutional quarantine centres where migrants have been quarantined after reports emerged that people had violated lockdown norms. In one quarantine centre of Sergarh block, where 80 migrant workers recently returned from Surat are housed, family members were seen delivering food and betel nut violating social distancing norms. The DM has issued orders that no one would be allowed to enter within 100 metres radius of these centres.Numbers expected to swellOn Saturday, five special trains carrying migrants from Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu set out for Odisha. They are expected to reach on Sunday. So far about 46,000 migrant workers have returned to Odisha and another 500,000 migrants are expected to arrive in the following week.Since May 2, 78,706 migrant workers have reached their home state in Bihar through 69 special trains. Twelve trains carrying 14,245 migrant workers reached Bihar on Saturday; 14 more, carrying 17,054 workers, are lined up for Sunday, Anupam Kumar, secretary, information and public relations department said.Officials in Rajasthan also said the majority of new cases were reported from the border districts of Gujarat, from where the migrant workers have returned. Since Friday, the government has sealed its border with Gujarat and other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-surge-in-4-states-after-returning-migrants-test-ve/story-kF5P3sHciQWQmUZwpqsskK.html
10-05-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi reiterates demand for audit of PM-Cares fund||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday reiterated his demand for an audit of the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-Cares) Fund, created in March to fund relief measures aimed at easing the distress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown.“The #PmCares fund has received huge contributions from PSUs {public sector undertakings} & major public utilities like the Railways,” Gandhi tweeted. “It’s important that PM ensures the fund is audited & that the record of money received and spent is available to the public,” added Gandhi, who voiced a similar demand at a news conference on Friday. “The PM-Cares Fund should be audited. We should know about the donors and the donations. We should know who gave how much. There is no problem in saying that,” Gandhi had said.Last week, he had hit out at the railways for charging fare to transport migrant workers returning to their home states and giving donation to the PM-Cares Fund. In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi had said, “On one hand the Railways is extorting ticket fare from labourers stranded in different states, on the other hand the Rail Ministry is depositing donations of Rs 151 crore in PM Cares fund. Please solve this puzzle. “Earlier in the day, the Congress accused both the Centre and the Delhi government of being non-transparent in reporting the coronavirus cases.Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken told reporters that there was “confusion” within the Centre in its fight against the Covid-19, and asked how India would tackle the pandemic if officials continued to speak in different voices.Maken referred to “differing” comments made by some officials on the Covid-19 situation in the country and urged the government to tell the people clearly about the exact state of the pandemic to enable them to prepare accordingly.He also asked the Arvind Kejriwal-led government in Delhi to be more transparent in reporting the coronavirus cases.Maken’s comments came as confusion prevailed over the number of deaths due to the coronavirus in the national capital, with data from four hospitals showing that 92 people succumbed to the infection as against 68 deaths reported by the Delhi government.“It is a matter of shame that the national capital is witnessing a sorry state of affairs” n the fight against the pandemic,” the Congress leader said.He said there should be more coordination between states and the central government, and urged the Centre to spell out a clear exit strategy for the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-reiterates-demand-for-audit-of-pm-cares-fund/story-mSNo4mRMg5iww6rCGX2UTK.html
10-05-2020||India||Central govt teams rushed to 10 states with high Covid-19 caseload||The Centre decided on Saturday to rush teams of health experts to 10 states with the maximum number of Covid-19 cases to help state governments contain the rapid spread of the infection.“The ministry of health and family welfare has decided to deploy central teams to 10 states that have witnessed/are witnessing high case load and high spurt of cases. The teams will assist the state health departments of respective states to facilitate management of Covid-19 outbreak,” the ministry said in a statement on Saturday night.The expert teams consist of a senior official from the health ministry, a joint secretary-level nodal officer, and a public health expert. The team is meant to support the state health departments in implementation of containment measures in the affected areas within the respective states’ districts or cities.The teams will be deployed to Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Between them, the 10 states have 38,000 infections that make up 60% of India’s total Covid-19 caseload, as of Saturday, according to the HT dashboard.Last week, the Centre had rushed 20 central teams of public health experts to 20 high case load districts. Another high-level team, led by joint secretary in the health ministry, Lav Agarwal, had also visited Mumbai to support efforts in Covid-19 response and management in India’s worst-affected state, Maharashtra.Earlier in the day, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said that as of Saturday, the Covid-19 fatality rate in the country is 3.3%, and recovery rate 29.9%. He also said the doubling rate stood at 9.9 days over the past week. HT’s internal dashboard puts the figure at 10.7 days.The announcement came at a review of Covid situation in north-eastern states that have reported a total of 194 cases. The maximum cases have been reported from Tripura (118).“As of yesterday there are 2.41% present active Covid-19 patients in ICU [intensive care unit], 0.38% on ventilators and 1.88% on oxygen support. The testing capacity has increased in the country and it is 95,000 tests per day, with 332 government laboratories and 121 private laboratories operation for Covid testing. Cumulatively, 15,25,631 tests have been done so far for COVID-19,” said Harsh Vardhan.He also said that surveillance for Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI) and Influenza Like Illness (ILI) should be intensified in unaffected districts and districts that have not reported cases for the last 14 days through the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme network in collaboration with medical college hospitals.Appreciating the efforts of states that have banned the use of chewing tobacco and imposed fines for spitting in public places, he said, “In view of the larger prevalence of non-smoking tobacco usage in some of the states, they should take concrete actions for prohibiting their wide usage and for prohibiting spitting in public places which shall help in preventing the spread of Covid-19. Strong reforms are needed in this direction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-govt-teams-rushed-to-10-states-with-high-caseload/story-oxq9H6ywQy0vYUTGT34tRO.html
10-05-2020||India||Aarogya Setu gave forecasts regarding 650 Covid-19 clusters||The Aarogya Setu predicted 650 potential coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspots correctly and more than 300 others that could turn into one, the government’s advisory body Niti Aayog said in a statement, while adding that close to 100 million people have now registered on it. The tool is meant to speed up tracing of contacts of an infected person so that they can be isolated before they spread the disease further, but has become controversial due to the amount of personal data – such as location details – it requires and possible vulnerabilities in its design and coding that could expose such information. With the new details, the developers now suggest the analysis of the data could be helpful. “Using syndromic mapping and trace history of Covid-19 positive people combined with their movement patterns and exposure of different regions to Covid-19, the Aarogya Setu team has forecasted more than 650 hotspots across the country at sub-post office level, in addition to more than 300+ emerging hotspots which could have been missed otherwise,” the Niti Aayog said. In Maharashtra, which is one of the worst-affected states, the app identified at least 60 hotspots across 18 districts. Officials in Maharashtra, however, said the application was more useful for individuals than the administration “because authorities already have this information with them”. “As such, it will be easier for individuals to find such hot spots to avoid further spread of the disease. In fact, this application will be more useful after the end of the lockdown,” said Pradeep Awate, Maharashtra’s state health surveillance officer.“For the 130 hotspot predictions made by the app across India at the sub-post office level between April 13 and April 20, every forecasted hotspot has since been declared a real hotspot by the health ministry 3 to 17 days after it was first predicted. This ability to accurately forecast hotspots is a much-needed breakthrough, first of its kind in the world which India will deploy as a powerful tool to fight the contagion and help the world do the same. Aarogya Setu is not just predicting hotspots, it is enabling prevention of hotspots,” said the Niti Aayog release. HT could not verify these hotspots since the agency did not release a list of these locations.Since its launch on April 2, the app has already seen 96 million registrations. It is now mandatory for people going to work during the lockdown period, which makes India the only democracy where the mobile phone software is compulsory in some form. Health officials say the tool will help fill gaps in human resources to monitor the outbreak. “It is definitely an application for the future as far as disease surveillance is concerned because India is a huge country and it is practically not possible to cover the entire population over and over again manually. That’s when this kind of technology can be made use of. However, the only thing that needs to be considered is that it will be most effective when everyone has downloaded the application,” said Dr Sujeet K Singh, director, national centre for disease control. Principal scientific advisor to the Prime Minister, Prof K VijayRaghavan, added: “The app allows consent-driven identification of individuals who were in proximity to those who are tested positive; amongst these there will be several who are eligible for tests. When these people were tested, several turned out to be positive.”Aarogya Setu gets real-time testing alerts on Covid-19 positives from across India. Of the 12,500 users with the app installed who tested positive so far, Bluetooth-based interaction data led to more than 60,000 people being assessed and alerted as at various degrees of risk and, advised accordingly whether to self-isolate, quarantine or go for a test. Of the 8,500 tested from the set of people assessed as high-risk (and recommended to be tested), around 23% tested positive so far, the developers said.“While this is a valuable consequence of using the app, there is another consequence that is being used and is also very valuable. By mapping symptoms and trace history of Covid-19 positive people, and combining with their movement patterns, the team also studied these in relation to available exposure of different regions to Covid-19. This analysis showed an ability to forecast hotspots a short while in advance of their becoming so. Many of these hotspots were already on the health ministry’s radar but a substantial number were novel. This information, when relayed to the health system, allows this additional information to be used in helping to prevent hotspots from maturing, along with other data available,” VijayRaghavan added.So far, 69 million people have taken the app’s self-assessment test, with an adoption rate of about 71%, of which at least 3.4 million have self-declared themselves as unwell (showing one or more of the three symptoms). A dedicated team of more than 70 doctors and healthcare workers have reached out to about 650,000 individuals with Covid-like symptoms and triaged their medical condition. More than 16,000 people have been administered follow-up tele-consultation by doctors, free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aarogya-setu-alerted-about-650-clusters/story-1kvGonSkLz77dwH3zMYOQI.html
10-05-2020||India||Maharashtra crosses 20,000 Covid-19 cases with 1,165 new infections||Maharashtra reported 1,165 Covid-19 cases on Saturday to cross the 20,000 infection mark and also registered the highest single-day fatalities with 48 deaths. The state capital of Mumbai recorded 722 cases, taking the tally in India’s worst-affected city to 12,864.The spike came on a day new commissioner of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Iqbal Singh Chahal said his two priorities are to minimise the number of coronavirus cases in Mumbai and have the city prepared for the upcoming monsoon season.Chahal, an 1989 batch IAS officer, took charge late on Friday after the state government transferred previous BMC commissioner Parveen Pardeshi to the urban development department.Maharashtra reported its first Covid-19 case on March 9 and took nearly 53 days to reach the 10,000 mark. The next 10,000 cases were registered in just nine days.The state health department said 178 patients from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region were added to the Indian Council of Medical Research data of cases on its portal, but the reconciliation of the figures by the state was yet to be done. The state also stated that since the collection of data was a progressive process, so the numbers could vary.Of the 48 deaths registered on Saturday, 27 were in Mumbai, nine in Pune and eight in Malegaon in Nashik district. Pune rural, Nanded, Akola and Amravati saw one death each. Twenty seven of the patients who died on Saturday were above 60 years of age, while 18 were in the age group of 40-59years. At least 28 of them had high-risk comorbidities.The mortality rate in the state stood at 3.83%, down from 7.21% on April 12, but the number of deaths is increasing. The country’s mortality rate hovers around 3.32%. According to a report by the medical education and drugs department, the highest (21.91%) chunk of patients are between 21 and 30 years, followed by those in the 31 to 40 age group (21%).The report also highlighted 73% of the fatalities had high-risk comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension and heart ailment, among others. At least 59% of patients found positive after their tests were asymptomatic. Among the municipal corporations, Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Aurangbad, Navi Mumbai are the most affected cities. 86.48% of the total cases till Friday are from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune Metropolitan Region, which house roughly 30 % (35 million) of the state’s population.. The state government, which has hinted at an extension of the ongoing lockdown in MMR and PMR, has directed the municipal corporations in the worst-affected cities to concentrate on containment zones “We may extend some relaxations for the industries after third phase of lockdown ending on May 17 in the orange and green zones. Red zones too may have a brief relaxations outside the containment zones, but at the same time the implementation of the lockdown in containment zones would be stricter,” said a senior bureaucrat.The number of tests in the state touched 227,804 on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-crosses-20k-cases-with-1-165-new-infections/story-EJ7rF7vS2EXv75M3sSGC8H.html
10-05-2020||India||Bengal’s fight against Covid-19 compromised, says governor Jagdeep Dhankhar||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s acrimonious relationship with the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and chief minister Mamata Banerjee is well known. Dhankar spoke to Tanmay Chatterjee about how he feels Banerjee has failed to control the Covid-19 pandemic. Edited excerpts:Do you think the TMC government has failed to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak?Nationally and globally, monumental lapses of Mamata Banerjee in tackling Covid-19 [outbreak] are headlines. Gruesome reports of the disposal of Covid-19 dead bodies from several areas with heartless, indescribable insensitivity is unconscionably shocking. People are traumatised at this callous stance. Their sentiments are outraged and mercilessly trampled. We would never be able to come out of the sordid saga and shame of Dhapa [a garbage dumping ground where Covid-19 victims are cremated]. It will haunt us for long. Bengal, unfortunately, is emerging as a police state with anyone posting on social media to the distaste of the ruling dispensation gets a police knock and thereafter…Is the state solely responsible for this failure or, did the Centre also react late, as alleged by TMC?The Prime Minister’s handling of Covid-19 has been nationally and globally appreciated. His consensual approach with statesmanship stance resulted in rare support by the people. Mamata Banerjee is the only CM to be in stand-alone mode.The Centre has been in affirmative mode. The home ministry’s eye opener communication on April 10 came as a relief to the people. Because of her political antenna being ever up and [her] eye being on vote bank politics, the fight against Covid-19 has been severely compromised. Do you think the state government tried to conceal the actual death toll by forming the audit committee, as alleged by the BJP?Right from the word go, the cover up operation to fudge and stagger figures was operationalised. There is no credibility to the state’s data.Some things are looking up after the IMCT”s catalysed and affirmative action. Yet, much is to be done. After coming under fire from every quarter, she [Banerjee] had to virtually disband the cover up operation [of the] audit committee.How do you see this as a government’s role in protecting citizens?This is a cause for serious concern. She looks at issues through the political prism and this resulted in dilution of lockdown protocol, ineffective enforcement of social distancing and holding of banned religious congregations under the very nose of the police. TMC leaders across the board openly say on television that you speak the language of the BJP. Do you see this as an insult to your Constitutional position?All of them are playing to the tune of the remote control authority. I lament their lack of freedom. It is an open secret. I have a personal equation with many of them. It is worrisome how these leaders have been emasculated and tamed. Such a spineless stance is a challenge to democracy. A recent phenomenon that is in circulation is that even [their] social media accounts are controlled.Never before have we seen a Bengal governor writing so frequently on social media on issues that are generally perceived to be internal matters between the state and Raj Bhawan. Why do you do it?Firstly, social media is a recent phenomenon and thus comparison is inappropriate. Nationally and globally you will notice people in public life using social media. Taking to social media per se should not be an issue. I would be enlightened if content thereof is inappropriate. No one has so far said so. I can’t help if there is fear of truth. I am motivated only by the welfare of the people, whom I am constitutionally ordained to serve.Trinamool Congress leaders and even some from the Congress and Left parties say no governor behaved with the state government the way you do. Do you think your predecessors never found any reason to point out to the government that they were doing anything wrong?Earlier governors too got the taste of her [Banerjee’s] mercurial behaviour. I adhere to the script of the Constitution while she acts on an external script. I have never transgressed constitutional limits and no such act has ever been pointed out to me by the government.There are no takers for her recent stance that the governor is making efforts to usurp powers. All these are diversionary tactics to cover up her monumental lapses, particularly during the Covid-19 [outbreak].||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-fight-against-covid-compromised-guv-dhankhar/story-kP21M8FGqUnBwcKhVY9wvJ.html
10-05-2020||India||As Covid-19 cases in Gujarat rise, AIIMS director visits state on CM request||On Saturday, 394 more Covid-19 positive cases and 23 deaths were reported from Gujarat taking the toll of infected people to 7797 and deaths to 472. A central team led by All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria visited the state on Saturday. following a request made by Gujarat’s chief minister Vijay Rupani to the Centre. The AIIMS director interacted with government and private doctors in the state and also spoke to health care workers at the frontline of the fight against the disease, the Gujarat government said in a statement. “People do not need to be afraid of it (Covid), but precautions are a must. One should consult a doctor as soon as they notice any symptom of Covid-19. Elders and patients with co-morbid conditions could be in trouble if there is delay in reporting the symptoms,” Guleria said.He said that it is difficult to win this battle without public awareness and co-operation, adding that social distancing and protective measures are essential.The statement said that additional chief secretary, Pankaj Kumar and other officers on Covid -19 duty across the state had extensive discussions with Dr Guleria. Of the 394 cases on Saturday, the most are from Ahmedabad, 280, followed by Surat, 30, and Vadodra, 27. Out of 23 deaths, 20 were reported from Ahmedabad and one each from Banaskantha, Jamnagar and Panchamahal.Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health) said the least number of deaths in the past week was reported on Saturday. “The recovery rate in past 15 days has improved by 450%. So far, 2019 people have been discharged,” she said.Flights from Singapore, Philippines, USA, U.K, and Kuwait , carrying a total of 1099 people, will land in a phase wise manner at Ahmedabad airport from 10th May, 2020 . “All the passengers will undergo thermal screening and necessary medical checkup followed by institutional quarantine,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-director-visits-gujarat-on-cm-request/story-IPLYS8ZnjZJrI7EjiLXSOP.html
10-05-2020||India||ICMR will develop indigenous vaccine to treat Covid-19||India has taken the first step in developing the first make-in-India vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech partnering to develop a vaccine candidate, the research body announced on Saturday.“ ICMR and Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) have partnered to develop a fully indigenous vaccine for COVID-19 using the virus strain isolated at ICMR’s National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune,” the apex research body said in a statement.“ ICMR has shared one of the 11 virus strains that it managed to culture with Bharat Biotech. The industry partnership is to develop the vaccine candidate and ICMR has transferred the technology to them,” explained Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head, department of epidemiology and communicable disease, ICMR.  ICMR’s apex laboratory, NIV, managed to isolate the virus as early as February, using the swab samples of the initial Covid-19 positive cases reported from the state of Kerala.Coronavirus is a difficult virus to isolate; however, scientists at NIV managed to isolate and culture 11 strains -- the basic requirement to develop a vaccine in future or any research related to the viruses.One of the strains has now been successfully transferred from NIV to Bharat Biotech International Ltd. (BBIL) in Hyderabad as part of the partnership.“The work on vaccine development has been initiated between the two partners. ICMR-NIV will provide continuous support to BBIL for vaccine development. ICMR and BBIL will seek fast-track approvals to expedite vaccine development, subsequent animal studies and clinical evaluation of the candidate vaccine,” said the ICMR statement.Dr Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director, Bharat Biotech, confirmed the development.“We are very proud to participate in this project of national importance with ICMR and NIV. We will do everything to make this programme successful in our endeavour to combat Covid-19 pandemic. We also take pride being the only company in the developing world having Biosafety Level 3 production manufacturing facility,” he said.Bharat Biotech announced early last month that it was working on a unique intranasal vaccine for Coronavirus ‘CoroFlu’ in collaboration with the University of Wisconsin–Madison and the vaccine companies FluGen in the US.It will take a few months before the vaccine candidate is ready.“It normally takes about two-three months for the vaccine candidate to be ready, and then different studies are undertaken to test the vaccine candidate,” said Dr Gangakhedkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-will-develop-indigenous-vaccine/story-SmYIh29JA5Rldejh7mMjpI.html
10-05-2020||India||Ajit Jogi on ventilator after cardiac arrest||Former Chhattisgarh chief minister Ajit Jogi, 74, was admitted to Raipur’s Shree Narayana Hospital in a critical condition on Saturday. His son, Amit Jogi, said his father had suffered cardiac arrest.According to a health bulletin released by the hospital, Jogi was given cardiopulmonary resuscitation at his residence before he was taken to the hospital.“Jogi suffered a cardiac arrest at his house. As of now, his ECG [electrocardiogram] and pulse have returned to normal which means his heartbeats are returning to normal functioning. But his respiration is still not normal. He is on a ventilator and his condition is critical,” it said.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel spoke to Amit Jogi over the phone about his father’s health and assured him the state government will take every possible step to ensure his treatment, an official statement said.A bureaucrat-turned politician, Ajit Jogi served as the first chief minister of Chhattisgarh from November 2000 to November 2003 after the formation of the state.Ajit Jogi parted ways with the Congress in 2016 after he and Amit Jogi were involved in a controversy over the alleged fixing of a by-election (2014) held to the Antagarh seat in Kanker district. Subsequently, he formed the Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-jogi-on-ventilator-after-cardiac-arrest/story-2gESSnPid2nTn3IcG6qzUO.html
10-05-2020||India||CBSE set to begin evaluating papers||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will set rolling the process of evaluation of Class X and Class XII board examination answer sheets on Sunday; the ministry of home affairs has approved a human resource development (HRD) ministry proposal to this effect.Answer sheets will be moved from 3,000 designated schools to the residences of qualified evaluators who will mark them from their homes. The process is expected to be completed in 50 days.With nearly 1.8 million students awaiting their Class X results and 1.2 million awaiting their class 12 results, the CBSE has been pushing for government permission to carry out the evaluation process, stuck because of the Covid-19 lockdown.HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said permission had been granted for evaluation in 3,000 schools. He expressed hope that 15 million answer sheets in 173 subjects would be evaluated soon. “From these 3,000 schools these copies will go the evaluators and evaluation will begin tomorrow. Teachers will evaluate from home and we will be able to complete the process in 50 days,” he said. According to a government official who requested anonymity, permission has been granted for the evaluation to take place in all areas except containment zones.The CBSE will now formulate a detailed plan according to which the evaluation will have to be conducted while maintaining social distancing norms. Teachers have traditionally marked the answer sheets in evaluation centres, but this time, keeping in mind the pandemic and lockdown, the work if being done at the homes of evaluators.On Friday, the HRD ministry had cleared the way for holding the pending CBSE Class X and XII board exams. These will be held from July 1 to July 15, the HRD ministry said.While exams for 12 subjects of class 12 will be held across the country, the exams for class 10 will be held only in north-east Delhi, where some of the tests could not be held earlier because of communal violence in the area in February. Overall the CBSE would conduct 29 exams.Given the situation, it is not an easy task and even HRD and CBSE officials admit that the decision will be reviewed in case the situation is not conducive. Randeep Guleria, the director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), recently said that the Covid-19 pandemic in the country may not have peaked yet.“According to modelling data and the way our cases are increasing, it is likely that peak can come in June and July. But there are many variables..,” Guleria said.Government officials said while the hope was that the exams will be conducted, the capacity and preparedness will be reviewed in light of the existing circumstances.“A lot of work needs to be done regarding norms as to how students will come to exam centres, the seating arrangement etc. CBSE will bring out certain directions from time to time in this regard. School managements will also have to do their part so that social distancing takes place,” said a senior CBSE official who requested anonymity.The HRD ministry has already announced that the JEE (Main) will be conducted from July 18 to 23 and the National Eligibility and Entrance Test, from July 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-set-to-begin-evaluating-papers/story-cKwAIRnln2bV3ejLgGbNTJ.html
10-05-2020||India||ED attaches part of building worth Rs 6.38 crore in AJL case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday partly attached a nine-storey building in Mumbai’s Bandra worth Rs 16.38 crore in connection with an investigation involving Associated Journals Limited (AJL), publisher of National Herald newspaper and controlled by the Gandhi family.The ED said it had attached a part of the building that has been established as “proceeds of crime” and that notices on the action taken under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) had been issued to AJL and veteran Congress leader, Motilal Vora, chairman and managing director of the company.The nine-storey building, located on plot number 2, Survey number 341, near Kala Nagar in Bandra (East), has two basements and a total built-up area of 15,000 square metres; its total value is around Rs 120 crore.Former Haryana chief minister, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, is named as an accused in the case and both the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and ED chargesheeted him in 2018 and 2019, respectively, along with Vora.Senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi said, “This is a part of the continuing governmental tirade against National Herald. Since the primary allegations against National Herald are baseless, such attachment orders are equally baseless and untenable. They will be suitably challenged by proper legal recourse. There is also a continuing process of spread of misinformation by authorities in this regard. Government would be far better advised to use its energies to battle Covid instead of such wasteful exercises of energy.”The ED has alleged that AJL pledged a plot, number C-17, Sector 6, Panchkula, Haryana, which was allegedly allotted illegally to it, to avail a loan from the Syndicate Bank branch on Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg in Delhi to construct the building in Bandra.“Thus, the said asset at Mumbai that germinated out of the proceeds of crime has been attached to the extent of Rs 16.38 crore. Further investigation is going on,” the agency said in a statement. The Panchkula plot has already been attached by the agency.The money laundering probe was based on allegations that the property was allotted to AJL in1982 but was taken back by the Estate Officer, Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA), a decade later, on October 30, 1992 because AJL did not comply with the conditions of the allotment.“However, Hooda blatantly misused his official position and dishonestly allotted the said plot afresh in the guise of reallotment to the AJL at original rates plus interest in violation of necessary conditions and policy of HUDA by an order of August 28, 2005 for Rs 59,39,200,” ED has claimed. The actual value of the property (Panchkula) is about Rs 64.93 crore, it said.The anti-money laundering probe agency has further stated that Hooda, as the then Haryana CM, caused a wrongful loss to HUDA, and wrongful gain to AJL, by ignoring legal opinion and recommendations of HUDA officers and financial commissioner and principal secretary, Town and Country Planning.Senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi said, “This is a part of the continuing governmental tirade against National Herald. Since the primary allegations against National Herald are baseless, such attachment orders are equally baseless and untenable. They will be suitably challenged by proper legal recourse. There is also a continuing process of spread of misinformation by authorities in this regard. Government would be far better advised to use its energies to battle Covid instead of such wasteful exercises of energy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-attaches-part-of-building-worth-16-38-cr-in-ajl-case/story-6ZAanYqN7DUtgiacOd1BNP.html
10-05-2020||India||Villagers demand Vizag unit closure after Styrene gas leak killed 12||The Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday announced a door-to-door survey in all villages close to LG Polymers India Limited to identify residents exposed to the leak of Styrene gas near this coastal city that claimed 12 lives, as hundreds of villagers staged a sit-in protest with bodies of the victims at the plant, demanding its immediate closure.LG Polymers, a unit of the Korean conglomerate  offered an apology to the people affected by the gas leak and condolences to the families of the dead and said normalcy had been restored at the plant .“We would like to assure everyone that the company is committed to work closely with the concerned authorities in India to investigate the cause of this incident, prevent recurrence in the future, and secure the foundation for care and treatment,” a statement by the company said.State industries minister Mekapati Gautam Reddy said situation at the plant was under control and normalcy would return to Visakhapatnam in 48 hours. “We shall conduct door-to-door survey soon to identify the affected people and extend all possible to help to them. There is no need for the people to get panicky,” he said.In the morning, tension prevailed at the LG Polymers plant in R R Venkatapuram village, where hundreds of people belonging to the surrounding villages staged a sit-in protest demanding the immediate closure of the plant.Several men and women tried to barge into the plant’s premises even as state director general of police Gautam Sawang was inspecting the storage tank from where the leak took place. “We want justice,” chanted the protestors.“Close down the company.”The villagers stopped ambulances carrying the bodies of three of the victims from King George Hospital mortuary to their villages for cremation after a post-mortem examination and kept the bodies on the road in front the company’s gates.The protestors tried to gherao Sawang as he emerged from the plant. A distraught woman protester fell on his feet, but she was pushed away by women constables. Sawang was escorted out of the premises by the police.“It has been two days since the cases were filed against the management of LG Polymers. But no action has been taken against any of the company officials till date. We shall not allow the company to run under any circumstances,” an angry villager told reporters.The police resorted to a lathi charge to disperse the protestors. They bundled scores of protesters into vans and took them away to the Gopalapatnam police station. Many others assembled at the spot and gatecrashed into the premises.Visakhapatnam police commissioner R K Meena intervened and with the help of additional forces, managed to force the protestors out of the premises. The police managed to shift the bodies from the spot to Venkatapuram village for cremation.State minister for tourism M Srinivasa Rao and other ruling YSR Congress Party leaders tried to soothe the angry villagers saying the government would make efforts to see that LG Polymers shifts from the location.“The government has appointed a high-powered committee which would go deep into the mishap and take stern action against the company. Please bear with us,” Srinivasa Rao appealed to the villagers with folded hands.Sawang told reporters the situation was under control. He said more technical teams from Delhi would be arriving later in the day to study the situation and suggest the way forward.Sawang, who had a meeting with technical experts, scientists and a special team from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), appealed to the people not to rush back to their villages but remain in relief camps for another 48 hours, which was mandatory period to restore normalcy as per the safety protocol.He said the high-powered committee would take up the investigation soon and based on its report, action would be initiated against the company. “There is no need for us to protect anybody. Depending on the progress of the case, we shall invoke more sections of the Indian Penal Code against the company,” he said.In a statement, LG Polymers said initial investigations suggested that the cause of the incident on Thursday was a leakage of vapour from the Styrene Monomer storage tank.The statement said that while focusing on stabilizing the plant, the company was doing its best to extend support to ensure those who had been exposed to the leak were taken care of.A special task force has been formed to help the victims, which would contact all the families shortly and provide medical care and emotional and psychological counselling, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-demand-vizag-unit-closure/story-qU7PwICTH7m4Snm0qkbpBP.html
10-05-2020||India||In Bengal, man recovers from Covid-19 after 38 days on ventilator||Nitaidas Mukherjee, a resident of south Kolkata, may well be one among the over 17,800 persons cured of Covid-19 till date in the country, but his doctors term his recovery a miracle. The 52-year-old was kept on a ventilator for 38 days before he returned home on Friday, free of the coronavirus. Doctors at AMRI in Dhakuria where Mukherjee was admitted, said that it was a remarkable feat, as a Covid-19 patient on a ventilator is not considered to have a high chance of survival.“This is my second life you can say. Without the doctors I would have been dead by now. They are the actual heroes,” Mukherjee, who is still frail and felt too weak to speak over phone, said.Mukherjee first began to exhibit symptoms of lower respiratory tract infection in mid-March. Having suffered a bout of pneumonia in 2017, his family comprising his wife, Aparajita, his 75-year-old mother and septuagenarian aunt thought that his bouts of cough were par for the course. However, it’s when he developed fever that his family decided to have him tested for Covid-19. One of the guidelines for testing issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at the time was that a person could only be tested if they had travelled abroad. “We didn’t have any travel history. But as the symptoms were similar to that of Covid-19, so we decided to take him to a private hospital on March 29. As his condition deteriorated he was put on ventilator the same night. The next day his test results came positive and his battle with death started,” said Aparajita (39).As his condition worsened doctors performed a procedure called tracheostomy, which involves making an incision in the throat to open a direct airway to the trachea for ease of breathing.Coronavirus disease is a type of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). Normally, ARDS is something that happens over time, but with Sars-Cov-2, it’s faster: the lungs get inflamed, and fluid leaks into the alveoli. Doctors typically put patients on ventilators to help them re-oxygenate the bloodstream. In a worst case scenario, a “cytokine storm” is possible: that’s when the body’s white blood cells and other antibodies, produced to fight the viral infection, end up attacking the body’s own cells. “Doctors had told me that his condition was extremely precarious. But they never lost hope and continued to fight. I was not sure whether I would be able to see him anymore and prayed to God. He is a social worker and runs a NGO. I believe the prayers of all those he had helped in the past worked and helped him to survive,”A statement issued by AMRI hospital on Friday said: “[Mukherjee] has created a record of sorts in India by being the first patient of COVID-19, to have defeated the virus despite being on ventilator for 38 days.”“This is indeed a remarkable feat. Staying on ventilation and then returning home is something uncommon,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, one of the doctors in the advisory panel set up chief minister Mamata Banerjee to tackle the state’s response to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-man-recovers-after-38-days-on-ventilator/story-oN6YwSX9KnFPu3wUKR7FbP.html
10-05-2020||India||Rural housing schemes key for MGNREGS success amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Centre’s flagship housing scheme for the rural poor is likely to be key to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS)’s success this year amid a surge in demand for jobs as millions of migrant workers left jobless by the Covid-19 lockdown in big cities have returned home.Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (Gramin), or PMAY (G), the housing scheme, employed 51% of MGNREGS job seekers last year, according to official data. There has been much focus on the PMAY (G) in view of the social distancing required to check the Covid-19 spread. Hardly 3-4 workers are required to build a rural, concrete house for the poor in comparison to works like road constructions undertaken under the MGREGS, which require hundreds of workers. A Union rural development ministry note last month told states and Union territories that “maximum sanctions to beneficiaries [under PMAY (G)] be issued against the 2020-21 targets” and underlined the urgency of creating more jobs. The note added that “not exceeding 2-3 workers, excluding the beneficiary [of a house] may be engaged in house construction”.The Centre plans to construct 6.15 million houses for the rural poor under the PMAY (G) this financial year. Madhya Pradesh has been allotted the highest quota of 1.06 million houses under the scheme followed by West Bengal’s 920,000 and Bihar 806,000’s. Until Saturday, 116.5 million workers were active under the MGNREGS, according to the official data. The Centre has set an initial target of creating 2800 million person-days of work—the highest ever—under the flagship scheme for 2020-21 amid rising unemployment due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It is 40 million higher than the previous year. The MGNREGS last year generated 2767.6 million person-days of work.The Centre has allotted Rs 19,500 crore for the housing scheme and Rs 61,500 crore for the MGNREGS, which provides at least 100 days of employment annually to at least one member of every rural household.Union rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government is aware that more people might need jobs under the MGNREGS as millions of migrant labourers have returned to their homes. “We have already approved Rs 33,300 crore under the MGNREGS for the states out of which Rs 20,752 crore has been released, liquidating all pending liabilities on wages and material. There is no pending bill on account of wages,” he said.The Centre’s added emphasis on the rural housing scheme is also a reflection of its inability to complete its target last year. In 2019-20, the Centre has targeted building 6 million houses but only managed to allot 4.47 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/housing-schemes-key-for-mgregs/story-YpoSoZitKXQkl5T9SAThhL.html
10-05-2020||India||Privatise MGNREGS to revive aggregate demand||The impact of the ongoing lockdown is evident in the manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index number for April that came out on Monday (a contraction after 32 months of expansion; and the lowest since the index began, 27.4). Data on GST collections aren’t out — businesses have been given time till May 5 to pay their GST — but CNBC TV18 reported that Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections for the month of March, recorded in April are likely to have fallen to less than Rs 30,000 crore. In normal times, these figures have been around Rs 90,000-1,00,000 crore. This means that economic activity has reduced to less than a third of its normal levels.Bringing the economy back on track is going to take a concerted policy effort and will require shedding entrenched orthodoxy such insisting on fiscal prudence. At the same time, resources will have to be employed in an intelligent manner.Five factors need to be kept in mind while devising such a strategy. One, unlike disruptions such as war or natural disasters, there has not been any physical destruction of capacity in this crisis. This rules out a reconstruction led path to exit the crisis. Such a strategy was key to overcoming the Great Depression in Europe after the Second World War.Two, large parts of the private sector have accumulated heavy losses due to loss of business activity. They will continue to face bearish prospects. This is because a sharp drop in economic activity has adversely affected mass demand. Any short-term aid without a sustained revival in mass demand is likely to fail. Three, even if the government were to shed fiscal conservatism, money will be tight because of loss in revenue due to fall in economic activity levels. Four, the lockdown has triggered a huge reverse migration to India’s villages. Even if the lockdown is lifted, the workers are not likely to come back anytime soon, thanks to the trauma and uncertainty they have faced in the past forty days. This means they will continue to suffer a loss in incomes, which will translate into weak demand . Five, even before the pandemic hit, the Indian economy was not in a very good shape. Economic sentiment, as captured in the RBI’s Consumer Confidence Surveys, had plummeted to an all-time low. So, how should we go about reviving aggregate demand? Export markets are unlikely to help in the short to medium term. Everybody has been hit. And there is no ruling out another outbreak of the virus, which will only make matters worse. Any recovery strategy must be inward looking. Here’s one way in which it can be done.Food accounts for almost 40% of the average Indian household’s consumption basket. This is pretty high by international standards. Data from the United States Department of Agriculture shows that share of food consumed at home had a share of 29.1% in consumer expenditure in India. In a list of 104 countries, India was ranked 34th on this aspect. The centrality of food spending in household budgets has emerged a major fault line in economic policy making in India. Efforts to keep food prices low to protect the poor have put a squeeze on farm incomes. Spikes in food prices, on the other hand, especially in an environment of tepid income growth, hurt non-food demand. The current crisis provides an opportunity to resolve this dilemma. Because villages will have a glut of labour supply due to reverse migration, rural wages are bound to go down sharply. Hired labour is an important cost component of agricultural production in India. For a crop such as paddy, it accounts for as much as 25% of the A2+FL cost measure, which takes into account the following: value of agricultural inputs such as seeds and fertilizers; hired human, animal and machine labour; land revenue and irrigation charges; depreciation of farm implements and buildings; interest on working capital; rent paid for leased in land; and imputed value of family labour. The current government has been using the A2+FL measure to justify its Minimum Support Prices (MSP) providing a return of 50% over the cost of production. This is as high as 30% in the case of important vegetables such as potatoes and onions. While the share is low for a crop like wheat, labour saving techniques have imposed their own costs such as pollution due to stubble burning in northern states. (See Chart 3)What if the government decided to allow employment of MGNREGS workers in private agricultural activity? This will lead to a significant reduction in cost of cultivation by easing or even eradicating the cost of hired labour. A suitable mechanism can be worked out to ensure that farmers who avail this arrangement pass on their savings in terms of lower prices in both public procurement and private markets. Once the logistics have been worked out, there will be multiple benefits for such a policy. MGNREGS will see a significant enhancement in its employment capacity. The government could gain from this arrangement by saving in terms of procurement expenditure. The most important benefits of this will be outside the agriculture sector though. A possible reduction in food prices will free large parts of household budgets for buying things from the non-food economy. Even if nominal wages fall as firms try and compensate for losses and tepid economic activity, low food prices without hurting farm incomes can be an effective way of boosting real incomes of the masses in India. India spent Rs 71,000 crore on MGNREGS in 2019-2020. Even a doubling will mean it spends just around Rs 142,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/privatise-mgnregs-to-revive-aggregate-demand/story-HqYTDrB2XJvVhJQcm7ARaK.html
10-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Two of five worst-hit clusters in Pune show flattening of curve||Two of the five worst-affected Covid-19 clusters in Pune have begun responding positively to the aggressive testing, detection and containment strategies of the health authorities in Pune, an analysis of 1,900 cases during April 7 to May 6 has shown. As of May 7, Pune has registered a total of 137 deaths due to Covid-19 and 2,245 positive cases.Though the containment zones in Bhavani Peth and Dhole Patil Road wards continue to show the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city, the flattening of the curve was clearly visible in the containment clusters of two other wards in the city, namely Shivajinagar-Ghole Road and Kasba Vishrambaugwada.As of May 6, the containment clusters in Bhawani Peth ward had 451 positive cases, followed by Dhole Patil Road (347), Shivajinagar-Ghole Road (247), Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori (236) and Kasba-Vishrambaugwada (172).On May 7, Pune’s Additional Municipal Commissioner Rubal Agarwal noted that the recovery and discharge of Covid-19 patients was on the rise from around 27 patients on April 28 and 29, to 50-55 from May 1 to May 6.The mortality rate for Pune had also dropped from a high of 9 percent to 5.8 percent as of May 7 and the doubling of positive cases had increased to 12 days in Pune, she said. Agarwal attributed this positive trend to early detection of positive cases and increased testing.“Micro-containment and aggressive reaching out has been happening and in the last two days the number of tests has almost doubled to 1,600 per day,” said data analyst Sahil Deo, whose team at CPC Analytics has been tracking Covid-19 trends at the ward level on a daily basis with data provided by the PMC.He noted that yet another important indicator was the ratio of recoveries to new cases which stood at 61% for Pune as of May 8 as against 21% for Mumbai and 15% for Maharashtra.“61% is not an anomaly because it has constantly been around 50% for the last 5-6 days. This shows that recovery is also happening in a significant way,” he said. For every 10 new cases, 6 to 7 patients had shown a recovery over the last three days,” Deo said.The slowdown that was visible in the containment clusters of Shivajinagar and Kasba wards was not seen in the containment areas of Bhavani Peth and Dhole Patil Road wards which continue to be the worst affected localities in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-two-of-five-worst-hit-clusters-in-pune-show-flattening-of-curve/story-6UxqLgNMeoSqUfvKQDCpgN.html
10-05-2020||India||Burden of coronavirus: List of states with over 5,000 Covid-19 cases in India||Coronavirus cases in India near a grim milestone. On Sunday, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Affairs updated the total number of cases in the country to 62,939, breaching the 60,000-mark. The number of fatalities caused by coronavirus across the country stands at 2,109 while 19,357 have been cured or discharged from the hospitals. Maharashtra continues to see no respite in its Covid-19 cases, Delhi and Gujarat also struggle to contain the virus spread. Here’s taking a look at states where coronavirus cases are on a rapid rise and have crossed the 5,000-mark.MaharashtraThe state has reported a whopping 20,228 Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra has recorded 779 deaths so far while 3800 patients have recovered. Mumbai, Thane and Pune are some of the worst-hit cities in the state. Mumbai alone has witnessed over 12,000 coronavirus cases. GujaratSecond in terms of number of Covid-19 cases in the country. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands way above 5,000 at 7796. 472 people have died due to the coronavirus disease in Gujarat, 2091 people have recovered so far. Ahmedabad is the worst-hit city in the state. Also read: India’s Covid-19 cases near 63,000-mark, death toll at 2,109DelhiIn the national capital, 6542 people have tested positive for coronavirus. 73 people have died from the infection while 2020 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Tamil NaduThe southern state has reported 6535 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 1824 people recover from the deadly contagion while 44 patients have succumbed to death. States with over 3,000 casesCovid-19 cases are rising rapidly in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu. All three states have reported more than 3,000 coronavirus cases till date. In Rajasthan, coronavirus cases touched 3708 on Sunday. The state has reported 106 fatalities, and 12026 patients have recovered from the infection.  Madhya Pradesh has reported 3614 positive cases of coronavirus. 215 people have died from Covid-19 here while 1676 have recovered. Indore, Ujjain and Bhopal are top coronavirus-hit cities here. The number of Covid-19 positive cases reached 3373 in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. While 1499 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 74 have died from the infection here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/burden-of-coronavirus-list-of-states-with-over-5-000-covid-19-cases-in-india/story-EmwEJm7z3tyIOhSW7EqsdL.html
