11-05-2020||India||1,700 women undertrials released since lockdown began: NCW||Since the lockdown was announced, over 1,700 women undertrials have been given parole by seven states to ensure social distancing in jails, the National Commission for Women (NCW) said on Monday.With 1,039 paroles, Uttar Pradesh let go of the maximum number of women undertrials, followed by Haryana with 223 women undertrials. Chhattisgarh (107), Gujarat (102), West Bengal (93), Delhi (73), Telangana (61) and Manipur (4) were the other states. The women’s agency had asked prison authorities from 25 states to take part in a review meeting on Monday to take stock of their reform measures for women inmates. The NCW had on April 22 asked states to implement a slew of measures for safety of women during the Covid-19 pandemic. On Sunday, a woman in Byculla jail was found to be positive for Covid-19. Most of the states reported 50-80% occupancy after authorities gave bail to women undertrials. “No cases of Covid-19 positive have been found in women’s prison wards and barracks,” the NCW said. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said the virtual meeting was necessitated by several states not following up on the April 22 advisory. Some jails, she said, had pregnant women. “Haryana, with 7 pregnant women, had the highest and Bihar has three. They are taken care of,” she said. Karnataka, she said, was giving jobs to women who have finished jail term or were on parole in a petrol pump run wholly by women. The prisoners in the state of Kerala have manufactured nearly 500 litres of sanitisers under the lockdown. “The state of Tamil Nadu has made total of 2900 video calls and other states were advised to advertise E-Mulaqat on a bigger scale. A commendable task is done by the state of Kerala, where 10,000 (female and male) prisoners were presented before the court for their (parole) proceedings,” the NCW said in a release. The women’s agency had in a letter on April 22 to Director General and Inspector General of Prisons in states, recommended that to decongest jails under the lockdown, women undertrials even in non-bailable offences be given bail application under Section 437(I)(ii) of the CrPC. Services of the respective state or District Legal Services Authority (SLSA/DLSA) should be provided to women so that they can place the applications of the inmates before a competent court, the letter said. The NCW had also suggested that the legal help should come with positive recommendation from the prosecution side. It also asked prison officials to maintain hygienic conditions and ensure supply of toiletries, masks, hand gloves and sanitisers, provide adequate medical and healthcare services. “Provisions for medical check-up and arranging for services of specialists like psychologists, psychiatrists, psychiatric social workers, gynaecologists on visit basis in the prison ... authorities should also arrange and encourage video conferencing of the prisoners with their family members, for the psychological and mental wellbeing and strength of the prisoners,” read the NCW’s recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-700-women-undertrials-released-since-lockdown-began-ncw/story-81QsFc9hlBldXF2qqW27eI.html
11-05-2020||India||Maha Covid cases cross 23,000-mark||Mumbai: Maharashtra recorded a four-digit increase in Covid-19 cases for the sixth day in a row as 1,230 people were diagnosed with the disease in the state on Monday, officials said. With this, the state has crossed the 23,000 mark within 11 days of crossing 10,000 cases on April 30. The state’s case count has now jumped to 23,401.The death toll from the disease also touched 868 as 36 deaths were recorded in Maharashtra on Monday. Of them, 20 deaths were reported from Mumbai, five from Solapur, three from Pune, two from Thane and one each from Ratnagiri, Amravati, Nanded, Aurangabad and Wardha. As many as 27 patients, who died of Covid-19 on Monday, had co-morbidities, said health officials.The first Covid-19 case was reported in the state on March 9 and it took 30 days for Maharashtra to cross the 1000 mark.In Mumbai, the worst-hit city in the country, the Covid-19 case count crossed 14,000 mark on Monday as 782 cases were registered in a day, the second-highest so far. The city’s count now is 14,521. On Sunday, 875 cases were recorded. The death toll in Mumbai also reached 528. Maharashtra has reported four-digit cases for the last five days and 12,903 since May 1 compared to 10,201 infections last month.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, directorate of medical education and research, said the containment areas in the state are thickly populated and a large number of people are likely to get affected. “So the number of new cases is likely to increase for a few more days till May 17. After this, the curve will flatten as by then we will be completing the fourth incubation period and the number of fresh cases will start coming down by this month-end,” he said. “By next month, we are expecting that things will be completely under control.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-covid-cases-cross-23-000-mark/story-AWHSIzb9YhUzzr1o14QVVP.html
11-05-2020||India||ICMR nod to 28 institutes for plasma therapy trials||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved 28 out of 113 institutions that showed interest in conducting convalescent plasma therapy trials for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, according to an official from the top medical body.Transfusing critically ill Covid-19 patients with convalescent plasma -- a component of blood rich in antibodies from patients who recovered from the disease -- so that they can fight of f the disease is a treatment showing promise world over.“The process for the plasma therapy trials is on; institutions are being approved and patients are being recruited. It will, however, be some time before anything conclusive can be said on the results of this therapy,” said Dr Rajni Kant Srivastava, spokesperson for ICMR.In Delhi, seven institutes, including the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, Batra Hospital, Lady Hardinge Medical College, Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital and Max Hospital Saket have been approved to participate in the trials. Max Hospital in Saket had transfused plasma last month into a Covid-19 patient with good results. The patient was on ventilator, and the hospital sought approval on compassionate grounds as the family of the patient insisted.The patient recovered and was recently discharged, “but it is important that we also understand that plasma therapy is no magic bullet. During the patient’s treatment at Max Hospital, Saket, other standard treatment protocols were followed and we can say that plasma therapy could have worked as a catalyst in speeding up his recovery. We cannot attribute 100% recovery to plasma therapy only, as there are multiple factors which carved his path to recovery,” said Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director – Max Healthcare.The ICMR earlier this month came out with a detailed document on the study model using plasma therapy. The sample size finalised for the multi-centre clinical trials is 452.Currently, no effective treatments are available for the Covid-19 disease. Scientists and Researchers are working on many aspects of treatment options for the development of vaccination and medication to combat this life-threatening problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-nod-to-28-institutes-for-plasma-therapy-trials/story-GJjAehRZDI71maJWkq7skM.html
11-05-2020||India||Nepal summons Indian envoy over construction of new Lipulekh road||New Delhi: The Nepal government on Monday summoned the Indian envoy to protest against the construction of a road in Lipulekh area that is claimed by Kathmandu, signalling an escalation of the diplomatic row on the matter.India on Saturday rejected Nepal’s initial protest against the construction of the road to Lipulekh on the border with China, saying the region is “completely within the territory of India” and both sides could resolve such boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue.People familiar with developments said India’s envoy Vinay Mohan Kwatra was summoned to the foreign ministry in Kathmandu, where foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali handed over a diplomatic note of protest.The foreign ministry also tweeted: “Foreign Minister Hon. @PradeepgyawaliK conveyed Government of Nepal’s position on boundary issues to Ambassador of India to Nepal H.E. Mr. Vinay Mohan Kwatra at a meeting held at MoFA today and handed over a diplomatic note in this regard.”No further details were available. There was no immediate response to the development from Indian officials.The border row erupted months after Nepal was irked by the depiction of Kalapani, a region claimed by Kathmandu, as part of Uttarakhand in new Indian maps showing the Union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. Nepal sought talks to address the Kalapani issue, but New Delhi rejected Kathmandu’s protest, saying the new maps accurately depicted Indian territory.Earlier on Monday, Gyawali said Nepal could not wait for the end of the Covid-19 crisis for holding boundary talks with India. Gyawali, who was summoned by the Nepal parliament’s international relations committee, also said Nepal will hold talks with China after sorting out the issue with India, The Kathmandu Post reported.The Nepal parliamentary panel had summoned Gyawali to discuss the opening of the road to Lipulekh by the Indian government last week.“Nepal, India and China are yet to ascertain the tri-junction in Lipulekh. So after talks with India, we will hold talks with China as well,” Gyawal told the committee.“We are ready for talks at any level with India – at the Prime Minister’s level or the foreign secretary level,” he added.On Saturday, Nepal expressed regret at the inauguration of the route from Dharchula in Uttarakhand to Lipulekh, with the foreign ministry contending the road “passes through Nepali territory”.Defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated the 80km road on Friday to curtail the time taken for the pilgrimage to Kailash Mansarovar. The road ends at Lipulekh Pass, and will help pilgrims avoid dangerous high-altitude routes through Sikkim and Nepal.“The recently inaugurated road section in Pithoragarh district in the state of Uttarakhand lies completely within the territory of India. The road follows the pre-existing route used by the pilgrims of the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on May 9.India and Nepal have an established mechanism for boundary issues, and the delineation of the border with Nepal is ongoing, Srivastava said. India is also committed to resolving outstanding boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue, he added.Nepal’s foreign ministry had sought talks between the foreign secretaries and Srivastava had said the two side are in the process of scheduling these talks, which would be held after they have dealt with the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-summons-indian-envoy-over-construction-of-new-lipulekh-road/story-hQp6xSgSPjSDcWznkMcXSJ.html
11-05-2020||India||Single-judge benches to hear cases in SC||For the first time in its 70-year history, the Supreme Court will have single-judge benches hearing cases, starting on May 13, according to a notice published on the website of the apex court on Monday. . Until now, benches in the top court have sat in two-judge combinations to hear routine cases; three-judge benches used to preside over special matters. Cases involving constitutional questions are heard by benches composed of five or more judges. Single-judge benches will hear appeals arising out of bail and anticipatory bail cases involving offences that are punishable with less than seven years’ imprisonment, according to the notice on the Supreme Court website. Applications seeking transfer of cases from one high court to another or from a trial court in one state to one in another state will also be heard by single-judge benches.The decision has been taken to reduce the backlog of cases as a large number of transfer petitions and bail matters clog up the docket at the top court.“It is a welcome move. Besides helping combat pendency, the kind of cases which will be heard by a single judge, that is bail matters and transfer petitions, require limited judicial application of mind. They are mostly matters involving questions of fact and, to a large extent, require application of discretion by the judges. Therefore, it is always better that a single judge hears such matters”, Supreme Court advocate Sriram Parakkat said.The Supreme Court had amended its rules in September 2019 to allow single-judge benches to hear matters.Before the amendment, Order VI, Rule 1 of the Supreme Court Rules of 2013 stated that every case in the top court has to be heard by benches that have at least two judges.To pave way for single-judge benches, a new clause was inserted in Order VI, Rule 1 carving out an exception. After the amendment last year, this would be the first time the change is being implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/single-judge-benches-to-hear-cases-in-sc/story-zV7k9EJgBIFDNQzz1B0TgO.html
11-05-2020||India||SC tells panel to decide on J&K 4G restoration||The Supreme Court on Monday tasked a high-level committee of civil servants with deciding on the restoration of 4G mobile internet in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), responding to a petition that argued the absence of high-speed connectivity had hindered access to the latest information and advisories about the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The committee, which will comprise the secretary of the ministry of home affairs, secretary of the ministry of communications and the chief secretary of J&K, was directed to examine the arguments made by the petitioner, Foundation for Media Professionals, which had cited the detrimental effect of restrictions on mobile internet during the pandemic.“The Special Committee is directed to examine the contentions of, and the material placed by the petitioners as well as the respondents. The aforesaid Committee must also examine the appropriateness of the alternatives suggested by the petitioners, regarding limiting the restrictions to those areas where it is necessary and the allowing of faster internet (3G or 4G) on a trial basis over certain geographical areas,” the bench headed by justice NV Ramana said.The petitioner had approached the top court challenging an order issued by the J&K administration on March 26 restricting the internet data to 2G and called for 4G services to be restored.It claimed that patients, doctors, and the general public of J&K were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories and restrictions related to Covid- 19 because of the restrictions.“Severe restrictions on the speed of mobile internet services directly limits the right of the public to know the latest information about the spread of Covid-19, the measures being taken to address it, and the restrictions imposed on the general public,” the petition said.The apex court bench, which also comprised justices R Subhash Reddy and BR Gavai, observed that while the court was aware of the difficulties faced by the citizens because of the restrictions, the court will have to balance the rights of citizens with considerations of national security cited by the government.“We have already laid down that the fundamental rights of citizens need to be balanced with national security concerns, when the situation so demands.” The court thus acknowledged that the restrictive orders do not provide any reasons warranting such restrictions in all the districts while making it clear that the militancy in J&K cannot be disregarded.“These competing considerations needs to calibrated in terms of our judgment in the Anuradha Bhasin case,” the court said.It was a reference to a judgment passed on January 10 in the Anuradha Bhasin case which held that access to information and the freedom of trade and commerce via the internet were fundamental rights under the Constitution of India. It had, therefore, ordered the central government and J&K administration to periodically review the orders passed to restrict internet services.Towards this end, the court had ordered that orders restricting the internet should be placed before a review committee that provides for adequate procedural and substantive safeguards to ensure that the restrictions are not sweeping in nature.Pursuant to the judgment, the J&K administration had passed various orders gradually lifting the restrictions on internet access in J&K. Orders were passed by the J&K authorities on March 4, 17 and 26 restricting internet speed for mobile data services to 2G.It was the petitioner’s case that 2G services only permit the sending and receiving of messages (SMSs and MMSs) on the mobile phone and the web browsing speed using 2G was limited. The restriction of mobile internet speed is unreasonable and unconstitutional during the time of a pandemic and consequent lockdown, the petitioner argued.“Various public health practitioners, medical professionals, and doctors have repeatedly expressed their concern about wasting precious time trying to download the latest studies, protocols, manuals and advisories on treatment and management of Covid-19. In some cases, doctors are not able to access these resources at all due to the internet speed being too slow to download heavy files,” the petition said.The Union territory, in its response, had stated that the right to access internet was not a fundamental right and mobile internet speed had been restricted to 2G in the interests of national security. Protection of the sovereignty and integrity of India and ensuring security of the country are good grounds to reduce the speed of the internet, it said, adding that the restrictions had been placed to ensure that the rights and interests of the citizens were not adversely affected, an affidavit by the J&K administration said.The affidavit was also pointed out that mobile phone services had been restored and restrictions on internet access also progressively lifted. Initial access was restricted to whitelisted sites (approved websites) which had been widened progressively to lifting of all restrictions on social media.“Fixed-line Internet connectivity with Mac-binding (can we explain), is available without any speed related restrictions,” the affidavit said.Mac-binding may be explained as binding together hardware identification number and IP address so that change in any of the address will block access to the Internet.Advicate Vrinda Grover said: “In today’s judgment, the Supreme Court has foregrounded the issue of balancing human rights against the interest of national security. This, to my mind, is a departure from the judicial approach in the Anuradha Bhasin judgment, where the Court had foregrounded rights as fundamental and located the power of the State to restrict rights in very limited and restricted situations, and subject to the tests of reasonableness, necessity and proportionality. A Special Committee comprising exclusively of persons from the Executive may tilt the balance further away from rights. Interestingly figures presented by the State show that terrorism and militancy continue even without 4G internet services. The question that confronts us then is for what kind of balancing are inalienable rights like right to healthcare, education and the right to access legal remedies being put in peril. This shift towards rights being subservient to national security and executive determination is worrisome.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-tells-panel-to-decide-on-j-k-4g-restoration/story-NYAnU8PXbV9I9QlvqTNZnM.html
11-05-2020||India||Maharashtra registers 36 deaths, 1230 new Covid-19 cases; state tally is at 23,401||Maharashtra recorded 1230 new cases on Monday, a four-digit increase in Covid-19 cases for the sixth day in a row. With this, the state has also crossed the 23,000-mark within eleven days after it crossed 10,000 cases on April 30. The state’s case count has now jumped to 23,401.The death toll of the state also touched 868 as 36 deaths were recorded on Monday. Of them, 20 are in Mumbai, Solapur 5, Pune 3, Thane 2 and one each in Ratnagiri, Amravati, Nanded, Aurangabad and Wardha. In addition, one patient from Uttar Pradesh also died in Mumbai on Monday.Of the total number of deaths, 27 patients had co-morbidity conditions, health officials said.ALSO READ | ‘Mumbai’s local trains should resume only for essential services’: Uddhav ThackerayIn Mumbai, the worst-hit city in the country, the Covid-19 case count crossed the 14,000 mark as 782 cases were registered in a day, the second highest so far. Mumbai’s case count is now at 14,521. On Sunday, 875 cases were recorded. The death toll in Mumbai also reached 528. The rise in the number of cases is higher this month as compared to the fresh cases that were reported last month. The new cases that were in three digits till April end have turned into four digits since the last five days. On May 6, the daily cases rose to 1233, May 7 - 1216 cases, May 8 - 1089, May 9 - 1165 and on May 10 -- 1278 cases were reported. Besides, on May 10, the state also declared 665 cases respectively saying that they were registered in the last few days and are being declared as per the central government’s directive to bring the data at par with the national figures on the ICMR website. Between April 19 and 30, the state was reporting around 500 new cases on a daily basis but from May 1, the figures started showing a significant rise.In the last eleven days since May 1, the state has reported as many as 12,903 cases, whereas the total number of cases registered in April was 10,201.The officials indicated a further rise in cases and said that the curve will be flattened only after May 17 when the state would be completing the fourth incubation period. They are expecting a decline in cases from this month end.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, Director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) said, “The containment areas have thick population and is likely to affect a large number of people for various reasons. So the number of new cases is likely to increase for a few more days till May 17. After this, the curve will flatten as by then we will be completing the fourth incubation period and the number of fresh cases will start coming down by this month end.”“By next month, we are expecting that things will be completely under control,” he added.The first Covid-19 positive case was found on March 9 and it took 30 days for the state to cross the 1000 mark.So far, 15,192 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 2,48,301 people have been put under home quarantine. On Monday, the state also completed 49 days of lockdown that was imposed on midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown was imposed by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was partially lifted on April 20 in the areas where there are no cases or minimal in number.On Monday, the health department also declared that it had conducted 2,18,914 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them 1,93,457 people tested negative. This is 19,852 less than what was declared on Sunday when the state declared it had tested 2,38,766 samples. It has clarified that they have declared figures following ICMR’s website.“Today, the state government has quoted sample testing figures posted on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) website and that’s the reason there is disparity in figures compared to Sunday’s figures. It may have happened that many laboratories have not updated their figures on the ICMR website. We will ask them to do that and so the differences in the number of sample testing will be removed,” Dr Archana Patil, Director, directorate of state health services said.Maharashtra currently has 1256 active containment zones. Around 12,027 survey teams comprising doctors and assisting staff have screened more than 53.71 lakh people for the coronavirus infection. With the rising number of cases, the number of patients who have recovered so far also jumped to 3301 as 207 positive patients recovered on Thursday.The doubling rate in the state now stands at 10 days. The state government has decided to take the rate to 20 days in the days to come, health minister Rajesh Tope said. The state government has also resolved to bring the entire state into the green zone by this month end.The state government has recently changed the top brass of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as the situation in Mumbai has gone from bad to worse. It has transferred civic body chief Praveen Pardeshi and appointed IS Chahal as the new BMC commissioner. The government has also appointed Sanjeev Jaiswal and Ashwini Bhide as additional municipal commissioners replacing AB Jarhad and Jayshree Bhoj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-registers-36-deaths-1230-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-is-at-23-401/story-Ql7u0CqDRJuEQiS8n9UqhI.html
11-05-2020||India||Nagpur man lures 2 minor girls with chocolates, rapes them||A shopkeeper in Umred area of Nagpur district was arrested for allegedly raping two minor girls after luring them with chocolates, police said on Monday.The accused has been identified as Darshan Kale (31), a resident of Piraya village, an official said.“Kale is accused of raping a 7-year-old girl who went to the shop on Sunday to purchase a shampoo sachet, as well as an 8-year-old who witnessed the crime. He lured them with chocolates,” a Kanhan police station official said.He has been charged under relevant sections of the IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagpur-man-lures-2-minor-girls-with-chocolates-rapes-them/story-A0qQSPl43FqmZgdBd3KaeN.html
11-05-2020||India||Over 20 lakh poor people without ration cards got free ration till May 9: Delhi govt||The Delhi government has provided free ration to more than 20 lakh poor people who do not have a ration card since the lockdown came into effect, according to officials.The Aam Aadmi Party government has also provided free ration to 39.18 lakh National Food Security Act (NFSA) beneficiaries till May 9, Delhi’s Food and Civil Supplies Minister Imran Hussain tweeted on Monday.As many as 20.92 lakh people who are not covered under NFSA got free ration till May 9.There are around 30 lakh people in Delhi who do not have ration cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-20-lakh-poor-people-without-ration-cards-got-free-ration-till-may-9-delhi-govt/story-UeamHEHQEqCpbDdNIO9r6H.html
11-05-2020||India||Kerala plans to have airport model Covid-19 screening at 3 railway stations||With Indian Railways all set to partially commence some train services from Tuesday to help those stranded in various places, Kerala government plans to put in place airport-model COVID-19 screening at three railway stations, where the trains will halt.The stops in Kerala are Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram railway stations. State minister V S Sunil Kumar said symptomatic passengers will be shifted to hospitals from the stations and others would be transported to their home districts in specially arranged Kerala State Road Transport (KSRTC) buses.“These special trains will have only three stops in Kerala--Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram.The Railways will provide us with the full address details of the passengers. We will segregate them according to their respective districts and finalise the list of people alighting at the three stations.Those who reach the state will be screened and tested for symptoms,” Sunil Kumar told PTI. As per central government guidelines, Railways has to ensure that all passengers are compulsorily screened and only asymtomatic passengers are allowed to board the trains. Passengers will be provided with hand santisers at entry and exit points at stations and in coaches and all passengers will have to wear face masks.On arrival at their destinations here, they will have to adhere to the state’s health protocols , he said.The minister said counters like those at the airports to screen passengers would be in place at the three stations.“We will open separate counters like we have done in the airports. We expect at least 1,400 people in each train and they will alight at three different stations. The final plan will be made by Wednesday evening,” he said.The passengers will be subjected to thermal screening at the railway stations. A passenger having high temperature would be segregated and sent to the hospitals for a formal check-up, he said.“Those who are symptomatic will be sent to hospital.Non-symptomatic persons will be allowed to board KSRTC buses, taken to their districts and home quarantined,” he added.Various departments and the local self government institutions will enquire whether the passenger has facilities at their residences to go into home quarantine and if not, they would be shifted to institutional quarantine.“We will also enquire whether the person has a facility to stay under home quarantine.For home quarantine, we will enquire whether the house has a bath-attached room, whether it is possible for the person to stay alone in the room and if there is anyone above the age of 60 years in that house. If not, we will arrange institutional quarantine. Paid quarantine is also available,” Kumar said.There was no need for any relatives or friends to reach the station to pick the passengers as the state has arranged transportation facility by KSRTC buses,he said.Kumar said Kerala has been following the Centre’s guidelines, which state that anyone arriving in Kerala from other states will have to be in strict 14 day quarantine. There will be local level monitoring committees to ensure that those who are under home quarantine do not move around to visit friends and relatives, he said. The state has 519 confirmed cases of COVID-19 till now and currently 27 are under treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plans-to-have-airport-model-covid-19-screening-at-3-railway-stations/story-Wq0Sg4MMIX1wJs6fqkVt3M.html
11-05-2020||India||On exiting Covid-19 lockdown 3.0, PM Modi asks chief ministers to come up with blueprint||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday asked chief ministers to spell out how they want to deal with the lockdown regime after May 17 when the third spell of the lockdown expires. PM Modi, who has described stopping the coronavirus disease from spreading to rural areas as the big challenge, said social distancing was the biggest weapon to fight the virus “till we do not find a vaccine or a solution”.“We must all plan for the new reality,” PM Modi told a marathon meeting of chief ministers that started at 3 pm and continued well past 9 pm. PM Modi and his top cabinet ministers including Home Minister Amit Shah sat through the conference, listening to each chief minister via video conference“We have a twofold challenge – to reduce the transmission rate of the disease, and to increase public activity gradually, while adhering to all the guidelines, and we will have to work towards achieving both these objectives”, he said.The national lockdown that the prime minister had first announced on March 24 is due to end on May 17.The last version of the lockdown that came into effect from 4 May had introduced considerable relaxations in districts that had not reported Covid-19 cases and eased restrictions elsewhere. The Centre’s objective all along was to gradually resume economic activity.“Slowly but surely, economic activities have begun to pick up in several parts of the country. In the coming days, this process will further gather steam,” PM Modi told the chief ministers.But as governments look at a gradual withdrawal of the lockdown, PM Modi said everyone must understand that the world had changed fundamentally over the last few months.“Now the World will be pre-corona, post-corona just like the case of the World Wars. And this would entail significant changes in how we function,” PM Modi said.The prime minister said the new way of life would be on the principle of “Jan Se lekar Jag Tak”, from an individual to the whole of humanity, a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office later said.“I request you all to share with me by 15th May, a broad strategy on how each one of you would want to deal with the lockdown regime in your particular state. I want states to make a blueprint on how to deal with various nuances during and after the gradual easing of the lockdown,” PM Modi said.Before they get down to the task, PM Modi underscored that India would “need an all-encompassing approach” to deal with various challenges. Like the many non-Covid-19 diseases that could proliferate with the onset of monsoon. “We must prepare and strengthen our medical and health systems,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-exiting-covid-19-lockdown-3-0-pm-modi-asks-chief-ministers-to-come-up-with-blueprint/story-ivf8UZkSRbhmjRuswuRr5I.html
11-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Home quarantine for Odisha’s urban asymptomatic, mild symptoms patients||The Odisha government on Monday said that those living in urban areas who test positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19 but are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms can stay in home quarantine instead of institutional quarantine as per central guidelines. The government’s decision has come in the wake of a surge in the number of cases in the state which have doubled in just one week.Additional chief secretary of health department PK Mohapatra said a person in urban area who tests positive but has no symptoms or mild symptoms can stay in home quarantine for 14 days if all facilities as prescribed are available at home. Before being allowed to stay in home quarantine, the person will be stamped on the hand and a band will be tied on his wrist. A quarantine sticker will also be pasted at his house. Children less than 5 years old, pregnant women and divyangs or differently abled will be tested on priority, he added.Odisha has seen a steep rise in coronavirus infections in the last 16 days as the number of positive cases jumped to 414 on Monday as per the state government’s data, up from 103 on April 25, mostly due to the influx of migrants from Surat and Bengal, two Covid hotspots. Of the total positive cases in the state, more than 300 are Surat and Bengal returnees.Officials said the decision to put the Covid positive patients in urban areas in home quarantine was also driven by the reality that the number of hospital beds in the state may not be adequate in the coming days. Odisha has about 5,500 beds and 293 ICU beds in different Covid hospitals. However, health department officials estimate the requirement to be more than that as the number of positive cases are expected to rise in the coming weeks with more than 5 lakh migrant workers likely to return to the state. “Once more symptomatic cases come in, we have to keep beds free for them. We will also need to keep more ICU beds considering a possible spike in people having respiratory issues,” said a health department official.As the number of positive cases from quarantine centres populated by migrants from Gujarat, Bengal, Karnataka and other states went up, the Naveen Patnaik government has now directed the sarpanches or village heads to remain vigilant and keep an eye on the inmates of the centres. State government’s Covid-19 spokesperson Subroto Bagchi on Monday said an analysis of positive cases reported in the last few days has established that of the 241 positive cases, 229 were detected in returnees staying in quarantine centres in panchayats.Bagchi said the sarpanches have been asked to inform the government if they find Covid symptoms in any person staying in their quarantine centres so that immediate treatment can be extended to him or her. He added that following the initiative of Ganjam district collector, the government has directed the officials to impart training on Covid-19, its symptoms and remedial measures to those staying in quarantine centres. To keep the inmates of quarantine centres engaged, the Ganjam district administration has drawn up a daily schedule of activities that includes physical exercise, Covid community health work as well as cleaning and plantation work during the 28-day stay.Meanwhile, four doctors and two attendants of All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Bhubaneswar were sent in mandatory quarantine for 21 days on Monday after a road accident victim from Maharashtra they had treated tested positive for Covid-19. Ten homeguards of a police outpost in Janla under the jurisdiction have also been sent on quarantine for coming in contact with the injured truck driver.Officials said the 42-year-old truck driver from Mumbai was seriously injured in a road accident last week near Bhubaneswar. He died soon after being admitted to AIIMS. His blood and swab samples tested positive after his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-home-quarantine-for-odisha-s-urban-asymptomatic-mild-symptoms-patients/story-aIaCgfWxdoAWf79XSTDllI.html
11-05-2020||India||Jharkhand CM urges PM to increase man-days, wages under MGNREGA by 50%||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to increase wages and man-days under MGNREGA scheme by 50 per cent as it is the main thrust of the rural economy with stranded migrant workers returning to the state.During a video conference chaired by the prime minister with chief ministers of different states, Soren sought relaxation in the guidelines of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) as per the state’s need.He also urged Modi to speed up ferrying of migrant workers to their homes.“In the previous video conference too I had said that existing guidelines of MGNREGA be relaxed, its wages and man days be raised by 50 per cent as the programme is the most important (aspect) of the rural economy,” Soren told the prime minister.The chief minister also requested the Centre for early clearance of the state’s share of GST and permit collection of revenue from some resources at the state level.Thanking PM Modi for allowing plying of Shramik Special trains to bring back migrants, Soren said, “But only 21-22 trains have so far come with only 50,000 to 55,000 people returning. Nearly seven lakh people from the state are residing in different parts of the country.” He added that life and livelihood should be given priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-cm-urges-pm-to-increase-man-days-wages-under-mgnrega-by-50/story-a3XtWq7akvy6nPOzEV0HuN.html
11-05-2020||India||Maharashtra Covid-19 tally 23401 after 1230 new cases; death toll 868||Maharashtra on Monday reported 1230 new coronavirus patients, taking the tally of Covid-19 cases in the state to 23401.The state also reported death of 36 patients, taking the death toll to 868, said a health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-23401-after-1230-new-cases-death-toll-868/story-AI6TkgfWmh6JzpofUJFTfL.html
11-05-2020||India||Allow states to categorize areas under red, green, orange zones: Chhattisgarh CM to PM Modi||The Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has suggested to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that state governments should be entitled to decide which areas should be kept under three zones- Red, Orange and Green – which, at present, have been classified by the central government. The suggestion came at the meeting on Monday that the prime minister held via video conferencing with chief ministers of states and union territories to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country. This was the fifth such meeting that PM Modi has held with the CMs on this matter. . Baghel further urged the PM that the state governments should have the right to decide on the conduct of economic activities within the state.“Chhattisgarh CM suggested to the PM that the state governments should be entitled to categorize the areas as red, green and orange zones in view of the status of spread of the infection, which has been done by Centre on the base of Covid-19 risk profiling,” said the press release issued by the state government after the video conference.The release added that the chief minister also requested the PM to provide financial assistance to the state.“Baghel requested the PM for financial assistance of Rs 30,000 crore to the state. He also urged that the credit limit for his state this year should be relaxed to 6 per cent and its fiscal deficit should be kept at 5 percent of the GSDP,” the release said.“The Chief Minister said that large amount money has been donated to the Prime Minister’s Care Fund by the industrial institutions of the state of Chhattisgarh. In order to provide relief to the needy people of Chhattisgarh in the hour of this crisis, the funds should be transferred to the state,” the release stated.Like the health workers, the Chief Minister requested the PM to include employees and officials of police department, municipal corporations, district administration and other departments under the PM Garib Kalyan Package. “He also urged to increase 100 days of employment fixed under MGNREGA to 200 days,” the release stated.“The Chief Minister also said that the state government had sought permission for a total of 28 trains to bring back labourers of Chhattisgarh, out of which only 15 trains have been approved. The state government is bearing the entire cost of bringing back the migrant workers, students, sick persons from other states. He said that about 1.2 lakh labourers of Chhattisgarh state are in other states,” the press release stated.CM Baghel also said that regular train and air services and inter-state bus transport should be started in consultation with the state governments.The nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 will continue till May 17.EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-states-to-categorize-areas-under-red-green-orange-zones-chhattisgarh-cm-to-pm-modi/story-O22zspe6p56XJepJ19xDNP.html
11-05-2020||India||3 trains to depart from New Delhi station as railways resumes passenger services||The New Delhi railway station in the heart of the national capital will see the departure of three special trains for Dibrugarh, Bengaluru and Bilaspur on Tuesday, around 50 days after a nationwide lockdown caused suspension of all passenger train services. The same day, five other trains bound for Delhi will leave from Patna, Bengaluru, Howrah, Mumbai and Ahmedabad, the railways said. The fares will be equivalent to Rajdhani fares, it said.However, several Shramik Special trains have run from the station over the last week to transport thousands of stranded migrant workers to their native places. Northern Railways in a statement has said that entry to the New Delhi station will be from the Paharganj side for all confirmed ticket holders. No entry for passengers holding such tickets will be permitted from the Ajmeri Gate side, it said. For now, the railways has issued a timetable for trains to be run between May 12 and May 20. These trains will have only AC classes i.e. first, second and third AC. The fare structure shall be as applicable for the regular time-tabled Rajdhani trains(excluding catering charges). On May 13, eight trains will depart from the national capital headed for Howrah, Rajendra Nagar, Jammu Tawi, Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai, Ranchi, Mumbai Central and Ahmedabad. Another train will leave Bhubaneswar for New Delhi. On May 14, the lone train leaving New Delhi will head for Bhubaneswar while one train each will leave Dibrugarh, Jammu Tawi, Bilaspur and Ranchi with the national capital as their destination. On May 15, a train each will leave Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai Central for New Delhi while one bound for Madgaon will depart from Delhi. As per the railway timetable, no trains are scheduled on May 16 and May 19. May 17 will see two departures -- Madgain to New Delhi and New Delhi to Secunderabad. The only train scheduled on May 18 is from Agartala to New Delhi, while two trains scheduled on May 20 are from New Delhi to Agartala and Secunderabad to the national capital. Officials said as per the guidelines, the e-ticket issued by IRCTC will work as an e-pass for the movement of drivers to and from the station to pick or drop passengers.  All passengers arriving at the Delhi railway station would have to abide by the health protocols as prescribed by the state government, officials said. On arrival at their destinations, the travelling passengers will have to adhere to such health protocols as are prescribed by the destination state/UT, they said. Under normal circumstances, the New Delhi Railway station is one of the busiest stations in the country. A total of 351 trains arrive/depart from this station daily with a footfall of more than 5.20 lakh passengers each day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-trains-to-depart-from-new-delhi-station-as-railways-resumes-passenger-services/story-wMAza1jOHNymykT9NL5r5N.html
11-05-2020||India||Man lynched, another seriously injured in Jharkhand||A man was lynched and another was seriously injured on Monday after villagers thrashed them for allegedly stealing goats in Dumka district, a police officer said here.Two persons have been arrested in connection with the incident which took place at Jhilimili village, Superintendent of Police Ambar Lakra said.Initial investigations revealed that the villagers thrashed the two persons with sticks after they were informed by neighbours that the men were stealing goats, the SP said.Of the two, one person died on way to hospital while another was admitted to a facility in Dumka in a serious condition, DSP Pujya Prakash said.“The process of identifying the accused and the victims is on,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-lynched-another-seriously-injured-in-jharkhand/story-aTPcTmHEF9KdljSrRBwLUJ.html
11-05-2020||India||Two AIADMK men set girl ablaze, CM Palaniswami promises tough action||A 15-year old girl was allegedly set ablaze by two men at a village near here over enmity with her family and she succumbed to burns at a hospital here on Monday and the duo were arrested, police said.The two men belonged to the ruling AIADMK, the leader of opposition and DMK president M K Stalin said and demanded that the police department secure maximum punishment for the alleged offenders.The AIADMK, meanwhile, announced their expulsion from party posts and basic membership as they “brought disrepute and worked against the ideals of the party.” Condemning her killing and expressing grief, Chief minister K Palaniswami said it was ghastly and promised tough legal action against the two men.A case of murder has been registered against them and a probe was on, he said.“I have ordered a solatium of Rs five lakh to the family of the girl,” he said.The girl, a class X student, was set ablaze in her village, Sirumadurai, about 28 km from here, allegeldy by 57-year old Murugan and Kaliaperumal (53) on Sunday, a senior police official told PTI.“She was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital (Villupuram) where doctors said she sustained 80 per cent burns.She died today ...,” he said, adding the girl gave a dying declaration to a magistrate in the hospital. In her declaration, she named the duo and made it clear that they had set her ablaze, the official added. “Based on her statement to the magistrate we have arrested the two men.” The incident has shocked and outraged the people who demanded examplary punishment for the two men in the social media.To a question, the police official said that both the men and the family of the girl had enmity that spanned several years.The official said preliminary investigation has revealed that “the deceased and the accused men are relatives and belong to the same village.The families of the accused and the dead girl had enmity over a couple of issues like those related to land.”  As people were incensed due to her death, police personnel have been deployed to maintain law and order in the village which is near the temple town of Thiruvennainallur.The girl’s body was later handed over to her family for burial, the official said.Political parties including the main opposition, DMK,its allies like the Left parties and AIADMK’s ally PMK have sought tough action against the culprits.Stalin, condoling the death, said his party will extend its support to get justice for the girl.Only exemplary punishment will protect children and women, he said, adding the plight of the girl who suffered due to serious burns will outrage everyone with a heart.Similarly, leaders of other parties condoled the death and asked the government to take appropriate steps for examplary punishment for those arrested in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-aiadmk-men-set-girl-ablaze-cm-palaniswami-promises-tough-action/story-yzhm81zP9QQ0dqN2xV0kOJ.html
11-05-2020||India||Covid-19 testing rate falls in Uttarakhand even as migrants head home||There has been a 21% dip in testing to check for Covid-19 in Uttarakahnd in the eighth week (May 3-May 9) compared to the seventh week but the government insists that testing is in line with the Centre’s protocol.Data shows that the week from April 26-May 2, the government conducted a total of 2,374 tests. This was the seventh week since the first case of Covid-19 was reported in the state from Dehradun on March 15.In the eighth week, from May 3-May 9, only 1,881 samples were tested with a reduction of 493 samples or 21%. This reduction in testing comes when locals stranded in other states have started returning to Uttarakhand amid lockdown 3.0.Clock here for full Covid-19 coverage.Dr. SK Gupta, director (in-charge) of medical and health department Uttarakhand said that testing is being done following all guidelines of the central government.“We are conducting tests based on the guidelines given to us. The guidelines state that contact persons of positive patients, those who are highly exposed to positive patients and symptomatic patients, or those with severe acute respiratory diseases are being tested,” said Dr. Gupta.When questioned whether the state government is planning to increase testing given the influx of migrants from different states, Dr. Gupta said, “Wherever we feel a person is suspected or has minor symptoms, s/he is being tested in the state. We have not received any updates from the state government yet on random sampling at a large scale.”Uttarakhand has so far tested 9,915 samples with maximum tests being conducted in Dehradun, Haridwar, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar districts. Of this figure, 9,229 samples have been tested at government test centres and 686 samples tested at private labs.Only 691 samples have been tested so far in the state from remote and hilly districts of Uttarakhand. These districts include Almora with 116 tests, Bageshwar with 25 tests, Chamoli with 33 tests, Champawat 61 tests, Pauri Garhwal 106 tests, Pithoragarh 28 tests, Rudraprayag and Tehri Garhwal have tested 41 samples each and Uttarkashi district has tested 240 samples till now since March 15.Experts have raised an alarm and pointed out that with more people returning to the state, sampling should be increased to curb the spread of the deadly virus.Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Social Development for Communities, a Dehradun-based think tank, who has been analysing Covid-19 data in the state, said that apart from government’s efforts, responsible community participation is equally important.“People need to strictly participate and follow instructions along with the government’s efforts to control the spread of the disease. The role of a responsible citizen is very important here. Along with this, increasing the sampling size by the state government is also needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-testing-rate-falls-in-uttarakhand-even-as-migrants-head-home/story-0eGwZDOzJ6V9qfR6FWbOkM.html
11-05-2020||India||Jagan Reddy tells ministers to spend night in villages hit by Vizag gas leak||Four ministers in the Andhra Pradesh government will spend Monday night in the villages affected by the poisonous Styrene gas vapour that claimed 12 lives in Visakhapatnam on May 7.Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the ministers K Kanna Babu, Botsa Satyanarayana, Muthamsetty Srinivasa Rao and Dharmana Krishna Das, who have been supervising the relief operations in the affected villages, to do a night halt in the five villages that were affected by the poisonous gas leak from the LG Polymers plant.Around 15,000 villagers, who had been staying put in the relief camps for the last four days, started returning to their villages in the evening after the officials of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation authorities had completed massive sanitation and cleaning drive to restore normalcy in the villages.The chief minister told the ministers that if they spend a night with the villagers, it would instil a lot of confidence among them.Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao said the officials completed the cleaning drive to make the villages habitable again. He, however, cautioned the villagers not to use air-conditioners and cook food at home till the experts give clearance.“The government itself would supply food to the villages for some more time. We shall have a night stay in the villages and assess the situation,” the minister said.An expert committee, from CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), which visited the LG Polymers plant and extensively toured the affected villages, is learnt to have observed that food and water stored by the people in the villages was not fit for consumption because of presence of Styrene residue in them.The experts’ team, which had a meeting with the high-powered committee of officials constituted by the state government, recommended that vegetables and fruits grown in the surrounding villages should not be consumed and even fodder should not be fed to the cattle.“The NEERI team suggested that even the local milk products in the area should not be consumed. The open water sources like wells and borewells should not be used for cooking till a final evaluation is done,” an official in the GVMC said on condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, the government distributed cheques for Rs 1 crore to eight out of the 12 families of the deceased in the Vizag gas leak incident on Monday afternoon. The compensation for others would be paid once their legal heirs are identified, minister Kanna Babu said.He said 13,000 tonnes of Styrene gas stored in a few tanks in Vizag port was being sent back to South Korea.“The GVMC staff has been creating awareness among the locals about the safety measures after the gas leak and how to dust away the residue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-reddy-tells-ministers-to-spend-night-in-villages-hit-by-vizag-gas-leak/story-RKiU8YukkdcIQfP5Gqlo2L.html
11-05-2020||India||‘Mumbai’s local trains should resume only for essential services’: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has expressed the need for taking cautious decisions over relaxation from the ongoing lockdown considering the possibility of a spike in Covid-19 cases in May and even in June and July. Thackeray has also demanded that the local train services in Mumbai be started only for essential services. The CM has also pointed out the risk of the spread of the virus through migrant workers who are travelling back to their respective states.Thackeray, along with chief ministers from other states participated in the video conference, convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. Thackeray said that the peak of the coronavirus is projected in May and the rise may continue for the next two months, and in such a scenario, the decision about the lockdown should be taken very cautiously.“The infection relapsed in Wuhan in China. The World Health Organization too has warned us about the possibilities of the spread of the infection. The Prime Minister should lead the way as far as the firm decision over the relaxations with the lockdown is concerned. States will implement it strictly,” he said.Thackeray demanded the resumption of the local railway services in Mumbai only for the people engaged in essential services. The CM said that the employees and people engaged in essential and emergency services should be given entry in local trains based on identity cards.He has also warned about the threat of the spread of coronavirus through the migrants travelling from various hotspots back to their home states. He said that the states needed to be extra vigilant while giving them entry, or else, the infection is likely to spread across the nation.Thackeray has also batted for additional central forces in support of the state police to relieve them from stress. The CM said that the Centre should make the central security forces available whenever there is need. The Maharashtra CM apprised the PM about the steps taken by the state government in augmenting the bed, quarantine facilities at Racecourse, Nehru Science Centre, BKC and Goregaon Exhibition Centre in Mumbai. He expressed the need to encourage the pharmaceutical companies that are into the production of drugs related to Covid-19. He demanded the waiver of GST on the equipment required in fight against the pandemic.Stating that Maharashtra witnessed a loss of Rs 35,000 crore in revenue receipts in the last two months, Thackeray demanded the release of the state’s share in central taxes and GST. He has also asked for directives to the Reserve Bank of India to facilitate farmers getting farm loans in the Kharif season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-s-local-trains-should-resume-only-for-essential-services-uddhav-thackeray/story-8jxTicEuThoppsaDC6VuXP.html
11-05-2020||India||‘Barest minimum reservation counters to open’, says rail ministry||The ministry of railways said Monday that the barest minimum of reservation counters will be opened stations from where trains will orginate/terminate or have stoppages enroute for booking of only six categories of ticket holders.Among them are High Official Requisition (HOR) holders, sitting as well as former Parliamentarians , MLA/MLCs, freedom fighters, fully reimbursable warrants/vouchers etc as per rule, passengers availing concessions as per letter dated 19.03.2020 as per eligibility, and tickets on free privilege pass/card pass/duty pass etc to railway employees as per rule, it said in a statement.“Booking under general quota shall, however, be permitted only through IRCTC website,” the statement said.A reservation of two berths in 3AC shall be earmarked for physically challenged persons as per extant instructions.Concessions can only be availed by patients, students and people with disabilities. Accommodation for onboard staff accompanying the trains will also be as per extant instructions, the statement said.It also said HOR holders and sitting as well as former Parliamentarians can also book accommodation against Parliament House quota under which two berths in 1AC and four berths in 2AC shall be earmarked.Earlier in the day, the railways said passengers will have to report to the railway station 90 minutes in advance, wear masks and carry their own linen.Passengers are also encouraged to carry their own food, download the Aarogya Setu App for tracking their health parameters and observe social distancing both at the station and on trains, the guidelines said.AC coaches, however, will run on full capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barest-minimum-reservation-counters-to-open-says-rail-ministry/story-Iy5F47Xb1EGlGdjjLxln6L.html
11-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times | ‘No salary cut for central govt employees’: Centre replies to ‘false’ reports and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘No salary cut for central govt employees’: Centre replies to ‘false’ reportsThe Ministry of Finance on Monday rubbished the reports of salary cut for any category of central government employees amid the coronavirus lockdown. In a tweet posted on Monday afternoon, the ministry described such reports as false having “no basis whatsoever”. Read more.Report 90 minutes in advance and other rules as limited trains start tomorrowPassengers will have to report to the railway station 90 minutes in advance, wear masks and carry their own linen, according to guidelines issued by the Centre on Monday as limited special passenger trains begin their run tomorrow. Read more. Nirav Modi to be lodged in Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail, UK court toldDiamantaire Nirav Modi would be lodged in barrack number 12 of the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai after being extradited to India to face charges of financial fraud running into thousands of crores, the Westminster Magistrates Court was told on Monday. Read more. Single-judge bench to hear cases in Supreme Court, a first in 70 yearsThe Supreme Court will have single-judge benches hearing cases from May 13, the first time ever in its 70-year-old history. A notice announcing the same was published on the website of the apex court on Monday. Read more. ‘Only few stayed in touch,’ Sreesanth names India teammates who stood by himFast bowler S Sreesanth, who was banned for his involvement in the 2013 IPL spot fixing scandal revealed how most of his former India teammates preferred to maintain distance from him and that the only two cricketers who did not give him the cold shoulder were Virender Sehwag and VVS Laxman. Read more. Villagers pay tribute to Irrfan Khan by naming locality after him: ‘He was a guardian angel to so many families’Villagers in Maharashtra’s Igatpuri have decided to pay a tribute to late actor Irrfan Khan. They have renamed the area where his farmhouse stands to Hero-chi-Wadi (neighbourhood of a hero in Marathi). Read more. Aarogya Setu inches close to 10 crore downloads on Android and iOS, Jio Phone app to roll out tomorrowThe government’s Covid-19 tracking app, Aarogya Setu has now been downloaded on over 9.8 crore devices. The mix includes both iOS and Android smartphones. However, the number is likely to increase drastically as the custom-made version of the app will roll out Jio Phones tomorrow, as per Jay Sahni, Chairman of Empowered Group 9. Read more. Deepika Padukone twins with mother Ujjala in bright orange for latest Mother’s Day postDeepika Padukone has been doling out the appreciation for her mother, Ujjala Padukone through multiple posts on her Instagram handle, the latest of which she posted today, a day after Mother’s Day. Read more. Majority of parents in Mumbai will not send children to school when lockdown is lifted: SurveyNearly 54% parents from the city who participated in the nationwide survey said that they would not send their children to schools at least for a month after it re-opens and would first monitor the situation in the wake of COVID-19. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-no-salary-cut-for-central-govt-employees-centre-replies-to-false-reports-and-all-the-latest-news/story-aRkzdIpgrpxLq0nT5Nxg6H.html
11-05-2020||India||‘Allow economic activity in all of Delhi except containment zones’: Kejriwal to PM Modi||Reiterating his earlier stand about reopening Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to allow economic activities in all areas except the containment zones.“Economic activities should be allowed to resume in all parts of Delhi except containment zones,” ANI quoted the CM as saying during the online meeting with the PM, along with other CMs, to discuss the restarting of trade activities and the lockdown situation.The nationwide lockdown, which is in its last week, is in place till May 17.Last week, Kejriwal, in a philosophical vein, said one will have to “learn to live with coronavirus”, adding it is time to “reopen Delhi”. The lockdown was earlier scheduled to be lifted on May 3.The chief minister said coronavirus is going nowhere and it is impossible that cases of coronavirus will be zero.“Corona(virus) has come. It is impossible that there will be no cases of coronavirus because it has not happened across the country,” the CM said then.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan shot down his proposal of reopening Delhi.“It would not be right for me to comment as it will be seen as a political statement. On a personal level, I think a lot needs to be done to halt the spread of the coronavirus. In this lockdown 3, I think that minimum relaxations should be given by the Delhi government. But this decision has to be taken by the state. Guidelines have been issued by the home ministry but the states are free to decide,” the minister told reporters last week.Highlighting the adverse impact of coronavirus on the exchequer, Kejriwal said in April 2019, the government earned Rs 3,500 crore while in April this year, it only received Rs 300 crore. He said the Centre has put the entire Delhi under red zone due to which markets, malls cannot open.“We have suggested the Centre to seal those areas where cases of coronavirus have been reported and rest of areas can be allowed for the operation of all activities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-economic-activity-in-all-of-delhi-except-containment-zones-kejriwal-to-pm-modi/story-npels4quzAl2L6Oanvxk5I.html
11-05-2020||India||Single-judge bench to hear cases in Supreme Court, a first in 70 years||The Supreme Court will have single-judge benches hearing cases from May 13, the first time ever in its 70-year-old history. A notice announcing the same was published on the website of the apex court on Monday.Till now, benches in the top court used to sit in combinations of 2 judges to hear normal cases while special matters are heard by 3-judge benches. Cases involving constitutional questions are heard by benches composed of 5 or more judges.According to the new scheme, a single-judge bench will hear appeals arising out of bail and anticipatory bail cases involving offences which are punishable with less than 7 years of imprisonment.Besides, applications seeking transfer of cases from one high court to another or from trial court in one state to trial court in another state will also be heard by single-judge benches.The Supreme Court had amended its rules in September 2019 to allow single-judge benches to hear matters.Before the amendment, Order VI, Rule 1 of the Supreme Court Rules of 2013 stated that every case in the Supreme Court has to be heard by benches which comprise at least two judges.To pave the way for single-judge benches, a new clause was inserted in Order VI, Rule 1 of the Supreme Court Rules carving out an exception. After the amendment last year, this would be the first time the change is being implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/single-judge-bench-to-hear-cases-in-supreme-court-a-first-in-70-years/story-Q9d98nBiD1uyO5t3fQgoRK.html
11-05-2020||India||Nirav Modi to be lodged in Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail, UK court told||Diamantaire Nirav Modi would be lodged in barrack number 12 of the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai after being extradited to India to face charges of financial fraud running into thousands of crores, the Westminster Magistrates Court was told on Monday.Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) lawyer Helen Malcolm, who is representing India in the court, informed district judge Samuel Mark Goozee that Modi would be placed in the same jail that was earmarked for businessman Vijay Mallya, who is also facing extradition.Malcolm, who opened the five-day extradition trial with a forensic account of Modi’s alleged lies and attempts to threaten and bribe witnesses, set out details of the financial fraud that included some officials of a Mumbai branch of the Punjab National Bank (PNB).Modi, 49, listened to the proceedings from the Wandsworth jail via video-link. His lawyer, Claire Montgomery, will open the defence from Tuesday morning, besides presenting witnesses, including expert Alan Mitchell, who deposed in the Mallya case on conditions in Indian prisons.Malcolm cited from named bank officials and cited documents to recount Modi’s alleged laundering of money and transfer of funds through accounts of members of his family, entities and properties in various countries, including in the United States.According to the CBI, Modi, brother Nehal Modi and two business associates tried to threaten witnesses and destroy evidence, which came to light after nine employees submitted details of how Modi and others took them to Cairo against their will, offered bribes and threatened them.India has submitted a cache of documents to substantiate its request for Modi’s extradition. The court was told that loans and credit were obtained by Modi and his companies fraudulently and when the fraud was discovered, Modi allegedly began a campaign to intimidate witnesses. Mobile phones and a server were destroyed, Malcolm said.Modi is now the subject of two extradition requests; one processed by the CBI and the other by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The CBI case relates to large-scale fraud upon PNB, through the fraudulent obtaining of Letters of Understanding (LOUs/loan agreements); the ED case relates to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud.The second extradition request was made on the basis of two additional offences as part of the CBI case. It was certified by home secretary Priti Patel on February 20 as required under the 1993 India-UK extradition treaty.The additional offences relate to allegations that Modi interfered with the CBI investigation by “causing disappearance of evidence” and intimidating witnesses (”criminal intimidation to cause death”). They have not been joined to the CBI case, but will be dealt with at a separate later hearing likely in July, the CPS said.Despite offering to raise the bail security amount to 4 million pounds, UK courts have refused Modi bail on the ground that he posed a flight risk and had the means to influence witnesses and tamper with evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-to-be-lodged-in-mumbai-s-arthur-road-jail-uk-court-told/story-xCK6Abc6xvSMLmSWbmp4LL.html
11-05-2020||India||1,140 Manipuris stranded in Chennai head home in special train||A special train carrying 1,140 people from Manipur, who were stranded in Chennai due to the lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19 is on its way to the northeastern state, officials said on Monday. According to Manipur’s Covid-19 common control room sources here, this non-stop train which left Chennai on Sunday evening was scheduled to arrive at Jiribam which is Manipur’s only railway station, 220 km west of Imphal, on May 12. “But we cannot say the exact timing of the arrival as of now (in view of the recent gas leak incident at Visakhapatnam),” an official of the control room said.Also read: Report 90 minutes in advance and other rules as limited trains start tomorrow“A second special train is scheduled to leave Bengaluru on May 14,” the official said. The second train is expected to bring about 1,200 stranded people of the state.On May 9, the state consultative committee for Covid-19 in its meeting had decided those returning by the trains will undergo 14 days of compulsory quarantine at government and community quarantine centres after their arrival.The state government will be sending 50 buses from Imphal to pick up those returnees while authorities of Jiribam district where the rail head is located, is setting up separate screening counters, sources said.In case the train arrives late in the evening, the screening may be done inside the coaches and the passengers shall stay in the train overnight till the arrangement is made for bus movement early in the morning, according to a standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the state government to facilitate smooth transport and screening of stranded people of the state.Since the trains are run on non-stop mode from station of origin to station of destination, the first priority would be given to locations where the number of stranded people is sufficient to run a train, the SOP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-140-manipuris-stranded-in-chennai-head-home-in-special-train/story-AWXkPY9PxkMYx8X6B8xwXN.html
11-05-2020||India||Report 90 minutes in advance and other rules as limited trains start tomorrow||Passengers will have to report to the railway station 90 minutes in advance, wear masks and carry their own linen, according to guidelines issued by the Centre on Monday as limited special passenger trains begin their run tomorrow. Those travelling are also encouraged to carry their own food, download the Aarogya Setu App for tracking their health parameters and observe social distancing both at the station and on trains, the guidelines said. Railway officials, however, clarified that the AC coaches will run on full capacity. “Provision for pre-paid meal booking, e-catering shall be disabled. However, the IRCTC shall make provision for limited eatables and packaged drinking water on payment basis. Information to this effect shall be made available to passengers during the time of booking a ticket. Passengers are encouraged to carry their own food and drinking water. Dry, ready-to-eat food and bottled water shall be provided on demand, inside the trains on payment basis,” the guidelines said. Only confirmed e-tickets shall be booked. Booking of RAC/Waiting list tickets and on board booking by ticket checking staff will not be permitted. Current booking, tatkal and premium tatkal booking shall not be permitted. No unreserved tickets (UTS) shall be permitted, it clarified. No catering charges will be included in the fare. Passengers will also be allowed to travel to the station in their vehicles if they are carrying their confirmed ticket. “For movement of the passenger(s) as well as the driver of the vehicle transporting the passenger(s) to and fro the Railway Station shall be allowed on the basis of the confirmed e-ticket,” added the guidelines.Upon arrival at their destination, they may have to go into quarantine as per the prescribed protocols. “On arrival at their destination, the travelling passengers will have to adhere to such health protocols as are prescribed by the destination state/UT,” the home ministry said in its order. The railways will resume passenger services gradually with trains to 15 destinations from Tuesday, the government announced on Sunday, green-lighting the operations close to two months after it stopped them as part of a strategy to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“Ministry of Railways (MoR) in consultation with Ministry of Health & Family welfare (MoHFW) and Ministry of Home Affairs(MHA) has decided that train services on Indian Railways shall be partially restored from May 12 in a graded manner,” the ministry said. Bookings for these trains — all originating from the New Delhi Railway Station — was scheduled to begin at 4pm on Monday only on the website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), while ticket counters will continue to remain closed. Earlier this evening, shortly after the online bookings for tickets opened at 4 pm, the railways’ ticketing website Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), burdened by the load, crashed in no time, delaying the booking by two hours. Expressing regret, the railways said “bookings will be available shortly”. The tickets went on sale again at 6pm. “Data pertaining to special trains is being fed in the IRCTC website. Train ticket bookings will be available in a short while. Please wait. Inconvenience is regretted,” the railway ministry had tweeted. These special trains which have been started presently, will have only air-conditioned classes i.e. First, Second & Third AC, the railways said. The fare structure for the ‘Special Trains’ shall be as applicable for the Rajdhani trains, excluding catering charges.Passengers can book their tickets only through the online portals of IRCTC, the railways said, adding that the maximum advance reservation period of tickets cannot exceed seven days. Online cancellation will be permitted only 24 hours before the scheduled departure of the train while cancellation charge shall be 50% of the fare. “Zonal Railways have been instructed to ensure that there are separate entry and exit gates at Railway stations to the extent feasible so that there is no face to face movement of passengers. Zonal railways will be guided by standard social distancing guidelines on stations and trains and observe the safety, security and hygiene protocols. Passengers are advised to carry their own linen for the travel. The temperature inside AC coaches shall be suitably regulated for this purpose,” the guidelines said. No stalls or booths on the platforms shall be opened. No train side vending would be permitted, the guidelines also advised passengers to “travel light.”These trains will run to Dibrugarh (Assam), Agartala (Tripura), Howrah (West Bengal), Patna (Bihar), Bilaspur (Chhattisgarh), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Bhubaneswar (Odisha), Secunderabad (Telangana), Bengaluru (Karnataka), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Thiruvananthapuram (Kerala), Madgaon (Goa), Mumbai Central (Maharashtra), Ahmedabad (Gujarat) and Jammu Tawi (Jammu and Kashmir). The railway ministry has also issued a detailed time table with a list of stoppages along these routes. Passenger flight and rail services as well as operations of metro trains have been suspended since March 22, three days before the first phase of a national lockdown was imposed. The first train scheduled to depart on Tuesday is from New Delhi to Bilaspur at 4 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/report-90-minutes-in-advance-and-other-rules-as-limited-trains-start-tomorrow/story-XJcOagLOPaRTkalY6XJ3jK.html
11-05-2020||India||Tripura man denied entry into his home by wife despite being tested negative for Covid-19||Even after his Covid-19 test report came negative, a daily wager in Agartala, who arrived from Assam on late Sunday night, was refused entry into his own house by his wife. Gobinda Debnath, 37, travelled in car for two days from Assam’s Silapathar to reach Agartala. After his arrival at Churaibari gate,the checkpost on Tripura-Assam border, he was put under quarantine for a day and he was tested for Covid-19. His tests came negative. Gobinda lives with his wife and in-laws at a flat allotted to his mother-in-law under a housing scheme for the urban poor at Joynagar in Agartala. Prior announcement of first lockdown in March, Gobinda went to meet his brother-in-law in Assam. As the lockdown extended for third time, he decided to come back to Agartala and accordingly, he booked a car that cost him Rs 30,000.“ I was told by my wife not to enter my home. I guess my wife was under pressure from the other residents of our complex. What else can I say?” said Gobinda.When asked, his wife Mampi Debnath told the reporters, “ I have a young daughter and an ailing mother at home. My husband came from Assam. I had asked him to stay there now. In this situation, I can’t allow him to stay here . I request him to come back after spending 14 days at a quarantine centre.”According to West District Health Surveillance officer Dr. Sangeeta Chakraborty, people in the locality gathered to prevent Gobinda from entering into his flat while clearly not following social distancing norms.“ Police even failed to convince the residents and seeing no way, Gobinda was taken to a quarantine centre near capital city,” said Dr. Chakraborty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-man-denied-entry-into-own-home-despite-being-tested-negative-for-covid-19/story-YjWH1oO2oQtytgJKKK2yDK.html
11-05-2020||India||Kashmir: Strict arrangements put in place as security forces fear attacks||Strict security arrangements were been put in place across Kashmir on Monday for the 17th day of the Holy month of Ramzan - or the day of Badr - as security forces feared there could be attacks on their installations in the region.Mobile internet connectivity, suspended last week since Hizbul Mujahideen’s operational commander Riyaz Naikoo was killed at his village of Beghpora in Pulwama along with an aide, is yet to be restored.Top officials said only the 2G services could be restored in Kashmir only after the 17th day of Ramzan passes off peacefully .People familiar with the situation said the government had decided to restore prepaid mobile phone services on Friday night. However, a high-level meeting in Srinagar, which was joined by top officials of security agencies, decided mobile internet connectivity would remain suspended till Monday.The day of Badr marked the first and decisive battle in the history of Islam, when the first few hundred Muslims led by Prophet Mohammed took on their powerful opponents in Arabia and won, according to Islamic tradition.“It was decided to restore internet only after the 17th day of Ramzan, the day of Badr, as there were inputs that security forces could be attacked on this day. Keeping in view the past experiences when militants choose to target security forces on this day, security was beefed up in Kashmir,” a senior security officer said.Last year too, there were similar reports about possible attacks on the 17th day of Ramzan. Keeping in view two attacks on the CRPF in north Kashmir’s Sopore and Handwara areas, which left six CRPF troopers dead and more than five injured, the officials had apprehensions that there could be similar attacks on the CRPF.During a high-level meeting in Baramulla last week, Kashmir IG Vijay Kumar had asked security forces, especially the CRPF, to remain on high alert and maintain extra vigil especially for road opening patrols and Naka duties to prevent attacks.The divisional commissioner of Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole, described the suspension of internet connectivity as temporary. “The mobile internet will be restored soon,” he said. Meanwhile, additional check points were set up on the national highway and other sensitive places, and messages were passed on to security installations to remain on high alert during the night due to possibility of attacks. The army’s Rashtriya Rifles units enhanced mobile patrolling in towns and villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-strict-arrangements-put-in-place-as-security-forces-fear-attacks/story-QGHgcPV9mhG5DlnDqGCaLJ.html
11-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand shows 98% dip in forest area gutted this year compared to 2019||A fresh data released by the Uttarakhand forest department on the area affected by forest fires showed around 98% dip between April 5 and May 10, as compared to the corresponding period last year.In 2019, 675.84 hectares were gutted by the raging forest fires, but this year 12.03 hectares have been affected owing to the nationwide lockdown restrictions imposed since March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak coupled with intermittent rainfall, said BK Gangte, nodal officer for forest fires in the state.“There is around 98% difference between the forest area affected till May 10, 2019, and this year. This is primarily due to two factors: intermittent rainfall maintaining the moisture level of the forests and the strict enforcement of lockdown restrictions,” said Gangte.In Uttarakhand, 0.17%, 1.60%, 9.32%, 21.66%, and 67.25% of total forest cover comes under extremely fire-prone, very highly fire-prone, highly moderately fire-prone, and less fire-prone categories, respectively.The state forest department is using innovative pine needle check-dam technology in a bid to reduce the forest fire incidents. This technology helps in reducing the forest fuel load, improves the soil-moisture regime, and enhances the water availability in remote areas in the hill state. Soil conservation technology also aids plant regeneration.The resin-rich pine needles are highly inflammable and have been found to be a major cause of forest fires.Parag Madhukar Dhakate, the chief conservator of forests (CCF) for western circle in Uttarakhand, said that the pine-needle check dam concept is being used in almost all the divisions of the hill state, including Nainital, Pithoragarh, Champawat, Tehri Garhwal, Almora, and Ranikhet among others.“A fire triangle of air, temperature, and fuel load is needed for forest fire incidents to occur. If even one of the factors from this triangle is removed, then such incidents can come down drastically. We can manage the fuel load, as temperature and air are beyond human control. Forest fires will reduce if the fuel load from pine needles is removed,” said Dhakate.“Pines account for around 50% of forests in Uttarakhand. Forest fire incidents have come down due to the making of check-dams that also prevent soil erosion. The water in the hills has a high calcium content, which over a period of time helps the making of check-dam from pine needles that solidify and, in turn, prevent soil erosion. Plant regeneration is the other spin-off factor,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-shows-98-dip-in-forest-fires-this-year-compared-to-2019/story-Wny8PBQIPLoSdVVCj8gUTJ.html
11-05-2020||India||Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh asks states to outline post-Covid road map for economic activity||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swyamsevak Sangh (RSS), has asked chief ministers of all states to prepare a detailed road map for economic activities and employment generation following the Covid-19 crisis. The BMS also asked states to reverse decisions to allow labour law holidays and changes to such legislations.States such as Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat announced a raft of changes to labour laws last week, from allowing longer working hours to a 1,000-day labour law holiday for new investors.In a statement issued on Monday, the labour wing of the RSS said state governments have been unable to convince the public as to how labour laws are hurdles to economic activities and about the emergent situation requiring the extreme step of suspending labour laws.“…On the contrary, for the labour, the Covid-19 situation has created an extraordinary situation of massive economic losses and job losses; losses of livelihood, besides financial, psychological and social issues. Urgent measures need to be taken to address this,” said a statement issued by BMS general secretary Vrijesh Upadhyay.Referring to the recent gas leak at a chemical plant in Visakhapatnam and the death of migrant workers sleeping on a railway track in Aurangabad as examples of the ”grave situation in the labour sector”, the BMS demanded the Union and state governments should make arrangements for free train travel by migrant workers.“Those workers who want to resume work should be given free transport facilities to workplaces in the absence of public transport. In green and orange zones, where activities have started in a phased manner, Government should give work support and support of wages,” the BMS demanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharatiya-mazdoor-sangh-asks-states-to-outline-post-covid-road-map-for-economic-activity/story-OTw1GvsaPV1ulMwxkEuJFO.html
11-05-2020||India||Western Army chief visits Indo-Pak border, reviews operational preparedness||Western Army Commander, Lieutenant General RP Singh, visited forward areas of the Rising Star Corps in Kathua and Samba districts of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) on Monday to review the current security situation and operational readiness of the troops amid a recent spike in ceasefire violations along the 744-km-long Line of Control (LoC) and 198- km-long Indo-Pak international border (IB).“The Army Commander was accompanied by Lt Gen Upendra Dwivedi, GOC (General Commanding Officer), Rising Star Corps. The Army commander interacted with the commanders of the field formations and was briefed about the operational and logistics preparedness and plans to upgrade the security infrastructure,” said Jammu-based defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand.He also interacted with troops and lauded them for their high morale and motivation.“He appreciated the high state of preparedness of the Rising Star Corps to thwart any threat manifested by inimical and anti-national elements. He also commended the efforts of the formations in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic,” Col Anand added.Lt Gen Singh’s visit to the strategic western border comes close on the heels of two back-to-back terror attacks in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, where eight security personnel, including Col Ashutosh Sharma, Major Anuj Sood, a J&K Police sub-inspector, two soldiers and three Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel, were killed.Pakistan had reportedly increased its flying operations within its territory, as it fears retaliation from India after the recent attacks.Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan had also tweeted about a possible false flag operation by India after New Delhi stated that Islamabad was the brain behind a spurt in violence in Kashmir.“I have been warning the world about India`s continuing efforts to find a pretext for a false flag operation targeting Pakistan. The latest baseless allegations by India of `infiltration` across LoC are a continuation of this dangerous agenda,” Khan had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/western-army-chief-visits-indo-pak-border-reviews-operational-preparedness/story-WNV014wy0aWvuFkGl1HeQM.html
11-05-2020||India||Cashless delivery mandatory after May 15 in Ahmedabad||The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Monday decided to ban the cash-on- delivery option for grocery and food items from May 15, stating that novel coronavirus also spreads through currency notes.As per the AMC decision, the payment for such services will now have to be made only digitally, an official release said.The civic body also made it mandatory for delivery staff to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones.Selling of groceries and vegetables has been suspended in Ahmedabd till May 15 in view of surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cashless-delivery-mandatory-after-may-15-in-ahmedabad/story-STnTxQ8JEj81eYePaS92WM.html
11-05-2020||India||KCR opposes passenger trains, Jagan bats for restoring public transport||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao on Monday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to restore the passenger train services immediately as it could exacerbate Covid-19 infection across the country while his Andhra Pradesh counterpart Jagan Mohan Reddy sought the removal of all restrictions on public transport.At the Prime Minister’s video conference with the chief ministers of all the states to review the Covid-19 situation, Rao said several cities in the country, particularly major metropolises like Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Hyderabad, were still reeling under high incidence of coronavirus.“Under these circumstances, if passenger trains are operated, people in large numbers travel from one city to another and it is not possible to trace if there are any Covid-19 patients among them and who they get in touch with. It is not possible to conduct tests for everybody and it is also not possible to quarantine such a large number of train passengers. So, it is better to avoid running of passenger trains so hurriedly in the present circumstances,” the chief minister said.KCR, as Rao is better known, however, supported the Centre’s move to introduce Shramik Trains for ferrying migrant labourers to their native places. “It is natural for the workers, who are stranded in other states due to lockdown, to long for returning to their villages to see their families. If we stop them, it would unnecessarily lead to agitations. They will come back to work after spending some time with their families,” he said.He reminded that workers from Bihar who had gone back to their native places had returned to Telangana to work in rice mills. “So, we are also arranging special trains for migrant labourers who want to go back to their respective states,” he said.The chief minister said the lockdown on account of Covid-19 had a serious impact on the country’s economy and the revenues of the states. “No state in the country is in a position to repay its loans. The Centre should take initiative in rescheduling all their loans, just as banks reschedule recovery of crop loans,” he said, adding that the Centre should also increase the limit of borrowings by relaxing norms of Financial Restructuring and Budgetary Management Act.He also appealed to the Centre that the districts in Telangana which have not been reporting any positive/active cases for 14 days be designated green/orange zones to help restore economic activities in those areas.On the other hand, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy requested for restoration of public transport by removing all restrictions immediately. He said people should be allowed to take up their normal activity, whether they were migrant labourers or others who would like to attend to their duties.“Many migrant labourers have gone back to their native places and unless there is a public transport facility, they cannot come back to their workplaces and if it doesn’t happen, economic activity cannot come back to normal. However, adequate care should be taken to prevent spread of Covid-19,” he said.Jagan expressed concern over inadequate supply of raw material, which had severely affected the manufacturing sector in Andhra Pradesh “Since markets and retail sector are completely closed due to lockdown, there are no takers for agriculture products,” he said and demanded that the inter-state transport be allowed by removing all restrictions.The Andhra CM also suggested reopening of all shopping malls with adequate safeguards.“Standard Operating Procedures should be introduced to run commercial activity,” he said.Jagan also demanded liberal funds from the Centre to develop hospital and health infrastructure in the state which required at least Rs 16,000 crore. Besides, long-term loans with less or zero interest be given to the states without bringing them under FRBM purview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-opposes-passenger-trains-jagan-bats-for-restoring-public-transport/story-cERxDAbRuTwMasNHFRB3AL.html
11-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Ahmedabad makes cashless delivery mandatory from May 15||The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Monday decided to ban the cash-on- delivery option for grocery and food items from May 15, stating that novel coronavirus also spreads through currency notes.As per the AMC decision, the payment for such services will now have to be made only digitally, an official release said.The civic body also made it mandatory for delivery staff to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones.Selling of groceries and vegetables has been suspended in Ahmedabd till May 15 in view of surge in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-ahmedabad-makes-cashless-delivery-mandatory-after-may-15/story-OGU6YoSVU1ojdfl6116KOL.html
11-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Rajasthan govt allows movement of people without pass||Jaipur: Rajasthan became the first state to allow free movement of people within the state between 7am and 7pm, except in containment zones, as states began relaxing norms a week before the third phase of the federal lockdown draws towards its scheduled end on May 17.“No pass will be required for interdistrict and within district movement of people between 7am and 7pm except in areas under curfew,” announced chief minister Ashok Gehlot after a meeting with legislators and members of Parliament.Gehlot authorised the district and subordinate officers to issue passes to people to travel by bus or train to other states and containment zones. Earlier, the state home department had this power. The new travel guideline also made a 14 day quarantine mandatory for any person entering the state. The guidelines also allowed district officers to give permission to run industries.While the Telangana government has extended the lockdown till May 29, it has given additional relaxations for private companies and industries located in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area, a red zone. They resumed operations on Monday.Cyberabad Commissioner of Police, VC Sajjannar, told industry owners have been allowed to use 33% of the manpower in a phased manner. “And this 33% of strength is across all shifts, including critical operations, during night hours, contract staff, etc,” he said.In Gujarat, the government decided to make the delivery of essential goods to home cashless from May 15, the first state to do so. “As a part of preparation strategy post lockdown, all retails and home deliveries agencies have been asked to get 100% screening of the staff. Those who get their staff screened would be able to run their operations without any hassle,” said an official order.The order also said that just to be abundantly cautious about the spread of the pandemic through currency notes, it has been made mandatory to accept digital mode of payment through unified payment interface and other platforms from May 15. So far, Gujarat has nearly 7,000 Covid-19 positive cases.In Uttarakhand, the government has allowed shops to function between 7am and 4pm, an extra three hours from this week. Government spokesperson and minister, Madan Kaushik, said, “We have increased the time limit of the opening of shops from 7am to 4pm in the state and more industries have been allowed to start operations.”However, Kerala, which has seen a new spurt of cases with expats returning, has decided against any relaxation for the time being. With train services also resuming, it expects more cases. Last Sunday it observed a complete shutdown, a symbolic move to strengthen its ongoing fight against the virus.In Rajasthan, a majority of MPs and MLAs welcomed the chief minister’s decision to bring stranded workers to their homes. The lawmakers suggested that additional trains and buses be arranged for them. They asked to simplify the pass process, arrange institutional quarantine for the people coming from other places to the village school or panchayat building and adding the names of new labourers to the MGNREGA list.On the demand of MPs and MLAs to remove the farmers’ welfare fee on purchases in agricultural markets, Gehlot said that the fee has not been imposed on the farmers but on the traders. The meeting was attended by speaker, Dr CP Joshi, former CM, Vasundhara Raje, leader of the opposition, Gulabchand Kataria, deputy leader of the opposition, Rajendra Rathore, and former Union minister, PP Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-rajasthan-govt-allows-movement-of-people-without-pass/story-g8Qbj6tkn9sgYAkx6QlarM.html
11-05-2020||India||One car, 4,000 meals: How father-daughter duo in Goa fed those in need||Being under lockdown and confined to four walls is frustrating for most. But for Pankaj Kumar, who has always been a busy man, it was completely alien. However, rather then let his frustration get the better of him, he chose to venture out.For two weeks across the month of April, he drove daily from his home in Assagao in North Goa to Vasco in South Goa and then to Bicholim back in North Goa to help ensure that those in need could get one square meal a day. With government agencies struggling to put in place the arrangements for hundreds of people who found themselves without work and without food, stranded in the state, Kumar and his daughter Hiya Nandini began pooling together resources -- daily necessities like rice, atta and oil -- even before the government could mobilise, to ensure that no one went hungry. “All my life I’ve been extremely busy, but the lockdown kept me isolated within the four walls of my house while at the same time I began hearing stories of people being trapped in Goa without food and water. But what really got me to step out was a story about a man whose wife was pregnant and didn’t have access to food and water. That’s when we stepped out,” Kumar recalls. Over the next few weeks, Kumar began arranging for food to be delivered to the areas where migrants were being held up be it in temples or later in government shelters where they were provided accommodation but not food. “I used to drive up and down in my car one and a half hours everyday for the first few days until the government began to get its act together and arrange food. Even the deputy collector was surprised that I was doing this,” Kumar said. “I did what I could and that was to try and arrange for each of them to get one meal a day but the number kept growing. I used to deliver at Vasco da Gama and Bicholim where the labourers were being housed and the number of people soon grew to around 400-500,” Kumar recalled. “Wherever I tried to help, I used help of a local panch member or a government official in order to reach out to more people,” he said. As the government began to step in, Kumar began inquiring in his own village of Assagao and soon realised that there were many people including senior citizens staying alone. “Now since the government has stepped up its outreach and things have also opened up, we have focussed on two old-age homes as well as those who are in need in Saligao, as well as in my village of Assagao,” Kumar recalls. So far, Kumar has ended up spending around Rs 2 lakh on sourcing and distributing the food with a little help from his friends as well as starting a crowdfunding platform through the Ketto website. “It has been a very fulfilling experience, I used to volunteer during my early days with the Missionaries of Charity. These are people who even on a normal day struggle and manage to get by. I thought that I might just handhold them through the crisis,” he said. “There are many who are willing to help but do not know where to start,” Pankaj says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-car-4-000-meals-how-a-father-daughter-duo-in-goa-fed-those-in-need/story-0JMIbSpFbhnHypGxOZfVsJ.html
11-05-2020||India||CRPF jawan killed in encounter with Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region||A CRPF jawan was killed in an encounter with Maoists in Bijapur district of Bastar region on Monday, officials said. Police said that the encounter took place at around 2:15 pm near the jungles of Uripal village under Mirtur police station area of Bijapur district.The Bastar region is a Maoist stronghold.“A constable of CRPF’s 170 battalion, Munna Yadav, was killed in the encounter with Maoists. A joint force of Special Action Team of CRPF and district reserve guard (DRG) launched an operation on Sunday night,” Director General of Police (DGP) DM Awasthi said.The DGP further said that more details are awaited as the particular force is inside the jungle.On Friday, a sub-inspector of Chhattisgarh police lost his life and four Maoists, including a divisional committee member of CPI(Maoist), were killed during a gunfight in Chhattisgarh’s Rajnandgaon district.Last month, the Chhattisgrah Police said it was re-calibrating and scaling down anti-Maoist operations for security reasons and apprehension of likely shortage of essential items for the troopers amid the lockdown to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-jawan-killed-in-encounter-with-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-s-bastar-region/story-2pncSCGuiGIYu82r3Fl9AK.html
11-05-2020||India||Nirav Modi’s extradition trial begins, UK court told details of his fraud||The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) representing India on Monday opened the five-day extradition trial of diamantaire Nirav Modi by setting out details of financial fraud perpetrated by him and his companies through a Mumbai branch of the Punjab National Bank.Modi, 49, allegedly indulged in lies, threats and bribery, the CPS lawyer, Helen Malcolm, told district judge Samuel Mark Goozee in the Westminster Magistrates Court. Lodged in the Wandsworth prison since arrest in March 2019, Modi appeared in the trial via videolink.India has submitted a cache of documents to substantiate its request for Modi’s extradition to face charges for fraud amounting to over Rs 11,300 crore. Malcolm mentioned names of PNB officials while setting out the charges.The court was told that loans and credit were obtained by Modi and his companies fraudulently and when the fraud was discovered, Modi allegedly began a campaign to intimidate witnesses. Mobile phones and a server were destroyed, she said.Modi is now the subject of two extradition requests; one processed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the other by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The CBI case relates to large-scale fraud upon PNB, through the fraudulent obtaining of Letters of Understanding (LOUs/loan agreements); the ED case relates to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud.The second extradition request was made on the basis of two additional offences as part of the CBI case. It was certified by home secretary Priti Patel on February 20 as required under the 1993 India-UK extradition treaty.The additional offences relate to allegations that Modi interfered with the CBI investigation by “causing disappearance of evidence” and intimidating witnesses (”criminal intimidation to cause death”). They have not been joined to the CBI case, but will be dealt with at a separate later hearing likely in July, the CPS said.Despite offering to raise the bail security amount to 4 million pounds, UK courts have refused Modi bail on the ground that he posed a flight risk and had the means to influence witnesses and tamper with evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-s-extradition-trial-begins-uk-court-told-details-of-his-fraud/story-6KHIkOy4i20wl8yvqTIzyN.html
11-05-2020||India||Timings of 15 special trains that will resume operation tomorrow||The Ministry of Railways on Monday released the complete timetable of 15 special interstate passenger trains that will commence operation tomorrow (May 12) amid the coronavirus lockdown. The process of ticket reservation for passengers via online booking service began on Monday evening..According to the guidelines, passengers will be able to cancel their ticket online up to 24 hours prior to the scheduled departure of the train. “No cancellation is permitted less than 24 hrs before departure of train. Cancellation charge shall be 50% of fare,” the ministry said. Also read: No pre-paid meal booking for 15 trains that resume operation tomorrowIt will be mandatory for passengers to wear face masks and undergo screening at departure. Only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the trains.Here’s the complete timetable - time of departure and arrival - of all 15 trains that will be bound for various destinations across the country from New Delhi. These respective trains will also run back to the national capital from these 15 destinations.1. New Delhi to Dibrugarh (02424): Departure at 1950 hrs and arrival at 0700 hrsThe train (02423) will depart from Dibrugarh at 2110 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 1015 hrs. It will run on a daily basis. 2. New Delhi to Agartala (02502): Departure at 1950 hrs and arrival at 1330 hrsThe train (02501) will depart from Agartala at 1900 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 1120 hrs. It will run on a weekly basis. 3. New Delhi to Howrah (02302): Departure at 1655 hrs and arrival at 0955 hrsThe train (02301) will depart from Howrah at 1705 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 1000 hrs. It will run on a daily basis. 4. New Delhi to Rajendranagar (T) (02310): Departure at 1715 hrs and arrival at 0530 hrsThe train (02309) will depart from Rajendranagar (T) at 1920 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 0740 hrs. It will run on a daily basis.5. New Delhi to Bilaspur (02442): Departure at 1600 hrs and arrival at 1200 hrsThe train (02441) will depart from Bilaspur at 1440 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 1055. It will run on a bi-weekly basis.Also read: Indian Railways to resume some trains from tomorrow. Here’s what to keep in mind6. New Delhi to Ranchi (02454): Departure at 1530 hrs and arrival at 1000 hrsThe train (02453) will depart from Ranchi at 1740 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 1055. It will run on a bi-weekly basis.7. New Delhi to Bhubaneswar (02824): Departure at 1705 hrs and arrival at 1725 hrsThe train (02823) will depart from Bhubaneswar at 1000 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 1045. It will run on a daily basis.8. New Delhi to Secunderabad (02438): Departure at 1600 hrs and arrival at 1400 hrsThe train (02437) will depart from Secunderabad at 1315 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 1040. It will run on a weekly basis.9. New Delhi to Bengaluru (02692): Departure at 2115 hrs and arrival at 0640 hrsThe train (02691) will depart from Bengaluru at 2030 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 0555. It will run on a daily basis.10. New Delhi to Chennai (02434): Departure at 1600 hrs and arrival at 2040 hrsThe train (02433) will depart from Chennai at 0635 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 1030. It will run on a bi-weekly basis.11. New Delhi to Thiruvananthapuram (02432): Departure at 1125 hrs and arrival at 0525 hrs The train (02431) will depart from Thiruvananthapuram at 1945 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 1240. It will run on a tri-weekly basis.12. New Delhi to Madgaon (02414): Departure at 1125 hrs and arrival at 1250 hrs The train (02413) will depart from Madgaon at 1030 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 1240. It will run on a bi-weekly basis.13. New Delhi to Mumbai Central (02302): Departure at 1655 hrs and arrival at 0845 hrs The train (02951) will depart from Mumbai Central at 1730 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 0905. It will run on a daily basis.14. New Delhi to Ahmedabad (02958): Departure at 2025 hrs and arrival at 1005 hrs The train (02957) will depart from Ahmedabad at 1820 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 0800. It will run on a daily basis.15. New Delhi to Jammu Tawi (02425): Departure at 2110 hrs and arrival at 0545 hrs The train (02426) will depart from Jammu Tawi at 2010 hrs and arrive in New Delhi at 0500. It will run on a daily basis.The Indian Railways shall start more special services on new routes, based the availability of coaches after reserving 20,000 of them for Covid-19 care centres and to enable operation of up to 300 trains every day, the railways ministry has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-timings-of-15-special-trains-that-will-resume-operation-from-tomorrow/story-k7ZuYJTOExGfnXuVd6inwN.html
11-05-2020||India||Rajasthan: Over 1.6 lakh job cards added under MGNREGA in the past two months||Rajasthan topped the country on Monday as far as labour engagement under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) is concerned, as over 1.6 lakh new job cards under the scheme have been added in the past two months, state government officials said. On Monday morning, deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who holds the rural development portfolio, announced the state government’s unprecedented feat via a tweet amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“Rajasthan regained its first position in terms of labour engagement. It’s a matter of pride for us. We’re focusing on the job guarantee scheme to provide financial security to our rural population,” he tweeted.Reverse migration, trigged by the pandemic, has led to an uptick in new enrolment under the rural job scheme.Data showed that 105 lakh MGNREGA job cards were available in the desert state as on March 20, five days before the nationwide lockdown restrictions were imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak and on Monday this figure has risen by another 1.6 lakh.“Usually, the number of job cards remains static. An increase in 2 lakh cards per year is considered to be normal. But 1.6 lakh new job cards in two months is unprecedented,” said PC Kishan, commissioner, MGNREGA, Rajasthan. “Lakhs of migrant labourers have returned to their native villages and are registering for job cards and work under the MGNREGA,” he added.He cited last year’s data, which showed that 102 and 103 lakh job cards were added between April 29 and May 30, respectively --- a normal annual trend.“Usually, this kind of increase in MGNREGA job cards occurs in a year. For example, there were 103 lakh cards in 2019, and it rose to 104 lakh this year. Besides the migrants returning home, even local villagers are seeking job under the scheme because of lack of employment opportunities in the state,” said Nikhil Dey, a social activist.“Many people, who never thought about the scheme as a viable employment option, are making a beeline for it, as jobs are few and far between. We’ve been demanding a disaster management employment guarantee scheme for a crisis situation like this,” he added.The Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government said that it would issue job cards to all migrant labourers and engage them under the MGNREGA.“Our next milestone is 30 lakh job cards and the final target is 35 lakh, which can be achieved by developing around 100,000 green assets in the field with an increased focus on natural resource management (NRM) and activities allied to the farm sector,” Kishan said.The state government had sanctioned a pasture, playground, crematorium or burial ground and model pond in each of the 10,000-odd gram panchayats last year under the MGNREGA, which was introduced by the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government at the Centre in 2005.“This year, we’re focusing on implementing these four kinds of tasks in each of the 43,000 revenue villages,” Kishan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-over-1-6-lakh-job-cards-added-under-mgnrega-in-the-past-two-months/story-SRCnQm0qwFuCD0LNweWY1K.html
11-05-2020||India||At 15-minute Punjab Cabinet meet, ministers want chief secretary to be sacked||Punjab cabinet ministers on Monday asked Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to sack chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh and declared that they would not attend cabinet meetings as long as he attends these meetings.Karan Avtar Singh had taken on the ministers at a pre-cabinet meeting on the excise policy on Saturday, insisting that the changes recommended by the ministers to the policy could not be taken on board. The face-off had led to ministers storming out of the meeting on Saturday; finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal was the first one to walk out. Saturday’s cabinet meeting was deferred to Monday.At an informal meeting ahead of the cabinet meeting, the ministers decided to stand their ground and walk out of the meeting if the chief secretary is present.The chief secretary was advised to stay away from Monday’s cabinet meeting and additional chief secretary (home) Satish Chandra was tasked to officiate in his absence.As soon as Monday’s cabinet meeting started, the ministers told chief minister Amarinder Singh that they would not attend cabinet meetings in case the chief secretary is present.This could be a little problematic. According to the rulebook, the chief secretary of a state is also the secretary to the cabinet, coordinates all meetings of the cabinet and signs off on the official records.“The chief minister has accepted our demand because he asked all of us to bring our grouse on record,” said Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, the minister of cooperation and jails, told Hindustan Times.“Manpreet (finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal) and I said that the behavior of the chief secretary is not acceptable. He is rude and doesn’t understand that officers and elected representatives are two sides of a coin,” technical education minister Charanjeet Singh Channi told HT.Channi said the chief secretary had been rude to him in the past too and had even questioned his integrity.Channi said the chief minister had promised to act.A senior Punjab minister said the chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh had signalled that he was ready to apologise to bury the hatchet. But Manpreet Singh Badal has insisted that he isn’t game.“Some ministers want to give the chief secretary a second chance but the finance minister is adamant,” said a cabinet minister on conditions of anonymity.The row over the chief secretary has its origin in a pre-cabinet meeting held on Saturday when minister Charanjit Channi demanded that someone be held accountable for the loss of revenue due to the state’s flawed excise policy. Chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh, who found some of the suggestions made by ministers to be unacceptable, reminded the minister that policies are only implemented after the approval of the ministers.Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal promptly shot back at the official’s reply that was perceived to be too curt.“If the officers have already made up their mind on the policy, what was the fun of discussing the matter with the ministers?” Badal said moments before storming out of the meeting. Other ministers also left soon after.On the agenda item that was before the cabinet, the ministers decided to authorise chief minister Amarinder Singh to take the decision. The liquor contractors in the state want the government to compensate them for the 45 days that liquor vends had to be closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/either-him-or-us-punjab-ministers-vs-chief-secretary-plays-out-at-cabinet-meet/story-AfQ6fBlByZ8nwBU6w2YOfK.html
11-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand faces huge Covid-19 challenge as 3 lakh migrants prepare to return home||As Uttarakhand continues to evacuate its residents stranded in different places, checking the spread of Covid-19 will prove to be a Herculean task for the government with three lakh migrants poised to return home, official said Monday. The state government has been bringing its migrants from various states of the country in buses and trains. It has brought back about 34,000 migrants till Monday morning by state transport buses with 2,400 more to reach after the first two special trains left Surat and Pune Monday. A senior government official privy to the developments in the evacuation of migrants said on the condition of anonymity, “The state government is expecting the return of at least 3 lakh migrants back with every online registration comprising about two-three persons each on average.”The official said, “Though the government had shown its commitment to bring all of them, it will be a Herculean task for it considering the limited resources of the small Himalayan state.”Estimating the number of buses and trains required to bring all of them, he said that “At least 100 trains and 3,000 buses will be needed to bring all of them while maintaining precautions amid the pandemic.”“The government at present is working on a war footing with most of the available resources being pressed in the evacuation. We have been already running buses from Rajasthan, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh where most of our residents are stranded. In the far away states like Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana and Kerala, we had asked for special trains which are being run gradually,” said the official. He also said that there is also another challenge of taking the migrants to their home within the state once they reach here from outside. “Resources are needed not only to bring them back but also to send them home in the state. And this is to be done after all those mandatory screening and precautions in which thousands of our health workers are involved,” he said. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat also acknowledged that the state faces a big challenge because many of those returning to the state would be infected. “The state is expecting at least 2-2.25 lakh migrants to return of which about 25,000 are expected to be infected.”Minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik who has been monitoring the evacuation process and state’s response to the pandemic, refused to reveal the total number of migrants who have registered with the government to return. “We cannot reveal the total number of migrants but the total number of registration which is about 1.87 lakhs. But yes, it is a big challenge for our government to bring all our residents safely while following the precautions,” said Kaushik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-faces-huge-covid-19-challenge-as-3-lakh-migrants-prepare-to-return-home/story-0iWLPBKzrSeByhZif8u8bM.html
11-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times |‘Should work together, fight Covid-19’: China to India after Sikkim face-off and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Should work together, fight Covid-19’: China to India after Sikkim face-offChina on Monday sought to downplay the latest round of aggressive confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers in north Sikkim over the weekend, saying both countries should jointly uphold peace and handle differences. Read more. ‘Centre should not play politics’: Mamata Banerjee at video-conference with PM ModiWest Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that the Centre should not play politics at a time when the coronavirus pandemic has gripped the country.Read more. India’s recovery rate now at 31.15%, 20,917 people have recovered from Covid-19India’s recovery rate from the Covid-19 infection has now climbed to an encouraging 31.15% with 20,917 people having recovered across the country so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. A total number of 1,559 patients have recovered from the infectious disease in the last 24 hours. Read more. ‘Just bat and shut up, you sound like a child’: Williams recalls Virat Kohli’s ‘notebook celebration’ banterThe banter between India captain Virat Kohli and West Indies fast bowler Kesrick Williams during the T20I series in 2019 captured a lot of attention from the media, fans and cricketing pundits. Read more. Jaya Bachchan responds to Abhishek Bachchan’s Mother’s Day post with ‘dragon mom’ meme: ‘Sense of humour game on point’Jaya Bachchan’s meme game is on fire. Her son and actor Abhishek Bachchan wished her on Mother’s Day with a poised and graceful picture of the two but the veteran actor reacted with a funny meme. Read more. The man with over 5,000 autographs, from Jawahar Lal Nehru, Marilyn Monroe to Amitabh BachchanAs youngsters, collecting autographs by famous personalities was one of the most popular hobbies and for some, it remains a thing even now. The autograph book is something we would carry to special events in the hope that we just might get to meet that celebrity and get them to sign it for us. Read more. You won’t believe what this furry feline’s hat is made out of. WatchThis clip was posted on the video-sharing application, TikTok on March 19. Shared by an account called ‘sirkka the cat’, the recording was captioned, “day 5 made me do it,” referring to the fifth day of quarantine. Read more. NEET 2020: NTA warns candidates, says beware of fake calls, SMS and emails in circulationThe National Testing Agency (NTA) on Monday informed candidates appearing for NEET (UG) 2020 about circulation of fake/fraudulent calls, SMS and emails asking for their application details and personal information. Read more. Watch: Taxis in Kochi get fiberglass partitions to curb Covid-19 spread Authorities in Kochi have come up with a unique step to protect taxi drivers from getting infected with Covid-19. Taxi drivers have been asked to install fiberglass partitions in their taxis. These taxis have been deployed for Covid-19 services in the area. Kerala has so far recorded over 500 cases of Covid-19. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-should-work-together-fight-covid-19-china-to-india-after-sikkim-face-off-and-all-the-latest-news/story-EcVMswR5AtWfh85QJME0pL.html
11-05-2020||India||Food on payment, no pre-paid meal booking for 15 trains that resume operation tomorrow||As per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Railways, no catering charges shall be included in the ticket fare of 15 interstate passenger trains that will start running from May 12. The ministry, in its release, stated that the provision for pre-paid meal booking and e-catering shall be disabled. However, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) shall make provision for limited eatables and packaged drinking water on payment, it said. Passengers have been encouraged to carry their own food and drinking water. “Dry, ready-to-eat food and bottled water shall be provided on demand, inside the trains on payment basis,” the circular read. Linen and blankets shall not be provided inside the train, curtains have also been taken down from all rail coaches. Also read: ‘Human nature to want to go home,’ says PM Modi on migrants at meet with CMs“Passengers are advised to carry their own linen for the travel. The temperature inside AC coaches shall be suitably regulated for this purpose,” the ministry said. According to the guidelines, passengers will be able to cancel their ticket online up to 24 hours prior to the scheduled departure of the train. “No cancellation is permitted less than 24 hrs before departure of train. Cancellation charge shall be 50% of fare,” it said. The Central government on Sunday announced that 15 interstate passenger trains will commence operations from May 12 after the services were halted in March due to the enforcement of the nationwide coronavirus lockdown.The trains will operate from New Delhi connecting Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi.The process of ticket reservation for passengers via online booking service was scheduled to begin at 4pm today but was pushed to 6 pm as the IRCTC website crashed. “Data pertaining to special trains is being fed in the IRCTC website. Train ticket bookings will be available in a short while. Please wait. Inconvenience is regretted,” the railways tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-food-on-payment-basis-no-pre-paid-meal-booking-for-15-trains-that-resume-operation-from-may-12/story-OA5yMV4qhn2GoBIuHJSbXN.html
11-05-2020||India||IRCTC website back up again, sale of tickets is on||After a delay of over two hours, the railways’ ticketing website Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) was back up again to take bookings for limited passenger trains which will run from tomorrow.Within 10 minutes of the sale window going live again, the third A/C tickets on the Howrah-New Delhi route for tomorrow’s journey were all taken.Earlier, shortly after the online bookings opened at 4 pm, the IRCTC, burdened by the load, crashed in no time. Expressing regret, the railways said “bookings will be available shortly”.“Data pertaining to special trains is being fed in the IRCTC website. Train ticket bookings will be available in a short while. Please wait. Inconvenience is regretted,” the railways tweeted. According to the ministry of railways, train services will begin on 15 Rajdhani routes and the fare would be equivalent to that of the super-fast train.The railways will run 15 pair of trains - which means 30 return journeys - from Tuesday, almost 50 days after it stopped its passenger services amid the lockdown to stop the coronavirus pandemic.The passengers won’t need a pass to reach the stations, they only need to show the tickets.The passengers are encouraged to carry their own food and drinking water. Dry, ready-to-eat food and bottled water shall be provided on demand inside the trains on payment basis.Also, online cancellation of tickets will be permitted up to 24 hours before the scheduled departure of train. No cancellation is permitted less than 24 hours before departure of train.Additionally, the cancellation charge will 50% of the fare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-ticketing-website-crashes-as-soon-as-sale-window-opens-it-apologises/story-Ddxvv9wemQN0kON1e8US0O.html
11-05-2020||India||India’s recovery rate now at 31.15%, 20,917 people cured of Covid-19||India’s recovery rate from the Covid-19 infection has now climbed to an encouraging 31.15% with 20,917 people having recovered across the country so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. A total number of 1,559 patients have recovered from the infectious disease in the last 24 hours.At least 4,213 Covid-19 positive cases and 97 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours till Monday morning.The total number of coronavirus cases in India now stands at 67,152 and the death toll due to the deadly pathogen is currently 2,206, according to health ministry data.ALSO READ | India draws up Rs 1 billion Covid-19 medical assistance plan, targets 90 countriesHealth Ministry officials began the daily news briefing with an appeal to citizens to come forward and report to healthcare facilities if they had Covid-19 symptoms to prevent the infection from spreading to their immediate family members, neighbours or others in the community. Bollywood icon Amitabh Bachchan has also been roped in to appeal to people to come forward if they noticed any coronavirus symptoms in themselves or their family members. Earlier on May 8, the health ministry had issued a revised discharge policy for Covid-19 patients based on clinical severity and had tweaked the rules for discharge of such patients who would be released only after 2 RT-PCR tests conducted on them returned negative.“The discharge policy has been changed because several countries have changed their policy from test-based strategy to symptom and time-based strategy. We have also changed it based on this,” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary of the Health Ministry said.ALSO READ | ‘No Covid-19 deaths in last 24 hours,’ says Delhi government; tally at 7,233According to the revised policy, mild or very mild or pre-symptomatic cases admitted to Covid Care facilities can be discharged after 10 days of the onset of symptoms and if there is no fever for three days. “There is no need to test before discharge of the patient and home isolation of at least 10 more days is advised after discharge,” Agarwal said.According to health ministry data, studies have suggested that the viral load in Covid-19 positive patients peaks in the pre-symptomatic period, at least two days before symptoms set in and reduces over the next seven days.Chairman of Empowered Group 9 Ajay Sawhney said that the tracking mobile application—the Aarogya Setu app has also contributed significantly to India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.“The Aarogya Setu app has been designed keeping in mind the privacy of people. Around 9.8 crore people have downloaded the app and it is available in 12 languages,” a government official said.According to government officials, the Aarogya Setu app had provided information about 697 potential Covid-19 hotspots in the country and helped to curb the spread of the infection to other areas from these clusters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-recovery-rate-now-at-31-15-20-917-people-have-recovered-from-covid-19/story-onaMojhr2iA2ikFyJhHpeK.html
11-05-2020||India||Covid-19 positive trucker detained in Uttarakhand after driving in from Punjab||A truck driver who had slipped away from Punjab after testing positive for Covid-19 last week was detained by the Uttarakhand Police on Monday at Bazpur border area in Udham Singh Nagar district, officials said.Authorities are trying to find out how he got out of Punjab.A health bulletin issued by the Uttarakhand government on Monday afternoon states, “District Commissioner of Fatehgarh, Punjab informed that a 47-year old male patient was tested positive on May 7, at Fatehgarh, Punjab. He traveled from Punjab to Bazpur (US Nagar). The district administration Udham Singh Nagar has immediately isolated the patient in Susheela Tiwari Hospital in Haldwani and started treatment as per protocol.”Dr Shailaja Bhatt, chief medical officer of Udham Singh Nagar district said that the patient has been isolated at the hospital and is being treated.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“We are trying to find out how the patient escaped from Punjab and reached here. Till then, we have isolated him at the hospital and he is being treated. Another person, who is a resident of Nanakmatta from the district, accompanied him; he has also been quarantined at a health facility and his samples have been sent for testing again. He had tested negative on May 7,” said Dr Bhatt.According to officials, the truck driver was caught by police officials who traced his truck after the Punjab administration alerted the Uttarakhand government.The Uttarakhand health department said it will not count the driver among its Covid-19 cases. JC Pandey, public relations officer of the state health department said that because the patient tested positive in Punjab and not Uttarakhand, he is not being included in the state’s tally. But he is being treated according to the protocol.As of Monday, Udham Singh Nagar had the maximum number of active cases in the state at nine and has reported a total 13 cases so far. The doubling rate of cases in the district (based on average of the past seven days) is 9.9 days, whereas the doubling rate in the state is 45 days.Uttarakhand has so far reported 68 positive cases with 46 recoveries and 21 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-trucker-detained-in-uttarakhand-after-driving-in-from-punjab/story-seCfUij0P688DRt7pT6zVJ.html
11-05-2020||India||‘No salary cut for central govt employees’: Centre replies to ‘false’ reports||The Ministry of Finance on Monday rubbished the reports of salary cut for any category of central government employees amid the coronavirus lockdown.In a tweet posted on Monday afternoon, the ministry described such reports as false having “no basis whatsoever”.“There is no proposal under consideration of Govt for any cut whatsoever in the existing salary of any category of central government employees. The reports in some section of media are false and have no basis whatsoever,” the tweet read.Also read: ‘Human nature to want to go home,’ says PM Modi on migrants at meet with CMsThere is no proposal under consideration of Govt for any cut whatsoever in the existing salary of any category of central government employees.The reports in some section of media are false and have no basis whatsoever.@nsitharamanoffc @PIB_India @DDNewslive @airnewsalertsIn April, the ministry had issued a similar tweet clarifying that reports of a 20% cut in central government pensions are “false and baseless”.“It is being reported that a 20% cut in Central Government Pensions is being planned. This news is FALSE. There will be no cut in pension disbursements. It is clarified that salaries and pensions will not be affected by Government Cash Management,” a tweet posted by the Ministry of Finance read, In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the government had previously announced that senior citizens, differently-abled and widows - who are drawing central government pension - will get three-month advance pension in the first week of April under the National Social Assistance Program (NSAP).Under the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP), the ministry said it has disbursed about ₹1,400 crore to around 2.82 crore old age persons, widows and differently-abled persons amid the coronavirus crisis, news agency PTI reported.The government, last month, had put on hold payment of increased Dearness Allowance (DA) to its 50 lakh employees and 61 lakh pensioners till June 30, 2021, as it looks to curtail expenditure to meet the spending requirement to fight coronavirus pandemic.In an office memorandum, ministry’s Department of Expenditure had said that no arrears of DA will be paid from January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-such-proposal-finance-ministry-rubbishes-reports-of-cut-in-existing-salary-of-central-govt-employees/story-aOJCVFRg164M3l0hOxb0MI.html
11-05-2020||India||‘Should work together, fight Covid-19’: China to India after Sikkim face-off||China on Monday sought to downplay the latest round of aggressive confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers in north Sikkim over the weekend, saying both countries should jointly uphold peace and handle differences.The Chinese foreign ministry didn’t share details about the clash that injured border troops from both sides but attempted to subtly shift the blame to the Indian side, saying Chinese soldiers were always upholding peace and tranquility along the border.The Chinese defence ministry is yet to comment on the incident, which took place at Naku La in north Sikkim at over 5000 metres altitude on Saturday.Reports of the clash brought back memories of the 73-day face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers in 2017 near the Sikkim border in Doklam, which plunged bilateral ties into a chill for months.Confirming an HT report on the clash, the Indian army on Sunday said “a heated confrontation took place between Indian and Chinese soldiers in north Sikkim on Saturday, resulting in injuries to troops on both sides”.“Incident of face-off as referred to in the (HT) article did take place. Aggressive behaviour by the two sides resulted in minor injuries to troops,” the Indian army statement said.The troops disengaged after talks held at the local army level.The Chinese foreign ministry, however, did not share specifics of the incident.“Chinese Border troops have always been upholding peace and tranquility along our border areas. China and India stay in close communication and coordination concerning our border affairs within existing channels,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian said at the regular ministry briefing on Monday.“This year marks the 70th anniversary of our establishment of diplomatic ties and the two countries are joining hands in the fight against Covid-19,” he said.“Under such circumstances the two sides should work together with each other, properly manage and handle the differences, earnestly uphold peace and stability in the border region so as to create enabling conditions for our bilateral relations as well as the joint fight against Covid-19,” Zhao added.Zhao denied that China is adopting an aggressive approach in its diplomacy as it fights off the Covid-19 in the country.“The relevant assumption is groundless,” he said, answering a question on the subject.“Since the outbreak of the Covid-19, China and India have been staying in close communication and cooperation on prevention and control, to jointly meet the challenges. Now, the most pressing concern for the international community is solidarity and cooperation against Covid-19. We shouldn’t allow any politicisation or stigmatisation in a bid to create more differences or confrontation,” Zhao said.India and China have held dozen rounds of talks to resolve the 3,488 km of disputed border stretching from Jammu and Kashmir to Arunachal Pradesh.In 2017, China had accused India of trespassing and preventing its troops from building a road in the Himalayan plateau Doklam (Donglang in Chinese), which is under Chinese control but claimed by Bhutan.The standoff began in June and ended in August after troops from both armies withdrew.Speaking to state-controlled media, a Chinese scholar said the China-India border issue was left over from the past and both sides have a different perception.“Despite this, the two countries’ leaderships and related authorities have established communication mechanisms. Their effectiveness was demonstrated by this incident as the problem was solved at the local level and did not escalate to a national level,” Qian Feng, a senior fellow at the Taihe Institute and director of the research department of the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University in Beijing told state media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-work-together-fight-covid-19-china-to-india-after-sikkim-face-off/story-jfIylTI1T71y1TLfFutWAN.html
11-05-2020||India||Foot-operated sanitiser dispenser, UV disinfection at Delhi airport to tackle Covid-19||The Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) on Monday said it has introduced several technological innovations to combat the spread of coronavirus. On the occasion of National Technology Day, the DIAL stated that is has deployed innovative technology, using mobile towers, hand-held torch and baggage tunnels - that deploy ultraviolet (UV) rays to disinfect surfaces - to tackle the coronavirus menace. Sensor-based taps in passenger washrooms, foot-operated sanitiser dispenser, sensor-based and paddle operated drinking water fountain have been installed for contactless usage, the DIAL said. Also read: Train ticket booking opens, cheaper gold bond - 4 things launched on May 11Passenger trolley disinfection system and walk-in shoe sanitizer mats are some of the unique facilities for passenger safety amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the DIAL stated in its press release. “These mats are soaked with chemical that will disinfect the shoes of the passengers,” it said.The DIAL stated that it will take around five seconds to completely disinfect used trolleys. “The used trolleys and trays can be passed one after another, where each of them shall take approximately five seconds to come out virus-free,” the release stated.The UV tunnel, that will help disinfect passenger bags, has been installed at Terminal 3 of the Delhi Airport at the baggage belt area.Also read: ‘No Covid-19 deaths in last 24 hours,’ says Delhi government; tally at 7,233Mobile disinfecting towers will disinfect various locations of terminal buildings. These towers are placed in properly cordoned areas of a terminal and make use of UV lamps for disinfection. The towers can be manually re-located to other areas for disinfection once an area has been disinfected, the DIAL noted.Hand-held disinfection torch will be used to disinfect desktop, laptops and other devices, it said.This comes at the time when the number of coronavirus cases in the country is inching toward the 70,000-mark. On Monday, the Ministry of Health updated the national Covid-19 tally to 67,152. The nationwide coronavirus lockdown, which came into force on March 25, is scheduled to be lifted on May 17. Various lockdown relaxations are already in place across the country while the Centre has decided to operate 15 interstate passenger trains from May 12. The operation to repatriate stranded migrant workers to their native places is also in full force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foot-operated-sanitiser-dispenser-sensor-based-drinking-water-fountain-at-delhi-airport-to-tackle-covid-19/story-AlfENr91WRrTnrk4Ia83mO.html
11-05-2020||India||Bihar sends homes stranded Kashmiri traders, migrants from Bengal and Jharkhand||The Patna district administration brought back smiles on the faces of nearly 160 stranded people, mostly migrant workers by facilitating their return home in the last three days.All these people were scheduled to leave Patna after March 24, but found themselves stranded due to the lockdown.Among them were 107 migrant labourers from West Bengal, 30-35 workers from Jharkhand’s Godda district, 17 Kashmiri woollen hawkers and a three-member group from Srinagar that was here to attend a marriage.Most of them had registered with the helpline numbers of their respective states hoping to be bailed out. They were running low on hope as they continued to be stranded in Bihar almost a month since their registration for help. Every passing day was proving to be a mental and financial drain.Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi took up the case for evacuation of the stranded people after Hindustan Times highlighted the plight of Kashmiri woollen hawkers last week. “I tried to get buses arranged and contacted officials of their state. When my officers got in touch with their counterparts, they got to know that two buses were coming, carrying stranded pilgrims to Bihar. The same bus was used for the return of the Kashmiri people stranded in Patna,” said Ravi.“(Rohit Raj) assistant commissioner, labour resources department, worked hard to coordinate it. The driver and staff of the bus, which came to Patna, were very reluctant…” he added.“It was the cheapest and safest option available. We have informed the officers of J&K about every development orally,” said Ravi, when this reporter asked him about their payment. Each Kashmiri had to pay the bus staff ₹2,500 for their return up to Jammu.The Patna district administration screened all passengers and gave them food packets and drinking water before the Kashmiri entourage left Patna on Sunday evening.“We also facilitated the return of 107 migrant labourers by three buses from Bihta block in Patna to West Bengal on May 9. Today, we are trying to send back to Godda 30-35 migrant workers in a bus, which has come along with a magistrate, from Jharkhand,” said Rohit Raj, assistant labour commissioner.It was not easy for the Kashmiris, most of who had been coming to Bihar for the past two decades, to cope with Bihar’s oppressive summer.“We are not used to such heat and were developing rashes on our skin, as our return was delayed by a month-and-a-half,” said Md Shafi Bhawani, 45, who was among the 17-member group of Kashmiri hawkers.“We are thankful to the Bihar government for facilitating our return home, we so desperately wanted to during the holy month of Ramzan,” said Nawaz Amin Bhawani, 35, whose marriage is scheduled in June.The joy on the face of Gulshna Akhtar, who is Md Shafi’s spouse, said it all.“A mother can only realise the pangs of separation from her small children. I’ll get to meet my children after two months,” she said. Her children — Bashrat Shafi (18), Saima Shafi (15) and Fida Hussain (10) — who came to tour the hinterlands of Bihar, had left for Srinagar after Holi, in anticipation of their schools reopening. The couple, however, stayed back to collect some outstanding payments, which some of its customers owed, and got stuck during lockdown.Around 8,000 people from outside Bihar were stranded in the state due to the lockdown, as per information available with Bihar’s disaster management department till May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-sends-homes-stranded-kashmiri-traders-migrants-from-bengal-and-jharkhand/story-I6h93RtSWowR4Xs0bXnAYJ.html
11-05-2020||India||‘Shouldn’t play politics’: Mamata Banerjee disses Centre at Modi’s conference||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that the Centre should not play politics at a time when the coronavirus pandemic has gripped the country.“We as a state doing our best to combat the virus. The Centre should not play politics in this crucial time. We are surrounded by international borders and other bigger states and have challenges to deal with,” Banerjee said at the video-conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“All the states should be given equal importance and we should work together as Team India,” she said, adding that the federal structure should be respected.The Centre had recently rapped the West Bengal government over its Covid-19 management which, it said, was characterised by a very low rate of testing in proportion to the population, and the highest mortality rate in the country - of 13.2 per cent.The state government, however, said less number of active cases was detected in the initial days due to lack of infrastructure, and this resulted in an apparently high rate of deaths in the state.The Centre had also come down heavily on the Mamata Banerjee government for not allowing movement of goods traffic through border crossings between India and Bangladesh that could jeopardise India’s international commitments to the neighbouring country.In a scathing letter to West Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said that by doing so, West Bengal was not just violating the ministry of home affairs’ orders under Disaster Management Act including the guidelines but also Articles 253, 256 and 257 of the Constitution of India. Article 253 of the Constitution deals with the legislation for giving effect to international agreements while articles 256 and 257 give powers to the Centre for issuing directions to the state that are obligatory for latter.He reminded the state government of lockdown measures issued on May 1 according to which no state/union territory shall stop movement of cargo for cross-border land trade under treaties with neighbouring countries.After this, the West Bengal government suggested that trade between India and Bangladesh can continue through Gede in south Bengal’s Nadia district during the coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-should-not-play-politics-mamata-banerjee-at-video-conference-with-pm-modi/story-CHt3L107ucbYhfHj1ApaNI.html
11-05-2020||India||Six BSF personnel test Covid-19 positive in last 24 hours, force’s tally now at 282||A total of six Border Security Force (BSF) personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, a statement from the BSF indicated on Monday. Among the soldiers who have tested positive for the coronavirus disease, four are from Kolkata and one each from Tripura and Delhi.All the infected BSF personnel are undergoing treatment in designated Covid Health Care hospitals. One Covid-19 positive BSF staff from Delhi, a soldier with BSF’s 126 Battalion is admitted to AIIMS Jhajjar and has almost recovered, the BSF statement read.With the six fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Monday, the total count of BSF personnel who have tested positive for the contagious Covid-19 infection has now risen to 282.On Sunday, the Border Security Force had reported 18 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the force to 276.According to BSF, out of the new cases, 16 were found in Tripura and two cases were reported from national capital Delhi.“18 new cases of Covid-19 have been reported in the Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday- 16 from Tripura and 2 are from Delhi. The total number of active Covid-19 cases in the force now stands at 276,” a BSF official had said.The 16 fresh Covid-19 cases in Tripura were detected in the BSF’s 86th Battalion. Among those who tested positive for the infection, one person was a BSF official; six were women and there were nine children.Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb took to Twitter to announce the latest cases. He also announced that 75 samples from BSF’s 3rd Battalion were tested but all reports emerged negative.Earlier on May 8, 30 BSF personnel had tested positive for the coronavirus disease, including six from Delhi and 24 soldiers from Tripura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-bsf-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-in-last-24-hours-force-s-tally-now-at-282/story-qAcRB7zsWFZjiAqdjJtBxM.html
11-05-2020||India||‘Human nature to want to go home’: PM Modi on migrants at meet with chief ministers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a video conference with chief ministers on Monday, about a week before the third phase of lockdown ends.PM Modi said at the meeting that the government will have to think about moving forward and talked about a holistic approach.“In this entire fight, the world has said that we have been successful in fighting the threat of Covid-19. State governments have played a major role in this fight. They have understood their responsibility and served their roles in countering this threat,” the Prime Minister said.“We stressed that people should stay where they are. But it’s human nature to want to go home and so we had to modify or change our decisions. Despite that, we have to make sure that the disease doesn’t spread and go to villages, that’s our big challenge,” he added talking about the movement of migrants.This is PM Modi’s fifth video-conference with the chief ministers on tackling the Covid-19 outbreak.Home Minister Amit Shah, who was also present in the meeting, highlighted the importance of the Aarogya Setu mobile application and urged the chief ministers to popularise its download as it will help in tracking the spread of the virus.At the previous meetings, the Prime Minister has taken suggestions from chief ministers on the contours and extension of the national lockdown, put in place to check the spread of infections.Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba met state chief secretaries on Sunday and advised them to ensure that “green zones” - areas that are largely Covid-19-free - remain insulated from the spread of the pathogen, according to an official who was present during the interaction and spoke on condition of anonymity. The states were also asked to allow unhindered movement of health care workers, the official added.Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said on Sunday no Covid-19 case has been reported in 10 states and union territories in the last 24 hours (between Saturday and Sunday) and the recovery rate has increased to over 30 per cent, asserting India was “moving fast on the path of success” in the fight against the pandemic.According to health ministry data, 1,736 Covid-19 patients recovered in the last 24 hours - the highest number of recoveries recorded in one day.The Union Health ministry on May 1 classified 733 districts as 130 in the red zone, 284 in the orange zone and 319 in the green zone, taking into consideration incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-nature-to-want-to-go-home-pm-modi-on-migrants-at-meet-with-chief-ministers/story-G9793unSaNIdU402aeGImO.html
11-05-2020||India||184 trains have brought back over 2 lakh migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh: Top state official||In a bid to safely repatriate stranded migrant workers to their native places in Uttar Pradesh, the Ministry of Railways has operated 184 trains amid the Covid-19 lockdown and has brought 2.26 lakh migrant workers from across the country, Additional chief secretary (Home), Uttar Pradesh, Awanish Awasthi told reporters on Monday.Fifty-five more trains will arrive in Uttar Pradesh today with migrant workers from across the country, news agency ANI reported. “Around 1 lakh migrant workers have returned by their own conveyance,” Awasthi said. So far, 184 trains have brought 2.26 lakh migrant workers from other states. 55 more trains will arrive in Uttar Pradesh today. Around 1 lakh migrant workers have returned by their own conveyance: Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi pic.twitter.com/2hu5E3IKe4Since May 1, the railway ministry has operated more than 400 ‘Shramik’ special trains to repatriate migrants workers to their native places amid the coronavirus lockdown.   This comes on a day when the Ministry of Railways issued revised guidelines for ‘Shramik’ special trains on Monday. The ministry has decided to increase the capacity of these special trains from existing 1,200 to over 1,700. As per the guidelines, the capacity of these trains should equal the number of sleeper berths.The Union Home Ministry asked all the states and union territories to cooperate with the railways ministry in running more ‘Shramik’ special trains for the repatriation of migrant workers. Also read: Train ticket booking opens, cheaper gold bond - 4 things launched on May 11Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, in a letter to states, said, “I urge upon you all to allow receiving of all Shramik special trains without any hindrance and facilitate faster movement of stranded migrant workers to their native places”. Bhalla also urged states and union territories to ensure that migrant workers do not resort to walking on roads, rail tracks and make use of the special railway services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-184-trains-have-brought-over-2-lakh-migrant-workers-back-to-uttar-pradesh-top-state-official/story-yOlVergToH5Orzi1iaTrTI.html
11-05-2020||India||Gas leak at Telangana factory, 1 admitted to hospital with breathing issues||Days after the gas leak in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam, a similar incident involving the chlorine gas was reported from a paper mill in Telangana.The Sirpur Papers Mill, where the incident took place on Monday, is located in Asifabad district.At least 20 people were present in the factory when the incident took place. One person is reportedly admitted to hospital with breathing difficulties.According to reports, the chlorine gas leak was reported from one of the three cylinders at the factory.Last week, styrene gas had leaked from the gas plant of LG Polymers in RR Venkatapuram village in Visakhapatnam district in which 11 people were killed.At least 400 people were rushed to the hospital after the incident early on Thursday morning. An investigation was launched into the incident by the Andhra Pradesh government.Sanitisation work is being carried out at the village and nearby areas where the incident happened. The district administration said that people should return only after the sanitisation process is completed and other safety measures are put in place.Experts from New Delhi and other places were closely monitoring the situation at the plant, including the styrene levels and temperature.Visakhapatnam district Collector V Vinay Chand said there was no safety threat at the plant now as the vapour leakage reached zero level.Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who reviewed the incident at this camp residence in Amaravati, was informed that everything was safe in the villages around the LG plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gas-leak-at-telangana-factory-1-admitted-to-hospital-with-breathing-issues/story-mDMwlndGlVVDhtteWBZhYP.html
11-05-2020||India||Nepal summons Indian envoy to protest opening of road to Lipulekh||The Nepal government summoned the Indian envoy on Monday to protest against the construction of a road in Lipulekh area that is claimed by Kathmandu, signalling an intensification of the diplomatic row on the matter.India has on Saturday rejected Nepal’s initial protest against the construction of a road to Lipulekh on the border with China, saying the region is “completely within the territory of India” and both sides could resolve such boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue.People familiar with developments said India’s envoy Vinay Mohan Kwatra was summoned to the foreign ministry in Kathmandu, where foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali handed over a diplomatic note of protest.The foreign ministry also tweeted: “Foreign Minister Hon. @PradeepgyawaliK conveyed Government of Nepal’s position on boundary issues to Ambassador of India to Nepal H.E. Mr. Vinay Mohan Kwatra at a meeting held at MoFA today and handed over a diplomatic note in this regard.”No further details were immediately available. There was no immediate response to the development from Indian officials.The border row erupted months after Nepal was irked by the depiction of Kalapani as part of Uttarakhand in new Indian maps showing the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Nepal had sought talks to address the Kalapani issue but New Delhi rejected Kathmandu’s protest, saying the new maps accurately depict Indian territory.Earlier on Monday, Gyawali said Nepal could not wait for the end of the Covid-19 crisis for holding boundary talks with India. Gyawali, who was summoned by the Parliament’s international relations committee, also said Nepal will hold talks with China after sorting out the issue with India, The Kathmandu Post reported.The parliamentary panel had summoned Gyawali to discuss the opening of the road to Lipulekh by the Indian government last week.“Nepal, India and China are yet to ascertain the tri-junction in Lipulekh. So after talks with India, we will hold talks with China as well,” Gyawal told the committee.“We are ready for talks at any level with India – at the prime minister’s level or foreign secretary-level,” he added.On Saturday, Nepal had expressed regret at the inauguration of the route from Dharchula in Uttarakhand to Lipulekh, with the foreign ministry contending the road “passes through Nepali territory”.Defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated the 80-km road on Friday to curtail the time taken for the pilgrimage to Kailash-Mansarovar. The road ends at Lipulekh Pass, and will help pilgrims avoid dangerous high-altitude routes through Sikkim and Nepal.“The recently inaugurated road section in Pithoragarh district in the state of Uttarakhand lies completely within the territory of India. The road follows the pre-existing route used by the pilgrims of the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had said.India and Nepal have an established mechanism for boundary issues, and the delineation of the border with Nepal is ongoing, Srivastava said. India is also committed to resolving outstanding boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue, he said.Nepal’s foreign ministry had sought talks between the foreign secretaries and Srivastava had said the two side are in the process of scheduling these talks, which would be held after they have dealt with the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-summons-indian-envoy-to-protest-opening-of-road-to-lipulekh/story-OXCVKTo0Mgewms66pOVU2J.html
11-05-2020||India||Dispute over social distancing led to clashes in Telangana, 25 held||The police in Telangana’s Nirmal district arrested 25 people and promulgated prohibitory orders in the communally sensitive Bhainsa town on Monday, following clashes between people belonging to two communities late on Sunday night.According to the police, trouble began when people from one community protested against the other for not following social distancing norms during the ongoing lockdown period.Later at around 11 pm, a person, in a drunken state, belonging to one section allegedly created nuisance in Sivajinagar. This led to clashes between the two groups.As the news got out, Nirmal district superintendent of police C Shashidhar Raju and Karimnagar range Deputy Inspector General P Pramod Kumar rushed to Bhainsa to review the situation.Around 200 and 300 policemen and a rapid action force was deployed for preventing untoward incidents. Commercial establishments remained closed on Monday.“One person was injured in the clashes and a few vehicles got damaged, including window panes of a four-wheeler,” Shashidhar Raju told Hindustan Times. He said the situation was completely under control.“So far, 25 people have been taken into custody. Police pickets posted in the town and prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code have been promulgated in the town. Lockdown will be implemented more strictly in Bhainsa,” the SP said.As the groups attacked each other with stones and sticks, the police, patrolling to enforce the lockdown, entered the scene, dispersed the agitators and brought the situation under control.Bhainsa witnessed large scale violence between two groups at Korbagalli area of the town on January 13 this year, in which at least 10 people and four policemen were injured. Scores of houses were gutted in arson and several vehicles were burnt in the clashes.As many as 59 persons were arrested for their alleged role in the riots and internet services were disconnected in the entire district.“The latest incident is just a stray one, compared to the communal clashes in January,” Shashidhar Raju said.In 2008, communal violence claimed nine lives, including six members of a family in Bhainsa town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dispute-over-social-distancing-results-in-clashes-in-telangana-25-held/story-Z0JU7ywUWcjf86UibPgFQK.html
11-05-2020||India||‘For transparency’: Chhattisgarh’s Bhupesh Baghel gives account of chief minister’s relief fund||Chhattisgarh’s chief minister, Bhupesh Baghel, on Monday said the state has received more than Rs 56 crore towards the relief fund to aid the government in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.Bhupesh Baghel, in a series of tweets, gave an account of the donations received so far.“I am presenting the account of the chief minister’s relief fund among you all. I would like to mention that from March 24 to May 7, a total amount of Rs 56 crore 4 lakh 38 thousand 815 has been received from various donors in the chief minister’s relief fund,” the chief minister tweeted in Hindi.“Out of which Rs 10 crore 25 lakh 30 thousand has been released to all districts of the state for the prevention of corona and assistance to the needy,” he said.Chief minister Baghel also tweeted the reason behind his decision to reveal how much money has been spent from the fund.“If you are expressing so much trust in the government in times of crisis, then it is also my duty to maintain transparency. I am sure I will keep receiving your cooperation in the future as well,” Baghel added. Bagel’s tweets came hours ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with chief ministers at 3pm on tackling the Covid-19 outbreak in the country. At the previous meets, the Prime Minister had taken suggestions from the CMs on the contours and extension of the national lockdown, put in place to contain the infections. PM Modi, officials have told HT, is likely to discuss the further increase in economic activity in the country while also tackling the infections in containment zones.The chief minister’s relief fund is similar to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-Cares) Fund set up by the Centre for receiving donations to aid in government’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic and other crises of similar magnitude in the future.The PM-CARES fund was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March and it invites donations from individuals and institutions. The Prime Minister is the chairperson of the fund and its members include the defence minister, home minister and finance minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-transparency-chhattisgarh-s-bhupesh-baghel-gives-account-of-chief-minister-s-relief-fund/story-sLdNuWKWU11FfVetfRp56M.html
11-05-2020||India||In Bihar, migrants testing positive for Covid-19 pose new challenge||An alarmed Bihar government is gearing up to face the rising number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state, especially after trainloads of mostly asymptomatic migrant labourers came back and many of them tested positive. Bihar has seen the number of Covid-19 cases rise steadily and it has picked up in the last 10 days, coinciding with the return of migrants. There were just 66 cases of the coronavirus disease in the state on April 14 and now it has reached 646, with 119 cases adding from May 5-10, mostly from amongst migrant workers. Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary of the department of health, said out of the 49 people who tested positive on Saturday 44 are migrants and had come back from different parts of the country.Chief minister Nitish Kumar has already directed officials to do random testing in districts and strengthen isolation wards at the block level with more beds and facilities, as the number is set to grow.“The focus has now shifted to the panchayat and block levels, as it is where the migrants will spend their mandatory 21 days at the isolation centres. The figures say that Bihar will need to move more cautiously now with migrants, including those from foreign countries, returning in large numbers,” a minister, who did not want to be named, said.“We got a hint of it long before special trains started running, as some people still managed to reach the state through makeshift arrangements or on foot and later tested positive despite being asymptomatic. Some of the districts reported their first case through migrants and later more cases were detected during contact tracing,” the minister added.The spread has engulfed the entire state—from just 12 districts in Bihar with Covid-19 cases at the end of the first phase of the lockdown to 30 at the end of the second and 37 of the 38 districts midway through the third phase—raising concerns for the government machinery.Bihar has an estimated 40-45-lakh migrant population working across several states, though there is no definite statistics on it. More than 29 lakh migrants had registered with the Bihar government app to avail Rs 1000 assistance to them, though the number is expected to be much higher. “We knew the challenging phase for the state will begin with a large number of migrants returning to their native places and the government has made plans accordingly on the lines of what the state did during Kosi tragedy,” said a senior official of the government. “The chief minister has clearly directed that all facilities should be provided to the migrant labourers so that they also cooperate in respecting the mandatory quarantine for their own good and for the safety of others,” the official cited above said.“He has said that with Covid-19, there was no room for any complacency at any level and the people should also be made aware of the seriousness without creating any scare so that they come forward to cooperate with testing and screening,” the official added.In rural Bihar, the number of households reporting out-migration per 1000 households reporting outmigration was 745 – much higher than the all-India average of 365. In the urban area, it was 614 against the national average of 240, says a study by Tata Institute of Social Sciences’ (TISS) Patna centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-migrants-testing-positive-for-covid-19-pose-new-challenge/story-QOHsl4p3X0cWOCyqzHVAdJ.html
11-05-2020||India||20 migrant workers jump off train in Odisha to evade quarantine||At least 20 migrant workers returning to Odisha on a Shramik Special train from Ahmedabad, a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spot in Gujarat, allegedly jumped off the train in Angul district on Sunday evening to evade the Odisha government’s 28-day mandatory quarantine enforced three days ago.On Sunday evening, the train slowed near a railway bridge at Majhika in Angul district, when around 20 migrant workers jumped off. “Though at least 20 of them had tried to escape, we caught only seven and handed them over to the police,” said Birabara Nayak, the sarpanch of Benagadia gram panchayat.Angul’s superintendent of police (SP) Jagmohan Meena said the seven people belonged to neighbouring Deogarh district. “They’re apprehensive of staying in an institutional quarantine facility for 28 days. They’ve been lodged at a quarantine centre in Angul district,” the SP said.In a separate incident, a bus carrying 30 migrants from Odisha, who were coming home from Tamil Nadu’s Kanchipuram district, dropped 15 of them in Cuttack town on Monday morning instead of taking them to a quarantine centre in Jagatsinghpur district. The authorities put up six of them at a Cuttack college, which has been converted into a quarantine centre, and the remaining nine travelled to Jagatsinghpur district in an auto-rickshaw. The state government had announced three days ago that it would be mandatory for returning migrant workers to be quarantined for 28 days after it took note of a longer incubation period for the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the disease.The return of migrant to Odisha from Gujarat, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka has been blamed for a spike in Covid-19 positive cases over the past fortnight including 300 of the total of 391 reported from the state so far.There have also been incidents of migrants fleeing quarantine centres in Odisha in the past week. For instance, 150 migrants in Ganjam district’s Beguniapada block fled the quarantine centre because of the poor quality of food and lack of potable water in the facility.Some migrants from coastal Bhadrak district, who came back from Gujarat’s Surat, got off the bus several kilometres ahead of the quarantine centre and went directly to their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-odisha-migrant-workers-jump-off-train-to-evade-quarantine/story-04DcfpA7rA1xnXu69bLWHP.html
11-05-2020||India||‘No Covid-19 deaths in last 24 hours,’ says Delhi government; tally at 7,233||Delhi government on Monday announced that the national capital has not seen any new cases of Covid-19 fatalities in the last 24 hours, news agency ANI reported. Three hundred and ten people tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital on Monday.No death due to #COVID19 reported in Delhi in the last 24 hours. 310 persons tested positive in the national capital today; taking the total number of positive cases to 7233. The death toll stands at 73: Delhi Govt pic.twitter.com/nswRDRc22QAccording to Delhi government, the total number of positive cases of coronavirus in the national capital stands at 7,233 while the death toll is at 73. This comes when the national Covid-19 tally breached the 67,000-mark on Monday. India witnessed the biggest Covid-19 spike till date reporting over 4,200 cases of coronavirus and 97 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Monday.According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 67,152. There are 44,029 active coronavirus cases in the country, 20,916 patients have been cured or discharged while 2,206 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have breached the 22,000-mark, highest in the country. A Maharashtra health official told HT that there is some evidence of community transmission of Covid-19 in parts of Mumbai and Maharashtra but the overall picture in the state is that of cluster cases.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold the fifth video-conference on tackling the Covid-19 outbreak with the chief ministers at 3 pm today, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) announced on Sunday. Officials have told HT that Monday’s meet is likely to focus on increasing the economic activity in the country while tackling the Covid-19 infections in the containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-covid-19-deaths-in-last-24-hours-says-delhi-government-tally-at-7-233/story-YPoN10PERStviHsRpZ8RwM.html
11-05-2020||India||Showcause notice issued to Delhi minorities panel chief over controversial social media post, court informed||The Delhi government on Monday informed the high court that a showcause notice has been issued to chairman of the state’s minorities commission for his alleged remarks on social media.Delhi government’s counsel Anupam Srivastava informed the court that Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal had written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on April 30, directing him to initiate action against Zafar-ul-Islam Khan for his Facebook post.The letter by Baijal said that the content of the social media post prima facie appears to be disturbing communal harmony in the city.“The matter is particularly serious considering that one of the functions of the DMC (Delhi Minorities Commission) is to make recommendations for ensuring, maintaining and promoting communal harmony in Delhi,” the letter read.It also asked the chief minister to direct the administrative department to initiate action against Islam.The counsel also told the court that a showcause notice has already been issued to Islam on May 8 based on the Lieutenant Governor’s letter. The court was hearing a plea by an advocate named Alok Alakh Shrivastava who had sought directions to the Delhi government to remove Islam from the chairman’s post.Following submissions, the court said that since the Delhi government is taking action, there is no need to pass any order.A bench of justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal disposed of the plea directing the government to expeditiously decide the matter because Islam is retiring on July 30.In his plea, Shrivastava had said that the social media post made by Islam was provocative, deliberate and seditious, intended to cause disharmony and create a rift in the society.“By making such hateful statement, the Respondent No 4 (Islam) who is holding such a responsible post, has endangered the unity and integrity of the country, tried to tarnish the secular image of India and spread hatred among two communities,” the plea had said. A detailed order in the matter would be later uploaded on the high court’s website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/notice-issued-to-delhi-minorities-panel-chief-over-controversial-social-media-post-court-informed/story-IuF6zZFHoOG02RMx3CEYqI.html
11-05-2020||India||‘Can’t exploit workers, stifle voices’: Rahul Gandhi on labour laws dilution||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, championing the cause of factory workers, on Monday spoke out against the alleged dilution of labour laws by some states and underlined that the battle against coronavirus cannot be an excuse to suppress the voices of millions of workers. “Labour laws are being amended by many states. We are fighting together against Corona[virus], but this cannot be an excuse to trample human rights, allow unsafe workplaces, exploit workers and suppress their voices. We cannot compromise on the basic principles [protecting the rights of workers],” tweeted the Congress leader in Hindi. Earlier, eight political parties wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind protesting the changes to labour laws, including extending the daily working hours from eight to twelve in six States, on the grounds of fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Watch | ‘Deposit Rs 7,500 in poor people’s accounts immediately’: Rahul Gandhi The BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, two states with substantial workforces, have frozen major labour laws, except basic ones, in the hope that businesses will recoup from the blow of the Covid-19 pandemic and create more jobs on a net basis.The changes give industries more flexibility in hiring and firing employees, determining their wages, and reduce their liabilities in terms of providing employee benefits. Some economists welcomed the move for clearing structural bottlenecks, possibly leading to greater investment, creating employment opportunities for migrant workers returning home, and positioning India to be able to take advantage of disruptions in global supply chains.The move, however, also sparked intense criticism from the Opposition, particularly left parties, trade unions including those affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, and civil society activists for undermining worker rights, removing decades-old protective measures and slowly dismantle the welfare architecture.To be sure, 90% of India’s workforce, which is employed in the informal sector, won’t be affected by these changes. These apply to those who are in the organised workforce and registered firms.UP suspended key labour laws for three years on May 6 through an ordinance, even as MP announced on May 7 it was taking a similar course to put all labour laws on hold, barring some provisions of the Factories Act, 1948, for the next 1,000 days. The move comes after the BJP held consultations with stakeholders back in April.Uttarakhand labour minister Harak Singh Rawat said his state too was contemplating “similar moves” to give exemptions to industry to help them deal with losses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-exploit-workers-stifle-voices-rahul-gandhi-on-labour-laws-dilution/story-FKfjfPDizJsQ3kcSdJHevM.html
11-05-2020||India||No Covid-19 pass required for inter-district travel in Rajasthan||People in Rajasthan will not need a pass to travel from one district to another in the state between 7am to 7pm, except for areas under curfew, the government said in the new guidelines issued on Monday.Under the new guidelines, no pass will be required for movement for inter-district and for permissible activities within the districts.The district collector will issue a pass for travel to other states through bus or train and for areas under curfew. For those coming to Rajasthan from other states, the pass issued by the respective state will be valid. If that state asks for no objection certificate (NOC) from authorities in Rajasthan, the concerned district collector will be able to issue NOC. The 14-day quarantine will be mandatory for people coming to Rajasthan from other states.For people going to other states on their own vehicle, the passes will be issued by district collectors, superintendents of police, sub-divisional officers, deputy superintendents of police, tehsildars, regional transport officers and station house officers.Similarly, the district industry officers, superintendents engineer mining and other district level officers of RIICO can issue the pass for department related activities.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot held a day-long video conference with members of Parliament (MPs) and legislators on Sunday and took feedback and suggestions related to the coronavirus pandemic.Majority of MPs and MLAs welcomed the chief minister’s initiative to bring stranded workers and migrants to their homes. They said the decision has helped workers who had been suffering. They suggested arranging additional trains and buses to make this movement smooth. Other suggestions were made to simplify the pass process, arranging institutional quarantines for people coming from other places in the village school or panchayat buildings and adding the names of new labourers to the MGNREGA lists.The elected representatives also demanded improvement in the crop procurement process in agricultural markets, availability of fertilizer and seeds, the supply of drinking water in rural areas during summer season and strengthening of the fodder-water system in cow shelters.Over the demand of MPs and MLAs to remove the farmers’ welfare fee on purchases in agricultural markets, Gehlot said this duty has not been imposed just on traders. He assured everyone that the state government would not let this burden fall on the farmer at any cost.Assembly Speaker Dr CP Joshi, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore and former Union minister PP Chaudhary were also present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-covid-19-pass-required-for-inter-district-travel-in-rajasthan/story-Y2T59MjJmOVW55qrs1mTxH.html
11-05-2020||India||Storm in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon kills five people||Five people, including a woman, died in the last 24 hours due to a storm in Kumaon, Uttarakhand. Several kutcha (uncemented) houses and electric poles were damaged due to the storm, incurring loss to the government as well as to the public, an official said.A 42-year-old woman died on the spot in Kichha tehseel of Rudrapur district while she had gone on the terrace to collect clothes. The storm led to a wall collapse which resulted in her death. Her daughter also suffered serious injuries and has been admitted to a hospital in Haldwani.Another incident happened in Kichha when a 39-year-old biker lost control while driving due to the heavy storm. He fell on the road and sustained severe injuries. The man was rushed to the nearest hospital but doctors declared him brought dead. He worked as a manager at a private school.Also read: Western disturbance brings dust storm, thunderstorm in northwest IndiaIn Bazpur, a tree fell on a 45-year-old employee of a workshop while he was on his way back home. He was crushed by the tree and died on the spot. A labourer, aged 45, died on the spot when a wall of a rice mill collapsed on him at the time of the storm.In Nainital, an 18-year-old youth in Gaulapar area was crushed to death when a tree fell on his thatched house due to the storm. He hailed from Aligarh area of Uttar Pradesh.Several kutcha houses and electric poles collapsed in state’s US Nagar district resulting loss to public and Uttarakhand Power Corporation Ltd. In Kumaon, fruit growers suffered huge losses due to the storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-people-including-one-woman-killed-in-storm-in-uttarakhand-s-kumaon/story-qGhYAFvQPaWsq7khfpBuEL.html
11-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: SC forms 3-member team to look into J&K 4G mobile internet case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court forms 3-member team to look into J&K 4G mobile internet caseThe Supreme Court on Monday constituted a three-member committee to look into demand for allowing 4G mobile internet in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. There is a nationwide shutdown in place till May 17 to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Read more ‘Some evidence of community spread of Covid-19 in parts of Maharashtra’: State health official There is some evidence of community transmission of Covid-19 in parts of Mumbai and Maharashtra, state disease surveillance officer Dr Pradip Awate told HT. However, the overall picture in Maharashtra is that of cluster cases, the official said. Read moreCovid-19: As Dharavi inches towards 900-mark, civic authorities plan special hospital for areaThe Dharavi slum continues to be a major Covid-19 hotspot in Mumbai, recording 26 new cases on Sunday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 patients in Dharavi rose to 859. Twenty nine people have died of the disease till now, authorities said. Read moreThree in Chamba test positive for Covid-19 after meeting infected truck-driver over drinksThree people, who disregarded social distancing norms and met a Covid-19 patient over drinks, tested positive for the coronavirus disease in Chamba on Sunday. Chamba deputy commissioner Vivek Bhatia said the trio had attended a party with a truck-driver who had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 6. Read moreUGC issues helpline, email address for redressal of grievances related to Covid-19After issuing guidelines for the examination and academic calendar on April 29, the University Grants Commission (UGC) on Sunday requested all educational institutes to establish a cell for handling grievances of the students related to the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreKnew Sachin would hit over mid-wicket: Wasim Akram reveals plan that turned 1999 India vs Pakistan TestFormer left-arm pacer Wasim Akram, who was the captain of Pakistan during their historic tour of India in 1999, recalled the pulsating Chennai Test match, revealing how he and Saqlain Mushtaq decided to take a risk against an in-form Sachin Tendulkar which luckily paid off. Read moreNational Technology Day: Here are 5 things you should know about itIndia is observing its 29th National Technology Day today. The day, which was first observed on May 11, 1999, aims to commemorate the scientific and technological achievements of Indian scientists and engineers. Read moreKartik Aaryan’s mom scolds him for not sharing Mother’s Day post, he says ‘I get lakhs for each post, will you pay?’ WatchAs almost the entire Bollywood fraternity flooded social media with pictures of their moms on Mother’s Day, Kartik Aaryan missed out on the opportunity and this did not go down well with his mother Mala Tiwari. Read moreNetizens are waiting to walk down the aisle to say I do to these thingsThe Internet is buzzing with a trend that you may highly relate to if you’re itching to go out. After sitting at home for quite a long time, many of us are suffering from lockdown blues and daydreaming about all those places we would frequent - like a regular hangout spot or the mall on weekends or even a movie here or there. Read more Anushka Sharma, Katrina Kaif, Alia Bhatt: Throwback to the most stunning celebrity looks in whiteThe colour white has always remained a favourite in fashion be it for the maximalists or the minimalists. As they say, you can never go wrong with the white and many designer labels across the world have used the colour for numerous collections. Read moreWatch: Will PM-CMs decide on lockdown exit & the man living at airport for 2 months?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sc-forms-3-member-team-to-look-into-j-k-4g-mobile-internet-case-and-all-the-latest-news/story-hOOXieLNUIsOzMtaejuYsI.html
11-05-2020||India||Train ticket booking opens, cheaper gold bond: 4 things launched on May 11||A week before the third phase of Covid-19 lockdown ends, some major changes are being implemented by the government from Monday.• The railways announced that people can start booking tickets for 15 trains which will start operating from May 12. Booking for reservation in these trains will start at 4 pm on Monday. The Indian Railways has announced that it will gradually resume passenger train services and ask passengers to arrive at the station at least an hour before departure. Initially, the all air-conditioned services will begin on 15 Rajdhani routes and the fare would be equivalent to that of the super-fast train, it said. The special trains will run from New Delhi to Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi. Shares of Indian Railway Catering And Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) jumped five per cent in early trade on Monday after the announcement of resumption of train ticket booking.• The second tranche of government-run Sovereign Gold Bond (SGB) scheme of this fiscal year will open for subscription on Monday and will close on May 15. The issue price of the Series II of sovereign gold bond scheme 2020-21 has been fixed at Rs 4,590 per gram and its date of issuance is May 19. Those applying online and making payment through digital mode will get a discount of Rs 50 per gram. One unit of the bond, considered one of the best alternatives to invest in gold, is equal to one gram of the yellow metal and was priced at Rs 4,639 for the first tranche of FY’20. According to Reserve Bank of India (RBI) data, the first tranche of sovereign gold bond for this fiscal saw a record subscription of 17.73 lakh units worth Rs 822 crore. This was the highest ever subscription since the issue in October 2016.• The country’s largest lender State Bank of India (SBI) said that the second installment of Rs 500 had been deposited in the accounts of female Jan Dhan Yojana account holders under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. It also provided a schedule for withdrawal of funds by them so that social distancing norms are not breached. According to this scheduled released by the government, those with account number ending in 8 or 9 can withdraw the money on May 11.• State-owned Union Bank of India on Friday announced reduction in its marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR) by up to 15 basis points across all tenors, effective May 11. The one-year MCLR has been revised downwards by 5 basis points (bps) to 7.70 per cent from 7.75 per cent. Overnight MCLR has been reduced by 15 bps to 7.15 per cent from 7.30 per cent and one-month MCLR by 10 bps to 7.25 per cent. The lender has reduced three-month and six-month MCLR by 5 bps to 7.40 per cent and 7.55 per cent, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-ticket-booking-opens-cheaper-gold-bond-4-things-launched-on-may-11/story-I0gibitvZyCiCcvn7qTAhM.html
11-05-2020||India||On National Technology Day, PM says technology is helping many in making world free from Covid-19||On the occasion of National Technology Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took to Twitter and emphasised the significance of technology. The prime minister said that technological innovations are helping many in making the world free from coronavirus. “I salute all those at the forefront of research and innovation on ways to defeat Coronavirus,” PM Modi tweeted. He hoped for further harnessing of technology for the creation of a “healthier and better planet”.Today, technology is helping many in the efforts to make the world free from COVID-19. I salute all those at the forefront of research and innovation on ways to defeat Coronavirus. May we keep harnessing technology in order to create a healthier and better planet.“Today, technology is helping many in the efforts to make the world free from COVID-19. I salute all those at the forefront of research and innovation on ways to defeat Coronavirus. May we keep harnessing technology in order to create a healthier and better planet,” PM’s tweet read. On National Technology Day, the prime minister saluted all those who are leveraging technology to bring a positive difference in the lives of others. He also lauded Indian scientists for their exceptional feat of successfully conducting nuclear tests at Pokhran on this (May 11) in 1998.Also read: 5 things to know about National Technology Day The tests in Pokhran in 1998 also showed the difference a strong political leadership can make. Here is what I had said about Pokhran, India’s scientists and Atal Ji’s remarkable leadership during one of the #MannKiBaat programmes. pic.twitter.com/UuJR1tLtrL“On National Technology Day, our nation salutes all those who are leveraging technology to bring a positive difference in the lives of others. We remember the exceptional achievement of our scientists on this day in 1998. It was a landmark moment in India’s history,” PM Modi posted. “The tests in Pokhran in 1998 also showed the difference a strong political leadership can make,” the prime minister stated in another tweet.National Technology Day is observed every year in India on May 11 to commemorate the scientific and technological achievements of scientists and engineers in the country. It was first observed on May 11, 1999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/technology-is-helping-many-to-make-world-free-from-covid-19-pm-modi-s-message-on-national-technology-day/story-E3V9WL7e1mEiacKnITfSVJ.html
11-05-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray files nomination for Maharashtra legislative council poll||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, accompanied by wife Rashmi and sons Aaditya and Tejas, filed his nomination papers for the Maharashtra Legislative Council election on Monday. He becomes the second member from the Thackeray family to contest an election after his son and minister Aaditya, who contested assembly polls in October 2019. With Congress deciding to withdraw one of its candidates from the upcoming Legislative Council polls on Sunday evening, the elections to the nine seats will be unopposed. Thackeray will be elected to the Upper House of the state legislature without an election being held.Senior leaders from the Shiv Sena, Sanjay Raut, Subhash Desai, Eknath Shinde, among others, were also present with the CM at the Vidhan Bhawan. Deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar, NCP’s Jayant Patil. Congress leaders Ashok Chavan and Balasaheb Thorat were also there to lend support.Besides Thackeray, Shiv Sena’s Neelam Gorhe also filed her nomination papers. Gorhe is the deputy chairperson of the Legislative Council. On April 30, the Governor shut the nomination door on Thackeray and requested the Election Commission to hold elections for nine seats to the state legislative council at the earliest to end the political uncertainty in the state.Thackeray, who took oath on November 28, has time till May 27 to get elected as a member of either the assembly or council.NCP’s Amol Mitkari and Shashikant Shinde also filed their nomination papers. Congress’s lone candidate Rajesh Rathod will file his nomination papers later in the afternoon. The Bharatiya Janata Party has already fielded four candidates, who filed their nomination last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-files-nomination-for-state-legislative-council-election/story-7JzyeJxCyNVC4t5ZM1hcJL.html
11-05-2020||India||Migrant worker from Assam gives birth in Bengal on Mother’s Day, names boy Covid||Aklima Bibi and her husband Ataur Rahman, who left Assam to work as daily-wage labourers in neighbouring north Bengal, are eagerly waiting to return home in a state government vehicle soon amid the easing of lockdown restrictions, which were enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.It is a privilege stranded migrants seldom enjoy. The Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in Bengal has, however, decided to make an exception because the couple will be carrying Covid, their first child born on Sunday morning, back home.The state government will bear all the hospital expenses for the birth of Covid in a bid to celebrate Mother’s Day on Sunday.Bibi (21), who was in her advanced stage of pregnancy, was stopped, along with her husband and some other labourers, on Sunday, when they were found trying to sneak into Assam on the back of a truck. Police personnel, who had stopped the vehicle at Ethelbari checkpoint in Bengal’s Alipurduar district, and some healthcare staff rushed Bibi to Birpara General Hospital in central Dooars, as she was writhing in labour pain. The doctors and nurses at the hospital named the baby boy Covid after the raging pandemic that has brought life to a standstill across the world.The labourers were travelling from Jalpaiguri district’s Binnaguri to Bhumabari in lower Assam’s Kokrajhar district. “Some police personal and healthcare staff took Bibi to the hospital, where the baby was born,” said Amitava Maity, superintendent of police (SP), Alipurduar. “We contacted the Kokrajhar SP immediately after we stopped the truck. It’s a proud moment for us, as we could help a woman give birth to a baby on Mother’s Day,” said Maity. Covid’s parents are impressed with the West Bengal Police.“My wife could give birth safely because the police helped us. They gave us baby soaps, clothes, food and some money as well. I shall never forget their kind gesture,” said Rahman. “We had a wrong notion about policemen. Sunday’s incident has changed that perception for good,” he added.“The baby was born at 11.25am on Sunday, and weighs 2.44 kg. The mother and the baby are doing fine. All hospital expenses are being borne by the state health department,” said Puran Sharma, chief medical officer of health, Alipurduar district.“The state administration will send the couple home in an ambulance after the woman gets discharged from the hospital,” said a senior district official, who did not want to be identified.The other stranded labourers have been sent to Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-worker-from-assam-gives-birth-in-bengal-on-mother-s-day-names-boy-covid/story-0igqQdHP5rFvMTVFQt6TfL.html
11-05-2020||India||From evidence of Covid-19 community spread in Maharashtra to PM’s meet with CMs: Top updates||Coronavirus cases continue to rise unabated in the country. India’s Covid-19 cases breached the 67,152 mark on Monday. Amid the nationwide coronavirus lockdown, which will come to an end on May 17, the government has decided to start some interstate passenger trains from May 12. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with chief ministers later in the day over the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country.Here are the top developments:1. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold the fifth video-conference on tackling the Covid-19 outbreak with the chief ministers at 3 pm today, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) announced on Sunday. Officials have told HT that Monday’s meet is likely to focus on increasing the economic activity in the country while tackling the Covid-19 infections in the containment zones.2. The Union Home Ministry has asked all the states and union territories to cooperate with railways in running more ‘Shramik’ special trains for the repatriation of migrant workers to their native places. Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, in a letter to states, said, “I urge upon you all to allow receiving of all Shramik special trains without any hindrance and facilitate faster movement of stranded migrant workers to their native places”.3. The Ministry of Railways on Monday issued revised guidelines for ‘Shramik’ special trains and decided to increase the capacity of these special trains from existing 1,200 to over 1,700. As per the guidelines, the capacity of these trains should equal the number of sleeper berths.4. Some evidence of community transmission of Covid-19 in parts of Mumbai and Maharashtra is found, Maharashtra disease surveillance officer Dr Pradip Awate told HT. However, the overall picture in the state is that of cluster cases, the official said.5. India witnessed the biggest Covid-19 spike till date reporting over 4,200 cases of the coronavirus and 97 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Monday. The southern state of Tamil Nadu overtook Delhi as the third worst-affected state with 7,204 coronavirus cases. The national capital has recorded 6,923 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-of-latest-covid-19-developments-from-evidence-of-covid-19-community-spread-in-maharashtra-to-pm-s-meet-with-chief-ministers/story-sJ8dMXFmZcXcsKgegwNz3L.html
11-05-2020||India||Supreme Court forms 3-member team to look into J&K 4G mobile internet case||The Supreme Court on Monday constituted a three-member committee to look into demand for allowing 4G mobile internet in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. There is a nationwide shutdown in place till May 17 to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Secretary of Union home ministry, chief secretary of J&K and secretary of ministry of communication will make up the three-member team.The petitioners have argued that 4G speed was essential for healthcare, education, trade and business in the union territory during this hour of crisis due to coronavirus.Officials in Jammu and Kashmir contend that restoration of 4G services could give rise to anti-national activities and militancy.Responding to the petition for restoration of 4G services, the Jammu and Kashmir administration, on April 30, told the top court that right to access the internet is not a fundamental right and the degree of access for exercising free speech or for carrying on any trade or business can be curtailed.In a judgment passed on January 10, the apex court had held that access to information and the freedom of trade and commerce via the internet are fundamental rights under the Constitution of India. It had, therefore, ordered the central government and J&K administration to periodically review the orders restricting Internet services in J&K||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-forms-3-member-team-to-look-into-j-k-4g-mobile-internet-case/story-fVKvYaioZBMJ5f7c5ajeBM.html
11-05-2020||India||Railways allows more passengers, three stops for Shramik Specials||Indian Railways on Monday approved an increase in the number of passengers allowed on board Shramik Special trains it is running for migrant workers returning home after being stranded by the post-Covid-19 lockdown, and allowed the trains to make three stops en route to their destinations.Shramik Specials, which have so far been running without any stops on the way, are now allowed carry up to 1,700 people. The special trains have 24 coaches, each with 72 seats. Until now, only 54 people have been allowed in each coach, with the middle berth left empty to maintain social distancing, meaning each train carried about 1,200 passengers. According to the new guidelines issued by Indian Railways, a copy of which was reviewed by Hindustan Times, a train’s capacity should now be equal to the number of sleeper berths it has.The Union home ministry, meanwhile, asked all states and Union territories to cooperate with the railways in running more Shramik Special trains, which started on May 1 after state governments requested the Centre to facilitate the return of migrant workers stranded in various parts of the country because of the lockdown imposed on March 25 for the Covid-19 pandemic. “I urge upon you all to allow receiving of all Shramik Special trains without any hindrance and facilitate faster movement of stranded migrant workers to their native places,” a letter written by home secretary Ajay Bhalla to state and Union Territory administrations said. He also asked states and Union territories to ensure that migrant workers do not resort to walking on the roads and rail tracks and use the special trains for travel home.The developments came a day after railway minister Piyush Goyal said Indian Railways had geared up to run 300 trains a day to ferry migrant labourers to their hometowns. He also appealed to the states to ramp up efforts to ensure these workers reach their destinations across the country in the next three-four days.“The minister has appealed to all states, especially states that have allowed very few trains (so far)...Same was discussed in the home secretary’s VC (video conference) with states yesterday (Sunday), and he has written a letter to them. The home minister (Amit Shah), in particular, has appealed to West Bengal, which has very low numbers (of trains that it has approved),” a railway ministry spokesperson said. According to the ministry, West Bengal, which has a significant number of migrant labourers, has allowed two trains so far, and later approved two special trains each from Punjab and Tamil Nadu, three from Karnataka and one from Telangana. West Bengal has previously denied that it was dragging its feet in facilitating the return of migrants home Until May 11, a total of 468 Shramik Special trains had run from various states. Of them, 363 reached their destinations: Andhra Pradesh (1 train), Bihar (100 trains), Himachal Pradesh (1 train), Jharkhand (22 trains), Madhya Pradesh (30 trains), Maharashtra (3 trains), Odisha (25 trains), Rajasthan (4 trains), Telangana (2 trains), Uttar Pradesh (172 trains), West Bengal (2 trains) and Tamil Nadu (1 train). The remaining 105 were in transit, the ministry said. Experts have suggested that the total number of stranded migrants is far more than government estimates. According to the Economic Survey 2016-17 that used new metrics to give updated data on migration, there was an annual interstate migration flow of close to 9 million from 2011 to 2016 in a “circular” fashion (to and from), based on the data from the railways. In the first week of April, a status report submitted by the Centre to the Supreme Court said a little over a million migrant workers and others were housed at 26,476 relief and active shelter camps across the country. Of them, 630,000 were in government camps and the rest in those run by non-government organisations.The railways will also begin passenger services gradually with trains to 15 destinations from May 12, the government announced on Sunday, green-lighting the resumption of these operations close to two months after it stopped them as part of a strategy to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease.Bookings for these trains — all of them will start from the New Delhi Railway Station — will begin at 4pm on Monday only on the website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC).These trains will run to Dibrugarh (Assam), Agartala (Tripura), Howrah (West Bengal), Patna (Bihar), Bilaspur (Chhattisgarh), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Bhubaneswar (Odisha), Secunderabad (Telangana), Bengaluru (Karnataka), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Thiruvananthapuram (Kerala), Madgaon (Goa), Mumbai Central (Maharashtra), Ahmedabad (Gujarat) and Jammu Tawi (Jammu and Kashmir).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-allows-up-to-1-700-passengers-in-shramik-specials-three-stoppages/story-gcGKDR49etBWtS4ducF5pK.html
11-05-2020||India||2 suspected Uttarakhand Covid-19 patients sent home before test reports||Two suspected patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were discharged from a hospital in Uttarakhand’s US Nagar and sent to home quarantine before their reports were received on Saturday. Both of them tested positive for the respiratory disease. They have been now sent to the Covid-19 hospital in Haldwani. Neeraj Khairwal, US Nagar’s district magistrate, has ordered an inquiry into the matter.“This is a case of direct dereliction of duty and a serious matter. I have ordered an inquiry into the case and action will be taken accordingly against the accused health officials. People who came into their contact after they were sent home have also been kept in isolation now,” Khairwal said.The two patients from Mahtosh village of Gadarpur had come from Maharashtra on a three-wheeler on Wednesday. They were intercepted by Pulbhatta Police in Kichha while crossing the inter-state border.Health officials checked them and sent them to Pantnagar for quarantine. Later, they were shifted to the Rudrapur district hospital for isolation.Doctors discharged them on Friday evening when the sample reports received from Dehradun said their samples had tested negative. But their test results positive came on Saturday.Both the patients were then called back to the hospital and put under isolation. Later, they were shifted to the Covid-19 hospital in Haldwani and others who came into their contact were identified and quarantined.“It happened due to confusion. We receive sample reports daily from Dehradun. Nodal officer of these Covid-19 patients was at Radha Swamy Satsang quarantine centre on Kichha road on Friday when the reports were received,” Dr TD Rakholia, chief medical superintendent (CMS) of the district hospital, said.Dr Rakholia said the nodal officer received a message that all the reports were normal following which he asked his staff that quarantined people should be discharged.“Quarantined people are also creating problems by pressurising us to discharge them immediately for home quarantine. In confusion, the two patients were sent to home quarantine. We will take care of such cases in future and it won’t happen again,” he said.He said the nodal officer, a physician, is overburdened with work.“He has to visit all the quarantine centres and has to sit in the district hospital also. The mistake was unintentional,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-suspected-uttarakhand-covid-19-patients-sent-home-before-test-reports/story-QIGzEgovUzyTNDDK8BqDqJ.html
11-05-2020||India||Railways revises guidelines for ‘Shramik’ trains, allows more passengers||The Railways ministry has modified guidelines for ‘Shramik’ special trains, which ferry migrant labourers from various states during the Covid-19 lockdown.The ministry has also decided to increase the capacity of these special trains from existing 1,200 to more than 1,700. The revised guidelines state that the capacity of these trains should be equal to the number of sleeper berths.The railway zones have also been asked to provide three stoppages in the destination state other than the final stop, at the request of the state governments.Also Watch | ‘Shramik Special’ trains arranged for migrants, students amid lockdown The ministry has also appealed to all states, especially whose which have allowed very few trains, to give approvals liberally. The issue was discussed in Home Secretary’s meeting with states on Sunday and he has written a letter to them.Home Minister Amit Shah has appealed to West Bengal in particular which has very low number.In his letter, Home Ministry Ajay Bhalla said that all the states and union territories should cooperate with railways in running more ‘Shramik’ special trains for migrant workers.He also asked states and union territories to ensure that migrant workers do not resort to walking on roads, rail tracks and use available special trainsThe Indian Railways has operated 428 ‘Shramik’ special trains since May 1 and ferried home more over five lakh migrants stranded in various parts of the country amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown.Till May 9, out of the 287 trains which had terminated, 127 terminated in Uttar Pradesh, 87 in Bihar, 24 in Madhya Pradesh, 20 in Odisha, 16 in Jharkhand, four in Rajasthan, three in Maharashtra, two each in Telangana and West Bengal, and one each in Andhra Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, the officials further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-revises-guidelines-for-shramik-trains-allows-more-passengers/story-q1GdlSG7Tcl6DGRteDqFdN.html
11-05-2020||India||‘Some evidence of community spread of Covid-19 in parts of Maharashtra’: State health official||There is some evidence of community transmission of Covid-19 in parts of Mumbai and Maharashtra, state disease surveillance officer Dr Pradip Awate told HT. However, the overall picture in Maharashtra is that of cluster cases, the official said. “We are getting clusters of coronavirus cases in Mumbai and in the entire state of Maharashtra. There is some evidence of community spread not only in Mumbai but in other parts of the state but the overall picture is that we are getting clusters of cases,” Awate said. ALSO WATCH | Covid spurt in Mumbai: Official admits ‘some evidence’ of community spreadOn the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country’s financial capital, Awate said Mumbai’s case is very different as compared to other regions in the country. It is densely populated and has a distinct socio-economic significance. Also read: Trains to start tomorrow, booking from today. Here are 10 things to know“Not only is it the capital of the Maharashtra but its socio-economic location is also quite different from many other metros in India. It has more population density. 20,000 people are living here per square kilometre, so that is one of the reasons why Mumbai is throwing so many Covid-19 cases,” he said.  With respect to cases of community transmission, Dr Awate called for an in-depth analysis of each and every case.“We need to find out the linkage of each and every case, it’s travel history, likely exposure and all those things,” he said. Maharashtra continues to lead the national Covid-19 tally with over 22,000 coronavirus cases. The state has recorded 832 deaths so far while 4199 patients have recovered from the disease. Mumbai alone has reported more than 12,000 Covid-19 cases.  Thane and Pune are also among the top Covid-19 affected regions in the state. The number of coronavirus cases in the country breached the 67,000-mark on Monday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 67,152. There are 44,029 active coronavirus cases in the country, 20,916 patients have been cured or discharged while 2,206 people have died from the deadly contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evidence-of-community-transmission-in-parts-of-mumbai-and-state-maharashtra-health-official/story-EScaebHCljKHkCOGysJhxK.html
11-05-2020||India||PM’s virtual meet: Maha CM likely to discuss extension of lockdown and trains for migrants||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to suggest an extension of ongoing lockdown 3:0 restrictions, which were further extended from May 4 for 14 days in 130 districts across the country that have emerged as coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspots, till end-May during the CMs’ video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi slated to be held on Monday afternoon.The CM will push for enforcement of stricter norms for red zones and implementation of a few more relaxations in orange and green zones.Thackeray is expected to draw the PM’s attention to the plight of stranded migrant workers and demand for their evacuation at the earliest by special trains.Maharashtra has recorded over 10,000 Covid-19 positive cases in the last 10 days, as the overall tally rose to 22,171 and 832 deaths till Sunday evening.The state authorities are facing a massive challenge to ensure restrictions in the containment zones such as Mumbai’s congested Dharavi slums and parts of Pune. The visiting central teams have also raised a similar concern.Earlier, CM Thackeray had hinted at extending the lockdown till end-May in both Mumbai and Pune Metropolitan Regions, which have emerged as the epicentre of Covid-19 pandemic in Maharashtra.“The CM has been urging the Centre to arrange special trains to repatriate stranded migrant labourers at the earliest. However, a few states are reluctant to take back the migrants,” said a state government official.Maharashtra government is also expected to request for the deployment of central forces in the containment zones in a bid to relieve the stressed state police force.Thackeray, in his address via Facebook Live on Saturday, had said that he might ask for the deployment of additional force from the Centre as many state police personnel have taken ill due to Covid-19-related stress. “We’ll ask for deployment of an additional security force from the Centre, if required,” the CM had said.PM Modi is expected to discuss the extension of lockdown and also an alternative exit plan by opening up economic activities across the country, which have been suspended since March 25 to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-s-virtual-meet-maha-cm-likely-to-discuss-extension-of-lockdown-and-trains-for-migrants/story-WtR2lbd5sANnr5oYv17jVP.html
11-05-2020||India||Badrinath’s chief priest tests negative for Covid-19 twice, reaches Joshimath ahead of portal opening||The chief priest of the Badrinath temple has reached Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, days ahead of the opening of the portals of the shrine, after testing negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and completing two weeks of institutional quarantine.The portals of Badrinath shrine is scheduled to open at 4:30am on May 15.Ravindra Singh Negi, Chamoli’s district information officer, said the chief priest of the Badrinath shrine reached Joshimath on Saturday.“He, along with other priests, will go to Pandukeshwar on May 11 and from there, they will reach Badrinath by May 13 before the portals of the shrine open on May 15,” said Negi.Negi said the priest has completed his quarantine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh and was discharged only after testing negative for Covid-19 twice.Manujendra Shah, the king of the Tehri royal family who is considered the ‘Bolanda Badri’ or talking Lord Badri, had on April 20 changed the date of opening of the portals of Badrinath shrine as the chief priest was under the quarantine after returning from Kerala. This is the first time in history that the dates for the opening of portals of the shrines have been changed.“Only the chief priest or I have the authority of touching the idols and performing the prayers and the prayers of Badrinath shrine are performed following South Indian rituals as the chief priest comes from Kerala,” Shah had said while announcing the change of date.“We did not want someone else from northern India to perform the prayers as the rituals are not the same, which was another reason for changing the dates. With the new dates, the chief priest would have completed the quarantine period,” he said. One of the most visited pilgrimage centres of India, Badrinath is one of the Char Dhams or the four main pilgrimage centres of the Hindus located in Garhwal hills. The Badrinath Temple is along the banks of the Alaknanda River in Chamoli district at a height of over 10,000 feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badrinath-s-chief-priest-tests-negative-for-covid-19-twice-reaches-joshimath-ahead-of-portal-opening/story-yPzwCyD7xRNzVmSBGeTqVM.html
11-05-2020||India||Former PM Manmohan Singh developed fever after new medicine, condition stable: Sources||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh’s condition is stable and he is under observation at Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), sources in the hospital said on Monday.The 87-year-old Congress leader was taken to AIIMS on Sunday night.“Dr Manmohan Singh was admitted for observation and investigation after he developed a febrile reaction to a new medication,” a source said.“He is being investigated to rule out other causes of fever and is being provided with care as needed. He is stable and under the care of a team of doctors at the cardiothoracic centre of AIIMS,” the source added.Several political leaders, including Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, enquired about Manmohan Singh’s health and wished him a speedy recovery.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot also tweeted about his health.“Much worried to know former PM Dr Manmohan Singh ji has been admitted to AIIMS. I wish him speedy recovery and pray for his good health and long life,” Gehlot tweeted.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also expressed his concern about Singh’s health.“Hope he makes a full recovery soon. All of India is praying for our former PM,” said Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-pm-manmohan-singh-developed-fever-after-new-medicine-condition-stable-sources/story-PN8YW3DqFXKc1iekeAnfFK.html
11-05-2020||India||Carcass of tigress found in Assam’s Kaziranga; death likely due to infighting||Authorities in Assam’s Kaziranga National Park found the carcass of a female Royal Bengal Tiger inside the park on Sunday.P Siva Kumar, the park’s director, confirmed the death and said the cause of death of the tigress was likely due to infighting. The carcass, with its skin intact, was found in the Bagori range of the park.Forest officials and veterinarians conducted the post-mortem examination of the tigress, which had died six to seven days ago, in the afternoon.This is the second tiger death reported in the park this year.Last month, the carcass of an adult tiger was found near Mihibeel in the Kohora range of the park. Old age and infighting was the cause of death.On Saturday, forest officials had found the carcass of an adult male rhino in Agaratoli range of the park with its horn missing.Recovery of empty AK47 cartridges at the spot led forest officials to surmise that the poaching could have been done by some insurgent group in the state.Kaziranga, which is the largest habitat of one-horned rhinos, is home to a total of 121 Royal Bengal Tigers.Though it is peak tourist season, all national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and zoos in Assam have been closed since March 16 as a precautionary measure against the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/carcass-of-tigress-found-in-assam-s-kaziranga-death-likely-due-to-infighting/story-MkjqKBzuHecXkBxHX50cNJ.html
11-05-2020||India||Mulayam Singh Yadav complains of stomach pain, in hospital again||Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav was admitted to Lucknow’s Medanta Hospital on Sunday night with a pain in his abdomen a day after he was discharged from hospital.“A team of doctors is keeping a watch on his condition. A bulletin on his health would be issued in the evening,” Dr Rakesh Kapoor, the director of Medanta Lucknow, said.This is the second time in the last five days that Mulayam Singh Yadav had to be hospitalised.The 80-year-old leader was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday and discharged on Saturday. He was said to be suffering from chronic constipation and had undergone colonoscopy.“There is swelling in his intestines but he is stable and should recover soon. Gastro-surgeons are monitoring his health,” Dr Kapoor had said earlier.Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Lohia chief Shivpal Singh Yadav has said Mulayam Singh Yadav’s health was fine and urged people to pray for his long life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mulayam-singh-yadav-complains-of-stomach-pain-in-hospital-again/story-xwVez0Pe9PIjTdKazpueWK.html
11-05-2020||India||‘Same should follow with road, air transport’: Chidambaram on Centre’s rail service move||Former Union finance minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday welcomed Centre’s move to start operating some interstate passenger trains from May 12 amid the coronavirus lockdown.“The same modest opening should be started with road transport and air transport,” Chidambaram said in a tweet.He said that opening road, rail and air services for passengers and goods is the only way to commence economic and commercial activity in the country.“We welcome the decision of the government to cautiously start operations of inter state passenger trains,” Chidambaram’s tweet read.Also read: Trains to start tomorrow, booking from today. Here are 10 things to knowWe welcome the decision of the government to cautiously start operations of inter state passenger trains.The same modest opening should be started with road transport and air transport.The Central government on Sunday announced that 15 interstate passenger trains will commence operations from May 12 after the services were halted in March due to the enforcement of the nationwide coronavirus lockdown.“Indian Railways plans to gradually restart passenger train operations from 12th May, 2020, initially with 15 pairs of trains. These trains will be run as special trains from New Delhi Station connecting 15 important cities of the country,” the railways ministry announced in a tweet on Sunday.The trains will operate from New Delhi connecting Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi.The process of ticket reservation for passengers will begin at 4pm today via online booking service provided on the IRCTC website. Passengers will be required to wear masks and observe all social distancing and precautionary measures during their journey. They will be screened by the authorities at the station and only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed. The resumption of passenger trains will help those who have been stranded. This is also for those who need to get back to work and have been stuck since the lockdown, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/p-chidambaram-welcomes-centre-s-rail-service-move-says-same-should-be-done-with-road-air-transport/story-usxPmeZxH48Mns2aNIZEuL.html
11-05-2020||India||Centre asks states to cooperate with railways in running more ‘Shramik’ trains||The Union Home Ministry has asked all the states and union territories to cooperate with railways in running more ‘Shramik’ special trains for migrant workers.“I urge upon you all to allow receiving of all Shramik special trains without any hindrance and facilitate faster movement of stranded migrant workers to their native places,” Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said in a letter to states.In the letter, he also asked states and union territories to ensure that migrant workers do not resort to walking on roads, rail tracks and use available special trainsThe Indian Railways has operated 428 ‘Shramik’ special trains since May 1 and ferried home more than 4.5 lakh migrants stranded in various parts of the country amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, officials said on Sunday.Also read| ‘Same should follow with road, air transport’: Chidambaram on Centre’s rail service moveTill May 9, out of the 287 trains which had terminated, 127 terminated in Uttar Pradesh, 87 in Bihar, 24 in Madhya Pradesh, 20 in Odisha, 16 in Jharkhand, four in Rajasthan, three in Maharashtra, two each in Telangana and West Bengal, and one each in Andhra Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, the officials further said.These trains have ferried migrants to cities such as Tiruchchirappalli, Titlagarh, Barauni, Khandwa, Jagannathpur, Khurda Road, Chhapra, Balia, Gaya, Purnia, Varanasi.Every ‘Shramik’ special train has 24 coaches, each with a capacity of 72 seats. However, only 54 people are allowed in a coach and the middle berth is not allotted to any passenger to maintain social distancing norms.Also read| Indian Railways to resume some trains from tomorrow: Here’s what to keep in mindSince the ‘Shramik’ special train service started, Gujarat has remained one of the top originating stations followed by Kerala.Bihar and Uttar Pradesh top the list of receiving states.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-cooperate-with-railways-in-running-more-shramik-trains/story-2Po3erQKtYDCcTAXlmwH6J.html
11-05-2020||India||Nirav Modi’s 5-day extradition trial set to begin in London court||The five-day extradition trial of fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi to face charges of major financial offences in India is set to begin in the Westminster Magistrates Court on Monday, with New Delhi making a second extradition request in February.Modi, 49, is now the subject of two extradition requests; one processed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the other by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Lodged in the Wandsworth jail since arrest in March 2019, he has been refused bail five times.The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), which represents India in UK courts, said Modi is likely to take part in the extradition trial by video-link. Charges against Modi involve a Mumbai branch of the Punjab National Bank (PNB) that extended his companies loans worth over Rs 11,300 crore.Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings. The CBI case relates to large-scale fraud upon PNB, through the fraudulent obtaining of Letters of Understanding (LOUs/loan agreements); the ED case relates to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud.The second extradition request was made on the basis of two additional offences as part of the CBI case. It was certified by home secretary Priti Patel on February 20 as required under the 1993 India-UK extradition treaty.The additional offences relate to allegations that Modi interfered with the CBI investigation by “causing disappearance of evidence” and intimidating witnesses (”criminal intimidation to cause death”). They have not been joined to the CBI case, but will be dealt with at a separate later hearing likely in July, the CPS said.Despite offering to raise the bail security amount to 4 million pounds, UK courts have refused Modi bail on the ground that he posed a flight risk and had the means to influence witnesses and tamper with evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-s-5-day-extradition-trial-set-to-begin-in-london-court/story-m7AKas4ujL3Fsx9akCrAeL.html
11-05-2020||India||Indian Railways to resume some trains from tomorrow: Here’s what to keep in mind||The Indian Railways will run 15 pair of trains in a gradual restart of operations from Tuesday 50 days after it stopped its passenger services amid the lockdown to stop the coronavirus pandemic.According to the ministry of railways, all air-conditioned services will begin on 15 Rajdhani routes and the fare would be equivalent to that of the super-fast train.The special trains will run from New Delhi to Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi.Here’s are some of the dos and don’ts as passengers trains resume from May 12:* You will be able to book tickets from 4pm on May 11 and they will be available only on the IRCTC website (www.irctc.co.in) or on its mobile app.* You may not get any concession in the fare. There would be no provision of Tatkal and premium Tatkal accommodation. Also, no current booking will be allowed. * Ticket booking services at stations will remain closed and no counter tickets, including platform tickets, will be issued.* You may also get additional security measures on the tickets while booking. * You will need a valid confirmed ticket to gain entry inside railway stations. * You may have to reach the station at least an hour before departure to ensure security clearance, screening and other Covid-19 protocols.* It will be mandatory for you to wear face cover and undergo screening at departure and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the trains.* You may not be given blankets and linen to reduce the chances of the spread of coronavirus. You may have to carry food with you as pantry cars won’t be functional on these trains.* There will be special norms for air-conditioning inside coaches and temperatures will be kept slightly higher than the usual and maximum supply of only fresh air will be ensured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-resume-some-trains-from-tomorrow-here-s-what-to-keep-in-mind/story-HJen5vSsg0EmpbGLJH80iJ.html
11-05-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Over 8,000 cases in Gujarat, Tamil Nadu overtakes Delhi to climb to 3rd spot||The number of coronavirus cases in the country breached the 67,000-mark on Monday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 67,152. There are 44,029 active coronavirus cases in the country, 20,916 patients have been cured or discharged while 2,206 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have breached the 22,000-mark while Gujarat, the second worst-affected state has over 8,000 Covid-19 cases.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraWith 22,171 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 832 deaths so far while 4199 patients have recovered.GujaratThe state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 8194. While 493 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 2545 recoveries so far.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 7204 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 1959 recoveries and 47 Covid-19 deaths.DelhiAs many as 6923 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Seventy-three people have died from the infection while 2069 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 3814 on Monday. The state has reported 107 fatalities, and 2176 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 3614 positive cases of coronavirus. Two hundred and fifteen people have died from Covid-19 here while 1676 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 3467 in Uttar Pradesh. While 1653 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 74 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1980 positive Covid-19 patients and 925 cases of recovery. Forty five people have died.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 1939 on Monday. There have been 185 deaths and 417 recoveries in the state.TelanganaThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 1196 in state so far. Seven hundred and fifty people have made a recovery from the virus while 30 people have died from Covid-19.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 861. Nine people have died from the infection while 383 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 848 Covid-19 cases and 31 deaths. As many as 424 people have been cured and discharged.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 703 and 1823 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 31 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen 10 deaths. Three hundred people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 166 in Punjab.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 512 coronavirus cases on Monday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 489 people have successfully recovered.In Bihar, 696 people have tested positive for coronavirus, six people have died while 365 patients have recovered. Odisha has 377 Covid-19 positive patients, 68 have recovered while three people have died. Jharkhand has 157 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 78 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 68 coronavirus patients, 46 patients have recovered from the infection, one patient has died. Himachal Pradesh has 55 cases, two patients have died and 39 have recovered. Assam has reported 63 Covid-19 cases, two people have died while 34 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 59 cases of coronavirus and 49 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 169 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 24 have recovered, two people have died. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, all patients have recovered.Ladakh has 42 patients, 21 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported 9 cases, 6 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 13 cases and one death, 10 patients have recovered. One patient has died. Manipur had two coronavirus cases, and those have recovered. Tripura, meanwhile, has 150 cases, two patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Dadar Nagar Havel, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. All patients in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-over-8-000-cases-in-gujarat-tamil-nadu-overtakes-delhi-to-climb-on-3rd-spot/story-CUwnmiOdWs4utiKfA568PN.html
11-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: State govts on alert as new superspreaders make tracing tough & all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.State govts on alert as new superspreaders make tracing toughTen vegetable and fruit vendors in Jaipur, three in Ahmedabad, a biryani delivery boy in Bhubaneswar and a kirana shop owner in Tuglakabad in Delhi are among new potential superspreaders of the coronavirus disease identified by the authorities in various states. Read moreCovid-19: Tripura lawmaker requests CM to blacklist companies selling substandard PPE kitsTripura BJP MLA and former health minister Sudip Roy Barman requested Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb to blacklist the companies or traders who allegedly provide ‘substandard’ Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits to the state government. Read moreNirmala Sitharaman to meet PSU bank chiefs today; credit flow, rate transmission on agendaUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will hold a review meeting with chief executives of state-run banks on Monday to discuss several issues as part of efforts to shore up the economy hit by the coronavirus pandemic. Read more2.25 lakh people want to return to Uttarakhand, govt fears 25,000 could be Covid-19 positiveWith five people who returned to Uttarakhand from different parts of the country testing positive for Covid-19 in the past two days, the Uttarakhand government is apprehensive that 25,000 people could be infected. Read moreTraining ‘dry’, shooters keep bond with the gunTrap marksman Manavjit Singh crouches like a predator, his shotgun pointed at a blank wall. The former world champion sweeps his gun, following the arc of a target in his mind’s eye. He pulls the trigger with a dull click. Read moreHrithik Roshan calls mom Pinky Roshan his ‘lullaby’ in special Mother’s Day video. Watch hereActor Hrithik Roshan has shared a special video tribute for his mother, Pinky Roshan, on the occasion of Mother’ Day. Hrithik took to Instagram to post the video collage. He wrote in the caption, “She is my lullaby. Happy Mother’s Day mama. Read more Realme Narzo 10, Narzo 10A India launch: Launch live stream, expected specs and moreRealme is all set to introduce its Narzo smartphone series in India today. The handset maker was earlier scheduled to launch the line-up on April 26 but it was cancelled due to the lockdown extension. Read moreShould art be fact-checked? The answer isn’t quite black-and-whiteIn January, a photo of rainbow-hued mountains showed up on Instagram, was shared on travel pages, and prompted users to report it as fake. Instagram’s India-based verification partner NewsMobile confirmed that candy-coloured canyons do not exist, and labelled the photo ‘false’. Read moreWatch| Covid-19: India sends ship with medicines, food to 5 nations amid crisis||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-state-govts-on-alert-as-new-superspreaders-make-tracing-tough-all-the-latest-news/story-jnCdZRSqwuLxkM7LGEmSeI.html
11-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally tops 67,000 with biggest one-day spike of 4,213 cases||More than 4,200 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the biggest spike so far, and 97 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours in India, the Union health ministry said on Monday morning.India’s tally of the respiratory disease jumped to 67,152 with 44,029 active cases, 20,916 people who have recovered and 2,206 fatalities, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi and Tamil Nadu continued to report a large number of Covid-19 cases.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The rise in the number of infections come on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going to meet chief ministers to discuss the country’s lockdown exit strategy as well as steps to revive the economy as the lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 continues.The meeting comes ahead of May 17, when the second extension of the lockdown ends. The lockdown was enforced on March 25 and was originally supposed to end on April 14. It was, however, extended to May 3 and then again to May 17.Apart from the economy and the management of Covid-19 in hotspots, the meeting between Modi and the CMs could also see some discussion on the migrant workers who have returned home and stranded Indians who are being flown back from many parts of the world. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Modi’s last meeting with CMs through a video conference was held on April 27 when most of the states expressed their willingness to partially lift the lockdown. More than four million people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, and 282,709 have died across the world, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s Covid-19 tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-over-4-200-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-biggest-one-day-spike/story-u7m2kvSYQvbBgdS0F2DpvI.html
11-05-2020||India||Unable to return home, migrant worker from Bengal allegedly commits suicide in Kerala||Murshidabad district, one of the biggest contributors to the army of migrant workers from West Bengal, received news of unnatural deaths of three of these people since Saturday. While two died in Kerala, one was found dead in a rented house in Odisha.Residents of Baliaghati village in Murshidabad’s Suti police station area said Safikul Sheikh (31) was killed in a road accident in Kerala. Sheikh’s associates called up his family on Sunday morning and said he had gone to a local market, violating lockdown orders, when the accident took place. Sheikh wanted to return home before Eid but got stranded.Mohammad Hafijul, one of Sheikh’s relatives, said, “A few days ago a special train from Kerala carried migrant workers to Murshidabad but Safikul did not have the money to buy a ticket. We do not know how his body will be brought back.”In another incident, a 24-year-old resident of Domkal allegedly hanged himself in Kerala on Saturday. He used to work in a brick kiln. His mother said, “My son was depressed as he could not buy a ticket to board the special train that came to Murshidabad. We have appealed to the local administration to bring back his body.” In the third incident, Bakul Sheikh (24) died under mysterious circumstances at Sonepur in Odisha where he went five months ago to work as a mason. Sheikh hails from Kohetpur village in Shamserganj. His relatives told the local police that his associates called up and said he was found dead inside the toilet of the house where he was living with other migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unable-to-return-home-migrant-worker-from-bengal-ends-life-in-kerala/story-u9HY5rNtYtlEpexnzkr18L.html
11-05-2020||India||Passenger train services to resume, scientists study virus origin: Covid-19 news today||The government announced on Sunday the gradual resumption of passenger train services from this week even as authorities laid down guidelines for factories that are reopening with the easing of lockdown norms in certain areas. Meanwhile, a new study suggested that the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, might have originated from a recombination of coronaviruses in bats and pangolins.Trains to restart tomorrow, bookings open online todayThe Indian Railways will resume passenger services gradually with trains to 15 destinations from May 12, the government announced on Sunday, green-lighting the operations close to two months after it stopped them as part of a strategy to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreIndia sees biggest jump in new coronavirus cases but recoveries hit 20,000The number of people who have so far recovered after contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country crossed 20,000 on Sunday, with a recuperating rate of 31.2%, or about one in every three patients, even as the number of infections of Sars-CoV-2 crossed 67,000. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi is meeting chief ministers of states for the fifth time in 51 days on Monday. There’s exactly a week to May 17, a date that can be called either the end of the first phase of India’s graded exit from the lockdown, or the extension of the second phase of the lockdown but with the easing of some restrictions. Read moreGuidelines for factories to resume operations safelyThe first week in which factories reopen after the national lockdown must be used as a trial period in which safety protocols are ensured and high production targets are not set, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) said in detailed guidelines issued on Sunday. Read moreEnsure adherence to guidelines: Govt to states ahead of PM meetThe Centre told states on Sunday to ensure strict adherence of containment zone guidelines and clear demarcation of the areas with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, adding that they should not let any relaxation of the national lockdown lead to chaos, a development that came a day ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meet with chief ministers. Read moreCBSE charts plan to hold remaining examsThe logistics seem daunting. Hundreds of thousands of students appearing for a test, the need to make sure social distancing norms are observed in these days of the coronavirus disease and students and invigilators get safely to the examination centres. Read moreCentral teams chart Covid plan with states, flag gapsThe Centre has sent at least 50 health and disaster response teams to various states since March when cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) started rising to assist state governments in managing cases and containing the spread of infection. Read moreMigrant workers battle stigma, bias back homeMigrant workers returning from India’s industrial states are battling stigma and bias in their home villages in some parts of Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha because local residents suspect that the labourers are potential carriers of the coronavirus disease, or Covid-19 . Read moreNew rise in Covid infections raises fears of a second waveNew clusters of coronavirus infections are igniting concerns about a second wave even as calls grow in some countries to relax restrictions even further. Read moreGovt sends aid to Indian Ocean statesIndia has despatched a warship with two medical teams and medical supplies to help authorities in the Maldives, Mauritius, Madagascar, Comoros and Seychelles combat Covid-19, symbolising the importance attached by New Delhi to its maritime neighbourhood. Read more25 Chinese items may face extension of dumping dutyIndia may extend anti-dumping duties and safeguards on more than two dozen Chinese goods ranging from calculators and USB drives to steel, solar cells and Vitamin E amid concern that a flood of imports would kill domestic manufacturers who will lose duty protection soon against such products , two officials aware of the development said. Read moreOne man, 8 profiles and an elaborate hoaxSameer Chaturvedi woke up on April 1 to a raft of WhatsApp messages. His college friends were discussing the paucity of ventilators to treat Covid-19. On his extended family group, relatives were blaming people who attended a religious congregation in New Delhi for the outbreak. Read moreRegulator approves first trial of lab-grown antibody drugThe Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Sunday approved the first multi-centric trial of Tocilizumab in India after the second-line drug to treat rheumatoid arthritis emerged as a treatment option for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreICMR develops test kit to detect Covid antibodiesThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has developed ‘Covid Kavach ELISA’, a test kit for detection of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) antibodies, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan announced on Sunday. Read moreCovid may have originated from recombined bat, pangolin coronavirusesA new study has suggested that the Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, might have originated from a recombination of coronaviruses in a bat and pangolin. The findings strengthen the theory that pangolins could be the intermediate host for transmission of Sars-CoV-2 to humans. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passenger-train-services-to-resume-scientists-study-virus-origin-covid-19-news-today/story-Hf9zujp4BuGbr9aD7NDzmO.html
11-05-2020||India||Isolated migrants go on rampage at Covid-19 quarantine centre in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur||Migrant workers isolated at Women Polytechnic College in the Musahari block in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur went on rampage on Sunday demanding proper lodging and boarding facilities at the centre.The migrants had been put up at the isolation centre since Thursday. After three of the inmates tested positive on Saturday evening, the migrants demanded to undertake Covid-19 test. Sources said some of them even tried to escape from the vicinity, but officials foiled their attempt using mild force.A senior officer from Musahari block, requesting anonymity said, “A few inmates tried to create ruckus demanding proper food, facilities of safe drinking water and mosquito nets among other facilities.”“We have informed our superiors at the district headquarter about the incident but have not got any response from them,” he added.Meanwhile, every effort to contact district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh went in vein.The sub-divisional officer of east sub-division of Muzaffarpur Kundan Kumar feigned ignorance about any such incident. “I have neither been informed by any officer from Musahari block nor the local police officials. So, I am not aware of it,” he said, adding, that at least 107 migrants, from different parts of the country, have been kept there.“They are being provided proper food, including two meals a day and breakfast. Even other facilities are being made available to them. If any shortfall will be come to our notice, we will get it redressed at the earliest,” said the SDO (east).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isolated-migrants-go-on-rampage-at-covid-19-quarantine-centre-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur/story-cIJSg5V92dw0lScdwJNbdP.html
11-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Tripura lawmaker requests CM to blacklist companies selling substandard PPE kits||Tripura BJP MLA and former health minister Sudip Roy Barman requested Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb to blacklist the companies or traders who allegedly provide ‘substandard’ Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits to the state government. Almost two weeks ago, Roy Barman wrote to the chief minister about alleged embezzlement of government funds estimated to be around Rs 39.28 lakh to procure kits to prevent spreading of coronavirus.The state received about 9,000 PPE kits of different categories. Of these, only 914 PPE kits supplied by HIL were found to be appropriate while the rest were found to be permeable to liquid, as alleged by Roy Barman. He also alleged that the goggles procured by the state was not so much protective for eyes and a 500 ml hand sanitiser bottles ‘VENTIZ CLEAR ALL’ were found to have only 57.68 per cent alcohol, that is much less than the required. “....these substandard PPE kits & component articles of PPEs, the frontline soldiers are bound to be vulnerable to the Virus & requested him to purchase kits conforming to the standards laid by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. I would also request you to blacklist those companies/ traders who have provided such substandard materials,” his letter read.He also alleged of improper disbursement of the funds allocated by the state government for the Tripura people stranded in other parts of the country.“ ....there are a huge number of stranded persons in actual who have not received single farthing assistance to date in spite of fulfilling all formalities. It is a matter of concern that it is not clear as to what mechanism has been adopted by the State Government to ascertain the genuineness of the claims made & reimbursement made to that effect,” said Roy Barman in the letter. The state government on May 5 launched a WhatsApp number where the people could lodge their complaints regarding any corruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tripura-lawmaker-requests-cm-to-blacklist-companies-selling-substandard-ppe/story-wccnLlACG0zgpTC5Zr2NkO.html
11-05-2020||India||2.25 lakh people want to return to Uttarakhand, govt fears 25,000 could be Covid-19 positive||With five people who returned to Uttarakhand from different parts of the country testing positive for Covid-19 in the past two days, the Uttarakhand government is apprehensive that 25,000 people could be infected. Meanwhile, more than 1.87 lakh more people have registered to come back to the state.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday during a Facebook live session with an organisation said that the government is expecting around 2.25 lakh people to return to the state from different parts of the country, out of which it is being anticipated that 25,000 people could be infected.“We are making all preparations with regard to boosting our health infrastructure and installing intensive care units and ventilators at government hospitals in all the districts. We are expecting that around 2-2.25 lakh people will be returning to the state and it is being anticipated that around 25,000 of them could be infected. Out of these 25,000, there might be a need to hospitalise around 5000 people of which 500 might need ventilators,” said Rawat.“Thus looking at the extreme possible scenario, we are preparing to deal with the situation and boosting our infrastructure accordingly. We cannot leave our people on the roads,” added the chief minister.One person, who returned to the hilly district of Uttarkashi on May 7 from Surat in Gujarat, tested positive on Sunday. This is the first case in the green zone district of Uttarkashi. With this, total of 68 positive cases have been reported from Uttarakhand so far, with 21 active cases and 46 recovered.On May 7, four people reached Chinyalisaur in Uttarkashi district from Surat on two bikes when one of them a 32-year-old man was isolated at the district hospital after he showed symptoms and three others were quarantined at a health facility. The man who was isolated in the hospital tested positive on Sunday.Dr DP Joshi, chief medical officer of Uttarkashi said that the other three youths have also been isolated and their samples have been sent for testing.“The man who tested positive on Sunday came in contact with his brother, therefore he has also been isolated. As a precautionary measure we have stopped movement of vehicles in the district hospital,” said Dr Joshi.On Saturday, four persons including those who returned from Gujarat, Haryana and Mumbai to Udham Singh Nagar district had tested positive. All these people returned using their travel arrangements and not the government arranged transport. Officials said that some persons had used multiple modes of transport making the process of contact tracing difficult.Speaking on the challenges in front of the government with people returning in private vehicles, Madan Kaushik, cabinet minister and official spokesperson for the Uttarakhand government said that the government is finding it difficult to manage those who are returning to the state using private vehicles.So far, the state government has received around 15,000 registrations for those wanting to return in private vehicles.“People returning to the state in their private vehicles are not always following all the norms of home quarantine. We have learnt that they are first staying at their relatives’ places in the plains for a few days before going to their village and there also not following home quarantine strictly. I appeal to them to strictly follow all norms for their own and families’ safety,” said Kaushik.When asked about what is the strategy of the the state government now, Nitesh Jha, secretary for health in the state said, “With hundreds of people returning to the state every day and positive cases being reported from hilly districts like Uttarkashi, the only strategy of the state government is to test, isolate and treat.”Abhishek Tripathi, chief operational officer for Covid-19 in the state said that checking at border points of the state is being intensified now.“The person who tested positive from Uttarkashi on Sunday, was stopped at the district border itself along with those he was travelling with and was immediately quarantined at the district hospital. We cannot ensure institutional quarantine for everybody and that is why home quarantine is a must, where they are being monitored regularly by ASHA and aaganwadi workers,” said Tripathi.Uttarakhand has so far tested 9,668 samples with maximum tests being conducted in Dehradun, Haridwar, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar districts.As per the health bulletin released by the state government on Sunday, out of total samples tested only 0.75% samples have tested positive in Uttarakhand. The percentage recovery for COVID-19 patient in the state stands at 67.65%, with 46 out of 68 cases having successfully recovered.(with inputs from Vipin Negi in Uttarkashi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-25-lakh-people-want-to-return-to-uttarakhand-govt-fears-25-000-could-be-covid-19-positive/story-G9nLBp7nrxbOqxuYQEFzjP.html
11-05-2020||India||First Shramik Special train carrying 1,208 migrants will arrive in Chhattisgarh on Monday||A Shramik Special train carrying 1,208 migrant workers belonging to Chhattisgarh, who were stranded in Gujarat due to the lockdown, will arrive in Bilaspur district on Monday.District officials said the arriving migrant labourers will be sent by buses to their villages and districts, where they will be kept in the quarantine centres.“This will be the first train ferrying migrant labourers and others from Chhattisgarh to their native places. The train will arrive at 10am,” a government press release said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here“At least 60 buses and ambulances have been arranged for the migrants. The district administration has ordered to shut all shops and other commercial activities around the railway stations as a precautionary measure in view of the arrival of the migrants,” it said.It added that arrangements for the health checkup of these migrants have been also made by the administration. After the train reaches the station, passengers will be given hand sanitiser and mask before they disembark. A health department team will be posted at every gate of the railway station for their medical examination and screening.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Bilaspur collector Sanjay Alang on Sunday reviewed the preparations for the arrival of the train and also gave necessary directives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-shramik-special-train-carrying-1-208-migrants-will-arrive-in-chhattisgarh-on-monday/story-Ol7iO2xEAkoziLESSw03yO.html
11-05-2020||India||‘Arrive an hour early’: Passengers told as trains set to resume from tomorrow||The Indian Railways will gradually resume passenger train services from May 12 and will ask passengers to arrive at the station at least an hour before departure, the national transporter said on Sunday.Initially, the all air-conditioned services will begin on 15 Rajdhani routes and the fare would be equivalent to that of the super-fast train, it said.The special trains will run from New Delhi to Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi.Officials said unlike Shramik Specials, in which only 54 passengers were allowed in every coach instead of the regular 72, these trains will run on full capacity, but no concession in fare is likely to be allowed.Also read: Trains to start tomorrow, booking from today. Here are 10 things to knowBooking for reservation in these trains will start at 4 pm on May 11 and will be available only on the IRCTC website (www.irctc.co.in).These tickets, officials say, would have details of the ‘dos and don’ts’ passengers need to follow -- such as arriving at the station at least an hour in advance for screening and other coronavirus protocols, mandatory use of masks and the Aarogya Setu mobile app.It will be mandatory for travellers to wear face cover and undergo screening at departure and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the trains.Also read: Railways starting train services gradually from May 12: Important facts you need to knowOfficials also said that there would be no provision of ‘tatkal’ and ‘premium tatkal’ accommodation. They also said that there will be very few stoppages during the journey.Also, no ‘current booking’ will be allowed, an official said. All passenger services were suspended due to a lockdown announced on March 25 and the railways later started the on-demand Shramik Specials to ferry migrants stranded across the country. It, however, has been running freight and parcel services.After the resumption of these 15 services, railways will start more trains on new routes, based on availability after reserving 20,000 coaches for Covid-19 care centres and an adequate number for running up to 300 Shramik Specials every day.Ticket booking services at stations will remain closed and no counter tickets (including platform tickets) will be issued. Only passengers with valid confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter stations, the railways said.Also read: Indian Railways back on track: Full list of passenger trains that will run from May 12Officials said passengers travelling in these trains may not be given blankets and linen to reduce the chances of the spread of coronavirus. There will be special norms for the air-conditioning inside the coaches and temperatures will be kept slightly higher than the usual and maximum supply of only fresh air will be ensured.Railways was initially given the nod to run Shramik Specials by the Home Ministry but officials said they now have the approval to resume other services.They said even after the lockdown ends on May 17, services will resume gradually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrive-an-hour-early-passengers-told-as-trains-set-to-resume-from-tomorrow/story-kS2HcLtjuqjEGpWA1tqu9K.html
11-05-2020||India||Indian Railways back on track: Full list of passenger trains that will run from May 12||The Indian Railways on Sunday announced it will gradually restart passenger train operations from May 12, initially with 15 pairs of trains.Ticket bookings for these trains will start from 4pm on May 11 and will be available only on the website of Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRTC) or through its mobile application.Here’s the complete list of trains which will start from May 12:1. New Delhi to Dibrugarh2. New Delhi to Agartala3. New Delhi to Howrah4. New Delhi to Patna5. New Delhi to Bilaspur6. New Delhi to Ranchi7. New Delhi to Bhubaneswar8. New Delhi to Secunderabad9. New Delhi to Bengaluru10. New Delhi to Chennai11. New Delhi to Thiruvananthapuram12. New Delhi to Madgaon13. New Delhi to Mumbai Central14. New Delhi to Ahmedabad15. New Delhi to Jammu TawiShramik Special trains, which began on May 1 to ferry stranded migrants workers, will continue to run.The Indian Railways shall start more special services on new routes, based the availability of coaches after reserving 20,000 of them for Covid-19 care centres and to enable operation of up to 300 trains every day as Shramik Special for stranded migrants, the railways ministry has said.Also read: Trains to start tomorrow, booking from today. Here are 10 things to knowPassenger trains have remained suspended since more than a month, a first in the national transporter’s 167-year-old history. The national carrier on average used to ferry nearly 23 million passengers across 13,000 trains per day. Also read: Railways starting train services gradually from May 12: Important facts to knowThe Centre had given permission for only freight trains and special parcel trains to ply during the Covid-19 lockdown. Later, the government had allowed special military trains and Shramik Specials for ferrying stranded migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-back-on-track-full-list-of-passenger-trains-that-will-run-from-may-12/story-6bFtZ8NPZpJoG0NPuTVkVI.html
11-05-2020||India||Number of critical Covid-19 patients has halved across the country, shows data||The number of patients turning critical due to the coronavirus disease Covid-19 has halved, the Union health ministry has said.According to Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan, which is quoting data from the health ministry, only five per cent of Covid-19 patients turn critical.Till last week, 9.2 per cent Covid-19 patients admitted to a hospital were in a critical condition, according to health ministry. Out of these, 4.8 per cent were in the intensive care (ICU), 3.3 per cent required oxygen support and 1.1 per cent were on the ventilator. But the condition improved this week.The latest figures show that only 4.67 per cent patients are in a serious condition. Out of these, 2.41 per cent are in ICU, 1.88 per cent people need oxyge support and only 0.38 per cent are on ventilator. This shows that the number of critical patients has halved.Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said on Sunday that no Covid-19 case has been reported in 10 states and union territories in the last 24 hours and the recovery rate has increased to over 30 per cent, asserting that India was moving fast on the path of success in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.According to health ministry data, 1,736 Covid-19 patients recovered in the last 24 hours - the highest number of recoveries recorded in one day.India had started from one laboratory and now there are 472 laboratories testing for Covid-19, he said.The number of people who have so far recovered after contracting Covid-19 in the country crossed 20,000 on Sunday, with a recuperating rate of 31.2 per cent, or about one in every three patients, even as the number of infections of Sars-CoV-2 crossed 67,000.Of the states that have reported more than 1,000 cases, the highest recovery rate is in Telangana, where 62.8% of the patients are now Covid-19-free. This is followed by Rajasthan, where over 58% of those who were infected have recovered, and Andhra Pradesh, where almost 46.7% have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-critical-covid-19-patients-has-halved-across-the-country-shows-data/story-kucHQKQkI1TBc0sZO0SleI.html
11-05-2020||India||Trains to start tomorrow, booking from today. Here are 10 things to know||The Indian Railways will start operating passenger trains gradually from Tuesday for the first time in nearly two months after they were stopped to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The national transporters will begin booking tickets for the first set of 15 pairs of trains from 4pm on Monday through Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRTC), its subsidiary online ticketing arm.Officials have said the resumption of passenger trains will allow people who had been stranded to book trains. This is also for those who need to get back to work and have been stuck since the lockdown. Here are 10 things you need to know:* These 15 trains will operate from New Delhi connecting Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi. These will also include return journeys. * These trains will include only AC coaches with a similar fare structure as the premium Rajdhani trains. The trains will include 1 AC, 2 AC and 3 AC class and will run with nearly full capacity. The trains will also have stoppages at major routes.Also Watch | Migrant movement: States demand special trains and what’s next l HT Debates * Online ticketing will be allowed and ticket booking counters at the railway stations shall remain closed and no counter tickets, including platform tickets, will be issued.* Only passengers with valid confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the railway stations. Passengers could be asked to reach the station with time in hand for smooth security clearance.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here * It will be mandatory for passengers to wear face masks on these trains, which will only have air-conditioned (AC) coaches and charge fares equivalent to that in premium Rajdhani trains.* People will be screened at the station and only those not showing symptoms of Covid-19 will be allowed to travel.Also read: Railways starting train services gradually from May 12: Important facts you need to know* The passengers travelling on these trains may not be given blankets and linen. Temperatures will be kept slightly higher and we will ensure the maximum supply of only fresh air. There will be no pantry service on these trains.* There is no clarity, yet, whether senior citizens will be allowed to board the train. * Shramik Special trains, which began on May 1 to ferry stranded migrants, will continue to run. Unlike the passenger trains, the Shramik Special trains include only sleeper coaches and have no stoppages. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage * The railways will resume more special services on other routes based on the availability of coaches after reserving 20,000 of them for Covid-19 care centres and to “enable operation of up to 300 trains every day as Shramik Special for stranded migrants”, according to the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trains-to-start-tomorrow-booking-from-today-here-are-10-things-to-know/story-4UgUBS4l2AsoFFOiIp6C4M.html
11-05-2020||India||National Technology Day to be celebrated with focus on economy||A high-level digital conference on ‘Rebooting the Economy through Science, Technology and Research Translations’ (RESTART) will be organised by Technology Development Board (TDB), a statutory body of the Department of Science & Technology (DST), and the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Monday to celebrate the National Technology Day.Union Minister for Science & Technology, Health and Family Welfare and Earth Sciences, Dr Harsh Vardhan would be the Chief Guest for the occasion and will deliver the National Technology Day address.The programme will also include special addresses by Member, Science, NITI Aayog Dr V K Saraswat, Principal Scientific Advisor to Government of India, Prof K Vijay Raghavan, Chief Scientist, WHO, Dr Saumya Swaminathan, DST, Secretary Prof Ashutosh Sharma, and a few others.“In the Covid-19 crisis, technology has been at the forefront of the battle against the pandemic. As the world adjusts to its new normal, business leaders world over are rethinking and devising new strategies to harness technologies that would help drive resilience and make them emerge from the crisis stronger,” the TDB said in a release.“Keeping in mind the need of the hour to formulate a comprehensive action plan to reboot the economy, TDB is celebrating National Technology Day, focusing on technological solutions towards that end. These technologies would include, medical technologies, advanced technologies and manufacturing that would prepare India for the post-Covid-19 time,” it added.The conference will have technical sessions on ‘Medicines & Medical Technologies’; ‘Advanced Materials - New Technology Horizons’; ‘Advanced Manufacturing Technologies for Sustainable Future and Global Innovation’ & Technology Alliance for Global Economic Leadership.TDB, on behalf of the Ministry of Science & Technology, celebrates May 11 every year as National Technology Day to commemorate achievements of innovations and technological excellence in the country.The day has a historical perspective as it was on May 11, 1998, that India achieved a major technological breakthrough by successfully carrying out nuclear tests at Pokhran. Further, the first indigenous aircraft “Hansa-3” was test flown at Bangalore on this day; and India also performed successful test firing of the Trishul missile on the same day. Since 1999, the day is being celebrated as National Technology Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-technology-day-to-be-celebrated-with-focus-on-economy/story-ZUTh5d66rAZwLmQcK4VpSI.html
11-05-2020||India||Freshers stare at an uncertain future as Covid hits job market||In the midst of lay-offs, a possible economic contraction and shrinking job opportunities, a sense of fear and uncertainty is palpable among the Class of 2020, who will enter a world changed by the Covid-19 crisis to look for their first jobs. According to the All India Survey on Higher Education 2018-19, over 23 million students are enrolled in undergraduate-level programmes across universities and colleges. A section of these students, pursuing their last year of the programme, will graduate in August as per University Grants Commission guidelines for central universities, while states are still determining their own exam schedules.The students now fear that the job market will dry up as companies pause hiring to recoup the losses that piled up as the economy ground to a halt in an attempt to check the disease spread. “We were lucky our placements happened in February,” said Indranil Palit, a third-year computer science student, who has offers from two top-tier companies. “We’ve signed a letter of intent but there is no news regarding offer letters. We were scheduled to join August. We fear they may rescind the offer.”Third-year marketing student Sneha Roy, however, changed her plans to focus on a Masters instead. “It makes no sense to go for a job at present. The pay scale in the commerce sector has been on a decline in any case,” said Roy, a student at St. Xavier’s University, Kolkata. “Many of my friends and I will be focusing on a Masters programme since the offers we have received are not what we expected.” Industry experts say the situation is set to take a particularly dire turn, as the economy will open slowly and at rock bottom. “We have to realise that the job market was in extremely poor shape even before we entered the Covid-19 crisis,” said human development economist Santosh Mehrotra, who has recently authored Reviving Jobs: An Agenda for Growth. “In 2018, unemployment was at a forty-five year high, it will only get worse, since we are likely to see an economic contraction, that is, the growth rate will fall below zero.” According to Mehrotra, in 2018, the unemployment rate for secondary educated people was 14.4%, for those with technical degrees it was 37% and 36% for graduates. “These rates are double those found in 2012,” he said. “In 2018, we had nearly 30 million people who were unemployed,” said Mehrotra. “I expect the number to rise by another 50 million this year.”“Unemployment will at least double for new entrants this year, it will be catastrophic,” he added. Manish Sabharwal, chairman and co-founder of Teamlease Services, one of India’s largest staffing and human capital firm concurred with Mehrotra that the job sector may see a decline but reserved his judgment until the lockdown is lifted. “It will depend from industry to industry,” said Sabharwal. “We will have to see if the recovery is in a V-shaped, U-shaped or a bathtub curve, bathtub being that the particular sector spends a long time at the bottom.” Sabharwal added that the sunrise would be a ‘gentle one’, as companies will be biased towards retaining present employees and not hiring new ones at the moment. “We are definitely going to see salary adjustments and job losses,” said Sabharwal. “Hospitality, retail and airlines will take a hit. But the impact will be distributed across the board.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freshers-stare-at-an-uncertain-future-as-covid-hits-job-market/story-0apRwwJJKrZV37LAtUfS8I.html
11-05-2020||India||With 106 new cases, Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally reaches 3,814, death toll at 108||Rajasthan has reported 106 new cases of coronavirus and two deaths linked to the deadly infection on Sunday, according to state’s health department.With this, the coronavirus tally in the state has reached 3,814 and death toll mounted to 108.Meanwhile, a total of 62,939 confirmed cases of coronavirus have been reported in India so far. 19,358 persons have recovered or migrated, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Sunday.There are 41,472 active cases of Covid-19 in the country at present. 2,109 people have lost their lives due to the infection so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-106-new-cases-rajasthan-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-3-814-death-toll-at-108/story-2hfKaKyKt8ZeuSIwqV20UJ.html
11-05-2020||India||Evacuation flight carrying 1,387 Indians from Manila, Philippines lands in Mumbai||Air India evacuation flight carrying Indians, who were stranded in the Philippines due to coronavirus lockdown, has arrived in Mumbai, said External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday.“Air India flight 1387 carrying Indians from Manila, Philippines has arrived in Mumbai. Thank @airindiain, @MoCA_GoI, Bureau of Immigration& Maharashtra Govt fr support& cooperation. Commend Amb @JaideepMazumda2 & his Team @indembmanila fr the sterling effort,” Jaishankar tweeted.The first Air India flights between India and Philippines was operated under the government’s Vande Bharat mission.The government started operation Vande Bharat Mission to bring back around 14,800 stranded Indians from 12 countries on 64 AI flights.India began phased repatriation of its citizens stranded abroad during the coronavirus crisis from May 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evacuation-flight-carrying-1-387-indians-from-manila-philippines-lands-in-mumbai/story-qF0mMaPGzUiTj7GUsVpG7O.html
11-05-2020||India||New guidelines for recording Covid-19 deaths released||The deaths of those with negative or inconclusive test results but with symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be recorded as probable Covid-19 deaths, the Indian Council of Medical Research said in fresh guidelines on recording Covid-19 deaths released on Sunday.The 11-page document states that Covid-19 is known to cause pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, cardiac injury, and clotting throughout the bloodstream, which may lead to death but Covid-19 would be recorded as the underlying cause of death. It adds that co-morbid conditions, like asthama, heart disease, diabetes or cancer, of a patient will not be recorded as the underlying cause of death. It adds that in a person with multiple co-morbidities, only those that could have contributed to the death should be mentioned on the death certificate.“Patterns of disease and patterns of death can come from only standardised recording of clinical disease history and cause of death, and therefore epidemiological surveillance of disease and death are important. Robust data is needed from every district,” the document stated.A draft of guidelines for performing autopsy, packing the dead body of a suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patient, transporting it, and storing it in mortuary was also released on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-guidelines-for-recording-covid-19-deaths-released/story-toSoYKWo6TBYLxYoEZf74M.html
11-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is meeting chief ministers of states for the fifth time in 51 days on Monday.There’s exactly a week to May 17, a date that can be called either the end of the first phase of India’s graded exit from the lockdown, or the extension of the second phase of the lockdown but with the easing of some restrictions.It’s important to understand the context in which the meeting is happening.The number of cases in India rose to 67,085 on Sunday night, the number of deaths to 2,140, and the number of recoveries to 20,901. Recoveries crossed 20,000 on Sunday, the kind of number that needs celebration. The world over, according to worldometers.info, 98% of the currently active 2.4 million cases are mild, and only 47,565 are “serious or critical”. Anecdotal evidence from India suggests that the situation here is no different.States with a science-based approach to dealing with Covid-19, and with reasonably good public health systems, seem to be getting the better of the disease — Kerala, with three deaths out of 505 cases may be an outlier, but even Tamil Nadu, where administrative bungling (the chief minister announced an unnecessary hard lockdown, with everything being shut, forcing thousands of people out on to the streets, trying to stock up on essentials) resulted in a spike in cases, has done well. The state saw 6,535 cases till Saturday — 526 of these were discovered on Saturday alone — but has recorded only 44 deaths thus far. Maharashtra (22,171 cases; 832 deaths, till Sunday), Gujarat (8,195 and 493) and Madhya Pradesh (3,614 and 215) are the outliers on the other extreme. Together, the three states account for 50.6% of all cases and nearly 72% of all deaths. And Madhya Pradesh, for a state that has been hit hard by the virus, is definitely not testing enough (both Gujarat and Maharashtra are testing twice the number of people per million as Madhya Pradesh is).In the week between May 3 and May 10, the number of Covid-19 cases in India has increased from 42,527 to 67,085, and the number of deaths from 1,393 to 2,140. The number of daily cases was more than 3,000 for four consecutive days since May 6 and exceeded 4,000 for the first time on Sunday. In the last five days (including Sunday), the number of daily deaths have exceeded 100 on all but two days. Yet, as this column has pointed out, most of cases are from a few states. On Saturday, for instance, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat accounted for two-thirds of all new cases. On Sunday, this proportion was 69%. Vast parts of the country continue to have only a few cases of Covid-19; many are completely free of the disease (or haven’t recorded any cases).It is evident that the lockdown has not helped India flatten the curve, although there is no doubt that the number of deaths and infections would have been higher without one.At least quantitatively, if not qualitatively, India has used this period to strengthen its health care system, and specifically prepare to deal with all aspects of Covid-19 — from testing to treatment. For instance, India is now well on its way to producing locally many RT-PCR tests, the best way of testing for the coronavirus disease.Going by the current trend of daily cases, it is also evident that the number of cases and deaths in India will continue to rise. And collateral damage of the lockdown on the economy, on industrial activity, on businesses, big and small, and on workers of all hues, is significant.The Prime Minister and the chief ministers must discuss ways to restart more economic and other activities even as they work towards finalising restrictions and protocols for disease hot spots that have a high concentration of cases and the most vulnerable population (people over the age of 70).India needs to learn to live with Covid-19 for now but it needs to find a way that protects both lives and livelihoods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-xaVxvPpm0bB4ZXoyvyUdZO.html
11-05-2020||India||‘All of India praying for our former PM’: Leaders wish Manmohan Singh speedy recovery||Leaders across party lines prayed for former prime minister Manmohan Singh’s speedy recovery after he was admitted to Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Sunday night for fever and chest pain. Singh’s office on late Sunday night confirmed that he had been admitted but underlined that he was doing fine.“He is okay. He was taken to the hospital as he had fever due to the side-effect of the medication given yesterday. He is under observation,” the former PM’s office said.The 87-year-old veteran Congress leader was brought to AIIMS around 8.45pm . A hospital source said that the former PM was admitted in the cardio neurosciences (CNS) tower.Also read: Manmohan Singh admitted to hospital for fever; his office says he is OKDelhi’s chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweeted, “Deeply concerned about Dr Manmohan Singh ji’s health. Hope he makes a full recovery soon. All of India is praying for our former PM.” Deeply concerned about Dr Manmohan Singh ji's health. Hope he makes a full recovery soon. All of India is praying for our former PM. https://t.co/Yz6kch8T8mCongress’s party chief in Karnataka DK Shivakumar said, “Deeply concerned about the health of former PM Dr. Manmohan Singh. I along with more than a billion Indians wish him a speedy recovery and pray for his good health and long life.’Deeply concerned about the health of Former PM Dr. Manmohan Singh.I along with more than a billion Indians wish him a speedy recovery and pray for his good health and long life.Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor also wished the former PM a complete recovery. “Concerned by reports that former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was admitted to AIIMS in Delhi, but relieved he is not in the ICU & is in good hands. Wishing him a speedy & complete recovery,” Tharoor tweeted. Senior National Congress leader Omar Abdullah said, “Sorry to hear about Dr Manmhan Singh being admitted to hospital. I hope he recovers and is back home with his family soon. His wise counsel & guidance are much needed during this time of crisis.”Sorry to hear about Dr Manmohan Singh being admitted to hospital. I hope he recovers & is back home with his family soon. His wise counsel & guidance are much needed during this time of crisis. https://t.co/kv5Kr9rGd1Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray also tweeted his wishes for Singh. “We all pray for the quick recovery of Dr Manmohan Singh. Let’s hope he gets home soon and aides the recovery of economy, as we all together will, as one nation,” Thackeray said.  We all pray for the quick recovery of Dr Manmohan Singh. Let’s hope he gets home soon and aides the recovery of the economy, as we all together will, as one nationNCP leader and Baramati MP Supriya Sule tweeted saying, “Wishing former PM Hon. Dr. Manmohan Singh ji a speedy recovery. Get Well Soon Sir.”Wishing Former Prime Minister Hon. Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji a speedy recovery. Get Well Soon Sir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-of-india-praying-for-our-former-pm-leaders-wish-manmohan-singh-speedy-recovery/story-ntnkn559T4W0WZJjmQ22PK.html
11-05-2020||India||Courage wins all wars, this little robin tells us||It’s not about might, it’s about mighty courage, this little robin tells us. It built its nest in a traffic light in London, Ontario, Canada, least scared of the red light that turns off and on throughout the day. It is a pretty unusual spot even for an urban bird that is used to building nest in all sorts of places, remarked Scott MacDougall-Shackleton, bird physiology, neurobiology and behaviour expert.This feathered little fellow brings us a clear message that there’s no adversity you can’t beat with courage. Today, as we fight the pandemic, here are a few quotes about courage that will help you get thorough these difficult days and motivate you to keep the fight on.“Courage is found in unlikely places.”― J.R.R. Tolkien“Fear is a reaction. Courage is a decision” - Winston Churchill“Be Brave and Take Risks: You need to have faith in yourself. Be brave and take risks. You don’t have to have it all figured out to move forward.” ― Roy T. Bennett, The Light in the Heart “Courage is the most important of all the virtues because without courage, you can’t practice any other virtue consistently.”― Maya Angelou  “Scared is what you’re feeling. Brave is what you’re doing.”― Emma Donoghue, Room “Courage isn’t having the strength to go on - it is going on when you don’t have strength.”― Napoleon Bonaparte“You will never do anything in this world without courage. It is the greatest quality of the mind next to honour”- Aristotle||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/courage-wins-all-wars-this-little-robin-tells-us/story-fzevUXFBMejMsvC0iGu0JP.html
11-05-2020||India||Gumnaam hai koi: This ghost is scaring the hell out of people breaking lockdown in Odisha||When nothing works, desi nuskha does its magic! A ghost is on the prowl in a village in Odisha. Apparently hired by the gram panchayat, the sari-clad woman with chalk-white skin roams around at night to ensure that people follow the lockdown. As excepted, her payal goes chhan chhan when she walks. Villagers scream and retreat as soon as they see her.“This does seem like a scene from a comedy horror film! Full marks for creativity to the person who thought about this. We also need to educate people so that they do not take the pandemic lightly and do not fall for rumours,” says film director Madhureeta Anand.  Model and actor Renee Dhyani says it’s a great idea to use quirk and humour to send across a serious message. And she would love to play this ghost! “This is out-of-the-box thinking. I would love to play this ghost. I love the way she dresses up and walks in the video,” says Dhyani. From cops wearing corona shaped helmet in Chennai to a man dressed as Yamraj in Delhi warning people not to break the lockdown, authorities are coming up with all sorts of quirky ideas across India to contain Covid-19.  But this ghost surely sets a tough benchmark!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gumnam-hai-koi-this-ghost-is-scaring-the-hell-out-of-people-breaking-the-lockdown-in-an-odisha-village/story-B8O7TIApKMFD4uRhLHM25N.html
11-05-2020||India||Trains to restart tomorrow, bookings open online today||The Indian Railways will resume passenger services gradually with trains to 15 destinations from May 12, the government announced on Sunday, green-lighting the operations close to two months after it stopped them as part of a strategy to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Bookings for these trains — all originating from the New Delhi Railway Station — will begin at 4pm on Monday only on the website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) while ticket counters will continue to remain closed, according to the railways ministry order on the gradual resumption of passenger services.A government functionary who did not want to be named said similar plans are in the works for the aviation sector but he did not elaborate on them.Sunday’s order is seen as another big step towards normalcy with the government already providing area-specific relaxations to private employers, businesses and small shops that are gasping for survival due to the economic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown prompted by it.“Railways plans to gradually restart passenger train operations from 12th May, 2020, initially with 15 pairs of special trains [30 trips] connecting New Delhi with major stations across India. Booking in these trains will start at 4 pm on 11th May,” railways minister Piyush Goyal tweeted.These trains will run to Dibrugarh (Assam), Agartala (Tripura), Howrah (West Bengal), Patna (Bihar), Bilaspur (Chhattisgarh), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Bhubaneswar (Odisha), Secunderabad (Telangana), Bengaluru (Karnataka), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Thiruvananthapuram (Kerala), Madgaon (Goa), Mumbai Central (Maharashtra), Ahmedabad (Gujarat) and Jammu Tawi (Jammu and Kashmir).Face masks are a must for passengers boarding these trains, which will only have air-conditioned (AC) coaches and charge fares equivalent to that in premium Rajdhani trains, according to a railway ministry official who did not want to be named. People will be screened at the station and those not showing symptoms of the Covid-19 disease will be allowed to travel.The railways ministry said no counter tickets, including platform tickets, will be issued to passengers. “Only passengers with valid confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the railway stations,” the ministry official said. Passengers could be asked to reach the station with time in hand for smooth security clearance. Passenger flight and rail services as well as operations of metro trains have been suspended since March 22, three days before the first phase of a national lockdown was imposed in the country of 1.3 billion people. Cargo and special services for the army have continued during the lockdown though. The railways will resume more special services on other routes based on the availability of coaches after reserving 20,000 coaches for Covid-19 care centres and to “enable operation of up to 300 trains everyday as Shramik Special for stranded migrants”, according to the ministry. While the Centre has drafted a plan to deploy railway coaches as isolation wards, or Covid-19 care centres, it has also said it is ready to operate 300 trains — each carrying up to 1,200 passengers — a day to ferry stranded migrant workers to their hometowns. The government flagged off these special trains, or Shramik Specials, on May 1 after requests by states. These will continue to run simultaneously with the passenger trains.The rail network of India would run nearly 14,000 passenger trains and ferry 23 million passengers a day before the lockdown. “Further details including train schedule will be issued separately in due course,” the ministry official said. The schedule for these is expected to be shared on Monday.It was not immediately clear if people above 65 years will be allowed to board these trains. The federal guidelines dictating the terms of the third phase of India’s lockdown advise elderly people not to venture out.According to the ministry official quoted above, these special trains will have AC 1, AC 2 and AC 3 classes, and will run with near-full capacity. The trains will also have stoppages at major routes, he said.The passengers travelling in these trains may not be given blankets and linen, the official said. “These precautions will have to be taken, just as we had in the initial phase of suspending services before the lockdown. We will also have special norms for air conditioning inside the coaches. Temperatures will be kept slightly higher and we will ensure maximum supply of only fresh air,” the official said.The rationale behind the resumption of passenger trains in the third phase of the lockdown is to allow stranded people to return home. “This is also for those who need to get back to work and have been stuck since the lockdown. Our priority is to allow their movement and gradually more trains will begin after that regularly,” the official added. A regular AC 2 coach has sleeping berths across eight bays. Berths are usually arranged in two tiers — four across the width of the coach and two berths on the other side of the corridor with curtains along the gangway. An AC 3 coach consists of 72 seats. “In third AC, some social distancing may be done in berth allotment,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trains-to-restart-tomorrow-bookings-open-online-today/story-eK3UlLB7OG0vdBZ99YPCXK.html
11-05-2020||India||Covid-19 may have originated from recombined bat, pangolin coronaviruses||A new study has suggested that the Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, might have originated from a recombination of coronaviruses in a bat and pangolin. The findings strengthen the theory that pangolins could be the intermediate host for transmission of Sars-CoV-2 to humans.The paper, published in the journal Nature by researchers from College of Veterinary Medicine, South China Agricultural University, also flags that pangolins, being the most trafficked mammal in the world, could be a future threat to public health if wildlife trade is not controlled because they harbour Sars-CoV-2-like viruses.A coronavirus isolated from Malayan pangolins by a team of Chinese scientists showed 100%, 98.6%, 97.8% and 90.7% amino acid identity with Sars-CoV-2 in 4 genes. The Malayan pangolin coronavirus was found to be particularly identical to Sars-CoV-2 in its receptor binding domain of the spike protein (which SARS-CoV-2 uses to bind to its host’s cells).Genome sequencing found that the pangolin-CoV was very similar to both SARS-CoV-2 and Bat Sars-CoV RaTG13 (from which SARS-CoV-2 is suspected to have originated) but the only difference was the spike or S gene.Further analysis of S gene sequences has suggested recombination events on May 8. For this study, the team used lung tissues from four Chinese pangolins and 25 Malayan pangolins in a wildlife rescue center during March-August 2019. RNA from 17 of the 25 Malayan pangolins were found to be positive for Sars-CoV-2 like viruses and they gradually showed signs of respiratory disease, including shortness of breath, emaciation, inactivity, and crying. Out of 17, 14 pangolins later died. Generally, a natural reservoir host does not show severe disease, while an intermediate host may have clinical signs of infection, the authors said.Pangolins and bats are both nocturnal animals, eat insects, and share overlapping ecological niches which make pangolins the ideal intermediate host for some Sars-related coronaviruses. The paper recommended more systematic and long-term monitoring of coronaviruses in pangolins and a complete ban on illegal pangolin trade, international cooperation and strict regulation against consumption of game meat and wildlife trade.“Of particular interest here is that the entire genome of the pangolin coronavirus is not similar to the Sars-CoV-2 but they’re almost identical in the receptor-binding area (which the virus uses to bind to its host’s cells). Interestingly, the genome of Sars-CoV-2 is 96% similar to the bat coronavirus RaTG13 (found in the intermediate horseshoe bat) but differs in the receptor-binding site (which means that the RaTG13 cannot directly infect human lungs because its receptor cannot bind to human lung cells). Put these two pieces of information together and you arrive at the hypothesis that has the most amount of support so far,” said Rohit Chakravarty, wildlife biologist and PhD student at the Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research in Berlin, Germany who read the paper.“Which is, a bat coronavirus jumped from a bat to a Malayan pangolin (either in the wild or in captivity), the virus recombined in the pangolin and incorporated the pangolin coronavirus’s receptor-binding region, and then it evolved into Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19 in humans,” he added.Pangolins are trafficked because it is believed that their scales and blood have medicinal properties, and their flesh is considered a delicacy in some parts of southeast Asia. “As many reports have shown, pangolins are now the most trafficked wild animal species in the world. As with all wildlife trade, the answer to how it can be controlled is quite complicated, because the flow chain goes through several layers of society. Ultimately, we are all culpable because the scale of operations is directly correlated to wealth in consumer countries. It is very easy to say that the eating habits of the Chinese are responsible for all the current problems we face. However, it is much harder for us to acknowledge, that actually the consumerist lifestyles of all developed and developing economies is actually the engine that’s driving this thriving trade,” said Abi Tamim Vanak, Fellow, Wellcome Trust/DBT India Alliance Program and senior fellow at Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-may-have-originated-from-recombined-bat-pangolin-coronaviruses/story-tWiWuhucSv2UtMM3mDNFPN.html
11-05-2020||India||India sees biggest jump in new coronavirus cases but recoveries hit 20,000||The number of people who have so far recovered after contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country crossed 20,000 on Sunday, with a recuperating rate of 31.2%, or about one in every three patients, even as the number of infections of Sars-CoV-2 crossed 67,000.Studies have shown that after recovery — globally, 35% of the total patients have so far recovered — nearly all people develop antibodies, which could give them protection against the infection. Public health experts have warned against the stigmatisation of Covid-19 patients, even as research shows that about 80% of all patients across the world develop mild or no symptoms.Of the 67,085 Covid-19 cases, at least 44,000 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals across the country. In the last 24 hours, 1,736 people were confirmed as recovered — the biggest jump so far — even as 4,370 fresh infections were added to the national tally, the highest single-day spike. The recovery rate on April 10 was 10.3%, improving to 31.2% in a month.“The recovery rate shows that almost one-third of the infected persons have recovered in India. It is a positive sign as it is increasing by the day,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, said recently.The rate of increase of Covid-19 cases in the country has, however, increased over the past week, with the doubling rate, which stood at 11.5 on May 3, reducing to 10.6 on Sunday. The last 10,000 cases of the infection, which has halted life across continents, came in just three days in India.The ratio of the number of Covid-19 cases recovering in relation to the number of people dying of the viral infection has shown improvement. Data collected from official bulletins from states shows the ratio to be 9:1 – for every 10 deaths, 90 people have recovered from the disease. In mid-April, the ratio was 8:2.“The increase in the recovery rate will go hand in glove with the increase in the number of cases for a while. That is because Covid-19 is a novel infection and it will spread till the population gets immunity against the virus. Now, as for how many people will get infected before there is herd immunity, the estimates vary from anywhere between 30% of the population to 70%. The reason for a high recovery rate is that 90% to 95% of the infections are either mild to moderately symptomatic or asymptomatic,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at the Safdarjung Hospital.“What the high recovery rate shows is that the infection is not highly fatal in the Indian population; we are capable of managing the infection, and the treatment protocols are working,” he added.Experts say implementing a complete national lockdown has yielded results in the form of significant improvement in India’s case doubling rate. While the number stood at 3.4 days before the restrictions kicked in, it went up to 11.5 on May 3. It, however, has come down to 10.6, indicating a quickening of infections. On average, India has reported about 3,500 new cases every day over the last week.Of the states that have reported more than 1,000 cases, the highest recovery rate is in Telangana, where 62.8% of the patients are now Covid-19-free. This is followed by Rajasthan, where over 58% of those who were infected have recovered, and Andhra Pradesh, where almost 46.7% have recovered.Kerala’s battle against the respiratory illness has shown promise. Only 20 people of the total 512 cases so far are currently designated as active infections. The state has reported only three deaths so far. Maharashtra, which has the highest number of cases, 22,171, has one of the lowest recovery rates of 18.9% in the country.Tamil Nadu and Delhi have managed to keep the number of deaths low despite a surge in cases initially linked to the Nizamuddin gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat. Delhi’s recovery rate of 29.9% is similar to the national figure.On Sunday, Delhi recorded 381 new cases, taking the total tally to 6,923.A third of Rajasthan’s 33 districts now have either no or up to two active cases. According to the state health department’s data, two districts have zero active cases, five have one each, and two have two active cases each. Two districts – Bundi and Sriganganagar – have not reported any case since the outbreak in Rajasthan in the last week of March.Urban hot spots across the country remain the biggest challenge in India’s battle against the disease, which had overwhelmed health care infrastructure across countries, including many metropolises even across the developed world.Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat are the three worst affected states by the disease. On Sunday, Maharashtra reported 1,943 cases, while the national capital added 381 cases. In Gujarat, which has requested All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria to fly to the state to assist in disease management, 398 people were infected by the pathogen on Sunday.The number of tests performed to detect patients of the new disease was 1.6 million on Sunday, as the government indicated that it intended to scale up its testing capacity to 100,000 diagnoses per day. The development came after experts expressed concern over low testing numbers and limited scope, which they said could lead to the disease spreading undetected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biggest-jump-in-new-cases-but-recoveries-hit-20-000/story-7xmlrtODGwlXjrh9UXxzKP.html
11-05-2020||India||ICMR develops test kit to detect Covid antibodies||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has developed ‘Covid Kavach ELISA’, a test kit for detection of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) antibodies, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan announced on Sunday.The ICMR’s apex virology laboratory- National Institute of Virology-Pune (NIV) has both developed and validated the test to detect IgG antibody. Immunoglobulin G (IgG) is the most common antibody in blood and other body fluids that immune system makes to protects against bacterial and viral infections and allergens. However, IgG can take time to form after an infection, and can be useful in detecting a past infection. “…there is an augmented demand of various types of diagnostic tests by countries all across the globe. Most of the diagnostic material for Covid-19 is imported into India from other countries. Therefore, Indian scientists are tirelessly engaged in developing indigenous diagnostics for Sars-CoV-2, the causative agent of Covid-19…” said Harsh Vardhan in a statement.“NIV’s competent scientific team successfully isolated the Sars-CoV-2 virus from laboratory confirmed patients in India. This in turn has paved the way for development of indigenous diagnostics for Sars-CoV-2,” he added. While real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) is the frontline test for clinical diagnosis of Sars-CoV-2, robust antibody tests are critical for surveillance to understand the proportion of population exposed to infection, say experts.“We currently have the requisite technology to develop good quality antibody based tests in weeks. These tests are a good tool for surveillance purposes,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head, department of microbiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.The test was validated at two sites in Mumbai and has been found to have high sensitivity and specificity.“…the test will have the advantage of testing 90 samples together in a single run of 2.5 hours. Moreover, ELISA based testing is easily possible even at district level as the ELISA kit has inactivated virus. There are also minimal bio-safety and bio-security requirements as compared to the real-time RT-PCR test. The test has an advantage of having much higher sensitivity and specificity as compared to the several rapid test kits which have recently flooded the Indian market,” said health ministry in a statement.The ICMR has partnered with Zydus Cadila for mass scale production of these test kits. The research body has already transferred the technology for mass scale production to the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-develops-test-kit-to-detect-covid-antibodies/story-QAWGfOwRyVJ2Ac7zt4VwqL.html
11-05-2020||India||Regulator approves first trial of lab-grown antibody drug||The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Sunday approved the first multi-centric trial of Tocilizumab in India after the second-line drug to treat rheumatoid arthritis emerged as a treatment option for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Tocilizumab won the green light because of its ability to lower aberrant host immune response that leads to an inflammatory cytokine storm -- an overreaction of the immune system -- and death in hospitalised patients.Tocilizumab is a monoclonal antibody that acts against interleukin-6 (IL-6), a chemical that causes inflammation. “The deterioration in the Covid-19 patients’ condition in the majority of cases is due to hyper-immunity, or an excessive response of one’s own immune system. This cytokine storm or Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS) is caused by the release of inflammatory chemicals in the body namely IL-6, TNF-alpha and IL1 among others. Tocilizumab is an antibody against IL-6, which is already available, licenced and effective in treating CRS caused by other conditions,” Dr A S Soin, chairman of the Medanta Liver Transplant Institute, Medanta-The Medicity, Gurugram.Dr Soin is the national lead investigator for the randomised control trial for the use of Tocilizumab in Covid-19 in India. The trial will be conducted in several hospitals in Delhi-National Capital Region, Haryana, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu.Monoclonal antibodies are lab-made proteins that act like natural antibodies and that work by identifying and binding to the virus to destroy it. They have been able to block coronavirus infection in labs in the Netherlands and Israel and are emerging as a critical new tool against Covid-19, which has infected 4 million people and killed at least 280,000 since December 219.The antiviral remedesvir is the only drug that has been approved for emergency use to treat Covid-19 by the US Food and Drug Administration. In the absence of a vaccine or drug to treat Covid-19, clinicians are relying on repurposing existing drugs to identify a therapy that is both safe and effective.“The indications are very strong that its use early in the course of Covid-19 infection will mitigate CRS and prevent patients from going into the full blown syndrome and progression to acute respiratory syndrome needing ICU admission and ventilation, multi-organ dysfunction, and death,” said Dr Soin.Inflammatory cytokine storm stops oxygenation by impeding gas exchange in the lungs, leading to death. “Our research has identified that pathogenic T cells and inflammatory monocytes incite inflammatory storm with large amount of interleukin-6, therefore monoclonal antibody that targets the IL-6 pathways may potentially curb inflammatory storm. Tocilizumab treatment that {involves} blocking IL-6 receptors showed inspiring clinical results including temperature {that} returned to normal quickly and respiratory function. Tocilizumab is an effective treatment in severe patients of Covid-19 to calm the inflammatory storm and reduce mortality,” according to a study from China published in the Journal of Translational Medicine on April 14.“Tocilizumab is undergoing clinical trials in many countries, where the treatment protocols include severely ill patients who may be too sick to respond to treatment. In India, the majority of hospitalized patients have moderate illness that doesn’t need ICU or ventilator support, and the idea is to prevent them from progressing to the severe stage,” said Dr Soin.“As soon as we reboot, the infection rates will surge. We eagerly await the results of this trial. If it works, it could save thousands in India and have a real global impact,” said Dr Naresh Trehan, chairman, Medanta-The Medicity which was the first private hospital to admit Covid-19 patients in India.The World Health Organisation has begun multi-country clinical trials to assess the effectiveness of four of the most promising experimental therapies to treat Covid-19. The drugs undergoing trials are antiviral remdesivir, which shuts down viral replication by inhibiting a key viral enzyme; the anti-malaria drugs chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine that work by decreasing the acidity in endosomes; a combination of the antiretrovirals ritonavir and lopinavir that are used to treat HIV; and ritonavir/lopinavir and interferon-beta, which regulates inflammation and is used to treat multiple sclerosis and chronic hepatitis-C infection.Other drugs may be added, based on emerging evidence, said the WHO.“Monoclonal antibodies are an established cancer therapy that is used to treat specific types of cancers, such as cancers of the breast and blood. It’s against Sars-CoV2 is promising but needs extensive and robust human trials to establish whether it stops Covid-19 infection and helps patients recover,” said Dr SVS Deo, head of surgical oncology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/regulator-approves-first-trial-of-lab-grown-antibody-drug/story-83M7NUBUsEoRW3TcuPS9UM.html
11-05-2020||India||State govts on alert as new superspreaders make tracing tough||Ten vegetable and fruit vendors in Jaipur, three in Ahmedabad, a biryani delivery boy in Bhubaneswar and a kirana shop owner in Tuglakabad in Delhi are among new potential superspreaders of the coronavirus disease identified by the authorities in various states.According to officials, the common factor in all these cases was that the source of the virus was not traceable. As most of these people were asymptomatic, their identification was a challenge for the authorities. In most of the cases, they were identified only after a large number of cases were reported from the places they had visited, officials said.These new cases are markedly different from the superspreaders identified earlier. In March and April, most of the Covid-19 superspreaders were people with known travel history to places highly infected with Covid-19. Except the 11 vegetable vendors in Jhajjar, authorities have not been able to track the travel history of any other service provider to a known Covid-19 hotspot.Kerala’s Wayanad remained Covid-19 free for 32 days before a truck driver from Chennai’s Koyambedu vegetable market got the virus. The market, now described as a major node for the infection, contributed to a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases in Chennai in the last week. “The market is linked to hundreds of cases. We don’t know from where the virus came in the market,” said corporation commissioner G Prakash. This truck driver is said to have spread the virus to 20 other people including his 82-year-old mother, a 49-year-old wife and his co-driver’s 21-year-old son. In Rajasthan, the Jaipur municipal corporation identified 10 fruit and vegetable vendors as superspreaders after they infected at least 150 persons in the city. Jaipur has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state at 378.Nineteen superspreaders including vegetable vendors, milk vendors and grocery shop workers, became the carrier for the virus in 30 new localities in Ahmedabad, which accounts for about 70% of the total cases in Gujarat that have crossed 8,000.In Odisha’s Bhubaneswar, a biryani delivery boy was identified as Covid positive. In Lucknow’s Qaiserbagh, eight persons were infected from a vegetable vendor.In Haryana’s Jhajjar, which had no case till April 24, 11 vegetable sellers who visited Delhi’s Azadpur fruit and vegetable market tested positive for the virus days later. Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Randeep Punia said they came to know these vegetable vendors only when cases started coming up from the places the sellers frequented in the town“Identifying such persons is the biggest challenge,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, department of energy and nodal officer for Covid-19 management in Jaipur. “They have no symptoms. And even if they mild symptoms, they tend to hide them fearing loss of work.”These instances of some essential service providers getting infected have pushed the authorities to look at new strategies to check the spread without hampering the supply of goods to localities.In Jaipur, Sharma said all vendors in the city are being tested and their visits have been restricted only to a few localities.“We have colour-coded their carts depending on their municipal ward to restrict their movement. Not more than 10 vendors are being allowed in a locality,” he said.Punia added that in Jhajjar, they have decided to test all those who come in contact with people frequently such as milk booth operators and shop owners. Giving daily health update on Aarogya Setu app has been made mandatory for them.Dr Rajesh Malhotra, head of Covid-19 centre at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi, said the recent emergence of superspreaders show that travel history of a person is no more relevant as most of them don’t have any travel history.“We need to have a strategy to identify such persons quickly and isolate them before they spread the virus to a large number of people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-govts-on-alert-as-new-superspreaders-make-tracing-tough/story-MxdjVfnIBpD6tKJN5PEt0M.html
11-05-2020||India||Rape talk not from boys’ group, sent from fake profile, say cops||There was a twist in the controversy surrounding alleged remarks of sexual assault made by schoolboys in a closed social media chat when the Delhi Police on Sunday said that the conversation which brought the issue to light was never discussed on the “Bois Locker Room” group.In fact, the police said that the conversation — in which a boy was ostensibly instigating his friends to assault a girl from their class — was a separate chat that was instigated by the same girl who was the supposed target of the crime.“The girl had created a fake Snapchat account to test the values and character of her male friend. She wanted to check the boy’s reaction when someone suggested something like that to him, and particularly when someone spoke about her. So she created a fake account in the name of a fictional boy called Siddharth. Using that fake account, she began a one-on-one conversation with him, and suggested the sexual assault idea,” said Anyesh Roy, deputy commissioner of police (cyber crime). “The screenshots of their private conversation were mixed with the objectionable screenshots from the Instagram group ‘Bois Locker Room’,” he added.Screenshots of the objectionable conversation surfaced earlier this month, leading to social media outrage, and prompting the Delhi Police to register a case. An 18-year-old and a minor boy have been held in connection with the “Bois Locker Room” group’s activities, and 24 members of that group, including 16 minors, have so far been identified, examined, and their mobile phones seized for forensic analysis. Many of them study in reputed schools across Delhi-NCR.Roy said that when the police began investigating that conversation, it turned out that the conversation in question and the group were not connected.“On Snapchat, the boy refused to participate in any discussion against the girl, and ended off any further conversation with the fictional Siddharth. He also took screenshots of that chat, reported it to his friends, and to the same girl who had created the fake account. Since the girl knew the truth behind that conversation, she did not report it to anyone,” said the DCP.One other recipient of the screenshots posted it as an Instagram story, which went viral on social media. When the “Bois Locker Room” chats emerged, this Snapchat conversation got mixed with them, Roy said. The police are unlikely to pursue any punitive action against the girl, said another investigator who did not want to be identified. “The girl and boy who were part of this conversation had nothing to do with the Instagram group chat. Both are separate issues,” the investigator said.The police, meanwhile, are continuing to investigate the ‘Bois Locker Room’ episode.“We have received a response from Instagram who we had asked for details of the members of the group. They have shared partial information about three Instagram accounts,” Roy said.On the Instagram group, the members were allegedly discussing about morphing the images and leaking photos of girls known to them. The police have screenshots of the same.Jyoti Duhan Rather, a member of the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR), said that the incident should be treated with maturity. “The children at this age are vulnerable, be it a boy or a girl. Children of both genders need proper guidance, counselling and supervision of parents, family and teachers. We must be as a reformer for them and they must not be treated as criminals,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-talk-not-from-boys-group-sent-from-fake-profile-say-cops/story-8rs6jiCJQAlEHHdrn8TBZJ.html
11-05-2020||India||Indian Army confirms face-off with China in Sikkim||The Indian Army on Sunday confirmed that a heated confrontation took place between Indian and Chinese soldiers in north Sikkim on Saturday, resulting in injuries to troops on both sides. Soldiers from the two countries also clashed in eastern Ladakh last week, a senior officer said, asking not to be named. The army statement came on a day Hindustan Times reported that scores of Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a tense face-off at Naku La in Sikkim and the scuffle left 11 soldiers injured.“Incident of face-off as referred to in the (HT) article did take place. Aggressive behaviour by the two sides resulted in minor injuries to troops,” the statement said.The army said “temporary and short duration face-offs” between border guarding troops do occur as boundaries are not resolved. The statement said the two sides disengaged after dialogue and interaction at the local level. “Troops resolve such issues mutually as per established protocols,” the statement added.Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured during the confrontation that involved about 150 soldiers.Such face-offs do take place along the disputed border but this has possibly happened for the first time at Naku La, said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former Director General of Military Operations.“There are rare occasions when the two sides get into heated arguments over their perceived land claims, leading to pushing and shoving. On the positive side, the last shot was fired along the India-China border in October 1975,” said Bhatia, who has commanded the Sukna-based HQs 33 Corps, which is responsible for Sikkim.He said face-offs were on the rise as both sides were patrolling the borders more than before because of better access and improved infrastructure.A scuffle broke out between Indian and Chinese soldiers near Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh last week (the night of May 5-6) but a flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the stand-off, said the senior officer cited above. He said a few soldiers on both sides suffered minor injuries.The Asian giants have had a long-standing border dispute that led to a war in 1962. The festering feud causes around 400 face-offs every year along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Indian and Chinese soldiers have been involved in fistfights earlier, too. In August 2017, they threw stones at each other and exchanged blows near Pangong Lake. The clash near the LAC aggravated bilateral tensions as it happened at a time when the two neighbours were locked in a long stand-off in the disputed Doklam plateau close to Sikkim.The 73-day Doklam stand-off between India and China along the Sikkim border was likely to be the new normal, the Centre for Joint Warfare Studies (CENJOWS) said in 2017, making a strong case for building military capabilities “as China respected strength”.In a paper titled Looking Beyond Doklam, the CENJOWS, a think tank set up by the defence ministry, said it was crucial for India to demonstrate strength as peace along the disputed border will be “constantly and continuously” under stress, with “increase in frequency, intensity and depth of (Chinese) transgressions leading to more and more stand-offs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-confirms-face-off-with-china-in-sikkim/story-0T8pmdTXYDOy5yK5jro1cI.html
11-05-2020||India||Migrant workers battle stigma, bias back home||Migrant workers returning from India’s industrial states are battling stigma and bias in their home villages in some parts of Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha because local residents suspect that the labourers are potential carriers of the coronavirus disease, or Covid-19 . The workers say they and their families have been singled out, sneered at, and harassed by villagers. In some villages, they face ostracisation even after completing the mandatory 14-day quarantine period.Last week, a group of villagers armed with sticks in Uttar Pradesh’s Basti district allegedly surrounded Shekhar, a migrant worker who returned from Maharashtra, which is the state worst hit by the pandemic.“The villagers were angry because I had ventured out of the primary school, where I was quarantined, to relieve myself,” Shekhar said. “Okani ke corona ke dar rahal na ta mariye det sa (The villagers were scared of contacting the coronavirus, so they didn’t touch me. Otherwise, I would have been killed that day),” he said, claiming that he had no symptoms of Covid.In some districts, workers alleged caste slurs were hurled at them because they hailed from lower castes. Ravi Maurya, a migrant worker from Prayagraj, who returned by a ‘Shramik Special’ train, said, “Most of the villagers who have returned home belong to the lower castes and therefore, upper caste villagers harass us more,” he said, adding that one day he was abused by the upper caste men when he was standing on roof of the house. “They said that I can spread coronavirus even my standing on the roof of my house.”Dinesh Verma, a migrant worker from Pratapgarh district, said a local grocery shop owner asked his wife not to visit his shop. “I have to request my relatives to help me in procuring things of daily need,” he said.Migrants in Barabanki and Ayodhya complained of similar harassment. Pankaj Yadav, husband of the village head of Mahadewa village in Basti, said, “The fear of coronavirus has become bigger than the virus itself. This is the biggest problem we are facing right now.” There were reports of similar discrimination from Odisha and Jharkhand.On May 7, residents of Sana Aryapalli village in Ganjam district pelted stones at the police in protest against 40 labourers from Surat who were being kept at government school in the village. The police lathi-charged the villagers to disperse them. On May 9, 12 people from Kandhamal district who returned from pilgrimage in Uttarakhand had to be given police protection to enter a local quarantine centre because villagers were protesting against the centre. Local village head Ranjan Kanhar said the villagers agreed to keep the 12 in the quarantine centre for the time being. “We will request the local block development officer to shift them to some other quarantine centre as villagers are apprehensive regarding infection they may be carrying,” he said.Rakhi Singh, an ayurvedic doctor, was not allowed to stay in home quarantine after she returned from Telangana with her three children . Her husband Sudhir Kumar, lodged a complaint with the police after the local village chief refused to allow his wife to quarantine herself at home, saying he had not received any ‘official communication’ in this regard. The doctor had to spend an entire night in a car.In Jharkhand’s West Singbhum district, migrants alleged they were not allowed to enter the villages. “When was taken to a quarantine centre in my village, the locals opposed it saying that I am carrying the virus. They even prevented my family members to meet me. I had no symptoms and I even offered to get myself tested. They did not listen. The police then took me to another quarantine centre,” said 22-year-old Shamu Munda, who was among the first to return from Telangana.Another tribal in Dumka district, who came back from Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, Surin Soren, said that his family has been socially ostracised since his return. “They (villagers) claim that all of us are carriers of the virus and will infect them all. They have put barricades outside her house with a poster saying our house is infected with corona,” he said over phone .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-battle-stigma-bias-back-home/story-0uuRSEZfoickVOrPU2agGL.html
11-05-2020||India||Prepared to run 300 trains daily for migrants, says railways minister Piyush Goyal||The Indian Railways is geared up to run 300 trains a day to ferry stranded migrant labourers to their hometowns, railways minister Piyush Goyal said on Sunday, while also appealing to states to ramp up efforts to ensure that the workers reach their destinations across the country in the next three-four days.According to his ministry, the railways ran till Saturday a total of 364 Shramik Special trains. Out f the 90 planned on Saturday, 64 were already in transit till the filing of this report. So far, railways ferried 450,000 passengers.“As per the directions of Hon’ble PM Narendra Modi ji, Railways is fully geared up to run 300 Shramik Special trains every day at short notice since the last six days,” Goyal tweeted.“I appeal to all the States to give permission to evacuate and bring back their stranded migrants so that we can get all of them back to their homes in the next 3-4 days itself,” he said in another tweet.Shramik Special trains, which began on May 1, are bound for a single destination without any stoppages. Usually, they have 24 coaches with each carrying a little over 50 passengers in place of the total capacity of 72, taking the total number of passengers per train to up to 1,200. This means 300 trains a day for the next four days would be able to carry over 1.4 million passengers.The Shramik Special trains are being run only after a concurrence is given by states that are sending the passengers as well as those receiving them, the ministry said. In an earlier guideline, the Centre asked both sides to coordinate for the transit of migrant workers who are stuck across India due to the ongoing lockdown prompted by the coronavirus disease.According to states’ estimates on April 30, around 10 million workers were stranded across the country; many of them struggling after losing their jobs in the wake of the lockdown. Experts, too, pointed out that the number of stranded migrants could be more than the central government’s estimates even though several of them have already reached their homes by special buses and these trains.In the first week of April, a status report submitted by the Centre to the Supreme Court said a little over a million migrant workers and others were housed at 26,476 relief and active shelter camps across the country. Of them, 630,000 were in government camps and the rest in those run by non-government organisations.“The estimates by the railway minister are based on the figure of roughly 600,000 migrants in government relief camps...However, it is estimated that there are roughly 60-65 million interstate migrant workers. Even if we assume that only 50% of them want to travel back, then the number of trains being suggested are not enough,” said Rajendran Narayanan, assistant professor, Azim Premji University.According to the railways ministry, a total of 287 trains have reached their destinations across 11 states — Andhra Pradesh (1 train), Bihar (87 trains), Himachal Pradesh (1 train), Jharkhand (16 trains), Madhya Pradesh (24 trains), Maharashtra (3 trains), Odisha (20 trains), Rajasthan (4 trains), Telangana (2 trains), Uttar Pradesh (127 trains), West Bengal (2 trains). These trains have departed from states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan and Telangana.Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have taken in the maximum number of migrants back with more than 80,000 people each, according the internal railway ministry data. They were followed by Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prepared-to-run-300-trains-daily-for-migrants-goyal/story-IjBQV32bYaWNDpoNvgOVLN.html
11-05-2020||India||6 migrants die in Madhya Pradesh accident||Six migrant workers were killed and 12 injured when the truck they were travelling in overturned in Madhya Pradesh late on Saturday, police officials familiar with the matter said.According to police, the group of 15 labourers, including 14 from Uttar Pradesh and one from Madhya Pradesh, was travelling to Agra from Telangana’s Hyderabad in a truck carrying raw mangoes when the accident took place in Narsinghpur district, around 240 kilometers from state capital Bhopal. “Five of the labourers were killed on the spot while another died during treatment at a hospital in Jabalpur. All the deceased labourers belonged to Uttar Pradesh. They have been identified as Nihal Singh, 40, Ranvir Lodhi, 42, Nem Singh, 38, Indresh Pandey,40, Chhotu Tiwari,40, and Sandip Dixit, 42” Narsinghpur additional superintendent of police Rajesh Tiwari said. He added that they were trying to ascertain how the accident took place.They were engaged as labourers, mainly at construction sites and factories.Gurukaran Singh, superintendent of police, Narsinghpur, said that they do not have knowledge of any payment made to the driver or owner of the truck. The truck driver or owner was perhaps known to some of these labourers, said Singh.Apart from the migrant workers, the truck’s driver and cleaner were also injured in the accident and undergoing treatment, officials said. Yogesh Kumar, of Hinona in Etah district, said they had been quarantined in Hyderabad. After quarantine, they didn’t have enough money for food, due to which they decided to return home, Kumar said.The officials from district administration said one of the injured labourers showed symptoms of the cold.Dr R Tiwari, superintendent of the teaching hospital of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College, Jabalpur said, “One of the two labourers who were referred to our hospital had symptoms of cold. His sample had been taken in Narsinghpur itself. He was admitted here in an isolation ward but he left the hospital without telling anyone.”Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan termed the incident as unfortunate and said: “The truck accident in Narsinghpur has claimed several precious lives. The untimely deaths and grievous injuries have caused me immense pain. I pray their souls rest in peace and their families get the strength to overcome their grief.”On Friday, 16 migrant workers were run over by a freight train near Maharashtra’s Aurangabad as they slept on train tracks after a long journey on foot in an attempt to find transport to go back to their home towns in Madhya Pradesh. The incident triggered widespread discussions on the need to ensure safe travel for migrants to their home towns amid the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-migrants-die-in-mp-accident/story-xomSHsVPpfvakDzmFpN3wO.html
11-05-2020||India||CBSE charts plan to hold remaining exams||The logistics seem daunting. Hundreds of thousands of students appearing for a test, the need to make sure social distancing norms are observed in these days of the coronavirus disease and students and invigilators get safely to the examination centres. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) thinks it can pull it off. All students and the invigilators will wear face masks and carry hand sanitizers when Class XII board examinations are held from July 1 to 15 for an estimated 1.2 million students . No more than a dozen students will sit in an examination hall. In addition, in north-east Delhi, Class X exams are scheduled for students where because of communal violence in February, some had to be postponed. “It is a challenging task to conduct an exam of such a vast proportions when the country is still facing the pandemic but we feel it is doable because the previous exams in March were also conducted at a time when the onslaught of the disease was being felt and accordingly modifications made. We believe learning from that experience, we will be able to put a detailed safety mechanism in place,” said an official who didn’t want to be named.The maximum number of candidates who will be appearing for a test on a single day will not exceed 400,000 he said. And in March, the CBSE conducted exams where up to 1.95 million lakh sat for a test on a single day.“Even in that test we tried to ensure there are not more than 12 students in one room. Therefore, it will not be difficult to ensure there are not more than 12 students in one room to take care of the social distancing aspect,” said a second official.The maximum number of students -- at least 350,000 -- will appear for the business studies exam for class 12. The Hindi exam will see around 300,000 candidates taking the test, Geography has over 100,000, home science around 60,000 and sociology some 50,000 candidates.“There is still time and we will accordingly plan and bring suitable norms. However, there will be proper social distancing and precautions when the exams are conducted,” said the second official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-charts-plan-to-hold-remaining-exams/story-31nwR5mMv2oucjwyohxYjI.html
11-05-2020||India||Central teams chart Covid plan with states, flag gaps||The Centre has sent at least 50 health and disaster response teams to various states since March when cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) started rising to assist state governments in managing cases and containing the spread of infection.The latest batch of experts has been rushed to 10 states from where maximum cases currently are being reported: Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.The team in Andhra Pradesh from the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health (AIIHM & PH) visited Kurnool town, and expressed concern over the growing number of cases.Kurnool accounts for maximum number of 566 of the 1,980 cases and 16 of the 45 deaths reported in the state so far.The team members, Dr Madhumita Dubey and Dr Sanjay Sadhukhan, held a meeting with senior officials of the district to review the situation in the state in general, and Kurnool in particular.Dubey said the state government should come out with new appropriate strategies to contain the fast spreading virus in tune with the growing number of cases. She suggested that testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine should be done faster and if necessary, the government should take the help of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) for contact tracing.She advised the government to enhance the capacity of human resources, quarantine centres, Covid-19 care centres and hospitals to face the challenges effectively in case there was a large-scale outbreak of the virus in the coming days.So far, the state government has conducted 173,735 tests, including 8666 tests in the last 24 hours alone.Dubey said the central team had come to Kurnool to extend handholding to the state and the district administration in preventing spreading of the Covid-19 further. “After examining the situation in all aspects, we shall make appropriate recommendations to the state government,” she said.Prof Sadhukhan said since it was not possible for the government to continue lockdown for an indefinite period, the government should mentally prepare the people to live with Coronavirus after the lifting of the lockdown. “We need to educate the people on how to maintain self-restraint to prevent the spread of the virus,” he said.District collector G Veerapandian explained the efforts being made by the Kurnool district administration in containing the virus and bring down the death rate. He said though the number of cases was going up in the district, the recovery was also equally faster.The director of All India Institute of Medical (AIIMS), Dr Randeep Guleria, led a two-member team that visited Gujarat to assess the situation in the state that has reported over 7,000 cases and has a death rate of around 6%, which is nearly double of country’s death rate of about 3.3%.The AIIMS, Delhi, chief, has attributed high mortality rate to underlying medical conditions in most of the admitted patients and also delay in seeking treatment. “Late reporting to hospital due to stigma seems to be one cause and comorbidities in patients for high mortality rate in Gujarat,” said Dr Guleria.Earlier, another set of 20 central teams were sent to 20 high disease burden districts on May 3.“The main objective of sending the teams of experts is to assess the situation on ground and advise the state government accordingly on how best to implement containment measures and manage cases so that they do not turn critical. Their job is to see if there are any loopholes, and help the states plug these,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry, on the teams being sent to states.Agarwal last week had led a second team of experts that visited Mumbai in the past one month as the city has been reporting high number of cases since past few weeks.Apart from the health teams, the central government had also constituted Interministerial Central Teams (IMCT) to look into other aspects such as implementation of lockdown, market activities etc. and sent to places from where more cases were being reported. One of the teams was sent to Mumbai, the main problem is of congested spaces because of which maintaining social distancing successfully can be difficult.“The experts had found in many congested areas people share community toilet for which people have to come out of their homes despite the lockdown, especially in slums like Dharavi.It was suggested creating separate toilet structures. And to ensure people did not stay in close proximity, the teams had suggested moving people to different areas in make-shift quarantine facilities,” Puniya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary, home ministry, had said on the feedback. In Indore, Madhya Pradesh, the Covid-19 testing capacity was found to be inadequate, and lockdown measures not followed properly, by the team. “One of the main reasons initially for high cases testing positive in Indore was that the chain of transmission couldn’t be broken as people didn’t really stay indoors during the initial lockdown period. What we saw in subsequent weeks has been a result of that,” said a team member, requesting anonymity.“Mostly the problems that have been found in states where the numbers are high or death rate is high that either lockdown measures were not followed properly, or they weren’t following the testing protocol, or late hospitalization,” the expert added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-teams-chart-covid-plan-with-states-flag-gaps/story-yXbBM4irbXHhTbGui3w31O.html
11-05-2020||India||PM Modi to discuss lockdown exit plan with CMs at today’s meet||The Centre told states on Sunday to ensure strict adherence of containment zone guidelines and clear demarcation of the areas with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, adding that they should not let any relaxation of the national lockdown lead to chaos, a development that came a day ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meet with chief ministers.The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) announced that Modi will hold the fifth video-conference on tackling the Covid-19 outbreak with the chief ministers at 3pm on Monday. At the previous meets, the Prime Minister has taken suggestions from the CMs on the contours and extension of the national lockdown, put in place to contain the infections. Officials have told HT that at Monday’s meet, the PM is likely to discuss further increase in economic activity in the country while also tackling the infections in the containment zones.Also Watch | Will PM-CMs decide on lockdown exit & the man living at airport for 2 months Also read: Number of critical Covid-19 patients has halved across the country, shows dataCabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba met state chief secretaries on Sunday and advised them to ensure that “green zones” – areas that are largely Covid-19-free – remain insulated from the spread of the pathogen, according to an official who was present during the interaction and spoke on condition of anonymity. The states were also asked to allow unhindered movement of health care workers, the official added.An official statement on the meeting also said that many chief secretaries said that “while protection is required from Covid-19, the economic activities also need to be stepped up in a calibrated manner”. The deliberations came a day after Gauba held two back-to-back meetings to identify possible areas that can be opened up after May 17.The country has been under a complete lockdown since March 25, a move aimed at breaking the chain of infections. The number of infections, which have affected more than four million people across the world, rose to 67,085 in India on Sunday. Experts say that a recent relaxation in the lockdown to boost economic activity may lead to an increase in Covid-19 cases.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayWhile restrictions were considerably relaxed on May 4 to boost a sluggish economy, the government is expected to further ease the curbs after May 17, when the lockdown is scheduled to end.The government has begun internal discussions on possible additional relaxations and unlike the previous meet between the PM and the chief ministers, Monday’s video conference will have all CMs speaking on the issue, according to a person aware of the matter. Due to the paucity of time, the previous deliberations had limited numbers of CMs sharing their views.On Sunday, Gauba told the chief secretaries that containment areas have to be well-demarcated to avoid confusion among the public as well as police or health officials and “stringent implementation” of rules has to be ensured, the official quoted above said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The Centre has regularly received reports about loosely earmarked containment zones leading to non-adherence of health safety norms and free movement of people, the official added.While the Centre is worried about a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the states have been asked to keep an eye on the green zones to ensure these areas remain unaffected.The cabinet secretary also cited reports about the frequent harassment of medical workers and underlined that their movement should be unhindered and they must not face any difficulty due to the restrictions, another official said.As the Centre seeks states’ inputs for the next course of action, senior Congress strategist Jairam Ramesh argued that the Union government must give the states complete freedom to design their own action plans. “It is ridiculous that the Centre is making all plans and asking states to follow it. It should be the other way round. The battle against Covid needs to be de-centralised. States should be free to make their own plans and decide which areas are vulnerable. This green, red and orange zone concept is not working,” Ramesh said.At Sunday’s meet, state officials shared data to show how they were tackling the Covid-19 outbreak. Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled Tripura flagged concerns over a number of positive cases found in Bangladesh’s districts adjacent to the state. The Tripura chief secretary pointed out that the international border was porous and the Centre must ensure that Bangladesh citizens can’t enter Tripura, the second official said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The Assam chief secretary underlined that while a large number of migrant workers were returning to the state in special trains, it needed to be given advance notice and sufficient time to set up quarantine facilities for such a large number of people. He was assured that the state would be informed about in-bound train schedules in advance. West Bengal home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay said that the state has reconciled its Covid-19 data with the Centre’s after the administration was accused of under-reporting of cases. He read out a written demand that for the next phase, the government should adopt a more decentralised approach and a zone-specific plan should be allowed, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-adherence-to-guidelines-govt-to-states-ahead-of-pm-meet/story-9iORdrCtoBn3CqRgAuWR7N.html
11-05-2020||India||One man, 8 profiles and an elaborate hoax||Sameer Chaturvedi woke up on April 1 to a raft of WhatsApp messages. His college friends were discussing the paucity of ventilators to treat Covid-19. On his extended family group, relatives were blaming people who attended a religious congregation in New Delhi for the outbreak. And, a close friend was holding forth on how beauty and brains could come together in his dream woman.The common thread: A woman named Nisha Jindal, supposedly a resident of Chhattisgarh’s capital city Raipur, who had posted in her widely popular Facebook account that representatives of the World Health Organization (WHO) had flown down to Raipur to meet her, and that 10,000 ventilators were being dispatched to the state as a result of the meeting. Screenshots of the post were doing the round of WhatsApp groups.“I first thought someone was pulling an April Fool’s prank on me, so I quickly logged onto Facebook and found her profile. Not only did she have some mutual friends with me but I saw many big people were on her list. I thought she must be someone important,” said Chaturvedi, a small-time businessman in Raigarh town. “She seemed very pretty so I also thought of sending her a request and starting a chat,” he added.Unknown to Sameer, the Facebook post, made on March 26, had stoked suspicion at the police headquarters in Raipur, especially because officials had received several previous complaints that the profile was putting out communal content. A month later, they arrested a 31-year-old man from a small two-room flat in Raipur’s Kabir Nagar locality. In their investigation and questioning, they found that the man, an engineering college drop-out, had put together an elaborate hoax on Facebook with eight fake profiles to churn out misinformation to tens of thousands of people and gained tremendous traction on Facebook and WhatsApp when Covid-19 hit India. At the centre of the fake news machinery was Nisha Jindal, a supposedly 35-year-old mother of one who managed to add top industrialists, journalists, photographers, politicians, activists, bureaucrats and police officers in her social media circle. The bait: Illegally borrowed photographs of Pakistani actor Miraha Pasha, rabid communal commentary and hints of bonhomie with important politicians and bureaucrats. “When we arrested him, he told us he had studied from Harvard. He was laughing at having made a fool out of thousands. He didn’t want money, it seemed he did it for popularity,” said Arif Sheikh, the Raipur superintendent of police.When asked why he impersonated an actor and used a fake name, his answer to the police interrogators was straightforward. “Look at my face, do you think any of those thousands would have followed me if they knew how I really look? What Ravi could never, Nisha Jindal was able to, become famous.” Modest beginnings Pujar was born in a lower-middle class household in Raipur to a state government employee. He studied in the Adarsh Vidyalaya, where students and teachers described him as an unusually quiet boy who kept mostly to himself. “We would joke that we would never see him talking to girls,” said one of his friends, Rahul Kamakar. A second friend, who didn’t want to be named said he was always interested in news. In school, Pujar did poorly in other subjects but was surprisingly good at maths, pursuing a degree in information technology at a local private engineering college after his board examinations in 2009. In 2012, after falling behind on his assignments and failing year-end examinations, his college informed Pujar that he would not be allowed to graduate and he dropped out. It was then that Jindal was born. He lived with his parents in government quarters and spent most of his time on the phone. “We lived in the same house and yet I never knew what he was up to. I don’t know what happened to him but one thing I am sure, he was not anti-Muslim,” said his father, Jagdish Pujar. “He has never fought with anyone or has been violent. My son was very simple, I don’t know what happened to him,” added Jagdish.For the next four years, his friends unsuccessfully asked Pujar many times to take up a job, but they couldn’t even get him to admit that he had failed college. “He would always say, I don’t want to do a small job,” said Rahul. Pujar told his parents that he was preparing for the civil services examination. “I met him a day before the lockdown, he said he was preparing for a competitive exam,” said a third friend who refused to be named. In his spare time, he would share an evening drink of cheap beer with two or three friends. “He would never get drunk. In fact he would take care of us if one of us got out of hand,” said Kamakar. His other passion was cooking chicken that was a favourite snack with friends. “I wonder why he did it, whether he was lonely, or simply ambitious. After all, remember that every important person in our state followed the profile and no one in our circle could ever dream of knowing these people,” said the third friend. Creating a fictitious lifeNisha Jindal first appeared on Facebook in the summer of 2012. Within the span of a couple of months, Pujar created eight supporting profiles of friends, sister, family members of the Jindal family, all of whom were connected on Facebook and amplified Jindal’s photos, posts and comments. All the photos were taken from Pasha’s account.In the first few years, Jindal gained some traction but never made it beyond a small group of friends and people – a common phenomenon on a website that pulled down three billion fake accounts last year – according to data put out by Facebook in 2019 -- with India among the top three markets with such profiles. Apart from biological details, her profile listed professional skills that included archaeology, biology, computer science, fashion designer, weapons expert, microbiologist and classical dancer.In these early years when most updates were personal photos, anecdotes and flirty texts, Jindal mirrored one of the most common fake profiles on Facebook, Angel Priya, of which hundreds of iterations are made by young men every year and which inspired director Raaj Shandilya to make 2019 Ayushmann Khurrana-starrer film, Dream Girl, where the lead actor pretends to be a woman over a telephone service. The nationwide protests that broke out last year after the government amended the citizenship law propelled Jindal’s reach and gave a distinctive communal colour to its content. “We found that the anti-Muslim rhetoric became shriller and she started writing fake things about politicians. Many influential people started sharing her content,” said Abhishek Maheswari, the city superintendent of police.This is also the time Chaturvedi received the first screenshot of Jindal’s post on his WhatsApp group – it was about how the anti Citizenship (Amendment) Act protesters were destroying the country. The likes and shares on her posts went up dramatically. “Pujar would spend 12-14 hours every day on his phone, finding news and then making something up to post on his profile. In our interrogation, we found that he had tremendous knowledge of random trivia; almost everything was copied from the internet,” said Sheikh.Growing bolder with the profile, Pujar started sending out friend requests to important people – including one to Sheikh. “I saw that the profile said she was California-based and there were many prominent business people on the profile... I didn’t accept,” the police officer said. From January, Jindal started posting more about Covid-19 and her supposed meetings with officials of international organisations, including the International Monetary Fund. At the same time, Pujar kept up a steady stream of reposted TikTok videos and personal updates – including one where Jindal declared she is 35 and unmarried. Her posts came at a time fear of the virus was gripping the hinterlands and news about mystery illnesses and miracle cures were flying about not just on social media but also on local newspapers and television channels. Jindal’s misinformation fit neatly into this matrix. “We saw that thousands of people started following her and her posts were getting shared much more on WhatsApp. Everyone thought she knew big people,” said a top police officer on condition of anonymity. The Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi that the government held responsible for 4,000 cases fuelled her reach and fit neatly into her anti-Muslim tirade. “Her reach was tremendous and her Covid updates were very popular. If someone accused her of being fake, hundreds would crash the comments section defending her. They would say they know her, have met her in real life – just to win her trust and favour,” said Maheswari. The penny dropsOn April 12, Maheswari sent a friend request to Jindal. By then, police had already searched thousands of houses in Shankar Nagar, the address listed in the profile, but come up short. Another effort to get Facebook to cough up details had also come up short. Jindal immediately accepted the request. “She was fond of adding government officers, I saw many other top officials in her list, about 100 senior officers and 200 journalists,” he said. To track the IP address, Maheswari adopted a very Indian routine: Sending “good morning” messages every day with photos of a bouquet of flowers. But for a week, Jindal responded with just emoticons, which were not enough to track down her connection. He finally sent Jindal her profile photo on her messenger inbox and said, “You are very beautiful.” Within minutes, there was a response and the two had started chatting.By the next day, on April 20, the police had traced the mobile phone and found the Pujar house in Kabir Nagar but were still taken aback when they walked into the house. “We were expecting someone very sophisticated. But it was a very modest house and when I looked at Pujar, I started laughing. We realised it was a fake profile,” said Maheswari.Multiple police accounts say when Pujar was arrested, he was amused by how popular the profile had become. The investigation initially focused on possible financial transactions but officers quickly realised that Pujar’s motive was not monetary. “He was proud of the popularity and how many people proposed to him over messenger. But he also seemed biased against Muslims and that may have been another motive,” said the unnamed police official quoted above. Pujar has been arrested under sections 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups) and 295A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under relevant Sections of Information Technology (IT) Act.Shortly after his arrest, police made Pujar post his real photo on Jindal’s profile and tell thousands of her followers that the account was fake, and that he was fake. “He was still confident, he told us that he was Nisha Jindal and that there was no difference between the two,” said Maheswari. The final post on Jindal’s profile went viral within hour and was screen grabs are still doing the rounds of WhatsApp, Reddit and meme factories. When it landed in Chaturvedi’s inbox a day later, it shocked his circle of friends in Raigarh. The profile was still up – it was taken down a day later – and later that evening, five or six friends gathered. “We drank and laughed at how we had been fooled. One of us even had a crush on her. Actually, in our small town, it was a big deal for someone to know so many big people, to have prominent people, industrialists and politicians follow you,” he said.While scrolling, they saw that a fight had broken out in the comments section between a small group of Jindal faithful and others. One of the profiles, named Avichal Sharma, still defended Jindal, or Pujar. “What’s in the body, the mind, the brain is everything,” was his comment. “As if we shared her content because of its intellect,” Chaturvedi said with a laugh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-man-8-profiles-and-an-elaborate-hoax/story-2vWx4Ot7lqrsasXK2UylCI.html
11-05-2020||India||Guidelines for factories to resume operations safely||The first week in which factories reopen after the national lockdown must be used as a trial period in which safety protocols are ensured and high production targets are not set, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) said in detailed guidelines issued on Sunday. These guidelines came days after 12 people were killed in an industrial accident in Visakhapatnam that may have been caused by the long duration of inactivity at the facility.“Due to several weeks of lockdown and the closure of industrial units during the lockdown period, it is possible that some of the operators might not have followed the established SOP (standard operating procedure). As a result, some of the manufacturing facilities, pipelines, valves, etc may have residual chemicals, which may pose risk. The same is true for storage facilities with hazardous chemicals and flammable materials,” NDMA said in its guidelines.Such units should consider the first week of restarting any machinery or chemical unit as the “trial” or “test run” period and “not try to achieve high production targets”, the agency added.Industrial scale operations include the use of chemicals and machinery that require specific cycles of use and maintenance to keep them operating safely and free of hazardous materials that may accumulate as a result of disuse. Since March 25, most of these units have virtually been shut down, raising the risk of accidents.At least 12 people died after a chemical from a factory spread to several villages in Visakhapatnam district in the early hours of Thursday, affecting more than 1,000 people who woke up from their sleep choking and with burning sensation in their skin. The leak was of styrene, which is believed to have turned into gas after a cooling unit at the LG Polymers factory failed, raising the chemical’s temperature to dangerous levels, according to a preliminary incident report filed by district officials.The same day, 14 others were hurt in two other industrial accidents. The first one involved a group of seven cleaning staff who were clearing out an enclosure filled with poisonous gases at a paper mill in Chhattisgarh’s Raigad. The other was an explosion in a boiler that left seven workers hurt at the Neyveli Lignite Corporation’s plant in Tamil Nadu’s Cuddalore.“When Lockout/Tagout procedures are not in place, many energy sources can prove to be hazardous to operators/supervisors who are servicing or maintaining electrical, mechanical or chemical equipment. When heavy machinery and equipment are not maintained periodically, they can become dangerous for the operators/engineers. Combustible liquids, contained gaseous substances, open wires, conveyor belts and automated vehicles make manufacturing facilities a high-risk environment. Improper enforcement of safety codes and improperly labelled chemicals can further pose serious health hazards,” the NDMA advisory said.The NDMA’s directives is with a clear intention to ensure precautionary measures for complete safety and security of labour, employees and the environment, said DK Aggarwal, president, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. “There is cost involved for each non-productive day and a delay of a week for trial runs will bring additional cost, but industries should not restart in haste and at the cost of safety and security of workers, staff and the public at large,” said Aggarwal.“There needs to be several layers of early warning systems in place like there is for nuclear plants. All emissions and other data on dashboard should be made available to Central Pollution Control Board, state boards, state disaster management authorities and national disaster management authority,” said SN Tripathi, head of civil engineering department at IIT Kanpur. The NDMA guidelines said that employees should be made aware of the need to identify abnormalities such as strange sounds or smells, exposed wires, vibrations, leaks, smoke, abnormal wobbling, irregular grinding or other potentially hazardous signs that indicate the need for an immediate maintenance or, if required, a shutdown.The guidelines also asked the industry to take the help of local administration in case of any difficulty, and district magistrates were told to ensure that in such instances the industrial unit may be facilitated to run end-to-end operations in the interest of industrial security.NDMA further detailed the steps that specific industry needs to take when they reopen. For example, storage or raw materials units have been asked to “inspect for any signs of spills, wear and tear during the lockdown” as well as check for “already opened storage vessels/containers/bags/silos for possible oxidation/chemical reaction/ rusting/ rotting etc”.Manufacturing units were told to carry out a complete safety audit of the entire unit before taking up starting activities and they should first clean the pipelines, equipment and discharge lines, and factories working 24 hours were asked to consider a one-hour gap between shifts, except those factories or plants that require continuous operations.They were also asked to operate with 33% managerial and administrative staff as per MHA guidelines; but while deciding which particular person to be included in 33% at any given point of time, overriding priority be given to personnel dealing with safety, and to prepare accommodation to isolate workers if needed.The reopening of factories was permitted by the easing of restrictions to the national lockdown from May 4 for all zones as long as factories and industrial units were access-controlled, with employers required to put in place social distancing rules for workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guidelines-for-factories-to-resume-operations-safely/story-eIaCpWH5gLLyfvr3cshVBK.html
11-05-2020||India||Saifullah Mir aka Ghazi Haider, 26, is Hizbul’s new face of terror in Kashmir||Saifullah Mir aka Ghazi Haider, the 26-year-old who was radicalised to join the Hizbul Mujahideen by Riyaz Naikoo six years ago, will be the Hizbul Mujahideen’s new face of terror in Jammu and Kashmir, a senior security official said on Sunday evening. The official said Saifullah Mir’s appointment to lead the Hizbul in Jammu and Kashmir had been announced by Saleem Hashmi, the spokesperson for the terror group headquartered in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir’s Muzaffarabad.Hashmi also named Zafarul Islam as the so-called deputy chief operational commander in jammu and Kashmir and another terrorist, Abu Tariq Bhai, as his chief military adviser.Naikoo along with his associate Adil Ahmed was killed in an operation carried out by Jammu and Kashmir police and troopers from the 21 Rashtriya Rifles. Naikoo was hiding in a secret bunker in his village.Saifullah Mir, who is also known as Musaib and ‘Doctor Saif’ because he treated terrorists injured in police encounters, is a class 12 pass out from Malangpora in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district unlike his mentor and predecessor Riyaz Naikoo who had completed his graduation. Saifullah Mir opted for vocational training after school. Once he was through with the bio medical course at the government-run ITI in Pulwama, Saifullah got himself a job at Srinagar’s National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology as a technician, according to security officials.He held onto the job for three years before Riyaz Naikoo finally had his way and motivated him to join terror.Security officials said Saifullah had been classified as an ‘A category’ terrorist and had mostly been active in south Kashmir districts of Pulwama, Kulgam and Shopian. He is also said to be completely familiar with Riyaz Naikoo’s network and activities to raise funds by looting orchard owners and get cuts from illicit cultivation of opium in south Kashmir.Police officers in Kashmir said apart from terrorism, the Hizbul Mujahideen has also been involved in narco trade.Investigators had recently busted a Hizbul Mujahideen terror funding module with the arrest of Hilal Ahmad Wagay, a resident of Nowgam, Awantipora, Jammu and Kashmir. Wagay was caught with Rs 29 lakh cash in Amritsar, by Punjab Police on April 25.“This money was being transported to the Kashmir valley to be handed over to Riyaz Naikoo (now killed), Chief operational commander of Hizbul Mujahideen. This case has been taken over by NIA,” the National Investigation Agency had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saifullah-mir-aka-ghazi-haider-26-is-hizbul-s-new-face-of-terror-in-kashmir/story-NOgRn012nF6Ks752QxvjJL.html
11-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra’s highest spike of 1,278 takes tally past 22,000||Maharashtra recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases on a single day at 1,278 on Sunday as the tally in the state jumped to 22,171, the state health department said.Maharashtra’s tally is almost thrice of Gujarat, the state with the second highest number of Covid-19 infections at close to 8,000.It also recorded the highest casualties in a single day with 53 deaths that took the number of fatalities in the state to 832.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Nineteen of Sunday’s casualties were in Mumbai, five each from Pune and Jalgaon, three in Dhule, and one each in Vasai Virar, Pimpri Chinchwad, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Nandurbar, Solapur. A total of 4,199 people have been discharged 4,199.The number of active cases in the state is 17,140 while 2,38,766 have been tested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-maharashtra-s-highest-spike-of-1-278-takes-tally-past-22-000/story-4UYF6gqnJ6LPz2yZYSLg0H.html
11-05-2020||India||Manmohan Singh admitted to hospital for fever; his office says he is OK||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was admitted to Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Sunday evening after he reportedly complained of uneasiness.A hospital source said he was admitted in a ward at the cardio-neurosciences (CNS) tower at about 8.45 pm. “He was brought late in the evening, and has been admitted. He is stable and currently under observation with specialists examining him,” the hospital source said..There was no official statement by AIIMS on Manmohan Singh’s admission to the hospital.Singh’s office later confirmed that he had been admitted but underlined that he was doing fine.“He is okay. He was taken to the hospital as he had fever due to the side-effect of the medication given yesterday. He is under observation,” the former PM’s office said.Senior politicians from the Congress and other political parties wished the 87-year-old leader a speedy recovery.Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi also enquired about the health of the distinguished economist who joined the Congress and served as prime minister for two terms. With the Congress back in the opposition, he plays a lead role in advising his party on economic issues. Last month, he accepted a request from Congress-ruled Punjab to guide the state’s economy to recovery after the Covid-19 crisis is over.Among the other prominent politicians who expressed concern at the former PM’s health was Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot.“Much worried to know former PM Dr Manmohan Singh ji has been admitted to AIIMS. I wish him speedy recovery and pray for his good health and long life,” Gehlot tweeted.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted he too was deeply concerned about Dr Singh’s health. “Hope he makes a full recovery soon. All of India is praying for our former PM,” said Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-pm-manmohan-singh-admitted-to-aiims-cardio-thoracic-ward-report/story-HNhlLxqin1xKMtDTP2UmTP.html
11-05-2020||India||Security forces on red alert over terror bombing threat in Kashmir||Security forces in Jammu and Kashmir have been placed on red alert over the plans of Pakistan-backed terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed to carry out attacks targeting army and paramilitary forces on Monday. Security forces expect the terrorists to carry out the attack using a car bomb or a suicide bomber.The heightened security in Kashmir coincides with the terror group Hizbul Mujahideen naming Ghazi Haider aka Saifullah Mir as the next chief chief of the terror group in Kashmir to replace Riyaz Naikoo who was killed in an encounter this week.“Ghazi Haider is a nom de guerre. Ghazi means Islamic warrior, Haider is brave,” a security official in Kashmir said, adding that operations to locate the new Hizbul chief would begin soon. The terror outfit has also readied its second line of leadership. Ghazi Haider would have a deputy, Zafar ul Islam, and a chief military adviser Abu Tariq Bhai.For now, the immediate priority of the security forces is to neutralise the Jaish-e-Mohammed threat to convoys of security forces on May 11. The terrorist group has been planning the possible attacks on Monday for days. Last week, according to intelligence reports, Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar, the de facto chief of Jaish, had met his handlers at Pakistan military’s Inter Services Intelligence.Also Read: At NSA Ajit Doval’s big Kashmir meet, a stinker for Pak and a piece of advice Security officials said the choice of May 11 for an attack coincides with the 17th day of Ramadan when the Battle of Badr was fought and won by a few hundred soldiers in Saudi Arabia. In Islamic history, it is seen as a huge victory in the early days of Islam and a turning point.It is also the 22nd anniversary of India’s second round of Pokhran nuclear tests in 1998 when India became a nuclear weapons state with a capability to deliver airborne and land-based nuclear devices.The Jaish-e-Mohammed, which has a large proportion of foreign terrorists in its ranks, is expected to use local Kashmiris for the bombing as it had done in the Pulwama car bombing last year that targeted a convoy of CRPF troopers.This lowers the cost of a terrorist attack for Pakistan-based terror groups, a Kashmir police officer said. It is also convenient because it helps its backers in Pakistan claim that the attack was carried out by local Kashmiris and is part of, as Prime Minister Imran Khan calls it, an indigenous resistance movement.Counter-terror officials in North Block said the Northern Army commander and chiefs of Central Reserve Police Force and Jammu and Kashmir police’s special operations groups had already been sensitised about the possible attack.As a precaution, all movement of convoys has been placed under strong monitoring and will move out under strong protection with road opening parties in accordance with procedures. This will keep everyone safe, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-on-red-alert-ahead-of-terror-bombing-threat-in-kashmir/story-duMlV2f8SX3oBURPD353PN.html
11-05-2020||India||Passenger trains to start running from Tuesday; online booking begins today||The Indian Railways will gradually restart passenger train operations from May 12, initially with 15 pairs of trains, the railways ministry said on Sunday. These trains will be run as special trains from New Delhi station connecting Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi.Thereafter, Indian Railways shall start more special services on new routes, based on the available coaches after reserving 20,000 coaches for Covid-19 care centres and adequate number of coaches being reserved to enable operation of up to 300 trains everyday as Shramik Special for stranded migrants.The booking for reservation in these trains will start at 4 pm on Monday and will be available only on the IRCTC website. Ticket booking counters at the railway stations shall remain closed and no counter tickets (including platform tickets) shall be issued. Only passengers with valid confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the railway stations. All coaches will be AC and fares will be equivalent of Rajdhani AC class fare .It will be mandatory for the passengers to wear masks and undergo screening at departure and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to enter the railway station and board the trains.Passenger train operations have been shut since the lockdown began on March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passenger-train-ops-to-start-from-tuesday-only-online-booking-allowed/story-jbjWXJBZMwYC2VpCOD6gsK.html
11-05-2020||India||No money left, Shikara owners struggle to survive in Srinagar||The road along Dal Lake in Srinagar ordinarily brims with tourists, who come to bask in the commanding views of the snowcapped mountains.But for the last months, with the tourism sector reeling under a massive loss followed by the coronavirus enforced lockdown has left many houseboat owners worried to fend for themselves and fight for their survival.Bashir Ahmad, 50, a Shikara owner who has been rowing his boat for tourists on Dal Lake for 25 years now, has seen many bad patches in his life but he said life in Covid-19 lockdown has been worse.All his savings have exhausted and now he is struggling to feed his wife and three daughters. “Whatever money I had earned has been exhausted. We are sustaining on rice which the administration has provided us with. As age is not by my side, I cannot do hard labour and there is no other work anywhere,” he saidAijaz Ahmad Chachoo’s story is no different. His Shikara which was built at a cost of ₹120,000 in 2018 has been idle for months now. “We are somehow sustaining by limiting our daily food intake,” he said.The 32-year-old had taken a loan of ₹30,000 to build his boat and hoped that tourist arrival in 2019 would fetch him good returns which were dashed after Centre’s decision to put the region under restrictions for months. Now the lockdown since mid-March has things worse for him.Around 30,000 people are directly dependent on the tourism industry including people owing some 4,500 registered Shikaras while there are lakhs who indirectly benefit from the sector. Many of these Shikara owners are poor and earn hand to mouth.Javaid Ahmad, a Shikarawala who also does tailoring work, says that the situation of many families dependent on Shikaras was critical. “It is total shutdown and many families are suffering. Most of these families are poor and dependent on 4-5 months of tourist season. They would sustain their families for the whole year only if the tourist season succeeded,” he said.Tourism nosedived from August last year as days before the August 5 decision of the Centre to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and with the government asking tourists to leave the region. Then restrictions, communication blockade, and uncertain situation kept tourists away in most of the previous year as well this year.Umar Zaroor, 28, a Shikara owner who is taking care of his six younger siblings and mother after his father’s death, has now started to do labour work as he feels that the tourism is not going to revive here this year as well even after the lockdown will be lifted.“We know it is going to be the same even after the lockdown period is over. It is better to be prepared than relying on false hopes of tourism revival here,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-money-left-houseboat-owners-struggle-to-survive-in-srinagar/story-3TmoBpI5h3Jp46ah5UqOeO.html
11-05-2020||India||Railways geared up to run 300 Shramik Special trains a day: Piyush Goyal||The Indian Railways is geared up to run 300 trains a day to ferry stranded migrant labourers to their hometowns, railways minister Piyush Goyal said on Sunday, while also appealing to states to ramp up efforts to ensure that the workers reach their destinations across the country in the next three-four days.According to his ministry, the railways ran till Saturday a total of 364 Shramik Special trains. Out f the 90 planned on Saturday, 64 were already in transit till the filing of this report. So far, railways ferried 450,000 passengers.“As per the directions of Hon’ble PM Narendra Modi ji, Railways is fully geared up to run 300 Shramik Special trains every day at short notice since the last six days,” Goyal tweeted.“I appeal to all the States to give permission to evacuate and bring back their stranded migrants so that we can get all of them back to their homes in the next 3-4 days itself,” he said in another tweet.Shramik Special trains, which began on May 1, are bound for a single destination without any stoppages. Usually, they have 24 coaches with each carrying a little over 50 passengers in place of the total capacity of 72, taking the total number of passengers per train to up to 1,200. This means 300 trains a day for the next four days would be able to carry over a million passengers.The Shramik Special trains are being run only after a concurrence is given by states that are sending the passengers as well as those receiving them, the ministry said. In an earlier guideline, the Centre asked both sides to coordinate for the transit of migrant workers who are stuck across India due to the ongoing lockdown prompted by the coronavirus disease.According to the Economic Survey 2016-17 that used new metrics to give updated data on migration, there was an annual interstate migration flow of close to 9 million from 2011 to 2016 in a “circular” (to and from) fashion based on data from railways. According to states’ estimates on April 30, around 10 million workers were stranded across the country; many of them struggling after losing their jobs in the wake of the lockdown. Experts, too, pointed out that the number of stranded migrants could be more than the central government’s estimates even though several of them have already reached their homes by special buses and these trains.In the first week of April, a status report submitted by the Centre to the Supreme Court said a little over a million migrant workers and others were housed at 26,476 relief and active shelter camps across the country. Of them, 630,000 were in government camps and the rest in those run by non-government organisations.“The estimates by the railway minister are based on the figure of roughly 600,000 migrants in government relief camps...However, it is estimated that there are roughly 60-65 million interstate migrant workers. Even if we assume that only 50% of them want to travel back, then the number of trains being suggested are not enough,” said Rajendran Narayanan, assistant professor, Azim Premji University. “Another issue that the migrants are facing is also for registering themselves for the trains. For a migrant to travel, he has to register in both states’ (originating and terminating) websites. There is a huge mess with the compatibility on their portals and this is why there should have been one central platform to do that. The other issue is that most of them do not have smartphones, and most who have not been paid have not had the currency to be able to recharge their phones. The government should ensure a paper-based registration in every ward and town,” he added. According to the railways ministry, a total of 287 trains have reached their destinations across 11 states — Andhra Pradesh (1 train), Bihar (87 trains), Himachal Pradesh (1 train), Jharkhand (16 trains), Madhya Pradesh (24 trains), Maharashtra (3 trains), Odisha (20 trains), Rajasthan (4 trains), Telangana (2 trains), Uttar Pradesh (127 trains), West Bengal (2 trains). These trains have departed from states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan and Telangana.Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have taken in the maximum number of migrants back with more than 80,000 people each, according the internal railway ministry data. They were followed by Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-geared-up-to-run-300-shramik-special-trains-a-day-goyal/story-2we3GaJxZcysi0DWnJNvuI.html
