13-05-2020||India||Monsoon to arrive 4 days earlier||New Delhi: Conditions are becoming favourable for the advance of the southwest monsoon over Andaman and Nicobar Islands around May 16, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The normal date for the arrival of the monsoon over Andaman and Nicobar region is May 20.According to a statement issued by the IMD, a low-pressure area formed over southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining south Andaman Sea on May 13. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over central parts of south Bay of Bengal on May 15 and further intensify into a cyclonic storm over southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal by May 16 evening. It is then likely to move northwestwards till May 17 and then recurve northnortheastwards. These conditions are making it favourable for the advancement of the monsoon over Andaman and Nicobar but the IMD will announce if the arrival of the monsoon over Kerala will also be early on May 15.The Weather Company of IBM, a private weather forecaster, has forecast that the monsoon will arrive slightly early on May 31 over Kerala. “Our models and data Show May 31 as likely arrival,” said Himanshu Goyal, India business leader, The Weather Company. “The low-pressure area over south Andaman Sea will intensify into a cyclone but we are not yet sure where it will make landfall. It could be over West Bengal coast or over northeast,” he added. “The normal arrival date of monsoon over Andaman and Nicobar Islands is May 20 with a standard deviation of 7 days. This time it is expected to arrive on May 16. We will announce the date of monsoon arrival over Kerala on May 15 based on latest data,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.“Andaman region is expecting early rains due to the low-pressure system that has formed over the South Bay of Bengal. This low pressure system is expected to develop into a cyclonic storm and pull the southwesterly monsoon winds early into the Andaman seas. An early onset at Andamans need not mean that the rest of the country receives an early onset. This is because several factors, including low pressure systems in the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal, and the phase of the monsoon intraseasonal oscillations govern the northward progression of the monsoon,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology. There will be gales of 65 to 75 kmph gusting to 85 kmph over southwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal from the evening of May 16. Squally winds reaching 45 to 55 kmph will prevail over Andaman Sea. Sea condition will be rough to very rough over south and adjoining central Bay of Bengal from May 15 to the evening of May 16, very rough to high over southwest and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal from the evening of May 16. Fishermen are advised not to venture into south and central Bay of Bengal from May 15. Those who are out at sea over these regions are advised to return to coasts by Thursday.The IMD has forecast a normal monsoon this year. A few global climate models are indicating the possibility of development of weak La Nina conditions over the Pacific Ocean during the second half of the monsoon season. La Niña is characterised by unusually cold ocean temperatures in the Equatorial Pacific and good monsoon rains. Mohapatra said a more refined monsoon forecast with zone wise distribution will be issued by the IMD towards the end of May or the beginning of June.Meanwhile, under the influence of a western disturbance, thundershowers are likely over Western Himalayan region and over plains of northwest India during next two or three days. “Isolated thunderstorm accompanied with hail, gusty winds and lightning is also likely over these regions during the same period,” the IMD bulletin said. Delhi NCR is also likely to get thundershowers.Due to a trough (area of low pressure), thundershowers with lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) are very likely over south peninsular India during next four or five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-arrive-4-days-earlier/story-RY5wumRs8ob91FcCTObUHJ.html
13-05-2020||India||No meddling in appointing judges in my tenure: Gogoi||Former Chief Justice of India (CJI) and Rajya Sabha MP Ranjan Gogoi said on Wednesday, that the Supreme Court Collegium did not face any government interference during his tenure as the CJI when appointing judges to high courts and the Supreme Court.He was speaking at a webinar organized by Confederation of Alumni for National Law Universities on the topic “Ensuring an independent judiciary under our Constitution”.“14 names were recommended for appointment (as judges) to Supreme Court during my tenure. They were accepted and appointments made on time. There was never any difficulty. All recommendations with chief justices of high courts also were processed in time. (There was) no executive interference”, he said in his keynote address.He also said that the Collegium system is an excellent method for appointing judges to the high courts and the Supreme Court and it also helps keep in check executive interference when it comes to judicial appointments.“My experience with the collegium is that it is a sure way of keeping the executive out of the appointment process. The executive has got an equal role though the judicial voice is the ultimate voice”, he said. Gogoi was also of the view that protection and immunity afforded to judges should be strengthened so that they can perform their duties fearlessly. The vulnerability attached to the office of a judge dissuades young lawyers from taking up offers to become judge, he said.“The scheme for protection of judge needs to be strengthened. Young lawyers are not keen to be judges. The office of the judge of a high court has been made so vulnerable that a lawyer is happy to continue as a lawyer. Don’t forget the sacrifice a lawyer makes to become a judge”, Gogoi said.He was also critical of a “group” of activists and media who, he alleged, have set benchmarks for judges to be considered independent. Judges are attacked if they do not confirm to the standards set by them and such tendencies will sound the death knell for an independent judiciary, Gogoi said.“Activists, web portals, some mainstream media (organizations), this is one group that has laid down ‘identification marks’ for who is an ‘independent judge’. A judge, (according to them), should be anti-authoritarian, eloquent on issues like rich-poor divide, oppression of marginalized and suppression of fundamental rights. If judges don’t conform to these expectations, they are attacked. This is destructive of the independence of the judiciary”, he said.Justice Gogoi created quite a furore when he accepted Rajya Sabha nomination a mere four months into his retirement from the Supreme Court. On the issue of post-retirement jobs, Gogoi in response to a question from the audience pointed out that there are judges who take to arbitrations after retirement while another group of judges talk about judicial independence and freedom of speech after demitting office.“You talk about post-retirement engagements as compromising judicial independence. What about those other two categories.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-meddling-in-appointing-judges-in-my-tenure-gogoi/story-Ll5ES6aR4sfRDDWCzN9G2L.html
13-05-2020||India||Security situation in Kashmir stable but fragile: Lt Gen B S Raju||There has been an escalation in infiltration attempts from across the Line of Control (LoC) into Jammu & Kashmir and a surge in militant violence there. Lt Gen B S Raju, the General Officer Commanding of Srinagar-based 15th Corps, spoke to Ramesh Vinayak about the security challenges in the Valley. Edited excerpts:What is your assessment of the security situation?The situation is stable but fragile. Precautionary and pre-emptive measures are being taken for the safety and security of people, and these have been instrumental in saving innocent lives. Post-Pulwama [attack in 2019], we have successfully neutralised the top local commanders of various terrorist outfits, thus resulting in a leadership void. Many overground workers, who were providing logistics and other material support to terrorists have been apprehended...How have the dynamics of Pakistan’s cross-LoC support to terrorism changed? Pakistan has consistently found ways and means to further its agenda of fomenting terror in the Valley. It persists in doing that. Numerous intrusion attempts have been foiled and the Pakistan army is constantly resorting to ceasefire violations to support the terrorists’ infiltration.What has been the outcome of anti-militancy operations since the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370?Militancy has since been on a sharp decline due to our persistent efforts. We had anticipated that Pakistan will increase its efforts to cause turmoil in Kashmir. In spite of the best efforts of Pakistan-sponsored proxies, there has been no loss of civilian life in security operations. That, in fact, has been the hallmark of efforts of all stakeholders for the maintenance of peace in Kashmir.What is the state of militant outfits active in Kashmir?We work on concepts and not numbers. And the concept is the constant attempts by Pakistan to infiltrate terrorists and war-like stores to commit sensational terrorist activities. Over the past year, the leadership of all terrorist organisations, including Hizbul Mujahideen, Lashkar-e-Taiba, Ansar Ghazwat-ul Hind and Jaish-e-Mohammed, has been effectively targeted and eliminated. There is now a definite leadership void.The number of terrorists presently operating in the Valley has also greatly dwindled owing to the reduced recruitment and the recent successes in the counter-terrorist operations. In all operations, we extend every opportunity to local terrorists to return. Halfway through, the encounters are halted and the parents or society elders are involved to urge the trapped local terrorist to return. We call it ‘Operation MAA’ where the mothers appeal to their sons gone astray, and we have been successful many times..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-situation-in-kashmir-stable-but-fragile-lt-gen-b-s-raju/story-NaDqZOtHXtbGRdKutlTU2O.html
13-05-2020||India||Study explores drivers of death terms||The shock and impact of a crime on the collective conscience of society was a major reason cited by trial courts in Delhi while imposing death sentence on convicts, according to a report by research organization Project 39A of National Law University, Delhi . The study also revealed blatant non-compliance by the trial courts with the sentencing framework laid down by the Supreme Court in its 1980 judgment in Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab, where a Constitution bench of the Supreme Court was called upon to decide the constitutional validity of the capital punishment.The report titled ‘Death Penalty Sentencing in Trial Courts’, which will be published on May 15, analysed 215 judgments from three states , 43 from Delhi, 90 from Maharashtra and 82 from Madhya Pradesh, in which trial courts imposed death sentence between 2000 and 2015. Out of the 43 cases in Delhi in which death sentence was handed down between 2000 and 2015, trial courts invoked the impact of the crime on society’s collective conscience in 31 cases (72%) as grounds to send convicts to death row. In Madhya Pradesh, the said ground was used in 43% cases (35 out of 82) while in Maharashtra the figure stood at 51% (46 of 90 cases).‘Collective conscience of society’ as a ground to justify death penalty was first used by the Supreme Court in the 1983 judgment of Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab. In that case, the court held that when “collective conscience of society is shocked, it will expect the holders of the judicial power centre to inflict death penalty”.It was, however, most famously used by the top court in its 2005 judgment in the Parliament attack case in which it awarded capital punishment to convict, Afzal Guru. Collective conscience found its most recent endorsement in the 2017 judgment of the Supreme Court in the December 2012 Delhi gang rape case of Mukesh v. State of NCT of Delhi.But what is collective conscience of society?“It is an amorphous term. It has become a catch phrase in Delhi. Nobody really understands what it means. It is part of the mindlessness of death sentencing. It is not possible to judicially determine what it means. By trying to do that, courts are causing violence to the Bachan Singh framework”, said senior counsel Rebecca John.In the case of Bachan Singh, the Supreme Court formulated a sentencing framework to be followed for imposing death penalty. It required the weighing of aggravating and mitigating circumstances relating to both the circumstances of the offence and the offender, to decide whether a person should be sentenced to death or given life imprisonment.According to the Bachan Singh judgment, for a case to be eligible for the death sentence, the aggravating circumstances must outweigh the mitigating circumstances.“Machhi Singh is a 3-judge bench judgment and it is per incuriam (in ignorance of law) as it does not confirm to Bachan Singh which is a 5-judge bench judgment. It is the Supreme Court itself which has created this confusion. The fact is that ‘collective conscience cry’ was not part of Bachan Singh framework. It has been specifically acknowledged in Bariyar’s case (Santosh Kumar Satishbhushan Bariyar v. State of Maharashtra) wherein it was said that judges have no way of reliably determining what is “collective conscience”, John added.The most glaring aspect highlighted by Project 39A’s report was regarding the non-consideration of mitigating factors while sentencing accused.As per the report, no mitigating circumstances were mentioned in 42% of death penalty cases (18 of 43 cases) in Delhi. The number was 62% (51 of 82 cases) in Madhya Pradesh and 47% (42 of 90 cases) in Maharashtra.The Bachan Singh judgement recognized the age of the accused as a relevant mitigating circumstance. But 37% of the prisoners sentenced to death in the three states were between 18-25 years of age.One of the most important aspects of the sentencing framework laid down in the Bachan Singh judgement is to consider whether the alternative punishment of life imprisonment can be “unquestionably foreclosed.” Only then can death penalty be imposed.Despite the same, trial courts in the three states discussed life imprisonment as an alternative only in 26.6% cases before imposing death penalty. It was discussed in 8 out of 43 cases in Delhi, 22 out of 82 cases in MP and 27 out of 90 in Maharashtra. In all cases where it was discussed as an alternative, it was dismissed on the ground of brutality of the crime. “This study shows that the death penalty sentencing framework has completely collapsed. The utter inconsistency, confusion and arbitrariness in the Supreme Court’s death penalty jurisprudence has had a devastating impact on the sentencing process in the trial courts. There is barely anything common between the law laid down by a 5-judge bench in Bachan Singh and what passes for sentencing hearings in our courts”, Dr. Anup Surendranath, executive director of Project 39A said.In a total of 211 out of the 215 cases across the three states, 44% cases saw sentencing on the same day as the conviction. This concern was rather acute in Madhya Pradesh where same-day sentencing was observed in 76.9% of the cases.Maharashtra saw it in 34.4 percent of the cases, but 57% of the cases saw sentencing within 24 hours of conviction. Delhi fared better relatively with 53.4% of sentencing hearings taking place at least one week after the conviction.This, the study said, has an obvious impact on the nature and quality of arguments that were presented before the court.Another significant aspect highlighted in the report was regarding how trial courts failed to consider individual roles of the accused in the crime when sentencing an accused in a case involving more than one convict.In 17 cases out of 82 in Madhya Pradesh which involved more than one person sentenced to death, individual roles in crime was considered during sentencing only in five cases. Individual mitigating circumstances were considered only in one case in the state.In Maharashtra, in the 23 cases out of 90 that involved more than one person sentenced to death, individual roles in crimes and individual mitigating circumstances were considered during sentencing in 16 and 4 cases respectively.12 cases out of 43 in Delhi involved more than one person sentenced to death. However, individual role in crime and individual mitigating circumstances were considered during sentencing only in 2 and 4 cases respectively.The failure to consider individual role and individual mitigating circumstances of the four convicts in the 2012 Delhi gang rape case was highlighted by senior advocate Raju Ramachandran who served as amicus curiae (friend of the court) in the matter before the Supreme Court.Ramachandran’s arguments in this regard had led to top court rehearing arguments on sentencing in detail before it confirmed the death penalty handed down by the trial court to the four convicts in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-explores-drivers-of-death-terms/story-75XkcDAslN9R6zvqVIPobN.html
13-05-2020||India||Army examining proposal to allow youngsters to serve for three years||NEW DELHI: The Indian Army is examining a proposal that seeks to allow the country’s youth to serve the military for three years under a new “tour of duty” (ToD) model similar to the short-service commission that allows officers to serve for 10 to 14 years, two army officers familiar with the move said on Wednesday.If the proposal is accepted, the army could implement the ToD model --- essentially an internship after military training --- on trial basis for both officers and other ranks in a limited number of vacancies, said one of the officers cited above.“The proposal is a shift from the concept of permanent service towards an internship or temporary experience of military life,” said the second officer cited above.The proposal, reviewed by Hindustan Times, stressed that the internship model would result in savings for the organisation. It said it will also brighten the prospects of the ToD optees in the corporate world.“The cumulative cost of pre-commission training, pay/allowances, proposed severance packages, leave encashment and other costs is nearly Rs 5.12 crore and Rs 6.83 crore for short-service commissioned (SSC) officers released after 10 and 14 years of service. However, similar costs for those released after three years will be just Rs 80 to Rs 85 lakh,” the proposal stated. It says the ToD model would eventually result in significant reduction in salary and pension budgets, too. The proposal cites a survey that has indicated that corporate houses would prefer employing individuals who have been trained by the military and join them at the age of 26-27 after a three-year ToD rather than raw college graduates.“Many corporates have indicated that ToD officers would also be preferable to the current SSC workforce joining them at the age of 33-34 after 10 years of service. The ToD concept will become attractive if seen by the youth as a vehicle which boosts their subsequent career in the government or the corporate world,” the proposal said.The ToD model, however, will not be the same as conscription or compulsory military service. Army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said if approved, it will be totally voluntary and there will be no dilution of selection criteria. “This is an ideal opportunity for those individuals who do not want to make defence services their permanent vocation, but still want to experience the thrill and adventure of the military profession and the glamour of donning the uniform,” the proposal said.But what about combat skills, experience and preparedness of the ToD cadre to go to war?“This argument can be negated with the demonstrated performance of our officers and jawans with less than three years service in the Kargil war. If the ToD officers/jawans undergo the same training (for nine months) as the regular officers/other ranks, then their commitment, dedication and performance should not be in any doubt,” the proposal added.Former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd) said the ToD model was a laudable idea to fill the critical shortfall of young officers on the assumption that performance of officers with three years of service has been extremely good.Lamba, however, said, he saw two challenges. “One, the selection of suitable volunteers from the civil environment for this type of limited engagement who would take much longer to motivate than train. And secondly, training them for critical front-line combat deployments,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-examining-proposal-to-allow-youngsters-to-serve-for-three-years/story-1e1rDsAegRn8X8VUugunvM.html
13-05-2020||India||Supreme Court exempts lawyers from wearing coats, gowns||Supreme Court lawyers were on Wednesday exempted from wearing gowns and coats while attending the virtual hearings in view of medical advice that there is a greater possibility of the Covid-19 spread through these robes. Officials said a circular issued in this regard has been implemented with an immediate effect and the exemption will remain in force till the medical exigency exists. “Medical advice to beat the spread of Covid-19 requires clothes to be washed regularly. Since gowns, robes and coats cannot be washed daily, the possibility of the virus spreading through their daily use cannot be ruled out,” said a Supreme Court Registry official on condition of anonymity. A similar exemption from wearing coats and ties was extended to the Supreme Court officials on April 24.“... considering the medical advice, as a precautionary measure to contain spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19) infection under the prevailing conditions, the Competent Authority has been pleased to direct that the advocates may wear ‘plain white-shirt/white-salwar-kameez/white saree, with a plainwhite neck band’ during the hearings before the Supreme Court of India through Virtual Court System,” the circular issued on Wednesday evening said.The Bar Council of India rules prescribe lawyers to be “sober and dignified” in their dressing while appearing before courts. In the Supreme Court, a lawyer has to be dressed in a coat, white shirt (for men), white or black sari/skirt (for women), gown and white band. The rules have been framed under Section 49(1)(gg) of the Advocates Act, 1961.Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde had earlier in the day indicated that such an exemption was in the offing when senior advocate Kapil Sibal spotted him and two other judges in a courtroom without gowns and raised a query in this regard. He told Sibal that they have been informed about the possibility of the coronavirus “attaching to their robes” and added he would soon issue instructions allowing an exemption to lawyers from wearing them during the virtual court hearings.“Lawyers wearing coats and ties would be more sober and befitting the highest court of the country. Wearing a plain white shirt does not look dignified,” said Supreme Court Bar Association President Dushyant Dave. The Supreme Court has been hearing urgent cases through video-conferencing in view of the Covid-19 pandemic that has prompted a national lockdown since late March to halt its spread. So far, no dress code was prescribed for lawyers or judges attending the virtual hearing. The lawyers have made it a point to appear in the top court in their gowns.A lawyer appeared before the Rajasthan high court in a vest last month and prompted adjournment of a bail hearing and an order asking lawyers to wear proper uniform even when they appear before courts via video conferencing. The court said that the Advocates Act requires lawyers to appear before courts in a prescribed dress. It added the decorum of courts should be maintained even when they are functioning through the virtual medium. The high court had cautioned lawyers to appear in proper uniform after another lawyer appeared in his vest to argue a case on April 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-exempts-lawyers-from-wearing-coats-gowns/story-NwyU188gCrfQfwZQPE0HUN.html
13-05-2020||India||‘Mentally unstable’ woman spends three days with husband’s body in Telangana||A “mentally unsound” woman spent three days with the body of her husband, who died of suspected heart ailment, in their house in Nizamabad in Telangana, police said on Wednesday. After foul smell emanated from the house on Wednesday morning, some neighbours alerted the police, who found the body of the man, in his mid 60s, lying in the bedroom. According to police, the man, a retired Village Revenue Official, in his mid 60s, died three days ago apparently of heart ailment. His wife was suffering from mental illness for the past few years and normally the couple would not come out of their house for three-four days at a stretch, they said adding their son stays here. As per preliminary investigation, it seems to be natural death and no injury mark was found on his body, police said, ruling out any foul play. The woman did not inform anyone about her husband’s death and the body was found in a decomposed condition and sent for postmortem, a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mentally-unstable-woman-spends-three-days-with-husband-s-body-in-telangana/story-9KLctzR8l1RI5Iw7kuHM5N.html
13-05-2020||India||Two deaths, 41 fresh Covid-19 cases in Telangana||Telangana continued to witness a rise in Covid-19 cases with 41 fresh cases being reported on Wednesday, besides two deaths as those returning to the state added to the numbers.Out of the 41 fresh cases, 31 are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), while 10 others are people who returned to the state, a Covid-19 bulletin issued by the state government on Wednesday night said. State Health Minister E Rajender quoted Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao as having directed that more precautions should be taken as people were arriving in the state after the Centre permitted relaxations in the lockdownmeasures. Rajender said initially the virus spread in the state was from foreign returnees followed by those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. Now, the virus can spread through people who are returning to the state, according to an official release. Those returning by flights are being quarantined in hotels. He said people arriving by trains or motor vehicles were being tested and sent home for self-quarantine after being stamped.In villages, the Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) are identifying those who arrived in recent days and monitoring their health during home quarantine, it said.According to the release, 798 people have returned to the state in flights, while 239 and 41,805 have come to the state in trains and by road respectively till date since lockdown.Rajender appealed to the people to be more alert as more number of people are coming out in view of the relaxations announced recently.According to the bulletin, the number of people who succumbed to the virus rose to 34 following the two deaths.The number of Covid-19 cases in the state rose to 1,367.As many as 117 people were discharged from hospitals after recovery on Wednesday, taking the total to 939.The number of people undergoing treatment for the virus (active cases) was 394, the bulletin said.It also said 35 people who returned to the state have tested positive for the virus as on date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-deaths-41-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-telangana/story-9Wli5wSdxzvxuXPxXsnyCP.html
13-05-2020||India||Guj forms panel to suggest steps for economic revival||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Wednesday constituted a committee to suggest measures for economic revival, including fiscal restructuring, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a ₹20 lakh crore stimulus package. It will also suggest ways to run the state’s economy with fewer migrant workers.The six-member committee will be headed by former Union finance secretary Hasmukh Adhia, and will have economy experts representing various sectors, said Ashwini Kumar, secretary to the CM.Kumar said that the Covid-19 pandemic has affected the state and its economy to a large extent. “The demand and supply chain has been crippled and, the informal sector and the MSMEs have taken a major blow,” Kumar said.“Gujarat has a large migrant workforce. However, the pandemic has compelled them to return to their respective home states. The disruption caused by Covid-19 has affected an industrially developed state like Gujarat, which has, in turn, affected the nation too,” he said.The committee will submit a comprehensive action plan within a month and an interim report within two weeks.“The committee will assess sectoral and sub-sectoral losses and suggest necessary measures for its revival. The committee will also review the fiscal status and budgetary position of Gujarat and provide suitable suggestions for its improvement. This will include revising and revision of fiscal deficit estimate and the current tax administration in the post Covid-19 scenario,” Kumar said.In the short term, the committee will also examine the decreased availability of workers and recommend ways to make the industry more viable with fewer workers. For the longer term, the committee will devise a strategy to attract foreign companies, which plan to relocate their base from other countries, especially China. It will also provide a comprehensive action plan (immediate, medium-term and long term) for economic and fiscal revival, he said.On Wednesday, the Gujarat Cabinet met to discuss ways to take maximum benefit from the Centre’s relief package. “Discussions were also held at the state cabinet meeting on deciding the strategy for implementation of the package in the state,” read an official statement from the chief minister’s office.Officials said that the cabinet also discussed Lockdown 4.0 and decided that new relaxations would be allowed for two weeks, after which its impact will be reviewed.“We will test how people react to the relaxations and its impact on Covid cases,” a senior government official said, adding that the district officials have been asked to strictly monitor the impact of Lockdown 4.0.“The Lockdown 4.0 may witness the opening of shops and private office on a rotational basis. Rules for rickshaws, taxis, city buses and other transport would be decided soon. Also, multiplexes, malls, gyms and clubs will remain closed during lockdown to stop the rapid transition of the virus,” the official said.However, the state will notify its guidelines only after the Centre’s broad guidelines are issued.Meanwhile, principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said that on Wednesday, 364 more positive cases were reported, along with 29 deaths in last 24 hours, taking the total count of cases to 9,264 and deaths to 566. “5,101 people are stable and 39 people are on ventilators. A total of 3,562 people have been discharged so far. As many as 12,2297 tests have been done so far,” said Ravi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guj-forms-panel-to-suggest-steps-for-economic-revival/story-mU39xYUXVShz7zAyJVVhyN.html
13-05-2020||India||Goa holds its breath as preliminary test shows 7 people Covid-19 positive||Goa is anxiously awaiting the test results of seven people who tested positive for coronavirus in a preliminary test Wednesday evening, 24 days after the state brought down its Covid-19 count to zero. Goa’s Health Minister Vishwajit Rane confirmed that the seven people including five members of a family and their driver returning from Mumbai in their car tested positive. In a separate case, a truck driver also tested positive. But the results of their RT-PCR confirmatory tests are awaited. A patient is formally declared as Covid19 positive only once the results of the RT-PCR test are available. “Seven new Covid-19 cases have been reported via the TrueNat testing done at Ponda Sub-District Hospital. The tests have been further sent to the virology lab at GMC for confirmation. Results are awaited,” Rane said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The Truenat test, is a test that has been used to detect tuberculosis but now is used as a rapid RT-PCR technique to test for the presence of the coronavirus.According to the health department, the family which entered Goa on Wednesday, had not contacted any person and had driven straight from the state’s road border to the quarantine centre after being tested, as per protocol.The seventh case was that of a truck driver hailing from Gujarat, called local health authorities after he developed symptoms. Persons he has come in contact with have also been quarantined. If the infections are confirmed, it will represent a doubling of Goa’s tally which stood at seven on April 3, when the last case was detected all of whom have since recovered. On April 19, authorities declared that the last Covid-19 patient had recovered. Goa was declared a green zone while movement of people within the state was liberalised. State authorities have sought to reassure local residents that it was not a case of local or community transmission as all the patients were from outside the state who were detected upon entry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-holds-its-breath-as-preliminary-test-shows-7-people-covid-19-positive/story-YVlmZN2tq0TmARussl8HMO.html
13-05-2020||India||Railways introduces waiting lists for travellers from May 22: All you need to know||In a late night move on Wednesday, the  Railway Board issued a directive introducing the provision of waiting lists starting May 22 for journeys not only on its currently operational special trains but also on all its forthcoming services. The new changes in guidelines will come into effect for tickets booked from May 15 for journeys beginning from May 22.The Railways will start waiting lists for special trains From May 22. Here’s a look at all the new rules in place:* No waitlisted ticket holder will be allowed to travel, according to the new rules. These passengers will, however, get a full refund from the Railways.* The railways capped the waiting list on these trains -- up to 100 for AC 3 tier, 50 for AC 2 tier, 200 for Sleeper Class, 100 for chair cars and 20 each for First AC and Executive Class.* Introduction of waiting lists will also lead to reducing the queues for confirmed tickets significantly.* Tatkal tickets nor Premium Tatkal Quota nor senior citizen quota will be available on these trains. ALSO READ | 8,000 passengers in 8 trains on Day 1 of railway reboot* Reservation against Cancellation (RAC) tickets will also not be allowed.* The order from the Railways to the various zones indicates that it is planning to run mixed services instead of the presently all air-conditioned trains. This means that it may begin services to smaller Tier-II towns along with major cities that the Rajdhani trains cater to at present.* Passengers who are disallowed from travelling on trains because of symptoms associated with coronavirus will receive full refund for their tickets, the Railways has said.* According to guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, all passengers shall be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic passengers shall be allowed to board the train.* If during screening a passenger has very high temperature/symptoms of Covid-19, he shall not be allowed to travel despite having confirmed tickets. In such a situation, a full refund shall be provided to the passenger concerned.* On a group ticket, if one passenger is found unfit to travel and all other passengers on the same PNR also do not want to travel, in that case a full refund shall be granted for all passengers.* Full fare for the passenger/group who have not travelled shall be refunded by IRCTC in the customer’s account.Indian Railways resumed its passenger services after a gap of nearly two months on Tuesday with eight air-conditioned trains carrying more than 13, 000 commuters. According to railway officials, the overall occupancy of the trains was above 100%.Railways till now, reported 2,08,965 passenger bookings for all 30 trains till Wednesday. Officials are accepting bookings up to seven days in advance for the 15 pairs of special trains the government has announced till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-introduces-waiting-lists-for-travellers-from-may-22-all-you-need-to-know/story-zJVMzHmDP9PUJaP3YB3y7O.html
13-05-2020||India||Odisha woman in quarantine delivers twins, one newborn dies||A 32-year-old Odisha woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 after returning from Surat, gave birth to twins at a medical college and hospital at Berhampur town on Wednesday.Doctors in Maharaja Krushna Chandra Gajapati medical college and hospital said the woman tested positive after she arrived at Berhampur from Surat. After she tested positive for Covid-19, she was kept at Covid hospital at Sitalapalli area on the outskrit of Berhampur.“This morning due to labor pain, she was immediately shifted to the isolation ward of the medical college, where she gave birth to a boy and a girl. While the girl was around 2 kg, the boy weighed around 900 grams. A couple of hours later, the newborn boy died, but the mother and the daughter are stable,” said prof Ashok Behera, head of the gynaecology and obstetrics department of the medical college.The doctors said the newborn boy probably died as it was underweight. However, it is not known if the newborn was Covid positive. The woman and her newborn daughter are however doing fine.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn Tuesday, a 28-year-old woman in Ganjam district kept in a quarantine centre after her return from Surat had delivered a baby boy. Santoshini Pradhan along with husband Driver Pradhan has been staying at the institutional quarantine in Mardakota Harihar High School under Beguniapada block since May 6 after the couple’s return from Surat. Santoshini underwent labour on Tuesday afternoon and gave birth to the baby boy at the quarantine centre. The woman and her newborn have been admitted to a hospital.On Monday, another woman under quarantine in the Kodala block in Ganjam gave birth to a boy in a community health centre. The woman had returned from Surat along with her husband.Meanwhile, the women and child development department, has asked the district collectors to assess all pregnant and nursing women at the quarantine centres for their nutritional vulnerabilities and counsel them on staying, taking rest and micronutrient supplements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-woman-in-quarantine-delivers-twins-one-newborn-dies/story-u72EJ2HXbS16eqO1RepdgJ.html
13-05-2020||India||Railways to start waiting lists for special trains from May 22; likely to run more trains||In an indication that it might soon start mail, express as well as chair car services, the Railway Board on Wednesday issued an order introducing the provision of waiting list tickets not only for its operational special trains but for more such trains “to be notified in due course”.While in present special trains only confirmed tickets are booked, the wait listed tickets will now be available for bookings opening on May 15 for journeys beginning from May 22.The railways has, however, capped the waiting list on these trains -- up to 100 for AC 3 Tier, 50 for AC 2 Tier, 200 for Sleeper Class, 100 for Chair Cars and 20 each for First AC and Executive Class. The order from the railway board to zones indicates that the railways is planning to run mixed services instead of the presently all air-conditioned trains. This also means that it could begin services to smaller towns along with the major cities that its Rajdhani specials are catering to now.Neither Tatkal or Premium Tatkal Quota nor senior citizen quota will be available on these trains. Reservation against Cancellation (RAC) tickets will also not be allowed.No waiting ticket holder will be allowed to travel, officials said, adding that they will get full refund.So far there is no order from the railways to begin more services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-start-waiting-lists-for-special-trains-from-may-22-likely-to-run-more-trains/story-ReQyQVN4POMF9ZYrrhTYmK.html
13-05-2020||India||100% booking in trains departing Delhi; over 2 lakh people to travel next week||With the railways beginning its passenger services on May 12 for 15 pairs of trains between Delhi and major cities of the country, over 9,000 people left the national capital on Wednesday on board nine trains. According to data accessed by PTI, of the nine trains from Delhi, eight which left for Howrah, Jammu, Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai, Dibrugarh, Mumbai, Ranchi and Ahmedabad were booked beyond their capacity.Only one train, which ran to Patna, the capital of Bihar, ran at 87 per cent capacity, the data showed. Official data also showed that till Wednesday, 2,08,965 passengers had booked tickets for these special trains for journeys over the next seven days. Of the nine trains that left on their journeys on Wednesday, the Howrah to New Delhi train which can carry 1,126 people at a time had a booking for 1,377 passengers which is 122 per cent of the train’s capacity. While the New Delhi - Thiruvananthapuram special train was booked at 133 per cent of its capacity, the New Delhi-Chennai train ran on 150 per cent occupancy. Similarly, the New Delhi - Jammu Tawi special ran at 109 per cent occupancy, while the New Delhi - Ranchi train ran at 115 per cent occupancy, the New Delhi - Mumbai Central train at 117 per cent, New Delhi - Ahmedabad at 102 per cent and the New Delhi-Dibrugarh train ran with an occupancy of 133 per cent.“Overbooking does not mean that passengers are standing in the aisles, it just means that there is movement of people while the train is on the run. People are boarding and deboarding at halt stations and there have been multiple bookings,” said an official. Among the trains that departed from Delhi, the only train on Wednesday which did not run on full capacity was the New Delhi - Rajendra Nagar (Patna) train which had a capacity of 1,239, but carried only 1,077 passengers making it only 87 per cent full.Officials said the reason behind low occupancy of the train could be that Bihar accounted for more than 100 trains which carried its workers home since May 1. This also accounts for the rise in the data on passenger numbers that the railways had provided for the eight trains that left for their destinations on Tuesday. While on Tuesday evening the ministry had said the number of passengers who travelled on the eight trains was 8,121, on Wednesday they revised the figure to 13,118.On Wednesday, a total of 13 trains were operated. While nine departed from Delhi, four arrived here and together they carried 19,374 passengers to their destinations. The trains which arrived in Delhi too had around 130 percent occupancy rate, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-booking-in-trains-departing-delhi-over-2-lakh-people-to-travel-next-week/story-1aB2FKlBVdo7HvQWJ89m6L.html
13-05-2020||India||Two women killed in accident on highway in UP’s Muzaffarnagar||Two women were killed and three other family members injured when the car they were travelling in crashed into a push-cart on Delhi-Dehradun national highway on Wednesday, police said.The incident happened around 25 km from Muzaffarnagar on the highway in Ratanpuri police station area and the car was said to be speeding, police added.The deceased were identified as Hakiman, wife of Naushad and Kaniz, wife of Hamid, while the injured were shifted to a hospital nearby where they are receiving treatment, they added.The victims were returning from Meerut after visiting a doctor for some medical treatment. The car driver was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-women-killed-in-accident-on-highway-in-up-s-muzaffarnagar/story-5IRvfW4vMX84fXgNN4omlJ.html
13-05-2020||India||Odisha official snaps at migrant workers as they ask for water, video goes viral||While Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has been urging officials and people to treat all returning migrant workers with dignity and respect, a video of a block development officer verbally abusing the migrants in a Covid red zone has gone viral on social media.In the video, Chhabirani Sahoo, the Block Development Officer of Baliapal in Balasore district-- a red zone with 90 Covid-19 cases-- was seen snapping at the migrant workers after they asked for drinking water.Officials said 760 Odia migrants arrived in Balasore from Thangarh, Gujarat by a Shramik special train at around 11 am on Wednesday. After their medical screening, they were sent in 40 buses to different quarantine centres in Balasore and Myurbhanj districts. A group of migrant workers sent to Baliapal, reached the office of Block Development Officer at around 1 pm.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesInstead of quickly taking them to a quarantine centre, the BDO reportedly kept the migrant workers waiting inside the bus for an hour. The migrant workers alleged that when they asked for water, the BDO mocked them asking if they would die of thirst.“You are hassling us by coming from outside and when we try to help, you create problems for us,” the BDO was heard saying in the video. The officer was seen snapping at the migrant workers asking them to shut up when they protested.“You people are talking too much. Choop (shut up),” she said.The migrant workers alleged that the officer called them illiterate and threatened them against raising voices.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19However, the BDO said she had asked the migrant workers to take shelter in the temporary sheds at the office premises. “Some of them argued with me and I had to use harsh words. These people are unnecessarily making an issue out of nothing and are trying to defame me,” she said.Ahead of the return of migrant workers to Odisha, the state government last month emphasised on three crucial aspects - privacy, safety and dignity. During his meeting with officials, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had made it clear that all the migrants have equal rights over the soil, water and air of Odisha, similar to that of an educated, well-off urban individual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-official-snaps-at-migrant-workers-as-they-ask-for-water-video-goes-viral/story-YQ8HtS4kMnM5o9aGkTpCwL.html
13-05-2020||India||Man intervenes in parents’ argument, father shoots him dead||A property dealer, who was accused of killing his mother 33 years ago, was arrested for allegedly shooting his 28-year-old son dead in northwest Delhi, police said on Wednesday.Om Pal Singh, 60, was sitting outside his house at Budh Vihar area of Rohini and drinking liquor when his wife, Pavitra Devi, told him to get inside the house. This resulted in a heated argument with his wife and he even abused her, the police said.Balbir intervened and asked his father to not fight. Singh went inside the house to take his licensed pistol and shot his son, following which he escaped, according to the police. The victim, who works at an insurance company, was taken to a nearby hospital, but he was declared dead, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra said, adding that the suspect had been arrested. Singh was earlier arrested in 1987 for allegedly killing his mother with a knife, but got out on bail after almost 10 months, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-intervenes-in-parents-argument-father-shoots-him-dead/story-RI1KMPpKbT4WjQq6FbsoTL.html
13-05-2020||India||Centre must announce direct cash transfer to poor: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday demanded that the Centre announce direct cash transfer to the poor, daily wagers and small shopkeepers to increase their purchasing power, amid the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown.This, he said, will give a boost to industries and the economy. The Centre also needs to ensure that banks give loans to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), the chief minister said.“The central government has begun announcements regarding an economic package, we will have to wait for complete details and see how these measures are implemented. The need of the hour is to transfer cash to the poor people, labourers, small shopkeepers, daily wagers and destitute,” Gehlot tweeted.Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his address to the nation on Tuesday evening announced a Rs 20 lakh crore special economic package and the initial details of the stimulus were unveiled by Sitharaman on Wednesday.“The government must announce direct cash transfer to poor people and money should also be given to MNREGA labourers so that they have money in their pockets, which will generate demand, increase their purchasing power. This will give a boost to our industries and economy,” Gehlot said.He said measures have been announced for the MSME sector but it will have to be seen that how these are implemented. “The MSME sector is facing a lot of hardships and banks are reluctant to give loans even with guarantees. Now how would they give loans without guarantees, as the government has announced,” the chief minister said.“The central government needs to ensure banks give loans to MSMEs. We did it in the state to support MSMEs, we brought an ordinance, then an Act that the state government will not ask for any approvals from MSMEs for three years. Likewise, the central government needs to ensure MSMEs get loans without guarantees,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-must-announce-direct-cash-transfer-to-poor-ashok-gehlot/story-1Wd5Bn5kJ7swcGQD1CpX3L.html
13-05-2020||India||Karnataka governor has returned contentious APMC amendment ordinance,claim officials||The BS Yediyurappa led Karnataka government’s ordinance seeking to amend the Agriculture Produce Market Committee Act has been returned by Governor Vajubhai Vala for the ‘full consideration of the cabinet’, according to the government officials aware of the developments.The ordinance seeks to relax restrictions on the sale of agriculture produce.The development comes amid opposition from the Congress and the JD(S) to diluting the act through an ordinance. Earlier today, former chief minister and the leader of opposition in the assembly, Siddaramiah, had a telephonic conversation with chief minister B S Yediyurappa, in which he demanded that the ordinance be dropped.On Tuesday, JDS leader Kumaraswamy warned against bringing the ordinance claiming it would only benefit multinational companies and large industry players at the expense of farmers and the state exchequer.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesKPCC President D K Shivakumar, too, had termed the proposed ordinance “anti-farmer.”The Governor is believed to have returned the ordinance with the suggestion that it was better to place it before the entire cabinet for a discussion since it involved a major policy decision.A senior government official who didn’t wish to be named told HT that the ordinance was sent to Raj Bhavan on Monday.“The Governor has not rejected (the ordinance) but (has) just returned the ordinance for a technical reason. The cabinet is meeting tomorrow (Thursday) and it will be resent after that,” the official mentioned above said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19BJP ruled Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have already amended the APMC act and the Yediyurappa government has claimed that the proposed changes would provide farmers with better bargaining power and was in their interest. The amendments have been suggested by the Centre as part of reforms in the farm sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-governor-has-returned-contentious-apmc-amendment-ordinance-claim-officials/story-s6eCyckq62Azi1ATk2c9ZK.html
13-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Manipur village builds 80 huts with to quarantine returnees||A village in Manipur’s Senapati district has constructed 80 huts that will serve as quarantine centres for Covid-19 disease to accommodate people expected to return in the next few days from various parts of the country during the ongoing lockdown.The huts have been built by residents of Tungjoy village, about 118 km north of capital Imphal, located under the Paomata sub-division.“We’ve constructed the huts as per the decision of village authority to accommodate our people who are returning from outside the state,” said chairman Marcus MS of Tungjoy village. “We take up such steps for the welfare of villagers.”The huts were constructed with the village authority funds at a place located about half a kilometer away from the village habitation area. Each hut can accommodate one person. A family can use two huts if necessary, Marcus added.The village authority will monitor the distribution of foods and other necessary guidelines of quarantine. About 100 people from the village are believed to be stranded outside the state.Chief Minister N Biren Singh lauded the initiative taken by the village authority in a tweet on Tuesday night. “My salute ,Tungjoy Village Authority have set up 80 huts for quarantine of their villagers who are going to come from outside the state. Each hut is fitted with a bed, separate toilet, gas table, electricity with charging socket. Water supply is provided at various locations.” My salute ,Tungjoy Village Authority have set up 80 huts for quarantine of their villagers who are going to come from outside the state. Each hut is fitted with a bed, separate toilet, gas table, electricity with charging socket. Water supply is provided at various locations. pic.twitter.com/lRCDFvzlIQMinister for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), Jitendra Singh, too, appreciated both the villagers and Biren Singh for their efforts. In a tweet, DoNER Minister wrote, “Northeast shows the way. Kudos Manipur and CM Shri N Biren Singh. Tungjoy Village Authority has set up 80 huts for quarantine for their villagers who are going to come from outside the State.Each hut fitted with bed, separate toilet, gas table, water supply and charging socket.”Meanwhile, the special train carrying 1,140 stranded people of Manipur from Chennai arrived at the Jiribam railway station on Wednesday afternoon. Soon after their arrival, screening of the returnees was conducted in a district-wise manner, sources said. Those who cleared the screening procedure were allowed to proceed towards their respective districts.According to state chief secretary Dr J Suresh Babu, another special train carrying stranded people of Manipur will depart from Punjab tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-manipur-village-builds-80-huts-with-to-quarantine-returnees/story-Jo9HhvI6rX9dP3xRvSWCuM.html
13-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Nagaland to pay Rs 10,000 to those who opt not to return||In a bid to stave off Covid-19, the Nagaland government has decided to provide financial assistance of Rs 10,000 each to its residents who wish to stay where they are at present.According to officials, the one-time assistance would be provided to those people from Nagaland who are currently staying in other states of the country including Sikkim. Those stranded in other north eastern states are not included in the scheme.The facility can be availed only by those persons who had earlier registered themselves by filling a form at the website launched by the state government for stranded people. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Nearly 18,000 people from Nagaland had registered themselves at the website, (launched on May 7) before the registrations closed on May 11.“Those seeking to avail the financial assistance should visit the website https://iamstranded.nagaland.gov.in and fill up and submit the necessary form,” said an official.Applicants need to have valid Aadhar card, bank passbook, indigenous inhabitant certificate or birth certificate issued by the Nagaland government to be eligible to claim the financial assistance.Online applications have opened from 7:00 pm on Wednesday and will continue till 7:00 pm on May 16.Earlier, the Nagaland government had provided Rs 4,000 each to persons from the state working outside, Rs 3,000 each to students based in other states and Rs 20,000 each to patients stranded due to the lockdown.Nagaland has not recorded any positive Covid-19 case till date. The lone patient from the state had been clubbed with Assam’s tally as he was tested in Guwahati and was treated in the Guwahati Medical College Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-nagaland-to-pay-rs-10-000-to-those-who-opt-not-to-return/story-aiH0vO4rDj8oK1VJH2SvsL.html
13-05-2020||India||On video, migrant seeks help in returning home; found dead a day later||At a time when migrant workers all over the country are making a dash to their homes either by walking or cycling, an Odia youth in Haryana allegedly hanged himself from a tree on Wednesday. A day earlier, he had posted a video on Facebook seeking help to go home.Gangadhar Biswal, a migrant worker from Bajapur village of Rajkanika block under Kendrapara district, was found hanging from a tree in Yamuna Vihar area of Haryana this morning by his friends.A few days ago, Biswal had recorded a video narrating how he wanted to come back to his village. Biswal had alleged that the company had defaulted in payment of their dues.In the video, a distraught Biswal had requested the company and the Odisha government to make arrangements for his return to his village, failing which he had threatened to commit suicide. A roommate of Biswal said that he was sick for the past few days and was under severe mental duress.“Gangadhar was under financial pressure as the construction firm we worked for had shut down. The company was earlier giving us money to meet food and other basic needs. When it stopped giving money, we ran out of all our savings. His family had asked him to send money and this may have triggered the mental distress,” his roommate said. When asked by HT whether the video had been sent to any officials, the roommate said that Gangadhar hoped somebody would see it on the social media site itself.Kendrapara district collector Samarth Verma said that he has spoken to Gurugram district collector. The collector said the block development officer has been asked to give Rs 10,000 to Biswal’s family. Further action will be taken once an inquiry is done.On May 9, a 29-year-old migrant worker from Bengal working at an under-construction building on the campus of Indian Institute of Technology in Bhubaneswar too had hanged himself to death. The man from Malda district, working as a mason, was under duress after work stopped in the institute. The deceased mason and other members of his group reportedly had an argument with their contractor a few days ago over demands of going back to their village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-video-migrant-seeks-help-in-returning-home-found-dead-a-day-later/story-qSDqedu9V2zWsRlJGTU3CI.html
13-05-2020||India||Covid-19: 15 new cases found in Guwahati; Assam tally jumps to 80||With the detection of 15 new Covid-19 positive cases in Guwahati, the total number of coronavirus patients in Assam increased to 80 on Wednesday.All the 15 new cases are related to a single person, who used to work in a potato warehouse on the outskirts of Guwahati as well as a hotel in the city. He was detected Covid-19 positive on Monday.“15 people have tested Covid-19 positive in Kamrup Metro (district). All are related to a patient from Guwahati’s Fancy Bazaar, who tested positive recently. All (are) under quarantine and please don’t panic,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted on Wednesday evening.On Tuesday, the authorities in Guwahati had sealed the hotel and the warehouse where the positive patient worked, and classified them as containment zones.So far, 2 coronavirus patients have died in Assam, 40 have recovered and 38 others are under treatment. At present the state has 3 of its 33 districts—Dhubri, Goalpara and Marigaon--in the orange zone and all others in the green zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-15-new-cases-found-in-guwahati-assam-tally-jumps-to-80/story-FYu5MreYsmpT5661fV7rSL.html
13-05-2020||India||Shades of Mallya case in Nirav Modi trial in UK court||Two witnesses deposed on Wednesday in defence of dimantaire Nirav Modi on the third day of his extradition trial in the Westminster Magistrates Court, as objections, arguments and counter-arguments made resonated with those in the case of businessman Vijay Mallya.Mod’s lawyer, Claire Montgomery, was also lawyer for Mallya, whose case has progressed from the magistrates court to the high court, and is now seeking permission to appeal to the Supreme Court to block extradition to India.Retired Justice Abhay Thipsay (from India) and Thierry Fritsch (from France) deposed by video-link, and substantiated the arguments put forth by Montgomery in Modi’s defence. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) representing India submitted more documents to the court.Thipsay sought to confirm Montgomery’s objections to the ways in which witness statements are made in India under Section 161 of India’s Code of Criminal Procedure, stating that they are made in an atmosphere of “distrust of police machinery”.Fritsch, who has a career in luxury goods and was on the advisory of board of Modi’s jewellery company, lauded his creativity, passion and entrepreneurship that, according to him, made Modi’s company one of the most known at the international level.“All this (extradition case) came as a surprise. No reason to doubt (Modi’s character)”, he told judge Samuel Mark Goozee, who authorised the release of some case papers to the news media.Documents submitted in the Modi case refer to several points of law, objections and rulings made in the Mallya case, as Modi’s defence raised similar objections to extradition: lack of a prima facie case, the alleged impossibility of a fair trial in India, and risk to human rights in the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai.The CPS refers to the Mallya case in its skeleton argument in the Modi case to refute or respond to arguments by Modi’s defence, pointing out that many of the objections put forth had been dismissed in judgments in the Mallya case.The CPS submitted that there is no evidence that “justifies a departure from the approach taken in Mallya” on the issue of lack of prima facie case, admissibility of evidence submitted by India, or on the sovereign assurance by the ministry of home affairs on there being no risk to human rights in the Mumbai jail.The magistrates court and the appeal court of the high court of England and Wales had dismissed similar objections raised by Mallya’s defence team, and recommended his extradition to the home secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shades-of-mallya-case-in-nirav-modi-trial-in-uk-court/story-fb5TBB57ZKukiKMz9DJCPL.html
13-05-2020||India||As migrants turn Covid-19 positive, Uttarakhand HC asks state, centre to clarify||Uttarakhand High Court on Wednesday expressed concern over many migrants returning to the state testing Covid-19 positive and asked the state and the Central government to clarify if returnees to the state were also being medically examined since ‘thermal screening is not enough’ and whether antigen tests, or any other rapid tests, could be conducted on people before they returned to the state.Shiv Bhatt, counsel of the petitioner said the court issued these directions while hearing a PIL on the plight of the migrants and other needy people amid lockdown. The PIL alleges that authorities had failed to provide relief materials to the daily wage labourers and other needy persons on their doorsteps during the lockdown, adding that such people are “incapable of approaching the court as in the present crisis they are without any food or money..”. So far seven people, who returned to Uttarakhand from other states during the current operation to send back migrant workers, have been found to be Covid-19 positive after arrival in the state, raising alarm bells. According to government officials, till Wednesday evening, over 2 lakh registrations for return to Uttarakhand had been filed on the state website. Of these, the state government has so far brought back over 56,000 people through trains and buses, while over 6,000 people have returned to the state in their own vehicles. Close to half of 30,971 people, who have registered with Uttarakhand government to return to their respective states so far, have been sent back. For Coronavirus Live Updates“As regarding such persons who wish to come to Uttarakhand, we would like to know from the state authorities whether each person who is being given a permit is also medically examined. Thermal screening is not enough...Let the learned Assistant Solicitor General of India and the learned Advocate General come up with a definite reply as to whether antigen tests, or any other rapid test, can be performed on such persons. We say this because we have already been informed that Covid-19 positive persons have reached far-flung interior areas of the state such as Uttarkashi and Almora”, the court order stated.The HC stated that it has been informed by the state government that there are 49 relief camps which are presently catering to 1,237 persons, mainly migrant workers from the neighbouring states.The HC directed all the district legal services authorities in Uttarakhand to coordinate and cooperate with the district administrations for management of rehabilitation centres through their para-legal volunteers.The court also said that migrant workers wishing to stay in Uttarakhand must be provided with food shelter and medicine.“Those who wish to leave Uttarakhand for their home state, the state must provide free transport and passage to them so that they can reach their destination. What efforts have been made by the state in this direction, has not been disclosed so far”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-migrants-turn-covid-19-positive-uttarakhand-hc-asks-state-centre-to-clarify/story-OZfh7S3r1WlWNNMGTDsBqM.html
13-05-2020||India||Days after Vizag gas leak, 2 killed, 1 hurt in reactor blast in Telangana’s biodiesel plant||Two workers were killed and another one injured when a reactor in a biodiesel plant exploded while they were undertaking repair work in Telangana’s Sangareddy district on Wednesday morning, the police said.The victims were identified as Md Ghouse (35) and Md Saber (33). Another worker Krishna Reddy, who sustained injuries, has been admitted to the Sangareddy government hospital.The incident took place at Khanda Biofuels, a biodiesel plant in Arjun Naik Thankda of Zaheerabad block in the district, when the workers were involved in welding work on the roof of the fuel reactor. The plant was getting ready to reopen after lockdown.“All of a sudden, the reactor exploded, blowing up the roof on which they were undertaking repairs. All three fell off from the roof. Ghouse and Saber died instantly, while Krishna Reddy, who sustained injuries, was immediately rushed to the hospital,” a police official in Zaheerabad (Rural) police station said.Zaheerabad Rural Police shifted the bodies to the local government hospital for post mortem examination.Local MLA K Manik Rao and MLC Md Fareeduddin visited the plant. The management has agreed to pay a compensation of Rs 15 lakh each to the families of the deceased.The incident comes close on the heels of leakage of Styrene gas from LG Polymers at Visakhapatnam on May 7 resulting in the death of 12 people and hospitalization of over 500 people. More than 15,000 people from five villages were evacuated and were accommodated in relief camps for nearly four days, before they returned to their villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-after-vizag-gas-leak-2-killed-1-hurt-in-reactor-blast-in-telangana-s-biodiesel-plant/story-DxtIdShVWbdfFJonSpUUEL.html
13-05-2020||India||Railways allows issue of tickets to wait-listed passengers, may run more trains||The railways on Wednesday evening allowed limited waiting lists to be issued from May 22 for special trains connecting 15 cities that had been started and the special trains that will be notified in the near future.To be clear, wait listed tickets are currently not being issued for the passenger trains that began from May 12. The booking for the new lot of passenger trains will begin from May 15. The national carrier may also deploy Shatabdi and other mail express trains too. Only Rajdhani trains were being deployed for now for ferrying passengers.“It has been decided that in these special trains and special trains to be notified in due course of time…there shall be no Reservation Against Cancellation (RAC) in these trains and wait list tickets shall be issued subject to maximum limits; 200 for sleeper, 100 each for AC chair car and 3 AC, 50 for 2 AC and 20 each for Executive Class and 1 AC,” the order, a copy of which has been reviewed by Hindustan Times, said. Officials said passengers booking the trains had cancelled some tickets at the last minute. “We will start issuing very few waitlist tickets from May 22 because some passengers are cancelling their tickets at the last moment,” a senior railway ministry official said. The railways resumed its passenger services after a gap of nearly two months on Tuesday with eight air-conditioned trains carrying more than 13, 000 commuters. Officials said overall occupancy of the trains was above 100%.The railways has till now reported 2,08,965 passenger bookings for all 30 trains till Wednesday. Officials are accepting bookings up to seven days in advance for the 15 pairs of special trains the government has announced to resume passenger services.As per the current guidelines, passengers will have to book general category tickets online — on the IRCTC website and on its app. A few reservation counters will be opened for HOR (high official requisition) holders, freedom fighters, and sitting and former lawmakers, among others.RAC (Reservation against cancellation) will not be allowed. “Anyone who is not allowed to board the train because of symptoms will be issued full refund,” the official quoted above said. Online cancellation will be permitted up to 24 hours before scheduled departure, and the cancellation charge shall be 50% of the fare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wait-listed-passengers-can-board-trains-says-railways-in-new-orders/story-KS7ofY6id404Jk9NU305MJ.html
13-05-2020||India||First Shramik Special train to Tripura brings 1,200 people from Bangalore||Around 1,200 people from Tripura who were stranded in Bengaluru due to the lockdown returned to the state on Wednesday in the first Shramik Special Train. The state government set up 12 swab collection centres at Agartala Railway station where the train terminated.Authorities also deployed 10 screening teams at the station.“No passenger was found with any symptoms. All of them will have to undergo home quarantine,” Law Minister Ratan Lal Nath told mediapersons at the Civil Secretariat.The second special train is scheduled to leave from Karnataka on May 15.Earlier Nath said that out of total 8,634 Tripura people, stranded in West Bengal, only 164 people were given vehicle passes by the government. Of the 164 people, 141 have already left for Tripura. “Though all the state governments are cooperating with us, we are not getting that cooperation from the West Bengal government in bringing our stranded people,” he said. As many as 39,799 stranded people have registered themselves with the Covid-19 control room helpline of Tripura. Among those who registered are 12,900 from Karnataka, 8,771 from Tamil Nadu, 2,720 from Maharashtra, 1,132 from Telengana and 5,503 from Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-shramik-special-train-to-tripura-brings-1-200-people-from-bangalore/story-cfn3UGAdowTyr9EJXksyYK.html
13-05-2020||India||60-year-old woman in Tripura held for alleged murder attempt at son: Police||A 60-year-old woman in Tripura was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly attempting to murder her 27-year-old son over a dispute related to family property, said police. The incident happened at Amtali’s East Ballavpur, nearly 16 kilometres from capital Agartala. Mamata Bhowmik, the accused, was later sent into judicial custody for 14 days. According to police, relations between Mamata and her son Prasenjit Bhowmik had been strained for a long time due to certain issues related to family property. Things heated up on Tuesday night when the matter again cropped up and an angry Mamata allegedly attacked her son with a sharp weapon, injuring him badly on his neck and face. Prasenjit was taken to a nearby hospital where his condition is said to be stable. Police said that though the woman has no previous criminal record, she is known in the area as an ‘ill-reputed woman.’ “We filed the case against her under Sections 326 and 307 of Indian Penal Code and arrested her. They had problems related to the family property for a long time. We are investigating the matter,” said Amtali sub divisional police officer Anirban Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-year-old-woman-in-tripura-held-for-alleged-murder-attempt-at-son-police/story-1ge9GGg3HvhGphSkozcZ3J.html
13-05-2020||India||‘Proud to have produced shows from our history, culture’||Television producer and director Siddharth Kumar Tewary says that the ongoing phase is just letting him be. “Yes, for me, it’s a clean break as I don’t plan, nor have I been very productive lately. There’s no pressure to deliver, no deadlines to meet. I am just home with my family and children. After years have I got such a break to simply be with them. Though I know from a business point of view it’s definitely a tough time and a lot of issues await being looked into, but then this is with every one of us, as all industries are on hold since the lockdown was announced.”Tewary has reason to cheer, as two magnum opuses he produced, are back on TV and getting good ratings. “Shows like ‘Mahabharat,’ ‘Karmaphal Daata Shani,’ ‘Ram Siya Ke Luv Kush’ don’t happen easily or in one go. A lot of planning and support from co producers, directors, actors and the entire team come together to bring out such a product. It entails huge work and pressure because a generation has already viewed it earlier. Though, at times, while watching the re-runs I do pick up areas where I find scope of betterment. Also, at times, you feel proud to have produced shows with riveting tales from our history and culture.” When the country went into the lockdown two of his shows ‘RadhaKrishn’ and ‘Devi’ were being extensively shot and now everything is on hold, but he and his company, Swastik Productions, are still providing support to his team. “My crew and workers have been working with us for years and have left their houses in Mumbai for the shoot but with the lockdown in place, they have no place to go, so currently, they are all living at the shoot location in Umargaon. It’s an enclosed location where we are providing amenities to them. We are trying to do our bit, rest we all await government guidelines for our industry and hope to get back to work soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/proud-to-have-produced-shows-from-our-history-culture/story-6HL9ZCPgvWXkQqW3Xq6rZI.html
13-05-2020||India||Lockdown 3.0: Congress MLA in Assam booked for travelling without approval||Police in Assam’s Goalpara district have lodged an FIR on Wednesday against an opposition Congress MLA for alleged violation of lockdown norms to check the spread of Covid-19.The case against Abul Kalam Rasheed Alam, the legislator from Goalpara East, has been registered for allegedly travelling from Goalpara, which is in orange zone, to Guwahati last week without seeking permission from district authorities.“We got to know from news reports that the MLA had left Goalpara without taking necessary permission from the deputy commissioner. Hence, a case under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 has been lodged against him for lockdown violation,” said Amitabh Basumatary, additional superintendent of police (head quarter), Goalpara.Alam maintains that he had to rush to Guwahati for better treatment for his wife who is in her seventh month of pregnancy. He said that the case against him was politically motivated.“I came to Guwahati last week as my wife had some medical complication and needed better treatment. Her treatment is still underway in Guwahati. Since it’s a health emergency, there should be relaxation for it. What is the need for permission and other formalities at such times?” questioned Alam.The legislator who is still in Guwahati said the case against him could be politically motivated and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party could be targeting him as he had highlighted problems faced by people in his constituency due to the lockdown and urged Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal to address them through a press meet.Alam had been placed under quarantine for two weeks in April after a visit to Delhi in March.Assam has recorded 80 Covid-19 positive cases, including 15 new cases on Wednesday. While 2 patients have died, 40 have recovered and 38 others are under treatment.At present, only three of Assam’s 33 districts—Goalpara, Dhubri and Morigaon - are under orange zone. All others are in the green zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-3-0-congress-mla-in-assam-booked-for-travelling-without-approval/story-MR8dtIy6mURbPbjNhcKM9I.html
13-05-2020||India||‘First state to work on this’: Facing flak for Covid handling, Mamata looks for a turnaround||The West Bengal government will launch sentinel surveillance against Covid-19 to help authorities monitor the disease’s trend and to even act as an early warning system before any outbreaks, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday.“We are the first state to start work on this surveillance. The surveillance will be launched in all the districts soon after the lockdown is lifted. This will help us to understand the changing trend of the disease, get an early warning before any possible outbreaks and plan for the future,” said Banerjee.The National AIDS Control Organisation has been conducting HIV sentinel surveillance for over more than a decade now to monitor the disease’s trends in the country.The Bengal government has been criticized roundly for low testing rate and high mortality rate amongst Covid-19 patients.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe state administration also announced a slew of initiatives to generate employment for migrant workers returning to the state and to boost the rural economy. This comes amid opposition criticism for not doing enough to bring back migrant labourers stranded in other states.“While on one hand, plans are afoot to allow 100 more trains to bring in people stranded in other states, the district administration has been asked to prepare a skill chart of migrant workers which would help in generating some employment opportunities for them. Also, the districts have been asked to generate employment under the 100-days work program. A plan to boost the rural economy using 50,000 acres of barren land is also on the anvil,” said a senior official of the state government.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The chief minister has asked all the district magistrates to ensure the smooth running of the public distribution system.“District magistrates have been strictly asked to ensure that no person dies of hunger in West Bengal,” Banerjee added.A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a gradual unveiling of Rs 20 lakh crore package, Banerjee lashed out at the centre for alleged discrimination.“It is a big zero. We had hoped that the states will get some relief along with various sectors. They had already announced Rs 10 lakh earlier. We don’t know when they will release the rest of the money. The centre has given nothing to the states, not a single penny has been allotted for public spending or to fight the pandemic. It is an eyewash and just misleading the people in this time of the crisis,” said Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-state-to-work-on-this-facing-flak-for-covid-handling-mamata-looks-for-a-turnaround/story-eJVEOrj3M3DjfNh4FH2sYN.html
13-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: With 66 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai’s Dharavi crosses 1000-mark,count at 1028 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.With 66 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai’s Dharavi crosses 1000-mark; count at 1028Mumbai’s Dharavi reported 66 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the count of coronavirus patients in Asia’s largest slum past the 1000-mark. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Dharavi now stands at 1,028, according to state health department data. Read more. In Karnataka, hotels, gyms and golf courses likely to open after May 17: GovtIn an indication that further lockdown relaxations are in the offing in Karnataka post-May 17, the state’s tourism minister C T Ravi said that hotels, gyms, fitness centres and golf courses will be allowed to open to boost economic activities in the state. Read more. Lockdown 4.0: Here’s what different states are considering to openThe state governments are working on the strategy for lockdown 4.0, in which complete shutdowns are expected only in the containment zones-- ranging from a building to a locality—allowing space for the resumption of almost all activities, except large social gatherings and educational institutions, official said. Read more. Did not face govt interference in judicial appointments: Ex-CJI GogoiFormer Chief Justice of India (CJI) and present Rajya Sabha MP Ranjan Gogoi said on Wednesday that the Supreme Court Collegium did not face any government interference during his tenure as the CJI when appointing judges to high courts and the Supreme Court. Read more.“If I sledge Virat, he will get angry, but Sachin…” Wasim Akram explains difference between Kohli, Tendulkar Wasim Akram is the latest to weigh in on the never-ending Virat Kohli vs Sachin Tendulkar and feels when it comes to mental toughness, the former India batsman edges out the current captain of the Indian team. Read more. Ranbir Kapoor, Alia Bhatt speak with paparazzi ahead of Rishi Kapoor’s prayer meet, ask them to take care. Watch videoRanbir Kapoor and his girlfriend Alia Bhatt were seen asking about the well-being of the paparazzi as they reached the venue for his father Rishi Kapoor’s prayer meet on Tuesday. Read more. Happy Birthday Robert Pattinson: Actor self shoots magazine cover, talks about Batman, not working outRobert Pattinson has been always been controversy’s child, from dissing his own movies (Twilight) to sleeping during the screening of his own movie at film festivals, the actor’s whimsical and honest personality is endearing and had landed him a loyal fan base over the years. Read more.This doggo’s going out on a dreamy date, netizens can’t stop gushing. WatchSometimes the Internet blesses us with adorable doggos who succeed in melting our hearts quite easily. This time also, it has gifted us something we didn’t think we needed. A doggo, getting ready and going for a date is exactly the type of content you need to convert your sigh into a smile. Read more. AICTE free online courses registration ends on May 15, check detailsIn view of the Covid-19 lockdown, the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) has launched a number of e-learning courses for which registration can be done for free till May 15. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-with-66-new-covid-19-cases-mumbai-s-dharavi-crosses-1000-mark-count-at-1028-and-all-the-latest-news/story-mxnKbsV56NkWJeLjCURtfL.html
13-05-2020||India||Thank you, says Modi to PM CARES donors; earmarks Rs 3,100 cr for Covid-19||Nearly 50 days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi set up the PM CARES Fund, the trust that he leads on Wednesday decided to allocate Rs 3,100 crore for the fight against Covid-19.A statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office said the PM CARES Fund Trust had decided to spend Rs 2,000 crore to buy ventilators, Rs 1,000 crore to take care of migrant workers and earmark another Rs 100 crore to support development of a vaccine against Covid-19.This is the first time that the trust, which was formed days after India went under a national lockdown in March, has made an allocation. The PMO statement said the Prime Minister has thanked all the donors for their generosity in contributing to the PM CARES Fund which will support India’s fight against Covid-19PM Modi had formed the trust on 27 March. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman are the other members of the trust.The government’s decision to create another fund had been sharply criticised by the opposition which had, lately pointed out, why the prime minister was not spending from this fund.Wednesday’s PMMO statement did not say how much money had been mobilised by the government in the last 50-odd days. It only detailed the three expenditure heads.According to the PMO statement, Rs 2,000 crore would be used to buy 50,000 ventilators being made in the country. These ventilators would be provided to government-run Covid-19 hospitals in all states and union territories for better treatment of the critical Covid-19 patients.About Rs 1,000 crore from the PM CARES Fund would also be placed at the disposal of district collectors and municipal commissioners to strengthen their efforts to provide accommodation facilities, arrange for food, medical treatment and transportation arrangements of the migrants.The money, which would be sent via the state disaster relief commissioner, would be released on the basis of the state’s population and number of Covid-19 cases reported from the state.The PMO statement said R^s 100 crore from the PM CARES fund had been allocated to support the Covid-19 vaccine designers and developers. “A vaccine against Covid-19 is the most pressing need and Indian academia, start-ups and industry have come together in cutting-edge vaccine design and development,” it said. This money will be utilised the supervision of Principal Scientific Advisor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-3-100-crore-from-pm-cares-earmarked-for-ventilators-migrants-and-vaccine/story-PPZERlJIdtMEbLWcUdDNKM.html
13-05-2020||India||Army considers ‘tour-of-duty’ model to allow youth to serve for 3 years||The Indian Army is examining a proposal that seeks to allow the country’s youth to serve the military for three years under a new “tour of duty” (ToD) model similar to the short-service commission that allows officers to serve for 10 to 14 years, two army officers familiar with the move said on Wednesday.If the proposal is accepted, the army could implement the ToD model - essentially an internship after military training - on trial basis for both officers and other ranks in a limited number of vacancies, said one of the officers cited above.“The proposal is a shift from the concept of permanent service towards an internship or temporary experience of military life,” said the second officer cited above.The proposal, reviewed by Hindustan Times, stressed that the internship model would result in savings for the organisation. It said it will also brighten the prospects of the ToD optees in the corporate world.“The cumulative cost of pre-commission training, pay/allowances, proposed severance packages, leave encashment and other costs is nearly Rs 5.12 crore and Rs 6.83 crore for short-service commissioned (SSC) officers released after 10 and 14 years of service. However, similar costs for those released after three years will be just Rs 80 to Rs 85 lakh,” the proposal stated. It says the ToD model would eventually result in significant reduction in salary and pension budgets, too. The proposal cites a survey that has indicated that corporate houses would prefer employing individuals who have been trained by the military and join them at the age of 26-27 after a three-year ToD rather than college graduates.“Many corporates have indicated that ToD officers would also be preferable to the current SSC workforce joining them at the age of 33-34 after 10 years of service. The ToD concept will become attractive if seen by the youth as a vehicle which boosts their subsequent career in the government or the corporate world,” the proposal said.The ToD model, however, will not be the same as conscription or compulsory military service. Army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said, if approved, it will be totally voluntary and there will be no dilution of selection criteria. “This is an ideal opportunity for those individuals who do not want to make defence services their permanent vocation, but still want to experience the thrill and adventure of the military profession and the glamour of donning the uniform,” the proposal said.But what about combat skills, experience and preparedness of the ToD cadre to go to war?“This argument can be negated with the demonstrated performance of our officers and jawans with less than three years service in the Kargil war. If the ToD officers/jawans undergo the same training (for nine months) as the regular officers/other ranks, then their commitment, dedication and performance should not be in any doubt,” the proposal added.Former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd) said the ToD model was a laudable idea to fill the critical shortfall of young officers on the assumption that performance of officers with three years of service has been extremely good.Lamba, however, said, he saw two challenges. “One, the selection of suitable volunteers from the civil environment for this type of limited engagement who would take much longer to motivate than train. And second, training them for critical front-line combat deployments,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-considers-tour-of-duty-model-to-allow-youth-to-serve-for-3-years/story-OsTsmGdUfthLp1cQ6GW6UM.html
13-05-2020||India||In Karnataka, hotels, gyms and golf courses likely to open after May 17: Govt||In an indication that further lockdown relaxations are in the offing in Karnataka post-May 17, the state’s tourism minister C T Ravi said that hotels, gyms, fitness centres and golf courses will be allowed to open to boost economic activities in the state. The minister said that he had held discussions with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa about the relaxations.“The CM has said that permission would be given subject to any further Central notifications in this regard. Opening hotels would help revive the tourism industry. Also, all of those sectors have said that they will follow the necessary social distancing norms and other regulations required,” the minister said.He pointed out that tourism was a major contributor to the state’s GDP with nearly 35 lakh people employed in the sector and therefore a ‘survival and revival’ plan was on the cards for it and added the initial focus would be on local tourism. Meanwhile, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa welcomed the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package announced by the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister saying, “The 3 lakh crore aid for MSMEs would be a boon to the economic revival of industries and labourers.”On Wednesday, six more ‘Shramik Special’ trains carrying nearly 9000 migrant workers left from various railway stations in Karnataka, including Bangalore, Mangalore and Hubballi. These trains are going to Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bihar taking migrant labourers back home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-karnataka-hotels-gyms-and-golf-courses-likely-to-open-after-may-17-govt/story-NWfFZlCPbPVXTiwxSkIjaM.html
13-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: Here’s what different states are considering to open||The state governments are working on the strategy for lockdown 4.0, in which complete shutdowns are expected only in the containment zones-- ranging from a building to a locality—allowing space for the resumption of almost all activities, except large social gatherings and educational institutions, official said.Officials in several states said the guidelines defining containment zones-- a key guidance document for enforcing lockdown 4.0-- would come by Saturday and it was likely to divide a district into red, orange and green zones, unlike the existing methodology of categorizing an entire district as red, orange or green.It appears from the viewpoint expressed by government officials that the states are likely to allow resumption of all industrial activities, offices and standalone markets from May 18 onwards. Public transport including autos and taxis would resume with certain restrictions on number of passengers along with intra-district travel, except for the containment zones. Interstate travel may also be opened up but only for those with travel passes.Permission is also likely to be given for all types of home delivery of goods, officials said. Multiple state government officials privy to discussions on the strategy for lockdown 4 said the educational institutions will continue to remain closed with several states expected to declare summer holidays from May end or June.Similarly, religious and political meetings are unlikely to be allowed for some more time apart from other activities that require or encourage mass gatherings or community participation including shopping in malls and other public places.However, marriages and funerals would be allowed with limited attendees, officials said.Some states may have state specific relaxations, for example, the Karnataka government is in the favour of resuming inter-state travel with mandatory 14-day quarantine for travelers. Even Rajasthan government favours inter-state travel. Kerala, however, wants inter-state travel only on the basis of a pass while Bihar and Jharkhand are opposed to inter-state travel of individuals and have requested the Centre for a guidance document.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Telangana, which has extended lockdown till May 29, is likely to announce more relaxations in sectors such as information technology and real estate.Kerala wants resumption of metro services, local trains, domestic flights, restaurants and hotels to revive the tourism sector.Karnataka may open restaurants, hotels and gymnasiums. Andhra Pradesh has proposed resumption of all activities except in containment areas. Both Himachal and Uttarakhand would allow hotels and resorts to open with limited capacity.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesGujarat, which has the second highest number of Covid cases, wants to resume all economic activity in all major urban centres except Ahmedabad, which accounts for state’s 70% cases. Rajkot will fully open from Thursday and Surat from Monday, officials said. They added that inter-district travel, resumption of bus services and opening of all offices was on the anvil.Similarly, Tamil Nadu, another industrial state, plans to open all places except containment areas.Maharashtra, which has the maximum number of Covid cases and 1,289 containment zones, has opted for minimalistic approach. The state government officials said they are against the resumption of metro services and inter-district travel. The state is also not in the favour of fully opening all offices although, they favour allowing more industries to function in orange and green zones.In cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Thane and Nashik, lockdown 3.0 conditions are likely to continue, said officials. “Newer hotspots like Aurangabad and Jalgaon have been added to the list of cities such as Mumbai and Pune. In such a scenario, the lifting of the lockdown for at least two more weeks is not possible,” said a senior government officer.Eastern states of Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha want to continue with stricter lockdown as their Covid cases are increasing due to the return of migrant workers. “We will have no exemptions in the fourth phase as Covid cases are increasing. In fact, we are looking at stricter lockdown,” a Bihar government official said.Jharkhand’s rural development minister Alamgir Alam said the state will allow all standalone shops and will provide work to migrant workers, who have returned home. State governments have formed committees to chalk out specific guidelines for lockdown 4, which would be much more state specific than all the earlier versions of the lockdown. The Andhra Pradesh government has formed as many as six committees to work out lockdown strategies and exit plan for different sectors, said K S Jawahar Reddy, state special chief secretary (medical and health).The Kerala government had constituted a task force which is expected to submit a report by Thursday while Rajasthan government’s expert panel on the exit strategy will submit its report on Friday.Gujarat government has formed a committee of medical experts to suggest measures to control the spread of Covid 19 once the lockdown measures are relaxed. Several states such as Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan have also sought people’s suggestions on the features of lockdown 4.0.In Madhya Pradesh, all district collectors and MLAs have been asked to collect suggestions and submit it to the state government by Thursday. Officials said most suggestions are for allowing home delivery of ration and monetary relief to the poor, full resumption of all grain markets and more works under MGNREGA.MP home and health minister Narottam Mishra said, “Lockdown restrictions will continue to be implemented strictly and relaxations during lockdown 4 will be as per prime minister Narendra Modi’s direction.”Maharashtra has sought inputs from district collectors by Thursday, while Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has already held consultation with all legislators on lockdown 4. In Uttar Pradesh, a senior government official said chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked people and experts to suggest ways to resume economic activity, measures to attract investment and jobs for migrant labourers.Rajasthan chief minister, too, has sought response from people apart from consulting law-makers on the strategy to exit the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-here-s-what-different-states-are-considering-to-open/story-wAaRB1X4Oj0uvBj3IBu3LO.html
13-05-2020||India||Did not face govt interference in judicial appointments: Ex-CJI Gogoi||Former Chief Justice of India (CJI) and present Rajya Sabha MP Ranjan Gogoi said on Wednesday that the Supreme Court Collegium did not face any government interference during his tenure as the CJI when appointing judges to high courts and the Supreme Court.“Fourteen names were recommended for appointment (as judges) to the Supreme Court during my tenure. They were accepted and appointments made on time. There was never any difficulty. All recommendations with chief justices of high courts also were processed in time. (There was) no executive interference,” he said at a webinar organised by Confederation of Alumni for National Law Universities on the topic ‘Ensuring an independent judiciary under our Constitution’.The former CJI also said that the Collegium system is an excellent method for appointing judges to the high courts and the Supreme Court as the system helps keep in check executive interference when it comes to judicial appointments.“My experience with the collegium is that it is a sure way of keeping the executive out of the appointment process. The executive has got an equal role though the judicial voice is the ultimate voice,” he said.Justice Gogoi also said that protection and immunity afforded to judges should be strengthened so that they can perform their duties fearlessly. The vulnerability attached to the office of a judge dissuades young lawyers from taking up offers to become judges, he said.“The scheme for protection of judges needs to be strengthened. Young lawyers are not keen to become judges. The office of the judge of a high court has been made so vulnerable that a lawyer is happy to continue as a lawyer. Don’t forget the sacrifice a lawyer makes to become a judge,” Gogoi said.He was also critical of a “group” of activists and media who, he alleged, have set benchmarks for judges to be considered independent. Judges are attacked if they do not conform to the standards set by them and such tendencies will sound the death knell for an independent judiciary, Gogoi said.“Activists, web portals, some mainstream media (organizations), this is one group that has laid down ‘identification marks’ for who is an ‘independent judge’. A judge, (according to them), should be anti-authoritarian, eloquent on issues like rich-poor divide, oppression of marginalised and suppression of fundamental rights. If judges don’t conform to these expectations, they are attacked. This is destructive of the independence of the judiciary,” he said.Eyebrows were raised when Justice Gogoi accepted the Rajya Sabha nomination, barely four months into his retirement from the Supreme Court. On the issue of post-retirement jobs, Gogoi, in response to a question, pointed out that there are judges who take to arbitrations after retirement while another group of judges talk about judicial independence and freedom of speech after demitting office.“You talk about post-retirement engagements as compromising judicial independence. What about those other two categories,” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-not-face-govt-interference-in-judicial-appointments-ex-cji-gogoi/story-n9We5WOUGTnnlcPQv697cK.html
13-05-2020||India||Anti-CAA protester Sharjeel Imam seeks bail as police fail to file charges||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought the response of the city police on a bail plea by former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam arrested earlier this year during the protests against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) .Justice V Kameswar Rao issued notice to the Delhi police and asked them to file their response within two weeks while posting the matter for June 10. Imam had moved the court seeking bail after the trial court had rejected his plea for default bail.Default bail is granted to a person when the police does not file a charge sheet or final probe report within a stipulated time during the days of first remand of the accused.Additional Solicitor General Maninder Kaur Acharya appeared for the state while Imam was represented by senior advocate Rebecca John.Imam has challenged the trial court’s April 25 order by which the Delhi Police was granted further time, beyond the statutory 90 days, to complete the investigation in the case filed under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.He has also sought default bail in the matter on the ground that the investigation was not concluded within the statutory period of 90 days. Imam was arrested on January 28 in the case related to violent protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act near the Jamia Millia Islamia University in December last year. The statutory period of 90 days from the arrest was ended on April 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-seeks-police-response-on-sharjeel-imam-s-bail-plea/story-OGEcPRMqVYZ6NvmHVPJNsJ.html
13-05-2020||India||Odisha records 101 new Covid-19 cases, its biggest single-day spike||Odisha saw its biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, reporting 101 new infections which pushed the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 538. Three people have died of the disease in the state so far. State’s health and family welfare department officials said that of the cases reported on Wednesday, 91 were migrant workers who had returned from Surat in Gujarat or West Bengal and were have been staying in quarantine centres.Out of the 101 new cases, almost half -52 -were in Ganjam, taking the district’s total number of cases to 210. Balasore accounted for 33 new cases while Jajpur had 7 new cases. Though Odisha had registered its first 100 Covid cases in 42 days, it recorded the next 400 cases in just 15 days. It took only two days for the state to reach 400 from 300 and just one day to cross 500-mark as more and more migrant workers have returned after the factories and the construction sites they worked at shut down due to the national lockdown. Till Wednesday, an estimated 80, 000 migrant workers had arrived in Odisha with another 4.5 lakh waiting to arrive. As coronavirus cases continue to rise rapidly, Ganjam district continues to remain a source of headache for the Naveen Patnaik government. The first Covid-19 case in Ganjam was detected on May 2 when an 18-year-old male migrant worker of Buguda block arrived in the district in a bus along with 69 other co-passengers. He was kept at a quarantine centre of Kukudakhandi block immediately upon his arrival. Of the 69 passengers, swab samples of 21 were tested, of which 6 tested positive.Between May 2 and May 13, Ganjam added more than 209 cases as more and more people from Surat returned by trains, buses and other modes of transport.“Migrants from Surat, a Covid hotspot have been the biggest source of corona infection in Odisha followed by migrants from Bengal, another Covid hotspot. Of the 538 cases, more than 230 are Surat returnees while another 150 would be those returning from Bengal. Till the migrant workers arrived, we had things under pretty much control,” said Dr Bijoy Mohapatra, director of health services.The director said that with the continuous arrival of migrant workers, there may be a little chance of the curve flattening in Odisha. “Though most of the cases are those in quarantine centres, there is danger of local transmission as some of the persons quarantined may be visiting their families. The more we test, the more positives we will get,” he said. Till Wednesday, Odisha had tested 72,756 samples. Fears of community transmission in Ganjam began after several migrant workers kept in the district’s quarantine centres fled last week while in other cases their near and dear were found to be loitering around the quarantine centres delivering food and other items. Odisha Assembly Speaker Surya Patro too alleged that some of the persons kept in quarantine centres were sneaking out to be with their family members at night.However, Ganjam district Collector Vijay Amruta Kulange said community transmission has not started in the district and steps are being taken to avoid it. “All the positive cases so far have been from the quarantine centres. We are screening people at the railway station from where they are taken to respective quarantine centres. The quarantine centres have been declared as containment zones into which no one can enter or exit. Anyone violating it would be arrested,” he said. “In case a person comes from outside without our notice, the sarpanchs or village heads have been asked to identify them for sending them to mandatory 28-day quarantine.”Apart from the sharp rise in positive cases in Ganjam, health department officials are worried over the possibility of the Surat returnees carrying the L-type strain of coronavirus that was originally found in China’s Wuhan and is known for showing Covid symptoms in patients. Unlike Covid positive cases in other districts, over 90 per cent of the cases detected in Ganjam cases have been symptomatic. Last month, a scientist at Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre had claimed that the novel coronavirus used for genome sequencing contained the L-type strain that was found at Wuhan in China. However, technical spokesperson of Health department Dr Jayanta Panda said a virological study needs to be done to find out evidence of the L-strain in Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-records-101-new-covid-19-cases-its-biggest-single-day-spike/story-54V3ylD8hv9pn8VoORk37H.html
13-05-2020||India||Will go a long way, says PM Modi on round one of Covid-19 relief package||Banks will offer collateral-free loans amounting to Rs 3 lakh crore rupees to small and medium businesses as part of the first round of the relief package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday. PM Modi, who had promised a Rs 20 lakh crore (Rs 20 trillion) in his televised address to the nation a day earlier, said the announcements made will go a long way in addressing issues faced by businesses, particularly medium and small enterprises that have been considered the bedrock of the Indian economy.“The steps announced will boost liquidity, empower the entrepreneurs and strengthen their competitive spirit,” PM Modi saidA big part of Wednesday’s announcement focused on small and medium enterprises that will be entitled to get unsecured loans till October 31. This will be available to units with upto Rs 25 crore outstanding and turnover of up to Rs 100 crore.She told reporters the government aims to help 4.5 million businesses by October.Sitharaman will be back tomorrow with more announcements for other sectors.“We have a responsibility toward the poor, the needy, the migrants and the disabled,” Sitharaman said, in the first of several daily press conferences on the 15-point package.“Essentially this is to spur growth and to build a very self-reliant India,” she said. “It addresses ease of doing business, compliance and due diligence and the intention is also to build local brands.”That was the recurring theme in PM Modi’s televised address, his fourth after the coronavirus outbreak in the country. The last three had focused on the 50-day lockdown and the disease.Yesterday, PM Modi appeared to be trying to prepare the country to take precautions, but move on. He told people not to let our lives revolve around the disease but turn the crisis into an opportunity.The three leading industry bodies, CII, Ficci and Assocham, welcomed the announcements.CII director general Chandrajit Banerjee described the first tranche of the package called Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan “impactful”.“The first phase targets the key sectors of MSME, employee provident fund, Discoms, and taxation among other major areas that are the most impacted,” Banerjee said.Sangita Reddy, president, FICCI, said round one of the package signalled that the government was ready and would lead from the front.Assocham secretary general Deepak Sood said the upward revision of investment limit in the definition of small enterprises is an example of the government responding well to the emergent situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-go-a-long-way-says-pm-modi-on-round-one-of-covid-19-relief-package/story-nhyFw5uzLPNfVdFGvi1LvL.html
13-05-2020||India||Special Covid package has 6 MSME reforms to power PM Modi’s reliant India mantra||The central government on Wednesday announced six reforms to prop up the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) -- considered the backbone of India’s economy—hit by the economic slump triggered by the coronavirus outbreak. The finance minister while announcing the reforms claimed the changes were aimed to make the Indian economy self-reliant. Here are the six reforms or measures announced by the finance minister.1. Collateral free automatic loan for SMEs up to 3 lakh crore which means not a single MSME unit needs to pay any collateral or guarantee for the loans availed under this scheme. They will also not be required to pay any principal component of the loan for the first year. The tenure of the loan will be for 4 years. This will benefit 45 lakh units resume business activities and safeguard jobs, said the FM.2. Rs 20,000 crore subordinated debt for stressed MSMEs facing an equity problem. It will help functioning MSMEs which are either NPA (non performing assets) or are economically stressed. Around Rs 2 lakh MSMEs qualify under this category. The government will provide Rs 4,000 crore partial credit guarantee support to banks and promoters of the MSMEs will be given debt by banks in the form of equity infusion.3. Fund of fund for the infusion of Rs 50,000 crore as equity into MSMEs. This will benefit MSMEs with potential and viability by providing them greater support in capacity expansion and for the purpose of market-listing. This will cover MSMEs that are performing very well and can use the opportunity to expand. 4. The definition of MSME is being changed to encourage MSMEs to grow bigger without losing on the benefits availed by MSMEs. The investment limit that defined an MSME is being revised upwards along with the addition of turnover as criteria to categorise MSMEs. In addition to these, differentiation between manufacturing and service MSMEs is being removed.For micro-enterprises in both the manufacturing and service sectors, the investment limit is being raised from Rs 25 lakh and Rs 10 lakh respectively to Rs 1crore with a maximum turnover of Rs 5 crore. Similarly, for small enterprises in both the sectors, the investment limit is being raised from Rs 5 crore and 2 crore respectively, to Rs 10 crore with a maximum turnover of Rs 50 crore and finally for medium enterprises in manufacturing and service sector, the investment limit was being raised from Rs 10 core and 5 crore respectively to Rs 20 crore with a maximum turnover of Rs 100 crore.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-195. The government procurement tenders up to Rs 200 crore will no longer be open to global tenders/players, allowing MSMEs the chance to compete. The government said it will make necessary amendments to General Financial Rules to enable this provision. Sitharaman said this was a major step towards creating a self-reliant India. 6. Post Covid trade fares will be difficult, therefor e-linkage market is being provided to MSMEs. In addition to this, the government has promised to clear all receivables due to MSMEs in the next 45 days.Also Read: Nirmala Sitharaman Press Conference: Rs 9250 crore relief for provident fund contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-covid-package-has-6-msme-reforms-to-power-pm-narendra-modi-s-reliant-india-mantra/story-QJXhVDscZh3o27Rdy3sKEP.html
13-05-2020||India||With 66 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai’s Dharavi crosses 1000-mark; count at 1028||Mumbai’s Dharavi reported 66 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the count of coronavirus patients in Asia’s largest slum past the 1000-mark. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Dharavi now stands at 1,028, according to state health department data.At least 40 people have succumbed to the coronavirus disease in Dharavi so far.A day earlier, on Tuesday, Dharavi registered 46 new Covid-19 cases and one death, taking the case count to 962 and the number of fatalities to 31, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official had said.ALSO READ | ‘Mumbai’s local trains should resume only for essential services’: Uddhav ThackerayThe cases were reported from Matunga Labour camp, 90-feet road, 60-feet road, Kumbharwada, Transit Camp, Cross Road, Naik Nagar and some other localities in Dharavi.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Maharashtra has so far reported 23,401 confirmed Covid-19 cases which include 4,786 cured or discharged cases and 868 deaths. Mumbai’s coronavirus tally shot up to 14,781 on Tuesday with the detection of 426 new cases, while the death toll climbed to 556 with 28 more deaths, according to data released by BMC. Earlier on Tuesday, an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Mumbai Police died due to coronavirus. With this, five personnel of the Mumbai Police have died due to the viral infection so far.ALSO READ | One more Mumbai cop succumbs to Covid-19The ASI was posted at the Sewree Police Station and was undergoing treatment after testing positive for the infection recently.The Maharashtra police tweeted about the death of the ASI through their official Twitter handle late on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-66-new-covid-19-cases-mumbai-s-dharavi-crosses-1000-mark-count-at-1028/story-RWAwaHe5xMdjrblgAlTTxH.html
13-05-2020||India||‘Impactful package’: CII on Nirmala Sitharaman’s economic booster dose||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Wednesday said that Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has unveiled an “impactful package” to boost the economy with “a prudent and calibrated set of measures”.“Hon’ble Finance Minister has unveiled an impactful package under the first tranche of the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan as demanded by the very dire economic circumstances we are in due to Covid-19. The first phase targets the key sectors of MSME, employee provident fund, Discoms, and taxation among other major areas that are the most impacted,” Chandrajit Banerjee, Director General, CII, said in a statement.Banerjee said the six measures announced by Sitharaman for the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector are very well targeted and meet the immediate as well as longer term requirements of the sector. “CII had suggested that credit be provided for MSME without collateral requirement and with a guarantee from the Government. The proposal to make the delayed payments from Government and PSEs to MSME was a long-standing request of industry.”He also welcomed the change in the definition of MSME.“The most important announcement with long term implications is the quantum jump in definition of MSME, which had not been changed since the MSME Development Act of 2006 and was long awaited. Along with the decision to not have global tenders for Government procurement up to Rs 200 crore, the redefinition will assist the MSME sector to grow and emerge as a vibrant and dynamic sector, contributing to self-reliance and employment in a big way,” Banerjee said.The CII chief said that the measures on construction, real estate and tax payments add to ease of doing business and reduce the compliance burden for enterprises while infusing confidence among entrepreneurs.“We particularly welcome the action taken to relieve the stress on Discoms which is feeding into the entire economy. The Rs 90,000 crore liquidity infusion will help revive this critical sector,” Banerjee said.He said that it was heartening that many of the measures announced are in line with CII’s recommendations.“The FM has introduced a prudent and calibrated set of measures that promises to stabilise the conditions after the Coronavirus crisis,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/impactful-package-cii-on-nirmala-sitharaman-s-economic-booster-dose/story-0Bi7sNvFMNrD67Z2K5Ww2J.html
13-05-2020||India||Maoists let police constable go after his wife pleads at ‘people’s court’||The Maoists allowed a police constable to walk free after his wife and daughter pleaded with them at a ‘Janadalat (people’s court)’ in Bijapur.Constable Santosh Kattam, abducted on May 4 from the Gorna village, was allowed to go home after he agreed to leave his police job and practise farming.The constable was posted in Bhadrachalam. Kattam’s wife Sunita, along with his daughter and a journalist, went into the jungle to plead for the release of her husband. The Maoists’ self-styled Kangaroo court, ‘Janadalat’, held in the jungles of Bijapur district found Santosh ‘not guilty’.“The Maoists were speaking in a different language in janadalat, we could not understand a word but they were asking questions to the villagers and at last they released my husband,” said Sunita, talking to mediapersons.The woman said her husband left the house on May 4 to get ration. He was on a bike and never returned.Two days later, the Maoists sent a message about the ‘janadalat’, about 40 km from Bijapur district headquarters, in which the fate of her husband was to be decided.“Santosh was released unharmed as people in the ‘Janadalat’ supported him and told Maoists not to kill him. The Maoists released Santosh after he agreed to leave his police job and practise farming at his ancestral village,” said Ganesh Mishra, a local journalist who went with Sunita.Meanwhile, the police are recording the constable’s statement and also conducting his medical examination.“We had information that the constable was missing but if we had launched any operation it could have been fatal. His family was also making efforts to trace him and bring him back. We are taking the statement of the constable,” said IG Bastar, Sunderaj P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-let-police-constable-go-after-his-wife-pleads-at-people-s-court/story-VYCZEgjBsZXjeNyWSqCjbO.html
13-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: Goa wants tea stalls, restaurants to reopen in order to boost economy||Panaji: The Goa government is hoping that the Union government will allow more relaxations during the fourth phase of the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown that can help boost the local economy. Speaking after a meeting of the state cabinet, ports and rural development minister Michael Lobo said he had sought relaxations to allow tea stalls and restaurants to open with ample space between tables so that these businesses can be revived. “I have requested that small businessmen, who are having trouble today, like a restaurant, like a small gaddo (street food vendor) and tea stalls should be allowed to open with proper social distancing and the use of hand sanitisers,” Lobo said. Giving an example, he said if an outlet has 10 tables for customers, they could be reduced to six. “In such a way, the small business owners can restart their businesses,” he added.“I have asked the chief minister to convey to the Centre that such relaxations should be given in green zones,” Lobo said. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant had earlier indicated his willingness to welcome tourists to the state, but qualified his statement by saying that standard operating procedures for travellers will be drafted only after the Centre gives the green light for such a move. The state has already reopened several sectors, including manufacturing industries, public transport, shops, private establishments and markets, as part of relaxations made during the third phase of the lockdown. However, restaurants, malls, casinos, pubs and bars continue to be closed.Goa has recorded only seven coronavirus infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-goa-wants-tea-stalls-restaurants-to-reopen-in-order-to-boost-economy/story-jtJb3HrQrzCvre4FLLKADJ.html
13-05-2020||India||Telangana: 21-year old migrant worker from Odisha dies of dehydration, hunger pangs||Hyderabad: A 21-year-old tribal migrant worker from Odisha, who had been working as a construction labourer in Hyderabad, died of dehydration and pangs of hunger at the temple town of Bhadrachalam in Telangana’s Bhadradri-Kothagudem district on Tuesday morning. He had walked over 300 kilometres in four days amid the lockdown restrictions, which were imposed since March 25 to contain the spread of raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, on his way back to his native village in Odisha’s Malkangiri district.The deceased, identified as Kasa Madakami from Malkangiri district’s Pandripani village, was going back home along with his three friends, a district official said. Bhadrachalam tehsildar Seshagiri Rao said Madakami died on Tuesday morning, despite braving the scorching summer heat for four days.“He had died due to severe dehydration that was aggravated by the sunstroke and pangs of hunger. His friends had always shifted his body by an ambulance with the help of local villagers even before we got the information,” he said.Bhadrachalam inspector of police K Vinod Reddy said no case had been registered, as doctors said it was a natural death.“The four youth had reached Bhadrachalam on Monday night and had slept on a pavement. One of his friends told us that Madakami had vomited at night and also complained of exhaustion. He didn’t wake up from his sleep the next morning. He was taken to a hospital at Bhadrachalam, where doctors declared him brought dead,” K Satyanarayana, a local resident, said.“The four youth had not eaten anything since Monday morning, as no eateries are open because of the prevailing lockdown restrictions,”he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-21-year-old-migrant-worker-from-odisha-dies-of-dehydration-hunger-pangs/story-pWwp3oj3j1FAImawuDFXeL.html
13-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand seeks Centre’s nod to open Corbett National Park and shrines||Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj on Wednesday sought the Centre’s permission to open the Corbett National Park and popular shrines in the state to revive tourism. “I have written to the Centre requesting them to allow the opening of Jim Corbett National Park and popular holy shrines in the state. It will help to revive the tourism in the state in a gradual manner which is important as the sector is our bread and butter,” Maharaj said.Corbett National Park is a major wildlife tourism destination and a revenue earner for the Uttarakhand government. The park and the shrines have been closed since the lockdown began in March. Corbett is open for tourists from November 15 till June 15 and is normally shut during the monsoon.Maharaj also announced that the state government will provide financial help of Rs 5,000 each to all the river rafting guides in Uttarakhand amid lockdown.“There are about 560 river rafting guides registered with the government to whom we will provide a financial assistance of Rs 5,000 each. We have also waived off the yearly license renewal fees of river rafting and aero-sports firms in the state amid losses due to lockdown,” the minister said.At present, the river rafting firms have to pay an annual fee of Rs 9,118 to the tourism department and Rs 3,038 to the forest department. Similarly, the aero sports firms have to pay an annual fee of Rs 7,500 every year. River rafting on the Ganga normally takes place in Rishikesh and at other places further upstream.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-seeks-centre-s-nod-to-open-corbett-national-park-and-shrines/story-4vuSU8EsGsTICbFdPyt2CO.html
13-05-2020||India||Mega Covid 19 relief package: Income tax returns for 2019-20 can now be filed until November||The central government on Wednesday announced a 25% tax rebate for non-salaried specified payments and a similar rebate in tax collection at source for specified receipts in a measure that will help release Rs 50,000 crore liquidity, it claimed.The reduction is likely to impact payments of all contract fee, professional fee, interest, rent, dividend, commissions, brokerage etc but is unlikely to lead to any reduction in the taxes applied at source to salaries. This tax reduction will be applicable for the remaining part of the financial year 2020-2021.Among other measures, the finance minister announced to defer the due date of filing of all income tax returns for the financial year 2019-20 from July 31 and October 31, 2020 to November 30, 2020. It also extended the deadline for Tax Audits to October 31, 2020 from September 30, 2020.In another relief, the finance minister said the date of assessments that were originally scheduled to get barred on September 30, 2020, will now be extended to December 31, 2020. Similarly, those getting barred on March 31, 2021, will now get barred on September 30, 2021.Also Read: Nirmala Sitharaman Press Conference: Rs 9250 crore relief for provident fund contributorsThe finance minister announced these among 15 relief measures announced on Wednesday including six pertaining to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), two each pertaining to EPF, NBFCs and MFIs and one each related to discoms, contractors and the real estate sector.Sitharaman said her ministry will announce measures for different sectors in press conferences held every day in line with prime minister’s instructions and vision to create the environment for India’s emergence as a self-reliant economic force after the worst impact of coronavirus is over. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“The PM laid out a vision after wide and deep consultations with several sections of our society and these discussions were held at various levels with various ministries and taken up to the PMO (prime minister’s office) and the PM himself has spent considerable time on the inputs provided,” Sitharaman said.She added that the package was essentially about making India self-reliant.“Essentially this is to spur growth and to build a very self-reliant India and that’s why this whole initiative is called Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mega-covid-19-relief-package-income-tax-returns-for-2019-20-can-now-be-filed-until-november/story-3LrHX9KaOHiQdkk9Fo94rO.html
13-05-2020||India||Civilian killed in Budgam by CRPF, mainstream leaders demand probe||A 25-year-old man was killed at Kawoosa on the Srinagar-Gulmarg road on Wednesday when CRPF personnel fired at his vehicle, with officials alleging that he had jumped two check points.The killing of Peer Mehrajudin, a resident of Makheema village in Budgam district who worked at a Khidmat centre, triggered protests that led to the snapping of mobile internet services in the area. Local residents alleged the CRFF opened fire at Mehrajudin without any reason. Ghulam Nabi, the father of Mehrajudin, said: “I received a call from my neighbour that my son had been injured. He had left his house with his uncle in the morning and was shot dead while on way to work.”Nabi, who retired as a government employee, said he had no information on why his innocent son was killed without any reason. “In the morning, he left his house for work and hours later, his body arrived at our house. This is inhuman.”People assembled at Mehrajudin’s house and shouted slogans against his killing. “If this young man had jumped the check point, as the CRPF is saying, why didn’t they fire at the tyres of his vehicle? Was it necessary to kill him?” said his neighbour Bashir Ahmad.Local residents too said Mehrajudin’s uncle was a witness to the incident as he was with him in the car when CRPF personnel opened fire. The uncle was taken by police.CRPF spokesman Pankaj Singh said a vehicle broke through a check point of Jammu and Kashmir Police at 10.20am and sped away. The vehicle approached another check point manned by the CRPF and jumped that one too, he said. “At that time, a convoy of the army was passing through an adjacent road and, fearing sabotage, the CRPF jawan manning the check point fired warning shots. The car was driving in the wrong direction of the road and that was even more alarming,” Singh said.“When the car didn’t stop despite the warning shots, the jawan fired at the car and the driver was hit on his left shoulder. He was shifted to SHMS Hospital in Srinagar, where he was declared brought dead by doctors.”Former chief minister Omar Abdullah described the man’s killing as unfortunate and called for an investigation.“Very unfortunate. The circumstances surrounding this shooting need to be impartially investigated & findings made known. My condolences to the family of the deceased,” he tweeted.Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party leader and former minster Ghulam Hassan Mir condemned the killing and demanded a timebound probe. He said the use of excessive force in implementing the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown is unjustified. “There are no words to express our grief over this avoidable loss of precious life. This unjustified use of force to enforce the Covid-19 lockdown only adds to the alienation and resentment among the people,” he said.Mehrajudin is second civilian killed by the CRPF in Kashmir in the recent past. Earlier, a 14-year-old boy was killed at Langate after militants attacked a CRPF patrol at Kralgund in north Kashmir. Three CRPF troopers were killed in the attack, while the militants escaped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civilian-killed-in-budgam-by-crpf-mainstream-leaders-demand-probe/story-X9yOfG10nb9ou70C8eqGBN.html
13-05-2020||India||‘Gave Rs 1 cr to railways’: Uttarakhand on migrants made to pay train fare||The Uttarakhand government has dismissed reports that migrants returning to the state in special trains were charged for the tickets. It asserted that Rs 1 crore was paid in advance to the railway ministry.The government’s information directorate has put details of payment made by the state government to Indian Railways and its communication with the Centre on running special trains to bring back its people stranded on other states.Meharban Singh Bisht, director general (DG) information, said, “The decision to put all the aforementioned information in public domain in a transparent manner was taken after a section of media had claimed on Tuesday that the state government didn’t pay for the tickets of about 1,200 migrants who returned in a special train from Surat.”The officer added that the reports were an effort to tarnish the government’s image. “Such reports were deliberately circulated by the section to malign the government which is tirelessly putting in all efforts to bring all the migrants back to home amid lockdown,” said Bisht.The DG said that in future also the information department will put all such information in the public domain if any misinformation is circulated against the government. “What happened was part of a sinister campaign by a section of the media which is against the state government which we will counter effectively in the same manner,” he added.Earlier today, cabinet minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said the state government had paid in advance to the railways so that “the migrants need not pay for the tickets for special trains.”Kaushik said, “Our government is fully committed to bring all our migrants stranded in other states in buses or special trains. Till Tuesday, we have received about 2.02 lakh registrations to return to the state. So far we have succeeded in bringing about 63,000 migrants back home while following all the necessary precautions amid the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gave-rs-1-cr-to-railways-uttarakhand-on-migrants-made-to-pay-train-fare/story-LNz32CXnl7SldyDxKolE6H.html
13-05-2020||India||In a first, Telangana govt plans to tell farmers what to grow basis land and climatic conditions||The Telangana government is considering a new recipe to boost farm incomes: dictating farmers, depending on their land and climatic conditions, what to grow, a first in the country. In a nod to Chinese-style regulations, the move, backed by scientific evidence and experts’ advice, could raise productivity and incomes from farming, analysts said. But it will also see the state on take a bigger role in the farm sector, rather than leaving it to the markets. Farmers not following the sowing recommendation will not be offered federally determined minimum support prices, as a form of disincentive. They will also not qualify for various input subsidy under the state’s flagship Rythu Bandhu scheme. Input subsidies denote cheap fertilisers and agricultural chemicals, funded by the government. Chief minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday took a meeting with agricultural scientists and agronomists –experts in the science of crop yields– for a final set of recommendations, a statement from his office said.The state is poised to implement a broad plan that will suggest which crops should be grown, depending on where farmers are located. According to the plan created by agriculture scientists in the state, paddy has been allotted 8-9 million acres, while cotton is on 5 million acres. Among pulses, tur (a lentil) is sought to be grown 1 million acre and corn on 0.7 million acre. On rest of the arable land, vegetables ought to be grown on 0.35 million acres. The state will introduce palm oil cultivation interspersed across the state because palm plantation can withstand drought. “If this policy is followed, then the agriculture produce from the state would get good price. The government should decide on which crop the farmer should cultivate and it is important that the entire cultivation is done based on this policy,” a statement from the state said.The policy is basically an attempt to break the practise of mono-cropping and introduce crop diversification, said KS Mani of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. Crop diversification and more science-based agricultural raises per-acre incomes, he said.Since rice and wheat fetch higher MSPs, farmers tend to grow much of these and little of others, upending the output balance. This has led to surplus of cereals in the country at the cost of other food articles. Small farmers who don’t have economies of scale because smaller farms have higher cultivation costs don’t profit from such large-scale wheat-rice systems. According to the government’s Doubling of Farmers’ Income Report, 2017, the average income of an agricultural household during July 2012 to June 2013 was as low as Rs 6,426 against an average monthly consumption expenditure of Rs 6,223. In 2019, Haryana started a scheme to disincentivise rice growing in the state to save water in the severely water depleted state, which saw moderate success. The unique experiment in Haryana could well break a long-standing chokehold on the state’s seriously depleted water table: rampant paddy.Fifteen thousand farmers in the state, who have traditionally grown only rice, will not be growing the water-intensive crop this summer, the first time in 30 years. They have signed up for a state government drive that rewards them with cash and freebies for ditching paddy for maize.According to Haryana’s farm department, every hectare (2.4 acre) brought under maize cultivation from rice would save the state 14,000 litres of water needed for irrigation.“The total area under maize cultivation in districts chosen for the drive now stands at 50,000 hectares,” said Suresh Gehlawat, additional director in the state agriculture department. The move is expected to save 700 million litres of water for the entire season.In the grain-bowl states of Punjab and Haryana, a practice of paddy-wheat cycle (paddy during summers, wheat during winters) has driven aquifers to an alarmingly low levels.The campaign worked because of a string of freebies and a state-backed guarantee that all the maize harvested by farmers, who signed up for the programme, would be bought by the state at federally fixed minimum support prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-telangana-govt-plans-to-tell-farmers-what-to-grow-basis-land-and-climatic-conditions/story-Bu8GyVFK0lLduReuWFIqPJ.html
13-05-2020||India||‘Global tenders to be banned in govt procurement up to Rs 200 crore’: Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said global tenders will be banned for government procurement up to Rs 200 crore to encourage business for MSMEs so that they could compete and supply for government tenders. This move in turn, the finance minister said, would go a long way to make industries in India self-reliant. “Indian MSMEs and other companies have often faced unfair competition from foreign countries. Therefore global tenders will be disallowed in government procurement up to Rs 200 crore. The necessary amendments of General Financial Rules will also be done,” Sitharaman announced.“This will be a step towards self-reliant India and will also support the ‘Make in India’ initiative,” she added. The step is aimed at generating more business for MSMEs, the finance minister said.ALSO READ | Definition of MSMEs is being changed in favour of MSMEs, says Nirmala SitharamanA majority of MSMEs were unable to supply to large firms who they were serving all the while, the finance minister elaborated. Suddenly the conditions became tough and many of them couldn’t participate in the supply chain. This will make MSMEs do their business with a lot more confidence and carry on with trade despite some hurdles, she said.Sitharaman on Wednesday spelt out the details of the Rs 20 lakh crore financial stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. In a televised address to the nation on Tuesday evening, PM Modi had announced Rs 20 lakh crore -- roughly equivalent to 10 per cent of India’s GDP -- to support the nation’s economy hit hard by the 50-day lockdown imposed to fight the spread of Covid-19.“Essentially, this is to spur growth and build a self-reliant India. That is why it is called Atmanirbhar India,” Sitharaman said at the media briefing.The intention of the Union government, the finance minister said is to encourage local brands and help them to reinvent themselves at par with the global level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-tenders-to-be-banned-in-govt-procurement-up-to-rs-200-crore-nirmala-sitharaman/story-UZyn1Qewv1zmVYZbmIIMOL.html
13-05-2020||India||Due date for all income tax returns extended to November 30: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday made a series of announcements and shared details of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package announced by PM Modi to the fight the coronavirus crisis. The finance minister announced that the due date for all income tax returns has been extended to November 30. The rate of TDS, TCS for non-salaried payments for period up to March 31, 2021 has also been cut by 25%. The move will release Rs 50,000 crore, the finance minister announced.Also read: Employers, employees contribution to EPF reduced to 10%, announces FM SitharamanSitharaman started her address by stating that the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package in an initiative to spur growth in the country and make a ‘self-reliant India’ or ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ amid the Covid-19 crisis. In her opening comment, she went to reiterate the significance of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ and how the package will help various economic sections of the country in achieving that vision. “The word ‘Atmanirbhar’ India is the one which you will hear me say quite often. I know coming from South India, a lot of people wondered what it meant, so for their benefit I will just say what it means,” Sitharaman said. She went on to translate the term ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ in four South Indian languages - Tamil, Kannada, Telugu and Malayalam. Sitharaman said that the five pillars of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ are economy, infrastructure, system, demography and demand. The finance minister announced a slew of measures and fiscal initiatives, adding that over the next few days her team will come before the media to put forth PM’s vision and share more details on the economic package.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/due-date-for-all-income-tax-returns-extended-to-november-30-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman/story-jLMPaMmnvEMEtKm6BSekDJ.html
13-05-2020||India||Self-reliant India does not mean we will become isolationist country: Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday sought to clear the air around Prime Minister’s self-reliance call, saying it does not mean that India will look only inwards and become an “isolationist” country. She said that the call talks about a confident India which can rest on its strengths and also contribute to the globe.India has the capability and entrepreneurship to built capabilities and help the world, the minister added.Also read: FM announces Rs 3 lakh crore collateral free automatic loan for MSMEs “Certainly when he (Prime Minister) says ‘aatmanirbhar’ Bharat, it is not to look inwards and cut India to become an isolationist country. “It certainly talks about a confident India which can rest on its strengths and also be able to contribute to the globe, the way in which the Prime Minister rightly pointed out the production of PPEs (personal protective equipment), and masks and also ventillators has rapidly grown within these 40 days to an extent,” she said, while addressing reporters here about Rs 20 lakh crore economic package. Modi on Tuesday announced a Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package on Tuesday and urged citizens to “buy local” to make India self-reliant. His call was seen as a turn towards protectionism. Sitharaman also said the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package is to spur growth and build a self-reliant India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/self-reliant-india-does-not-mean-we-will-become-isolationist-country-nirmala-sitharaman/story-d4WWtutoVHRz14TMIC1aGJ.html
13-05-2020||India||Nirmala Sitharaman Press Conference: Rs 9250 crore relief for provident fund contributors||The Central government has announced Employees Provident Fund (EPF) related relief to companies and individuals employed in the private sector by extending its contribution to the EPFO by three more months for small companies and by cutting down mandatory EPF contributions from both employers and employees by two percentage points for others.Sitharaman said the government was extending by another three months, the relief measure announced last month to fund three months PF contributions—both by the employee and the employer—amounting to 24% of wages of EPFO members earning less than Rs 15,000 a month in establishments that have up to 100 workers. The scheme was earlier valid from March to May but the finance minister said it was now being extended from June to August.“The move will benefit nearly 3.67 lakh establishments and 72.22 lakh employees as 12% of employer and 12% of employee contribution to the EPF gets paid by the government,” she said adding that the above extension added up to support of Rs 2500 crores.In another PF related relaxation aimed to provide more liquidity to employers and employees not covered under the above scheme, the government decided to slash the rate of mandatory PF contribution for both employees and employers by two per cent from 12 % to 10 %. This move is likely to provide additional liquidity of Rs 6,750 crore, she added.“Statutory PF contribution of both employer and employee will be reduced to 10% each from 12% each for all establishments covered by EPFO for the next three months,” she said.Sitharaman said this was being done since businesses needed liquidity support to ramp up production and employees needed more take-home salaries. This scheme is likely to provide relief to about 6.5 lakh establishments and about 4.3 crore covered employees. She added that the government will continue to pay 12% PF as employer contributions during this period.This was part of the 15 relief measures Sitharaman announced to revive the economy and ease liquidity pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmala-sitharaman-press-conference-rs-9250-crore-relief-for-provident-fund-contributors/story-bbYW5QBDGX8aZU5cQ5SVTK.html
13-05-2020||India||Don’t come to Goa on holiday via special trains: CM Pramod Sawant||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday urged revellers and vacationers not to visit the popular tourist destination for leisure trips, despite the resumption of train services because both beaches and hotels are closed due to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“People, who still want to come to Goa, will be put at hotels that have been converted into makeshift institutional quarantine centres. But, we’ll make them pay for their stay at these quarantine centres,” the CM said while addressing a press conference.He said that the state government has made arrangements for those stranded people who would be coming back home from Saturday. All of them would be tested and quarantined till their results are available, he added.“We’ve checked with the railway authorities. Around 500 people will be arriving by the first train to Goa from New Delhi on Saturday since the nationwide lockdown restrictions were imposed on March 25. The train will leave for New Delhi on Sunday. The New Delhi-Margao train will be a weekly service. A New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram train is also slated to make a scheduled stop at Margao next week. We’ve sealed all, except one, exits at our state’s only railway station in Margao,” Sawant said.The passengers would be ferried from the Margao railway station by buses to the South Goa District Hospital, where they would be tested and later quarantined at the Fatorda Stadium until their test results are made available, the CM said.Those who test positive would be admitted to Goa Medical College and Hospital, which has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility.“Those who test negative will be stamped and asked to stay under self-isolation at home,” the CM said.“We’re planning to double our daily testing capacity to 1,000 after the procurement of a new machine,” he added.He allayed apprehensions about the authenticity of the test results, as all of them would be double-checked to minimise error, if any. “We won’t withhold any information regarding Covid-19 related deaths,” he said.The CM made the comment in the wake of growing concerns over the death of four persons in the past few weeks that have been suspected to be because of Covid-19.“For instance, the Margao patient, who died, was young. He was tested thrice in Goa, and then his swab samples were sent to Pune’s National Institute of Virology. That, too, proved negative. Besides, his close contacts were tested,” he added.Goa has reported seven Covid-19 positive cases to date, and all of them have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-come-to-goa-on-holiday-via-special-trains-cm-pramod-sawant/story-VAmROBnUjy2fDxHROlxSJM.html
13-05-2020||India||Sitharaman announces boost to MSMEs; EPF support to workers, businesses: 10 points||In her address to media on Rs 20 crore stimulus package to battle Covid-19 crisis, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said the economic initiative is to spur growth and make India ‘self-reliant’.During the briefing, the finance minister made a series of announcements, including one where she said that the government has launched a Rs 30,000 crore Special Liquidity Scheme for non-banking financial companies, microfinance companies, housing finance companies.Also read: Nirmala Sitharaman Press Conference: Rs 9250 crore relief for provident fund contributorsHere’s taking a quick look at the top announcements: 1. TDS, TCS rate for non-salaried payments for period up to March 31, 2021 has cut by 25%. The move will release Rs 50,000 crore.2. Due date for Income Tax returns for the year 2019-2020 has now being extended from 31st July and 31 October to 30 November 2020.3. In order to provide more take home salary for employees and to give relief to employers in payment of Provident Fund, Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPF) contribution is being reduced for businesses and workers for 3 months, amounting to liquidity support of Rs 6,750 crores, the finance minister announced. 4. To ease financial stress as businesses get back to work amid the coronavirus crisis, the government has decides to continue EPF support for business and workers for 3 more months providing a liquidity relief of Rs 2,500 crores.5. Rs 50,000 crore equity infusion for MSMEs through Fund of Funds; to be operated through a Mother Fund and few daughter funds; this will help to expand MSME size as well as capacity.6. Global tenders to be disallowed in government procurement up to Rs 200 crores. “This will make self-reliant India, will also then be able to serve ‘Make in India’ cause,” she said. 7. The finance minister announced that the due date for all income tax returns has been extended to November 30.. 8. “Definition of MSMEs has been revised, investment limit to be revised upwards, additional criteria of turnover also being introduced,” the finance minister stated. 9. In a major relief to contractors, all central government agencies to provide an extension of up to 6 months, without cost to contractor, to obligations like completion of work covering construction and goods and services contracts.10. The finance minister also announced Rs 90,000 crore liquidity injection for Power Distribution Companies (DISCOMs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-boost-to-msmes-epf-support-to-workers-and-businesses-key-points-from-finance-minister-s-rs-20-lakh-crore-package-address/story-TrMlK4qAgiBY9JpT7uwqaI.html
13-05-2020||India||Ten Agra jail inmates test positive for Covid-19||Ten prisoners of Agra Central Jail tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday and were moved to an isolation ward, prison senior superintendent VK Singh said.The jail authorities have requested the Uttar Pradesh health department to collect samples of other prisoners and staff for tests.Singh said, “There were 14 suspected cases and reports of four were negative while 10 inmates tested positive for the Coronavirus.”The prisoners who tested positive were being held in barrack number three.“We have evacuated barrack number three and requested the health department to collect samples of other inmates of the barrack and the jail staff,” Singh said.Jailor SP Mishra said the request for collecting the samples of the other prisoners and staff had been made to the chief medical officer of Agra. According to Mishra, there are 1,941 inmates in Central Jail and about 120 jail staff, including senior officials.On May 9, a prisoner who tested positive for Covid-19 died at Sarojani Naidu Medical College (SNMC). Subsequently, an 85-year-old prisoner from the same barrack, who was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, died at SNMC on Tuesday.Uttar Pradesh has recorded more than 3,600 infections and 82 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ten-agra-jail-inmates-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-TDEJFO6CNwE29kxh2bpqIN.html
13-05-2020||India||Special trains bring back over 3,200 stranded J&K residents to Udhampur||The daily New Delhi-Jammu train service will resume from Wednesday evening after three Shramik Special trains started ferrying over 3,200 stranded Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) residents from Bengaluru, Goa, and Delhi to Udhampur, beginning a day before.Two Shramik Special trains --- from Delhi and Bengaluru -- have reached Udhampur, and another one from Goa will arrive on Wednesday evening. On Thursday morning, a special passenger train, on the lines of Rajdhani Express, will reach Jammu.Chetan Taneja, station director and a senior divisional traffic manager of Northern Railways, said, “A special train will leave New Delhi on Wednesday at around 9pm and it will reach Jammu-Tawi on Thursday at around 5.45am.”“All the arrangements have been put in place and sufficient mock drills have also been conducted over the past three days,” said Taneja.On Thursday, the same train will leave Jammu around 8pm and will arrive in Delhi at 5am on Friday.“It’s a fully air-conditioned train, and the fare is similar to that of Rajdhani Express. However, food and blankets won’t be provided to the passengers,” he said.Taneja said that passengers have to undergo mandatory screening and other protocols such as strict enforcement of social distancing norms, issued by the central government, to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic after they get off the train.On Monday, J&K chief secretary, BVR Subrahmanyam visited the Jammu-Tawi railway station and took stock of the mechanism put in place for the trains that are bringing back stranded passengers to the Union Territory.“Every single returnee has to undergo a mandatory Covid-19 test. We won’t make an exception to it,” said Rohit Kansal, principal secretary, J&K.The district administration was asked to ensure that registration and allocation of buses to the passengers for their onward journey to respective home districts are done in an expeditious and hassle-free manner in a bid to avoid any inconvenience for them. Passengers will be lodged at administrative quarantine centres till their test reports are available.On Wednesday morning, the second Shramik Special train, carrying stranded people from Delhi, arrived in Udhampur.“The train reached at 5.30am on Wednesday at Udhampur carrying passengers from Delhi. They included 316 passengers from Kulgam, 275 from Ramban, 131 from Srinagar, 122 from Kathua, 91 from Udhampur, 58 from Poonch, 44 from Rajouri, 31 from Budgam, 22 from Baramulla, 21 from Anantnag, 17 from Samba and 13 from Jammu,” said Udhampur district commissioner Dr. Piyush Singla.“Another train from Goa will reach Udhampur on Wednesday evening,” he added.The evacuation of the J&K people stranded in Haryana has also started since early morning on Wednesday, Kansal said.“Evacuation from Haryana has started. Screening and boarding are in progress in Ambala, Hissar, Mewat, and Yamunanagar. We’re looking forward to your return. Others need to be patient. Everyone, who has registered, will be contacted by the administration,” the principal secretary tweeted.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has eased the movement of people stranded in other states because of the lockdown restrictions, which were imposed to check the spread of Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-trains-bring-back-over-3-200-stranded-j-k-residents-to-udhampur/story-jPuVfvVVpkYCyIDQPx1ZfK.html
13-05-2020||India||Rs 3 lakh crore collateral-free automatic loans for businesses, including MSMEs: Sitharaman||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Wednesday businesses including MSMEs and SMEs will get a Rs 3 lakh crore collateral-free automatic loans to meet operational liabilities built up, buy raw material and restart business.Nirmala Sitharaman was addressing a press conference to give the details of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as day earlier.She said the emergency credit line to businesses and MSMEs from banks and NBFCs up to 20% of entire outstanding credit as on February 29, 2020.Borrowers with up to Rs 25 crore outstanding and Rs 100 crore turnover eligible will get this collateral-free credit, along with credit guarantee to banks.These loans to have four year tenor with a moratorium of 12 months on principal repayment. The interest to be capped 100% credit guarantee cover to banks and NBFCs on principal and interest scheme can be availed till October 31.She said there won’t be any guarantee fee or fresh collateral and that 45 lakh units can resume business activity and safeguard jobs.Nirmala Sitharaman said the Rs 20 lakh crore package is essentially to spur growth and build a self-reliant India.“This package is focussed on five pillars of economy, infrastructure, technology-driven systems, demography and demand. Accordingly, the focus will be what can be identified as factors of production - land, labour, liquidity and law,” she said.The finance minister said the announcements about the economic package is in line with PM Modi’s vision. “In his address, the Prime Minister didn’t mean isolated India, but a confident India,” said Sitharaman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-3-lakh-crore-collateral-free-automatic-loans-for-businesses-including-msmes-sitharaman/story-Y4ETiSvFNCt0csirnjgnFL.html
13-05-2020||India||Ten inmates test Covid-19 positive in Agra Central Jail, 102 others to be tested||Ten inmates of the Agra Central Jail tested positive for Covid-19 after being in close contact with another coronavirus positive prisoner, Uttar Pradesh Director General of Prisons Anand Kumar said on Wednesday.Earlier, an inmate of the same prison had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 6. It is believed that the ten prisoners who have tested positive were in close contact with this same coronavirus positive prisoner, according to jail authorities.At least, 98 to 102 other inmates of the barrack to which these Covid-19 positive prisoners belonged in the Agra Central Jail will also be tested for the disease.In Maharashtra, a 54-year-old inmate of the Byculla Women’s Jail had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier on Sunday.ALSO READ | Covid-19: 40 test positive in Mumbai’s Arthur Road jailAccording to Byculla jail authorities, the woman’s first test result on May 8 was negative but the second test conducted on May 9 returned positive. She is under treatment at St George’s Hospital, they added.In Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail, around 185 inmates have been found infected with the deadly coronavirus and are undergoing treatment.The Maharashtra government has decided to give temporary parole to 17,000 inmates out of 35,000 prisoners so that they do not get infected with the virus inside jails. For the remaining prisoners, jail authorities are trying to maintain social distancing guidelines so that there is no further spread of the disease.In April, when the Covid-19 pandemic had started spreading across the country, the Supreme Court had directed states to decongest jails in order to avoid the spread of the infection among prisoners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ten-inmates-test-covid-19-positive-in-agra-central-jail-102-others-to-be-tested/story-6cUwJzGikdOEIkiBqxZPLJ.html
13-05-2020||India||Forensic DNA method helps courts in taking quick decisions in rape cases, says firm||Many courts in India were able to quickly deliver judgement in cases of crimes against minors, especially rape because of the forensic DNA method, says consultancy firm Gordon Thomas Honeywell-GA, which has been tracking convictions based on the basis of DNA evidence.In the last six months, judiciary has treated forensic DNA testing results as conclusive evidence, it said.It is very helpful in cases where survivors and their family members turn hostile during the trial, the firm said. The pattern is seen in cases that are heard by special POCSO courts, it added.“Traditionally, prosecution has depended on the sole evidence of rape victims in courts. Oral evidence of the victim, though sufficient to punish the rapist, has its limitations. Due to delays, a victim’s memory often fades, because of which defence lawyers can manage to confuse them during cross-examination and make their statements appear to be contradictory and false,” said senior Supreme Court advocate Vivek Sood, who worked with the consultancy group on this study.A study by public affairs consultancy Gordon Thomas Honeywell-GA said that four different courts in Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu have convicted perpetrators found guilty of raping minors, primarily based on forensic DNA evidence.“DNA forensics have proved to be one of the most powerful tools worldwide to help nab criminals in sexual crimes. DNA evidence gathered with rape kits can identify an unknown assailant or confirm the presence of a known suspect. Not only can it connect the suspect to crime scenes and identify serial offenders, it can also exonerate those who are wrongfully accused,” said Tim Schellberg, Founder and President, Gordon Thomas Honeywell-GA.The process is becoming successful because of proper and timely collection of biological evidence by the police and medical examiners from the crime scene and the victim’s body following an incident. The evidence is then matched with DNA samples gathered from suspects leading to positive identification.Based on the scientific evidence, the courts are able to disregarded conflicting statements made by hostile witnesses to arrive at their verdict.“In 2018, every fourth rape victim across the country was a minor and in almost 95 per cent of rape cases, the offenders were known to the victims. These statistics not only show the vulnerability of children to sexual predators but also explain why rape survivors are pressured by their family to turn hostile,” said Suman Nalwa, DCP, Delhi Police, quoting figures from the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report.The number of DNA profiles developed from crime scene evidence has doubled over a year from 10,000 cases tested in 2017 to nearly 20,000 in 2019, as per Gordon Thomas Honeywell-GA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-forensic-dna-method-helps-courts-in-taking-quick-decisions-in-rape-cases/story-KmVcr5l8woQts8yPPbbo2M.html
13-05-2020||India||‘Responsive government’: Nirmala Sitharaman on PM’s self-reliant pitch||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, speaking through her face mask, at a press conference on Tuesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s comprehensive vision about atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India) was firmed up after wide and deep consultations with several sections of the society. “To spur growth and build a self-reliant India and that’s why this whole initiative is called atmanirbhar Bharat abhiyaan,” said Sitharaman.For the ease of citizens south of Vindhyas, the FM spelled out atmanirbhar in the four South Indian languages.The intention, said the FM, is to take local brands and bring them to a global level. Dismissing concerns it is a step towards protectionism or insularity in trade relations, the FM said it will push India to reach out to a wider world. This is a responsive government, underlined Nirmala Sitharamam naming several scheme launched to help the citizens and the poor.Detailing the scope of the economic package, the FM said the government has announced Rs 3 lakh crore collateral-free automatic loans for businesses, including MSMEs. A Fund of Funds will be set up with a corpus of Rs 10,000 crore and will provide equity funding for MSMEs with growth potential and viability.In a novel step, the FM said, the MSME definition has undergone a change with investment limit and turnover size revised upwards.All outstanding payment of MSMEs owed by government willl be cleared within the next 45 days, added the FM.In his address to the nation PM Modi had pushed for an “atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India)” and announced an economic stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore. “This package will give a new impetus to the development journey of the country in 2020 and a new direction to the Self-reliant India campaign. In order to prove the resolve of a self-reliant India, land, labor, liquidity and laws all have been emphasised in this package,” said the PM.Modi said important decisions will be announced in the economic package for every section like the poor, migrant labourers, cattle rearers, fishermen, organized sector or unorganized sector.The PM also highlighted that the coronavirus will remain a part of our lives for a long time but cautioned that we cannot allow our lives to be confined only around it. “We would wear masks, follow two yards distance and pursue our goals,” he emphasised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/responsive-government-nirmala-sitharaman-on-pm-s-self-reliant-pitch/story-HHf01eMDeI5WEv7SaAOJtO.html
13-05-2020||India||In FM’s address, emphasis on ‘Atamanirbhar Bharat’ as she explains term in 4 languages||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday addressed the media and shared the details of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package that was announced by PM Modi on Tuesday to battle the coronavirus crisis.Sitharaman started her address stating that PM Modi on Tuesday laid out a comprehensive vision after a “wide and deep consultation with several sections of our society”. “These discussions were held at various levels,” she said. The finance minister reiterated the importance of “self-reliant India” (Atmanirbhar Bharat). She said the announcement of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package for ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ is to spur growth in the country.Also read: TDS on non-salaried income reduced by 25%, last date for returns extendedFive pillars of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat- economy, infrastructure, system, demography and demand: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. #EconomicPackage pic.twitter.com/F3mA4QHZgN“The word ‘Atmanirbhar’ India is the one which you will hear me say quite often. I know coming from South India, a lot of people wondered what it meant, so for their benefit I will just say what it means,” Sitharaman said. She went on to translate the term ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ in four South Indian languages - Tamil, Kannada, Telugu and Malayalam. Sitharaman said that the five pillars of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ are economy, infrastructure, system, demography and demand. Also read: Due date for all income tax returns extended to November 30Essentially this is to spurt growth and to build a very self reliant India and that is why this whole initiative is called #AtmanirbharBharatAbhiyan: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. #EconomicPackage pic.twitter.com/Z2VLTpH8i4She said, over the next few days her team will come before the media to put forth PM’s vision and share more details on the economic package. On Tuesday, in a series of tweets, the finance minister said that the stimulus package “shall not be just a financial package, but a reform stimulus, a mindset overhaul, and a thrust in governance.”The prime minister described it as “a special economic package that will serve as an important link to the ‘Self-reliant India Campaign (Aatma nirbhar Bharat)’”. The relief package amounts to roughly 10% of India’s gross domestic product (GDP) she had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-s-address-emphasis-on-atma-nirbhar-bharat-as-she-explains-the-term-in-4-languages/story-Z8FMRoJgvJ6bnFoehCEl9M.html
13-05-2020||India||‘To spur growth’: Nirmala Sitharaman on PM Modi’s Atamanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday laid out the contours of the Rs 20 lakh crore financial package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday.“Essentially, this is to spur growth and build a self-reliant India. That is why it is called Atma Nirbhar India,” Sitharaman said at a press conference.Also read | Sitharaman announces boost to MSMEs; EPF support to workers, businesses: Key points“This package is focussed on five pillars - economy, infrastructure, technology driven systems, demography and demand. Accordingly, the focus will be what can be identified as factors of production - land, labour, liquidity and law,” she added.The Finance Minister said that today’s announcement is in line with PM Modi’s vision. “In his address, the Prime Minister didn’t mean isolated India, but a confident India,” said Sitharaman.A day before Sitharaman’s address, the finance minister had said on Twitter that “this shall not be just a financial package, but a reform stimulus, a mindset overhaul, and a thrust in governance.”Also read | Rs 3 lakh crore collateral-free automatic loans for businesses, including MSMEs: SitharamanPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday addressed the nation and announced that the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package will infuse vitality into the economy and benefit all sections of the society from the migrant labourers to big businesses. He said the details of the package will be made public by the finance minister in the coming days.The prime minister described it as “a special economic package that will serve as an important link to the ‘Self-reliant India Campaign (Aatma nirbhar Bharat)’”. The relief package amounts to roughly 10% of India’s gross domestic product (GDP) he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-spur-growth-nirmala-on-pm-modi-s-atamanirbha-bharat-abhiyan/story-s71j5O0ZG21QY4qsTsUnTP.html
13-05-2020||India||Air India partly seals Delhi’s Centaur hotel as crew tests Covid-19 positive||Air India has partly sealed its Centaur hotel in Delhi near the airport for sanitisation after a crew member tested positive for Covid-19 at a temporary facility there, officials said according to PTI.Air India owns another Centaur hotel in Srinagar.Last week, five pilots of Air India and a technician and a driver of the airline’s engineering wing tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai. All the pilots operate Boeing 787 fleet and had flown to China before April 20.The technician and the driver of Air India Engineering Services Ltd (AIESL) working for Reliance in their hangar at the Mumbai airport tested positive after they undertook the swab test on May 7.Earlier in April, one of Air India’s cabin crew in one of the evacuation flights between Mumbai and Newark in the United States had tested positive for Covid-19.Last week, Air India began a huge evacuation programme called Vande Bharat to bring back stranded Indians from the Maldives and Bangladesh and West Asian states like the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia in the first phase of the exercise. The government will operate 149 flights from 31 countries, including the US, Australia and France, during the second phase of the evacuation from May 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-partly-seals-delhi-s-centaur-hotel-as-crew-tests-covid-19-positive/story-M7J7Oc0pAcSr8TnactRhyL.html
13-05-2020||India||Southwest monsoon may reach Andaman and Nicobar Islands ahead of schedule this year||Onset of monsoon seems to be on course with the southwest monsoon likely to advance over the Andaman Sea and the Andaman and Nicobar archipelago around May 16, according to Indian Meteorological Department.“The conditions will become favourable for the advance of southwest monsoon over south Bay of Bengal, Andaman Sea and Andaman & Nicobar Islands around 16th May 2020,” says a forecast by the department.The department has also predicted likely light to moderate rainfall at most places over Andaman & Nicobar Islands on 15th & 16th May. Andaman Islands are also likely to experience heavy rainfall at a few places on these two days, it said. Meteorological department tracks monsoon’s course every year as it moves from the Andaman Sea towards Kerala by the end of May. Last year the southwest monsoon current reached south Andaman Sea and Nicobar Islands on May 18, two days ahead of its normal schedule but its further advance was sluggish and it reached Kerala only on June 8—seven days behind schedule. Last year the monsoon covered the entire country by July 19—at least 4 days behind the normal course. However, it displayed even more irregular behavior during its withdrawal, which only started from northwest India on October 9—more than a month after September 1-- when it generally starts to recede.The withdrawal of monsoon last year was noteworthy for one more reason since it happened very quickly, in a space of just a week to finish by October 16. The normal date for the completion of withdrawal of monsoon is October 15.The meteorological department has been issuing monsoon forecasts since 2005 and it claims to have got it right every time except in 2015. Last year it predicted that the monsoon will reach Kerala on May 6 with an error margin of 4 days on either side of the predicted date. According to the latest prediction, the southwest monsoon will reach the Andaman and Nicobar Islands four days before the regular schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southwest-monsoon-may-reach-andaman-and-nicobar-islands-ahead-of-schedule-this-year/story-XhKt3hMnkVqKcDVcMbNhIO.html
13-05-2020||India||Delhi Police considers providing buses to rail passengers needing public transport||Delhi Police is considering the arrangement of a bus service for rail passengers who will be arriving in the national capital and will require public transportation, Harendra K Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Railways) told news agency ANI. ”For those who are arriving in Delhi on special trains and are dependent on public transport, we are considering providing buses,” Singh said. This comes a day after the Delhi government issued guidelines for rail passengers arriving in the national capital as 15 special trains resumed operation amid the coronavirus lockdown on Tuesday. For those who are arriving in Delhi on special trains & are dependent on public transport, we are considering providing buses: Harendra K Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Railway pic.twitter.com/S07gy6y02IIn its standard operating procedures (SOPs), the Delhi government said that passengers coming to Delhi by trains will not be required to be quarantined if they are asymptomatic for Covid-19. Such passengers “will be allowed to go home” and would be requested to download Aarogya Setu app if possible, the release read. According to the circular, those will mild symptoms will be informed about the “Self or Home Quarantine protocol” and will be directed to undergo self isolation or home quarantine. Standard protocol of sampling, testing, quarantine will apply to those who are found symptomatic, the SOP stated. An adequate number of medical teams should be placed at the railway station, it added.“The Ministry of Railways will ensure that all the persons boarding the train will be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic persons will be allowed to board the train. At the railway station, maintenance of order and social distancing norms will be the responsibility of Indian Railways,” the guidelines read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-considers-providing-buses-for-rail-passengers-needing-public-transport/story-C8CYJ3uvLbKsXyOuxYI9NK.html
13-05-2020||India||Maharashtra seeks 20 companies of central police to relieve overworked cops||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday sought 20 companies of central armed police forces to maintain law and order during Eid and provide some relief to its own police force which is engaged in enforcing the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus.Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said the state’s police force has been working “day and night” to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state and need some relief.“The police have been working day and night in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Eid is coming up and law and order has to be maintained. The police should get some rest for that. Hence, we have requested the Centre to deploy 20 companies of the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF), that is 2,000 personnel,” Deshmukh said in a video message on Twitter.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Many Maharashtra police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19. There are 32 companies of the Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) already deployed in the state and are working with the Maharashtra police, PTI reported.Maharashtra has recorded almost 25,000 cases of Covid-19, the highest in the country. Mumbai alone has about 15,000 of the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-seeks-20-companies-of-central-police-to-relieve-overworked-cops/story-q4Y3QD6OXBwacTXugPxAPK.html
13-05-2020||India||Only swadeshi products in CAPF canteens from June 1 after PM Modi’s push||In line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s push for “local” and “atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India)”, home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday announced that canteens of the central paramilitary forces will only sell indigenous products starting June 1.Shah also appealed to the public to make maximum use of “swadeshi (locally made)” products and encourage others to do the same.Using the local products, Shah asserted, will also help make India self-reliant in five years.“This is not the time to sit back and watch but to turn the disaster (Covid-19 epidemic) into an opportunity. If all of us decide to use only local products, then India can be self- sufficient in five years,” Shah tweeted. कल माननीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी ने देश को आत्मनिर्भर बनाने और लोकल प्रोडक्ट्स (भारत में बने उत्पाद) उपयोग करने की एक अपील की जो निश्चित रूप से आने वाले समय में भारत को विश्व का नेतृत्व करने का मार्ग प्रशस्त करेगी। pic.twitter.com/KlYD9Z7UVtThe minister said that the PM’s appeal to make the country self-reliant and use local (indigenous) products will surely help chart the path for India to lead the world.In his fourth address to the nation on Tuesday since March 24, PM Modi said that local manufacturing has helped India during this crisis. “The crisis has taught us that local is going to help us. So, we should become vocal for local - not only buy local, but advertise it too,” said the PM.The local must become a mantra of our life, emphasised the PM.The Central Police Canteens (CPCs) of paramilitary forces, or Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), cater to close to 50 lakh family members of about 10 lakh personnel serving in CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force), BSF (Border Security Force), ITBP (Indo-Tibet Border Police), CISF (Central Industrial Security Force), SSB (Sashastra Seema Bal), NSG (National Security Guards) and Assam Rifles.There are over 119 master canteens and 1,625 subsidiary canteens at various locations where these forces are deployed, be it along borders or the interiors of Naxal violence-hit or insurgency affected states. These canteens were established in 2006 after a demand from personnel that armed forces already have such canteens for their families.Shah said that combined sales of all the CAPF canteens is worth Rs 2,800 crore annually. The CPCs are already selling locally made products to a large extent after a ministry of home affairs (MHA) order last year.The MHA had asked the CAPFs, in October 2019, to shun foreign brands and introduce ‘swadeshi’ goods, including food items, accoutrements for khaki, combat and regular duty uniform, bed sheets, towels, household goods, clothing and stationary and other items in their canteens and offices.Large number of items by these canteens is now being procured from Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC).However, no deadline was given at that time.Amit Shah’s announcement today that all CPCs will have only local products means they won’t be able to sell anything foreign made from June 1.S S Deswal, Director General of ITBP, who is also holding additional charge as chief of BSF, told HT: “Most of the items we use in our daily life are made in India and are procured from Indian companies, including uniforms, food, clothes and even weapons. In fact, during the Covid-19 pandemic, all the masks, sanitisers and equipment used for sanitization were manufactured by Indian companies. The canteens will be replenished with only local products from June 1.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-swadeshi-products-in-capf-canteens-from-june-1-after-pm-modi-s-push/story-5kD1xOI6ja4tyaaZCUL57K.html
13-05-2020||India||Kerala to hike liquor prices sharply amid Covid-19 lockdown||Kerala on Wednesday said it will increase the price of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) following several states, which have raised alcohol prices sharply to meet the mounting Covid-19 bills and subsequent slowdown in the economy.The state cabinet has decided to bring an ordinance to this effect. According to government sources, there will be a hike of 10% in taxes of beer and wine prices, bottles below 600ml will also have a 10% cess and all other categories will see a steep 35% rise in cess. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is likely to announce the decision later in the evening during his routine press briefing.Liquor outlets in the state are likely to be opened on May 18, after the third phase of the nationwide lockdown is scheduled to end. Similarly, it is also planning to allow bar hotels to sell liquor in retail quantity. The government has also decided to introduce virtual queues to avert a possible rush in outlets—customers will be allotted time once they place their order. This comes after many states had witnessed serpentine queues when outlets opened and at some places, police had to resort to baton charge to disperse the unruly crowd. In neighbouring Tamil Nadu, the high court had ordered the closure of wine shops and the peeved government had moved the Supreme Court.Kerala is a tipplers’ paradise and it comes second in the country after Punjab in terms of per capita liquor consumption. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Statistics show liquor remains one of the highest revenue earners of the state—on an average the government-owned Beverages Corporation sells liquor worth Rs 35 to 40 crore a day and in 2018-19 it sold bottles worth Rs 14,508 crore. Excise duty on liquor is between 300% and 500% in the state—a Rs 100 bottle of rum in the brewery will cost in the market Rs 400-500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-hike-liquor-prices-sharply-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-WApLam5eSCgpgn2plVhJGP.html
13-05-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi writes to Yogi Adityanath, gives 11 suggestions to deal with Covid-19 crisis in UP||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi wrote a letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath with 11 suggestions to deal with the coronavirus crisis.In her letter, she said that Uttar Pradesh government should not seek any interest on home loans, and demanded waiver of tubewell and power bills of farmers for four months.In her further focus on state’s farmers, Priyanka Gandhi said that they should be given guarantee that their entire produce will be bought. She also demanded full payment of all pending dues to farmers.The Congress general secretary also sought relief for small and medium industries in the state.Weavers and carpet makers were also mentioned in Priyanka Gandhi’s letter as she demanded financial relief and loan waiver for them.Congress leader Jitin Prasada said on Wednesday that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh has utterly failed in helping the people. “All power has been concentrated in the hands of the government, there is no voice through which you can reach the officials and people are helpless as to where to go,” the former Union minister had said.Prasad said that he has been telling Congress workers that the priority is that the lockdown has been on for two months now and as it is being eased it is important to strongly raise law and order issues and concerns of farmers like procurement of wheat.Congress president Sonia Gandhi has taken a “historic” decision on behalf of the party to pay for the rail ticket of migrant labourers and now it is the responsibility of all Congress workers to ensure that no one in need is left out, he said.Priyanka Gandhi had earlier alleged laxity in the procurement of wheat in Uttar Pradesh, saying that the farmers are forced to wait for three days to get their produce sold in the mandis. “In UP the procurement of wheat is not done in pace as the farmers have to queue up for 3 days to sell their produce. There is no one to hear their grievances. The government had been alerted much before, but it did not act,” she had tweeted on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-writes-to-yogi-adityanath-gives-11-suggestions-to-deal-with-covid-19-crisis-in-up/story-Q95XKdSMMW4nSbP1zd5DSL.html
13-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: 50 percent of surveyed households in rural India eating less||Half of over 5,000 households surveyed in rural areas of 12 states have been eating fewer meals during the coronavirus lockdown, according to a survey.The study, ‘Covid-19 induced Lockdown-How is Hinterland Coping’, was conducted in 47 districts.While 50 per cent of households in rural India have reduced the number of meals ever since the lockdown was imposed as part of immediate adjustment for food security, about 68 per cent of the households reduced the number of items in their meals. According to the study, 84 per cent of the households received food items through the public distribution system and 37 per cent received take home ration. About 24 per cent of the households borrowed foodgrain in villages and 12 per cent people received free food.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe findings of the study were released in a webinar on Wednesday.The study found that households have depended on kharif stock more than rabi, but that stock is now depleting fast.“Households are coping with the shock by eating less food and fewer times and with large dependence on PDS Need for increased food support through PDS and promotion for food crop cultivation in kharif,” the study said.It pointed out that the preparedness for kharif 2020 is low and there is a need for public support in terms of seed provision and credit.It further said that a large chunk of migrants are yet to return to rural India.“Lockdown and rumours have indeed adversely affected income - dairy and poultry. The coping mechanisms mostly clustered around change in food habits and reduction in expenditures,” the study said.The states where the survey was conducted were Assam, Bihar, Chattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. The survey was carried out by civil society organisations PRADAN, Action for Social Advancement, BAIF, Transform Rural India Foundation, Grameen Sahara, SAATHI-UP and the Aga Khan Rural Support Programme with research support of Vikas Anvesh Foundation and Sambodhi.Speaking at the webinar, Madhu Khetan, the programme director at PRADAN, said the survey was conducted in villages which were comparatively more accessible and the situation in remote villages might be worse. According to Girish Sohani, the president of BAIF, the survey also raises certain health aspects and there will be more such surveys to better assess the ground situation.The nationwide lockdown imposed from March 25 aims at preventing the spread of the novel coronavirus that has claimed 2,415 lives and infected 74,281 people in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-50-percent-of-surveyed-households-in-rural-india-eating-less/story-DZZOQFlWPq7k1AZ2Gu7f0M.html
13-05-2020||India||30,000 Indians to be evacuated from 31 nations in phase 2 of Vande Bharat Mission||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday that 30,000 Indians will return from 31 countries on 149 flights between May 16 and 22, the duration for the second phase of the Vande Bharat Mission. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here During the first phase of the Vande Bharat mission, Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express are scheduled to operate a total 64 flights between May 7 and May 14 to bring 14,800 Indians from 12 countries on a payment basis.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected more than 74,200 people and killed around 2,400 people in the country till now. All scheduled commercial passenger flights have been suspended for the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-000-indians-to-be-evacuated-from-31-nations-in-phase-2-of-vande-bharat-mission/story-8RQfOUmi5VNrtVKTD7IAmN.html
13-05-2020||India||PM Modi meets empowered group on Covid-19, lockdown||On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with chief ministers on how to kickstart the economy reeling under the Covid-19 crisis. A day later, on Tuesday, the PM addressed the nation, exhorting citizens to be “atmanirbhar”, or self- reliant, and announced an economic stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore. Today, on Wednesday, he is meeting secretaries of the empowered groups to discuss Covid-19 and the lockdown situation. The meeting is underway at the PM’s Lok Kalyan residence.The PM, in his address to the nation, pointed out that experts have warned that coronavirus will remain a part of our lives for a long time, but stressed the need to move forward. “We cannot allow this to happen that our lives will be confined only around the corona. We would wear masks, follow two yards distance and pursue our goals,” he stressed.PM Modi said the world has never seen or heard such a crisis and underlined that “we have to save ourselves and move ahead”.Undaunted by the challenge, the PM highlighted how the present crisis is an opportunity. “When the Corona crisis started, there was not a single PPE kit made in India. The N-95 masks were produced in small quantity in India. Today we are in a situation to produce 2 lakh PPE and 2 lakh N-95 masks daily. We were able to do this because India turned this crisis into an opportunity,” said the PM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meeets-empowered-group-on-covid-19-lockdown/story-3hCLWzHCM3zBZlY9BtQxzN.html
13-05-2020||India||In push to ‘Make in India’ cause, Amit Shah says all CAPF canteens to sell indigenous products||Union Home Affairs Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said that all Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) canteens will now sell only indigenous products. “This will be applicable to all CAPF canteens across the country from 01 June 2020,” Shah said in a tweet.The move will lead to 50 lakh families, of about 10 lakh CAPF personnel, using indigenous products, Shah said. The home minister’s announcement came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation, urged citizens to make the country self-reliant and use locally-made products. Also read: Rs 20 lakh crore package: What to expect from Nirmala Sitharaman’s briefingइसी दिशा में आज गृह मंत्रालय ने यह निर्णय लिया है कि सभी केंद्रीय सशस्त्र पुलिस बलों (CAPF) की कैंटीनों पर अब सिर्फ स्वदेशी उत्पादों की ही बिक्री होगी। 01 जून 2020 से देशभर की सभी CAPF कैंटीनों पर यह लागू होगा। इससे लगभग 10 लाख CAPF कर्मियों के 50 लाख परिजन स्वदेशी उपयोग करेंगे।Shah also urged the people to follow PM Modi’s appeal and make maximum use of the products made in the country.मैं देश की जनता से भी अपील करता हूं कि आप देश में बने उत्पादों को अधिक से अधिक उपयोग में लायें व अन्य लोगों को भी इसके प्रति प्रोत्साहित करें। हर भारतीय अगर भारत में बने उत्पादों (स्वदेशी) का उपयोग करने का संकल्प ले तो पांच वर्षों में देश का लोकतंत्र आत्मनिर्भर बन सकता है।“Encourage others to do the same. If every Indian takes a pledge to use products made in India (Swadeshi), the democracy of the country can become self-sufficient in five years,” Shah tweeted.In his address on Tuesday, PM Modi laid great emphasis on the significance of indigenous products. He said in times of crisis, the local produce has fulfilled our demand and has saved us.The way ahead lies in LOCAL.Local Manufacturing. Local Markets. Local Supply Chain.Local is not merely a need but a responsibility. Be vocal about local! #AatmanirbharBharat pic.twitter.com/eYqt5IDtBp“Time has taught us that we must make the local as a mantra of our life. Therefore, from today every Indian has to become vocal for their local, not only to buy local products but also to promote them proudly. I am confident that our country can do this,” PM Modi said in his address during which he also announced Rs 20 lakh crore economic package for the country to battle the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-push-to-make-in-india-cause-amit-shah-says-all-capf-canteens-to-sell-indigenous-products/story-URiBJq09p7SVDZbcStoy7L.html
13-05-2020||India||‘Repackaged version of Make in India’: Shashi Tharoor on PM Modi’s Self-reliant India Mission||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday took a jibe at the Rs 20 lakh Crore economic package and “Self-reliant India Mission” announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as being nothing new but a repackaged version of “Make in India” initiative.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHe tweeted a Hindi couplet to express his views on the subject.The couplet roughly translates to: “He sold the old couplet/lion with a new name; He sold piles of dreams again.”  नए नाम से वही पुराना शेर बेच गएसपनों के वो फिर से ढ़ेरों ढ़ेर बेच गए...#MakeInIndia is now आत्मनिर्भर भारत, कुछ और भी नया था क्या? pic.twitter.com/2yQhaaJyNFThe Prime Minister had on Tuesday announced a Rs 20 lakh crore special economic package for the country to become “self-reliant” and deal with Covid-19 crisis.The Prime Minister had also announced that the fourth phase of lockdown will be completely redesigned with new rules and will commence from May 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repackaged-version-of-make-in-india-shashi-tharoor-on-pm-modi-s-self-reliant-india-mission/story-bXuKzr5rG9XRcEnbaQpNRJ.html
13-05-2020||India||In Hizbul’s Kashmir terror team, ‘military adviser’ is most brutal: Cop||Hizbul Mujahideen boss Syed Salahuddin’s move to name three terrorists from across the Line of Control to lead the terror group in Kashmir has prompted security agencies to reset the search for the outfit’s new leadership in the valley.Riyaz Naikoo, Salahuddin’s prime point person in Kashmir till last week, was killed in a joint operation of Kashmir police and Rashtriya Rifles that traced the 32-year-old to a secret bunker in a Pulwama village, not far from the house where he lived before picking up the gun.Salahuddin picked Ghazi Haider aka Saifullah Mir as the Hizbul’s so-called chief commander in Kashmir.Zafarul Islam, believed to be the nom de guerre for 55-year-old Ashraf Maulvi would be Ghazi Haider’s deputy and Abu Tariq Bhai, his so-called chief military adviser.Of the three, a top official in Jammu and Kashmir said, Abu Tariq Bhai has been the most brutal in the choice of his killings and its execution.“We believe Abu Tariq Bhai is a Hizbul terrorist we have known as Zubair Wani from Anantnag,” a senior police officer said.All three, like most of the Hizbul leadership, have been active in south Kashmir districts of Anantnag, Pulwama and Shopian.Police officers in Kashmir said they had started a fresh search for these terrorists but stressed that they expected the fresh recruitments to slow down for some time due to Naikoo’s elimination. “It was a huge setback for the Hizbul,” one senior officer said.In a widely-circulated video that emerged after Naikoo’s death, Salahuddin described Naikoo’s death as a “shock for all of us” but noted that these sacrifices had been going on in Kashmir for long. Since January this year, he said 80 fighters, or terrorists, had given up their lives for the cause of Kashmir.The burly, bearded Salahuddin, once an Islamic preacher who wanted to join politics, had crossed over into Pakistan-occupied Kashmir more than three decades ago after the 1987 rigged elections. It is here that he founded the Hizbul Mujahideen, the terror group funded by Pakistan’s deep state. Unlike other terror groups such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Hizbul has mostly been powered by local recruits. Fueling discontentment has been a key part of the strategy.Salahuddin’s family insulated from terrorBut he has insulated his family from terror activities.“How he has been able to do this is really remarkable... Unless his family knows him better,” a senior police officer said.Three of his five sons hold jobs in the state government or its bodies. The fourth son is a doctor who practises in Srinagar and the youngest has an engineering degree and runs a skill development institute in Kashmir.Of the other three, one is a medical assistant at the Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, the second is a computer operator in the Budgam education office and the third, Syed Yousuf, worked at the agriculture department.Syed Yousuf did get into trouble after the National Investigation Agency revived a 2011 case against him in 2017 for receiving tainted money from his father through hawala channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-hizbul-s-kashmir-terror-team-military-adviser-is-most-brutal-cop/story-9Usedih8IvHyvs3JUzu1sM.html
13-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 cases in Delhi near 8,000-mark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: 359 new cases, 20 deaths in Delhi; number reaches almost 8,000National capital Delhi is two short of 8,000 Covid-19 positive cases. The state’s health minister Satyendar Jain said that Delhi received 359 new cases till midnight on Tuesday. Read moreNitish Kumar directs ramping Covid-19 testing as migrants inflow increases in BiharBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday evening directed the top brass of the state administration to increase testing in view of the growing number of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19 ) cases and a steady inflow of migrants. Read moreMaharashtra: Confirmed Covid-19 cases set to cross 25,000; Mumbai to breach 15,000 markMaharashtra and Mumbai are likely to breach the 25,000 and 15,000 marks for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases, respectively, on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the state recorded 1,026 new Covid-19 positive cases, as the overall tally rose to 24,427. Read moreThree more cured patients donate plasma at KGMUThree more cured patients of corona virus donated plasma for treatment of other patients at the King George’s Medical University. The plasma therapy aims to treat Covid-19 patients by using immunity developed by treated patients. Read moreMike Pompeo in Israel for West Bank annexation talks amid Covid-19 lockdownUS Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was in Israel on Wednesday for meetings with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his new governing partner for talks that were expected to address Israel’s plans to annex parts of the West Bank. Read moreIllegal review: Neha Sharma, Kubbra Sait deliver their best performances in new-age legal dramaIf you have only known Indian courts through the camera’s lens, then you are familiar with the blindfolded Lady Justice with scales in her hand and the tried-and-tested ‘Gita pe haath rakh kar shapath le’. Read moreSocial distancing comes with a psychological fallout; adversely affects mental healthThe coronavirus outbreak has led authorities around the world to take stringent measures proposed by the World Health Organization (WHO), such as social distancing. Read moreSnake found in ATM, netizens are wondering if it just came for a hiss-ab. WatchSnakes popping out from some totally unsuspecting places are nothing new to the Internet. Adding to that collection, a snake slithering inside an ATM is something that is here to give you fresh nightmares. Read moreWatch: India’s factory output shrank by 16.7% in Mar and Wuhan to test entire population||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-near-8-000-mark-and-all-the-latest-news/story-GniSZSOAydUVCIIwz6GW7K.html
13-05-2020||India||‘Deforestation, exploitation of wildlife leads to pandemics like Covid-19’: Epidemiologist||New research has confirmed that Sars-Cov-2 is very closely genetically related to coronaviruses from bat populations, and specifically rhinolophus bats, and pangolins may have been intermediate hosts in transmission to humans. Such pandemics will become more likely and spill-over risks of dangerous viruses are increasing even as Covid-19 outbreak is bringing the world to a grinding halt.Dr Pranav Pandit, a veterinary epidemiologist at One Health Institute, University of California Davis, said there is scientific evidence linking deforestation, rapid urbanisation, climate change with pandemics like Covid-19, which offer clues to how pandemics can be prevented.Excerpts from an email interview:Q. Is there scientific evidence about the natural origin of Sars-Cov-2?A. Epidemiologically speaking, the latest evidence including a paper in Nature published on May 7 points towards a hypothesis that bats could harbour the phylogenetic ancestor virus of Sars-Cov-2. The most likely candidate is “bat coronavirus RaTG13” and Malayan Pangolins could be intermediate hosts. The earlier relationship of Sars-Cov-2 with “bat coronavirus RaTG13” was raised by the analysis conducted by other papers also.Q. An estimated 60% of emerging human pathogens are zoonotic. Why has the threat of zoonotic diseases increased?A. There is surely an increase in emerging viruses from animals. Just over the last five years, the world has seen great outbreaks of emerging zoonotic viruses including the Zika virus, Ebola virus, and now Sars-Cov-2. Overall, this is attributed to anthropogenic pressures that we exert on environmental systems, including cOur recent study shows that exploitation wildlife populations and degradation of habitats are one of the important ecological divers behind the emergence of viruses from wildlife to humans. https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rspb.2019.2736These rapid anthropogenic changes are animal-human interfaces where humans frequently get in contact with wild animals allowing viruses to evolve and jump into humans leading to the emergence of a new virus. Some of our earlier work has similar interpretations for a group of emerging viruses called flaviviruses (zika virus, yellow fever virus, dengue virus). https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-018-07896-2Q. Did scientists see a pandemic of this scale coming?A. Because the world is more interconnected than ever through travel and trade, it is likely that we will see pandemics at an increasing rate. We hope we can shift thinking from pandemic response to pandemic prevention. Disease emergence that occurs anywhere can affect us all and we need to all understand the impact we are having when we interact with wildlife, realise that disease emergence is an environmental issue, and find more sustainable ways to co-exist.Q. What is the link between deforestation and zoonoses?A. We alter the landscape through deforestation, conversion of land for growing crops or raising livestock, or building up communities, and this, in turn, alters the natural distribution of wildlife and increases the frequency and intensity of contact between humans and wildlife – creating the perfect conditions for virus spillover. Wildlife also shift their distributions to accommodate anthropogenic activities and modification of the natural landscape. This has hastened disease emergence from wildlife, which puts us at risk of pandemics because we are all globally connected through travel and trade.Q. Could certain indigenous hunting communities have antibodies to these viruses?A. Certainly, antibodies against some zoonotic viruses have been detected in certain tribal communities without any known detected outbreak of disease. This only means that those communities have been only exposed to those or similar viruses since many times serological response and tests are not very specific to a single virus. An example of a study in India is the following https://journals.plos.org/plosntds/article?id=10.1371/journal.pntd.0007733. Studies like these show human-animal interactions lead to exposure of animal viruses to humans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deforestation-exploitation-of-wildlife-leads-to-pandemics-like-covid-19-epidemiologist/story-QNnOsXd2sqR3QOQ6UqxVFI.html
13-05-2020||India||India’s job losses at historic peak, as economy awaits resuscitation||India’s unemployment rate has quickened to historic highs despite a fleeting sign of recovery, costing well over 114 million jobs, mostly of small traders and daily wagers, data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) shows.The country’s unemployment rate touched 27.1 per cent in the week ended May 3 - the highest ever - indicating a bloodbath in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown.Not surprisingly, India’s factory output, a key measure of economic activity, shrunk by 16.7 per cent, data from the Central Statistics Office showed on May 12, signalling that a widespread shutdown had bit the economy hard.The lockdown imposed on March 24 has shuttered shops, factories and services, such as tourism, eateries and public transport, devastating jobs. Millions of displaced migrant labourers continue to flee major cities for their home states, as they fight a survival battle.Mounting unemployment will pile more pressure to ease pandemic restrictions, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying on May 12 that new lockdown rules would be announced on May 18.“It (unemployment rate) seems to have risen because of a surge in the labour participation rate from 35.4% in the week of April 21 to 36.2% in the week ended May 3,” said the CMIE’s Mahesh Vyas. In any job survey, people with jobs are categorised as employed. People without jobs but looking for work are considered unemployed. However, the labour force participation rate is simply equal to people who are employed plus people who are not employed.In a rough-and-ready sense, the unemployment rate is then simply the number of unemployed divided by the total labour force times 100.According to Vyas, the spike in the unemployment rate indicates that “this surge in job seekers was highly disappointed. They could not find jobs. Their addition to the labour force merely raised the unemployment rate”.Manufacturing output shrank 20.6 per cent, electricity production dropped 6.8 per cent and mining remained flat, according to the official data released on May 12. The figures are likely to be revised as the lockdown has impacted data flow, the statistics ministry said. In the week ended April 26, the country’s unemployment rate was 21.1 per cent, substantially lower than the 26.2 per cent rate recorded in the preceding week, according to the CMIE’s data. The latest weekly unemployment rate, which showed an improvement, is more because of a technical reason: a fall in the labour participation rate.Previously, the country’s unemployment rate stood at 6.1 per cent for July 2017-June 2018, according to the last periodic labour force survey (PLFS), the only official survey, released in June 2019 showed. This rate then was at a 45-year high.“It is not surprising that small traders and wage labourers account for most of these losses. They have been the most severely hit during the lockdown,” a CMIE report said. Employment in fact has been rolling steeply downhill. “I have no work, no savings and no money,” a Big Bazaar floor staffer requesting anonymity said, adding he had not got his salary for last month. The Consumer Pyramids Household Survey, a proprietary tool of CMIE, estimates that employment fell by a massive 114 million in April, 2020. In March 2020, employment had already dropped to 396 million. This was the lowest employment since we started measuring it over four years ago. Even this low level dropped dramatically by 29 per cent to 282 million in April this year.When the economy hobbles, analysts say vulnerable jobs without safety nets take the first hit. Unemployment then spreads to more secure sectors. “The picture for April would be worse with virtual nil growth in most sectors which will mean a very large dip in growth rate in manufacturing. Only some segments like food and pharma could show positive growth,” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/historic-high-122-million-people-lost-jobs-in-india-in-april-due-to-covid-19/story-ys47k90I4km6qYxA9wiWpI.html
13-05-2020||India||Over 14,500 cases in Mumbai, nearly 5,000 in Chennai: List of top Covid-19-hit cities||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 74,000-mark on Wednesday with 74,281 cases. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 47,480 active coronavirus cases in the country, 24,385 patients have been cured or discharged while 2,415 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra are inching towards the 25,000-mark while Gujarat, the second worst-affected state has close to 9,000 Covid-19 cases. Delhi comes fourth with 7,639 Covid-19 cases. Here’s taking a look at top Covid-19 cities in the country:MumbaiThe financial capital of the country remains the worst affected city in the country. 14,947 of Maharashtra’s 24,427 coronavirus cases come from Mumbai. The city has reported 556 deaths while 2,513 patients have been cured or discharged. DelhiCovid-19 cases in the national capital are rapidly inching toward the 7,500-mark. As many as 7233 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Seventy-three people have died from the infection while 2129 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.   Also read: Covid-19: 359 new cases, 20 deaths in Delhi; number reaches almost 8,000AhmedabadGujarat’s biggest city reported 21 fresh Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday, taking the death toll due to the pandemic in the district to 421. The number of coronavirus cases rose to 6,353 in Ahmedabad. Gujarat has 8,541 Covid-19 cases, second-highest in the country.  ChennaiThe city has reported nearly 5,000 coronavirus cases so far. According to the state health portal’s Covid-19 dashboard, there are around 4,882 coronavirus cases in Chennai. Tamil Nadu now has third-highest Covid-19 cases with 8,718 people infected from the deadly contagion.PuneAnother city in Maharashtra which is badly affected by coronavirus. The city is classified under ‘red’ zone in the state and accounts for nearly 3,000 coronavirus cases in the state. 164 people have died from the infection in the city while 1,163 people have been discharged. Indore The number of coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh’s worst-hit district has climbed to 2,016. Of the total number of deaths due to the pandemic in the state (225), Indore alone has reported 92 fatalities so far. It is the worst-affected district in the state and one of the coronavirus hotspots in the country.ThaneThe city is the third worst-hit in Maharashtra and has reported 2,814 coronavirus cases so far. As many as 25 people have died from Covid-19 in Thane while 578 people have been cured or discharged. JaipurThe pink city accounts for the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan (1313). The state has reported 4,126 coronavirus cases so far, 117 people have died from the virus while 2,378 patients have recovered. SuratAnother city in Gujarat which is struggling with the rising number of coronavirus cases is Surat. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Surat rose to 927 on Tuesday. There are 8,903 positive cases of coronavirus in the Gujarat. 537 people have lost their lives in the state while 3,246 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals. AgraCoronavirus infections rise unabated in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra. Till May 11, the district had reported over 770 coronavirus cases. The number of coronavirus cases in the state rose to 3664 on Wednesday. 1873 people have been cured or discharged from hospitals while 82 have died in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-list-of-top-covid-19-affected-cities-in-india/story-yCZwjOOEsvTuRiGz9SPNqM.html
13-05-2020||India||Nitish Kumar directs ramping Covid-19 testing as migrants inflow increases in Bihar||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday evening directed the top brass of the state administration to increase testing in view of the growing number of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19 ) cases and a steady inflow of migrants. The number of Covid-19 cases has reached 879, from just 66 on April 14, in the state. Kumar said during a review meeting that random testing in the state would not be enough now and the testing capacity must be increased to 10,000 per day amid the arrival of migrant workers, which would grow further in the coming days, said a statement issued by the Bihar government late on Tuesday evening.He directed officials to take necessary steps to ramp up testing. Demanding more kits and equipment from the Centre, Kumar had also said at the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday the state would like to ensure 10,000 tests per day from just 1,800 tests per day at present to check the spread of Covid-19.Apart from Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) machine and its testing kits, automatic RNA extraction, Bihar has also demanded 100 ventilators.The chief minister on Tuesday said all the migrants who want to come should be brought to the state over the next seven days.“The officials should coordinate with other states to bring them back. From nearby states, buses could also be used and arrangements should be made,” he added.A senior official said the chief minister wanted a regulated inflow of migrants so that they could be properly screened and quarantined to prevent the spread of infection, as the bulk of the positive cases in the last one week have turned out to be migrants in the last few days. “The problem with Bihar is not the inflow of migrants. Migrants are always welcome home. The problem is that many of them are coming from high-risk red zones in worst-affected states like Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi,” a state minister said, adding the Centre needs to put the focus on the state’s concerns before it gets too late.“This is multiplying the virus load on Bihar. By the time positive cases are detected, they have already spread it to new areas,” the minister cited above said.Sanjay Kumar, the principal secretary of the department of health, tweeted late on Tuesday that 15 TrueNat machines would be installed at 13 district hospitals in the state, while 25 more were in pipeline, on the direction of the CM and health minister.“This will help us to decentralise and speed up testing,” he added.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had on April 10 validated the usage of TrueNat, a diagnostic machine for testing test drug-resistant tuberculosis, for Covid-19 tests.On its part, Bihar has been treading cautiously in view of the formidable challenge it might have to face. None of the Bihar districts is in the green zone since the very beginning of the third phase of lockdown. There are quarantine centres in every block and panchayats of the state, a decision the government took in the view of the migrants’ inflow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-directs-ramping-covid-19-testing-as-migrants-inflow-increases-in-bihar/story-87XChf8xylhC1OYU0mxa2L.html
13-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 package almost equal to Pakistan’s GDP||The economic package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi while addressing the nation on Tuesday to help small businesses tide over the coronavirus crisis, is almost equal to Pakistan’s gross domestic product (GDP).The size of India’s financial package is US $266 billion, or 10 per cent of its gross domestic product (GDP). After the coronavirus crisis, Pakistan’s GDP has taken a hit and its size is estimated to be $284 billion, according to World Bank.In fact, India’s economic relief package for Covid-19 is bigger than Vietnam, Portugal, Greece, New Zealand and Romania.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has hailed the announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying the Rs 20 lakh crore package “is the biggest package India has ever seen”.Thanking PM Modi for announcing the economic relief package, BJP president JP Nadda said that this is around 10 per cent of the GDP and the prime minister’s proactive approach will build a self-reliant India.Japan’s fiscal support stands at more than 20 per cent of GDP, while Singapore, Hong Kong and Australia have each rolled out spending amounting to 10 per cent or more of GDP, according to Bloomberg.While addressing the nation on Tuesday, PM Modi also said that the next stage of the lockdown, which is due to be lifted on May 18 after being extended twice, “will be different in many ways”.“It will be based on suggestions received from states,” he said, adding that an announcement would also be made in coming days.“Corona will be part of lives for a long time. But we cannot allow that our lives will just revolve around the corona crisis.”Apart from some relaxations for industry and agriculture last month, offices this week were allowed to operate with one-third capacity while the country’s massive rail network re-started Tuesday with limited services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-package-almost-equal-to-pakistan-s-gdp/story-aWr9HDBUkwfJK9Gi0mYcnK.html
13-05-2020||India||Quarantine facilities in villages will be Rajasthan’s top agenda: CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has said quarantine facilities in the state’s villages will be the government’s top agenda to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Rajasthan recorded 87 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative tally to 4213. Till 9am, of the 87 cases reported, maximum 32 were from Jaipur, followed by Pali with 24, Udaipur 12, Rajsamand 7, Sawai Madhopur 5, Kota 3 and one each from Banswara, Bharatpur, Nagaur and Tonk.The state currently has 1,641 active cases and 2,159 patients have been discharged.Ashok Gehlot said on Tuesday lakhs of people are returning to Rajasthan from other states and preventing the spread of the infection in villages is an upcoming challenge.The chief minister said elected representatives, especially legislators, along with district administrations will play a big role in the task. They should take this as a challenge and fulfil the responsibility of keeping the state safe, he said.Gehlot made the comments during a discussion with the members of Parliament and MLAs of Jaipur and Ajmer divisions through video conferencing.During the discussions, the public representatives made suggestions related to the allocation of additional wheat, drinking water problems, the opening of all shops, quick and smooth movement of labourers, starting employment scheme in urban areas on the lines of MNREGA.“We together will definitely be successful in defeating this virus in the state. The state government has not discriminated against Covid-19. There is no discrimination in providing facilities such as ration distribution, treatment, and strictness in implementing curfew and quarantine,” Gehlot said.He said there are more than 185,000 tests have been conducted in the state. There are 2,213 tests being done in Rajasthan per 10 lakh population, which is higher than other states. He added that by the end of May, the test capacity will be increased to 25,000 per day.“We will have to intensify economic activities in the state only then we will be able to successfully combat these conditions. The state will easily provide job cards in MNREGA to the workers coming from outside,” deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said.Pilot suggested forming a joint committee of public representatives and administration up to the district and tehsil level to improve the quarantine system. He said that efforts should be made to promote self-help groups and provide financial support to strengthen the rural economy.State assembly Speaker Dr CP Joshi said the chief minister has established a good tradition by taking all the parties together to combat such a global epidemic.“Our effort should be to make the people’s representatives a partner in this fight till the panchayat level. We have to learn to live with Corona and for this, everyone including legislators will have to change their working system,” Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quarantine-facilities-in-villages-will-be-rajasthan-s-top-agenda-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-Se3QBeaCYkOXNgKConEJpL.html
13-05-2020||India||PMC Bank fraud: HC rejects bail plea of bank director Jasvinder Singh Banwait||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday rejected the plea filed by Jasvinder Singh Banwait, one of the directors of fraud-hit Punjab & Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank, seeking bail on medical grounds due to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Justice Sadhana Jadhav rejected the bail plea in light of a report submitted by the chief medical officer at Taloja Central Jail, where Banwait, a diabetic, is lodged since March 12.Though Banwait had complained of bronchial asthma when he was brought to the prison, he is on medication and his health condition is stable, the report said.Justice Jadhav directed the jail authorities to ensure that medicines and diet are provided to the prisoner on time.On September 30, 2019, Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) had registered an offence in connection with the fraud at the PMC Bank, accusing many of its directors of illegally extending huge loans to realty firm Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) and its group companies.A preliminary probe by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) found that PMC Bank had replaced suspicious 44 loan accounts with 20,149 fictitious bank accounts, whose individual balances were low. According to the EOW, the 44 accounts, involving advances to the tune of Rs 7,457.49 crore, were masked by tampering bank software, which left them virtually hidden from the core banking solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmc-bank-fraud-hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-bank-director-jasvinder-singh-banwait/story-3V2IYua30XVII066xXTEMP.html
13-05-2020||India||Police under great stress, allot non-policing duties to other govt employees: Bombay HC to State||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday took note that the “police machinery is under great stress and strain” and directed the Maharashtra government to relieve the personnel, who are engaged in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) duties, with other “off-duty public servants”. Justice Ravindra Ghuge suggested that if stranded people wish to return to their native places amid the easing of lockdown restrictions, then off-duty employees of the revenue department, who are below 50 years, could be pressed into service to facilitate their movement. The move would lessen the burden on the overworked state police personnel, the court observed.“Police personnel are deployed everywhere. They’re even asked to handle applications for travel passes,” said Justice Ghuge while hearing a suo motu (on its own motion) petition concerning several unconnected issues regarding the pandemic.The court also directed the state government to ensure adequate safeguards for those who are at the frontline battling the viral outbreak such as doctors and paramedical staff.It took note of the threats faced by a staff nurse, who works at Aurangabad district general hospital, and her family members and directed the authorities concerned to file complaints against the accused.The locals had threatened to assault the husband and son of the staff nurse if they did not leave the neighbourhood, as they were suspected of spreading SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. The family’s car was also damaged.The threats stopped after the local police administration intervened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-under-great-stress-allot-non-policing-duties-to-other-govt-employees-bombay-hc-to-state/story-rbkavam2muGS16ialYjzjP.html
13-05-2020||India||101 fresh Covid-19 cases in Odisha, state tally reaches 538||As many as 101 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Odisha, taking the coronavirus count in the state to 538 on Wednesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThis is the highest number of cases confirmed in a single day in the state.According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Odisha government, this includes 419 active cases, while 116 patients have been cured and discharged so far.Three deaths have been reported due to the infection so far from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/101-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-odisha-state-tally-reaches-538/story-d4m8i1R1PdmIFdmNdbzFvM.html
13-05-2020||India||Agra, Meerut, Kanpur under strict observation as Covid-19 cases rise in UP||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday asked officials to further tighten the lockdown rules in Agra, Meerut and Kanpur which have seen spurt in number of Covid-19 cases.Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported that Adityanath held a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation on Tuesday where he asked stringent measures to be adopted in these cities.He asked surveillance committees to be constituted in every village panchayat and ward level in urban areas to effectively monitor the spread of the disease in these cities, Hindustan reported.Adityanath said that these committees should inform the administration of anyone trying to enter areas around these cities clandestinely. Panchayat heads, ASHA workers and members of Nehru Yuva Kendra should be the members of these committees, said Adityanath according to Hindustan.Two more people died of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday as the number of people testing positive for the infection rose to 3,664 due to 91 fresh cases.According to a release by the state health department, one death each was reported from Hapur and Meerut. The maximum 24 deaths have been reported from Agra, followed by 14 in Meerut, seven Moradabad, six in Kanpur, four each in Firozabad and Mathura, three in Aligarh, two each in Ghaziabad, Jhansi and Gautam Buddh Nagar and one each in Hapur, Lalitpur, Allahabad, Etah, Mainpuri, Bijnore, Kanpur Dehat, Amroha, Bareilly, Basti, Bulandshahr, Lucknow, Varanasi and Shravasti.The release also said that 3,664 cases have been reported so far from 74 districts. The number of active cases in the state now is 1,709 while 1,873 people have recovered from the disease, it added.Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said 48.7 per cent of the patients were between 20 and 40 years of age. Around 25.5 per cent of them belong to the age group of 40-60 years while 8.1 per cent of them are above 60 years, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agra-meerut-kanpur-under-strict-observation-as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-up/story-YpT4r4lcyU9xd2p5rYyaMM.html
13-05-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Gujarat nears 9,000 cases, West Bengal crosses 2,000-mark||The number of coronavirus cases in the country breached the 74,000-mark on Wednesday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 74,281. There are 47,480 active coronavirus cases in the country, 24,385 patients have been cured or discharged while 2,415 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have breached the 24,000-mark while Gujarat, the second worst-affected state nears the 9,000 mark.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraWith 24427 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 921 deaths so far while 5125 patients have recovered.GujaratThe state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 8903. While 537 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 3246 recoveries so far.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 8718 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 2134 recoveries and 61 Covid-19 deaths.DelhiAs many as 7639 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Eighty-six people have died from the infection while 2512 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Also read: In 50 days of lockdown, Covid-19 cases in Delhi increases 254 timesRajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 4126 on Wednesday. The state has reported 117 fatalities, and 2378 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 3986 positive cases of coronavirus. Two hundred and twenty five people have died from Covid-19 here while 1860 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 3664 in Uttar Pradesh. While 1873 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 82 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 2090 positive Covid-19 patients and 1056 cases of recovery. Forty six people have died.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 2173 on Wednesday. There have been 198 deaths and 612 recoveries in the state.TelanganaThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 1326 in state so far. Eight hundred and thirty people have made a recovery from the virus while 32 people have died from Covid-19.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 934. 10 people have died from the infection while 455 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 925 Covid-19 cases and 31 deaths. As many as 433 people have been cured and discharged.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 780 and 1914 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 32 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen 10 deaths. Three hundred and forty two people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 171 in Punjab.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 524 coronavirus cases on Wednesday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 489 people have successfully recovered.In Bihar, 831 people have tested positive for coronavirus, six people have died while 383 patients have recovered. Odisha has 437 Covid-19 positive patients, 116 have recovered while three people have died. Jharkhand has 172 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 79 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 69 coronavirus patients, 46 patients have recovered from the infection, one patient has died. Himachal Pradesh has 65 cases, two patients have died and 39 have recovered. Assam has reported 65 Covid-19 cases, two people have died while 39 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 59 cases of coronavirus and 54 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 187 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 28 have recovered, three people have died. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, all patients have recovered.Ladakh has 42 patients, 21 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported 13 cases, 9 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 13 cases and one death, 10 patients have recovered. One patient has died. Manipur had two coronavirus cases, and those have recovered. Tripura, meanwhile, has 154 cases, two patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Dadar Nagar Havel, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. All patients in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-gujarat-nears-9-000-cases-west-bengal-crosses-2-000-mark/story-yg8gSmpal2hd9cXwT6iV6K.html
13-05-2020||India||Children among biggest victims of Covid-19 lockdown with multiple side-effects: CRY report||A survey done among parents has reported more agitation, increased screen-exposure and changed eating pattern among children during the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The survey conducted by Child Rights and You (CRY), a non-government organisation working for the children, also reported increased bond between children and their parents as they were able to spend more time together in doing the household chores and watching television.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here During the survey, Rapid Online Perception Study about the Effects of Covid-19 on Children, 1,102 respondents from 23 states and Union territories were interview. It was released on Tuesday. “Even though children have not been the face of this pandemic as they have largely been spared of the direct health effects of Covid-19 so far, findings of the study indicate that they have been among its biggest victims with multiple side-effects on their physical and psycho-social well-being,” Puja Marwaha, the chief executive officer of CRY, said.“More than half of the parents reported that their child became more agitated and anxious during the lockdown,” said the report, adding, “37 percent of respondents reported that the child’s mental well-being and happiness were affected due to lockdown.”Besides, 88% respondents said their children’s exposure to screens increased during the lockdown, with 45% reporting the increase “to a great extent” and only 43% of the parents/ primary caregivers said they always supervised when the child was online.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage About 41% of the total respondents said their children’s eating pattern changed to some extent and 35% said they changed to a great extent. Only around half (51%) of the parents, who had children below five years of age in the household, were able to access immunisation services during the lockdown, the report said.Out of the 1,102 respondents in CRY’s survey, 1,002 reported to have children in their family and 670 reported (67%) to have children in the category of 5-18 years ie in the school-going age.The study found that around 54% of parents reported that they sat and discussed the situation over Covid-19 and lockdown at length with the child, whereas around 47% tried to divert the mind of the child by engaging them in other activities.Also read: India crosses Canada’s Covid-19 tally, becomes 12th worst-affected countryThe study was conducted virtually, with a self-administered questionnaire with around 30 simple questions used. This questionnaire was available for response in five languages – English, Hindi, Bangla, Kannada, and Marathi. The data collection period began two weeks after the nationwide lockdown was announced.However, since access to the internet or internet-enabled mobile devices, and internet literacy were prerequisites for the study, the report said that “possibly the participation from most marginalised and vulnerable sector of the society was limited.”Also read: Army man who tested positive for Covid-19 commits suicide at Base HospitalAnanya Chatterjee Chakraborty, the chairperson of West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said the survey reports came on expected line.“We too were anticipating a similar impact on children and launched a helpline for children and their parents about a month ago. The calls the helpline is receiving reflected similar trends. Those attending the calls are counselling the children and their parents,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/children-among-biggest-victims-of-covid-19-lockdown-with-multiple-side-effects-cry-report/story-6seNNglhflnQt6IAVV036K.html
13-05-2020||India||Podcast: Journalist Sopan Deb on meeting the immigrant parents who raised him||This week on the show, Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) is joined by New York Times journalist Sopan Deb--author of the brand-new memoir, Missed Translations: Meeting the Immigrant Parents Who Raised Me.  Whether it’s Hasan Minhaj’s comedy--OR the spectacle of the “Howdy, Modi” rally in Houston--OR Aarti Shahani’s heartbreaking memoir--listeners of this show know that getting inside the Indian immigrant experience is one of Grand Tamasha’s obsessions.On the surface, Sopan is a successful journalist, comedian, and cultural commentator. But in his new book, he explores a side of his life that existed well below the surface--his estrangement from his parents, the alienation he felt as an immigrant kid in a mostly white New Jersey suburb, and the heartbreak he endured watching his family life not so much fall apart as melt away.Milan and Sopan discuss his toxic family life, his Indian-American coming-of-age story, and his life-changing journey to meet the parents who raised him.YOU’RE INVITED: Join Milan, Tanvi, and Sadanand for a special LIVE episode of Grand Tamasha on Tuesday, May 19, at 11am EST / 8:30pm IST. Tune in as they break down the week’s news - and join the live chat to ask questions! Add it to your calendar, and join the live show here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/podcast-journalist-sopan-deb-on-meeting-the-immigrant-parents-who-raised-him/story-hCKKfkxDUMqLlsoguqx17I.html
13-05-2020||India||With 3,525 new Covid-19 cases, India’s tally breaches 74,000-mark||India reported more than 3,500 cases of the coronavirus cases (Covid-19 ) in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s tally of infections to 74,281, according to the Union health ministry said on Wednesday.The health ministry’s dashboard showed there were 47,480 Covid-19 patients in the country and 2,415 fatalities on Wednesday morning, the 50th day of the country-wide lockdown.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIt also said that 24,385 people have recovered from the deadly disease across the country pushing the recovery rate to 32.82%. On Tuesday, the number of cured people was 22,454.More than 4.2 million people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes Covid-19, and 291,942 have died across the world.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced that the next phase of India’s lockdown, from May 18, will be entirely new, in a new form and with new rules, to fight Covid-19 as well as move ahead to meet other national objectives.“Experts and scientists have told us that the coronavirus is here to stay in our lives for a long time. But, at the same time, we cannot let our lives revolve only around the virus. We will wear masks, we will abide by social distancing, but we will not get distracted from our goals,” PM Modi said during his address to the nation on Tuesday night. Click here for Covid-19 updatesThe PM said, that is why, the new phase of the lockdown, Lockdown 4.0, would have new contours and will be based on new rules.As the number of coronavirus disease cases spurted in recent weeks, India has scaled up its Covid-19 testing capacity to 100,000 samples a day, which is nearly three weeks earlier than the Union health ministry’s initial May-end target.“…the testing capacity has increased in the country and it is 1 00,000 tests per day with 347 Government laboratories and 137 private laboratories. Cumulatively, 1,7 62,840 tests have been done so far for Covid-19. Whereas, 86,191 samples were tested yesterday,” health minister Harsh Vardhan said in a statement on Tuesday.“In view of the surge of returning migrant labourers, States/UTs need to focus on more effective surveillance, contact tracing, adequate testing and timely treatment of all the returnees. This also includes the ones that shall be returning from abroad,” Harsh Vardhan said.The states have been directed to ramp up surveillance for Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI)/Influenza Like Illness (ILI) in the affected and non-affected districts and take the help of government medical colleges if required.“Such measures will help to indicate the presence of any possible hidden infection at an early stage,” he said.The ministry, along with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is also conducting a community-based sero-survey to estimate the prevalence of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, infection within households in 69 districts of 21 states.“The survey is coordinated by ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) and National Institute of Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT), Chennai. This household-level cross-sectional survey will cover 24,000 adults distributed equally across four strata of districts categorized on the basis of reported cases of Covid-19,” ICMR said in a statement.The survey will involve the collection of venous blood samples from 400 randomly selected individuals (one per household) from 10 clusters in each district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-3-525-new-covid-19-cases-india-s-tally-breaches-74-000-mark/story-DBtiEi3i9NH9k3nBUEyJWK.html
13-05-2020||India||‘PM gave a headline and a blank page’: Chidambaram on Rs 20 lakh cr Covid-19 economic package||Former finance minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday reacted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of releasing Rs 20 lakh crore as an economic stimulus package for the country amid the coronavirus crisis. The Congress leader said that in yesterday’s announcement, the prime minister gave a “headline” and a “blank page”. Chidambaram said that he looks forward to learning the details of the stimulus package which will be made public by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.“Yesterday, PM gave us a headline and a blank page. Naturally, my reaction was a blank!” Chidambaram tweeted.On Tuesday, the prime minister said the details of the economic package will be made public by the finance minister in the coming days. “Starting tomorrow, over the next few days, the Finance Minister will give you detailed information about this economic package inspired by the ‘Self-reliant India campaign’,” the PM said.Also read: Stimulus may offer cash aid to poor, credit for industryYesterday, PM gave us a headline and a blank page. Naturally, my reaction was a blank!Today, we look forward to the FM filling the blank page. We will carefully count every ADDITIONAL rupee that the government will actually infuse into the economy. Chidambaram added that every “additional rupee that the government will actually infuse into the economy” will be carefully counted. What the package offers to the poor, migrants workers will also be carefully examined, Chidambaram said. We will also examine what the bottom half of the population (13 crore families) will get in terms of REAL MONEY.“We will also carefully examine who gets what? And the first thing we will look for is what the poor, hungry and devastated migrant workers can expect after they have walked hundreds of kilometres to their home states,” he tweeted. Earlier this week, Chidambaram welcomed Centre’s move to start operating some passenger trains from May 12 amid the coronavirus lockdown. “The same modest opening should be started with road transport and air transport,” Chidambaram said in a tweet.PM Modi, in his address to the nation on Tuesday, said that the stimulus package is roughly around 10% of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP) and will infuse vigour into the economy amid the Covid-19 crisis. PM’s announcement came a day after his marathon meet via video-conferencing with various chief ministers on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-gave-a-headline-and-a-blank-page-chidambaram-on-rs-20-lack-crore-covid-19-economic-package/story-0ffMFlypmajJ9ZFMlUiUMK.html
13-05-2020||India||India crosses Canada’s Covid-19 tally, becomes 12th worst-affected country||India is now the 12th most affected country by the coronavirus pandemic, as the number of Covid-19 cases crossed the 70,000-mark on Tuesday.According to the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday, the number of Covid-19 positive cases stand at 74,281 in the country. The ministry also said that 2,415 people have died due to the disease.With these figures, India as crossed Canada’s tally, which has 69,156 cases of Covid-19, according to World Health Organisation (WHO) list. India is just below China now where the disease originated in December last year.China has 84,451 cases of Covid-19 and 4,644 deaths related to the disease, according to WHO. The United States tops the list with more than 1.2 million Covid-19 positive cases and over 78,000 deaths. Spain, Russia, the UK, Italy, France, Brazil, Germany, Turkey and Iran are above China in the list.According to the health ministry, India recorded an increase of 87 deaths and 3,604 cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours till Tuesday 8 am.With 13 deaths, Delhi recorded highest number of Covid-19 deaths in a single day on Tuesday, which took the total toll in the city state to 86.Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan held a review meeting on Tuesday where he said that the doubling time of Covid-19 cases has now improved to 12.2 days in the country from 10.9 days.Vardhan said that the fatality rate is 3.2 per cent while the recovery rate is progressively increasing and stands at 31.74 per cent.The Centre, states and union territories are taking cohesive efforts to combat the coronavirus and “this provides us the assurance that the country is well-prepared to face any eventuality due to Covid-19”, he said.The minister said the testing capacity has increased to 1 lakh tests per day with 347 government laboratories and 137 private labs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-canada-s-covid-19-tally-becomes-12th-worst-affected-country/story-wL4dhlH7v8TI6wyvjkGABO.html
13-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 149 flights from 31 countries in Phase 2 of Vande Bharat and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.149 flights from 31 countries in Phase 2 of Vande BharatThe government will operate 149 flights from 31 countries, including the US, Australia and France, during the second phase of the repatriation of Indian citizens stranded abroad from May 16. Read more.Stimulus may offer cash aid to poor, credit for industryThe federal cabinet is set to approve a comprehensive economic stimulus package on Wednesday that would offer cash support to the poor and credit guarantees to industry and contain far-reaching stimulus measures for sectors ranging from agriculture to banking and insurance, two officials aware of the development said. Read more.‘Self-reliant India will integrate not isolate’: Finance Minister Nirmala SitharamanFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Tuesday that India’s economy has acquired strength in recent years and it can engage confidently with the world now. Read more.‘There were stones thrown at my house’: Yuvraj Singh remembers 2014 World T20 finalYuvraj Singh was the hero of the 2007 and 2011 World Cup victories for India. He was magnificent in both the tournaments as he was named the player of the tournament in both the 2007 World T20 and 2011 World Cup in India. Read more.Happy birthday Sunny Leone: Relationship with Russell Peters to scary stalker, did you know these facts about her?Sunny Leone has come a long way from her Bigg Boss 5 days; she is now a bona fide Bollywood star and continues to be the most searched personality on Google in India year after year. She made her Bollywood debut with Pooja Bhatt’s Jism 2 and has acted in a number of films, including Ragini MMS 2, Ek Paheli Leela, One Night Stand and Tera Intezaar. Read more.Instagram launches ‘Support Small Business’ sticker: How to use itInstagram has been introducing new stickers to help support causes, thank Covid-19 warriors and more. It has now introduced a new “Support Small Business” sticker to help businesses get more reach during this time. Read more.Watch: 3 journalists allegedly thrashed by cop in Punjab’s JalandharThree journalists were allegedly thrashed in Punjab’s Jalandhar. A sub-inspector (SI) of police was suspended over the incident. Harpreet Singh, Hatinder Mehta and Randeep Sidhu were allegedly beaten. The scribes had gone to a bus stand where the SI was issuing challans. An argument erupted between the journalists and the police officer. The SI, Baljinder Singh, allegedly beat the three on the street. SP Ravinderpal Sandhu said a department inquiry has been initiated. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-149-flights-from-31-countries-in-phase-2-of-vande-bharat-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FE0hQJCRZAzGPt5KPrcBiO.html
13-05-2020||India||Modi announces Rs 20 lakh crore package, says lockdown 4.0 will be different: Covid-19 news today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Tuesday a Rs 20 lakh crore package for a “self-reliant” India in order to deal with the economic fallout of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the lockdown prompted by it. In a TV address, he also said lockdown 4.0 will be guided by a set of new rules while the focus will continue to remain on battling the disease as well as moving ahead with other national objectives.₹20 lakh crore boost for self-reliant IndiaPrime Minister Narendra Modi announced a ~20 lakh crore economic package to help individuals and businesses deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown enforced to combat its spread, and to, as he put it, turn the “crisis into an opportunity”. Read more.‘Have to protect ourselves and move forward’: PM Modi on lockdown 4.0Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced that the next phase of India’s lockdown, from May 18, will be entirely new, in a new form and with new rules, to meet the twin objectives of battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as well as moving ahead to meet other national objectives. Read more.Stimulus may offer cash aid to poor, credit for industryThe federal cabinet is set to approve a comprehensive economic stimulus package on Wednesday that would offer cash support to the poor and credit guarantees to industry and contain far-reaching stimulus measures for sectors ranging from agriculture to banking and insurance, two officials aware of the development said. Read more.Covid-19: What you need to know todayIn the 10 days between May 1 and May 10 (both included), six states accounted for 91% of average daily deaths from Covid-19 in India. Two of them, Maharashtra and Gujarat, accounted for 66%. Read more.No cabin baggage, inflight meals in draft rules to reopen air travelCabin luggage will be barred and passengers aged above 80 years not allowed on flights when air passengers services, suspended since March 25 because of the Covid-19 lockdown, resume in the country, according to guidelines drafted by the government for the first phase of the restart of commercial flights. Read more.149 flights from 31 countries in Phase 2 of Vande BharatThe government will operate 149 flights from 31 countries, including the US, Australia and France, during the second phase of the repatriation of Indian citizens stranded abroad from May 16. Read more.8,000 passengers in 8 trains on Day 1 of railway rebootIndian Railways resumed its passenger services after a gap of nearly two months on Tuesday with eight air-conditioned trains carrying a total of 8,121 people leaving for their destinations across the country, according to the railway ministry. Read more.How can Aarogya be made mandatory, Kerala High Court asks CentreThe Kerala high court asked the Union government on Tuesday to explain how the Aarogya Setu can be made mandatory when many do not have smartphones, giving it time till May 18 to file its response and also explain how the personal data of users will be protected. Read more.Terrorists may exploit stimulus: FATF reportThe global money-laundering and terrorist financing watchdog has warned that the stimulus measures and international financial assistance announced by various countries to mitigate the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic are likely to be exploited by terrorists and criminals by posing as genuine businesses seeking assistance. Read more.Bengal transfers its health secretaryThe West Bengal government has shifted health secretary Vivek Kumar from his post against the backdrop of a controversy over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis. Read more.Reverse migration, dip in output spell tough times for industriesAs thousands of migrant workers return home amid a slump in demand, industries are looking at a difficult road ahead in terms of full resumption of operations even as governments are working on incentives for them to boost production. Read more.Kerala’s Nipah survivor seeks to join Covid fightWhen she was 19, M Ajanya, a student of nursing in north Kerala contracted the dreaded Nipah viral disease, which has a mortality rate of 80%. Ajanya was on a ventilator for a week but didn’t give up; nor did her doctors. She recovered. Read more.Stuck at Delhi airport for 55 days, German man leaves for AmsterdamA 40-year-old German, who lived in the transit area of Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport for 55 days as he could not fly out amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown, left for Amsterdam on Tuesday in a special relief flight after turning down offers to be taken to his home country, officials said. Read more.Low-cost ‘Feluda’ test to detect virus in an hour likely in 4 weeksAn accurate and low-cost strip test that can detect the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) within one hour is expected to be available for the first phase of testing in four weeks. Read more. What’s flattening, fuelling the curve||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-announces-rs-20-lakh-crore-package-says-lockdown-4-0-will-be-different-covid-19-news-today/story-NsWFgaazrFINdUfl8d3IoI.html
13-05-2020||India||From Rs 20 lakh crore economic package to Lockdown 4: Key points from PM Modi’s speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday night announced a Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package for the country fighting the coronavirus pandemic, saying it will give a new impetus and a new direction to the self-reliant India campaign.PM Modi said the relief package, which amounts to around 10% of India’s gross domestic product (GDP), would help all classes, from farmers and migrant labourers to big businesses. He also urged Indians to become more economically self-reliant.Here are the key points from his televised speech:* The state of the world today teaches us that an atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) is the only path. It is said in our scriptures ‘eshah panthah’ that is self-sufficient India.* Such a big disaster is a signal for India, it has brought a message and an opportunity. I will share my perspective with an example. When the Corona crisis started, there was not a single PPE kit made in India. The N-95 masks were produced in small quantity in India. Today we are in a situation to produce 2 lakh PPE and 2 lakh N-95 masks daily. We were able to do this because India turned this crisis into an opportunity. This vision of India - turning crisis into opportunity- is going to prove equally effective for our resolve of self-reliant India.* The culture and tradition of India speak of self-reliance and the soul is Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam. India does not advocate self-centric arrangements when it comes to self-reliance. India’s self-reliance is ingrained in the happiness, cooperation and peace of the world.* Friends, this magnificent building of self-reliant India will stand on five pillars. The first pillar is the economy, an economy that brings quantum jump rather than incremental change. The second pillar is infrastructure, an infrastructure that became the identity of modern India. The third pillar is our system, which is driven by technology which can fulfil the dreams of the 21st century; a system not based on the policy of the past century. The fourth pillar is our demography. Our vibrant demography is our strength in the world’s largest democracy, our source of energy for self-reliant India. The fifth pillar is demand. The cycle of demand and supply chain in our economy is the strength that needs to be harnessed to its full potential. * This package will give a new impetus to the development journey of the country in 2020 and a new direction to the self-reliant India campaign. In order to prove the resolve of a self-reliant India, land, labour, liquidity and laws all have been emphasised in this package.* These reforms will be for the rational tax system, simple and clear rules-of-law, good infrastructure, capable and competent human resources, and building strong financial system. These reforms will encourage business, attract investment and strengthen our resolve for Make in India.* Therefore, from today every Indian has to become vocal for their local, not only to buy local products but also to promote them proudly. I am confident that our country can do this.* The fourth phase of lockdown, Lockdown 4, will be completely redesigned with new rules. Based on the suggestions we are getting from the states, information related to Lockdown 4 will also be given to you before 18 May. I am confident that by following the rules, we will fight Corona and move forward.* Friends, in our culture, it is said ‘sarvam atmavansham sukham’ ie what is within our control is happiness. Self-reliance leads to happiness, satisfaction and empowerment. When ethics are filled with duty, the culmination of diligence, the capital of skills, then who can stop India from becoming self-reliant? We can make India a self-reliant nation. We will make India self-reliant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-rs-20-lakh-crore-economic-package-to-lockdown-4-key-points-from-pm-modi-s-speech/story-sNqTCwoYUucKvvvR2qDoNO.html
13-05-2020||India||India’s CO2 emissions fell by 1% in 2019-20 financial year||India’s CO2 emissions fell by around 1% in the financial year ending March 2020, which is the first year-on-year reduction recorded since 1982, according to a Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) .The analysis is based on India’s financial year 2019-20 fossil fuel generation and consumption data including coal and oil. The country’s CO2 emissions fell by an estimated 15% during the month of March and are likely to have fallen 30% in April, the analysis published in CarbonBrief, a portal on climate and energy news on Tuesday said. Lower power demand growth and competition from renewable energy may have resulted in this reduction.Coal-fired power generation fell by 15% in March and 31% in the first three weeks of April, based on daily data from the national grid according to the analysis. But renewable energy (RE) generation increased by 6.4% in March and saw a slight decrease of 1.4% in the first three weeks of April. One of the reasons for this is the “must run” status of renewable energy which allows it to reach the grid all the time except for safety concerns.“We have seen that due to reduced demand for electricity during last year most of the drop in share of coal-based electricity is taken up by growth in renewable energy which is becoming more economical with every passing day. The per unit cost for renewable energy projects has come down to below most of installed coal-based power generation in India. The favourable economic conditions (lower cost per unit), being less polluting, better from climate change perspective, must run status for renewable energy projects and increasing installed capacity are the primary reason for renewable energy taking up a larger percentage of India’s electricity demand over the past year,” said Sunil Dahiya, analyst at CREA.The energy related CO2 emissions in 2019 was 2201.865 MT CO2 equivalent compared to 2172.19 MT CO2 equivalent in the corresponding year, according to CREA.“We review CO2 emissions every 2 years because we submit biennial update reports to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). We have an inventory till 2016. If the assessment of this report (CREA) is true we will know later when inventory is updated,” said Ravi S Prasad, additional secretary, environment ministry and India’s lead climate negotiator at UN.Two new papers published in the American Geophysical Union’s journal Geophysical Research Letters found that nitrogen dioxide pollution over northern China, Western Europe and the US decreased by as much as 60% in early 2020 as compared to the same time last year. The two new papers, based on satellite data of air pollution, are part of an ongoing special collection of research in AGU journals related to the Covid-19 pandemic.Such a significant drop in emissions is unprecedented since air quality monitoring from satellites began in the 1990s, said Jenny Stavrakou, an atmospheric scientist at the Royal Belgian Institute for Space Aeronomy in Brussels and co-author of one of the papers, in a statement published in Science Daily on Monday.In one of the two papers, the team found that NO2 pollution decreased by an average of 40% over Chinese cities and by 20 to 38% over Western Europe and the United States during January to April, as compared to the same time in 2019. However, NO2 pollution did not decrease over Iran, one of the earliest and hardest-hit countries. The authors suspect this is because complete lockdowns weren’t in place until late March and before that, other restrictions may have been ignored.Experts said lockdown is a real-life experiment that gives significant clues on pollution control. “We now clearly understand the sources. To continue with good air quality and environment, we need industries all over the country to move to clean fuel, more gasification-based technologies and use of pollution control equipment like NOx scrubbers,” said SN Tripathi, head of civil engineering department at IIT Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-co2-emissions-fell-by-1-in-2019-20-financial-year/story-kJ2Jus35sKtskGKZk2yhXO.html
13-05-2020||India||‘Self-reliant India will integrate not isolate’: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Tuesday that India’s economy has acquired strength in recent years and it can engage confidently with the world now.“Indian economy has acquired strength in its various dimensions. Now, we can confidently engage with the world. We aim at overall transformation & not incremental changes. We shall convert the pandemic challenge into an opportunity. #AatmanirbharBharat will integrate not isolate,” she said on Twitter after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation. Indian economy has acquired strength in its various dimensions. Now, we can confidently engage with the world. We aim at overall transformation & not incremental changes. We shall convert the pandemic challenge into an opportunity. #AatmanirbharBharat will integrate not isolate.In an earlier tweet, she had said, “After a devastating earthquake in 2001, Kutch was built, thanks to the undaunted spirit & dedication of its people. Recalling that experience PM @narendramodi felt that people of India will lead the #AatmanirbharBharat Abhiyan.”Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todaySitharaman took forward the views expressed by PM Modi in his address to the nation. In his address, PM Modi announced a Rs 20 lakh crore financial package, underscored the need for the country to be self-reliant and also asked people to ensure that our lives do not revolve around the disease as they have been for the last 50-odd days. He also said that India’s economy needs transformation and not incremental changes.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“India’s self-reliance will be based on five pillars - economy, infrastructure, technology driven system, vibrant demography and demand,” said the Prime Minister.Though he announced a financial package for various sectors to tide over the coronavirus crisis, PM Modi left the details of the package to be announced by Sitharaman in the next few days.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicHe, however, said that the package will focus on small industries and MSMEs which are the hardest hit sectors due to the lockdown. The financial package, said the Prime Minister, is equivalent to 10 per cent of India’s Gross Domestic Product or GDP.Also Read: Stimulus may offer cash aid to poor, credit for industryThe finance minister announced a stimulus package worth Rs 1.70 lakh crore for the poor and vulnerable sections of the society in March, just after PM Modi announced the imposition of a nationwide lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus disease Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/self-reliant-india-will-integrate-not-isolate-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman/story-eArVKQzIzcpfjojPxSpobK.html
13-05-2020||India||149 flights from 31 countries in Phase 2 of Vande Bharat||The government will operate 149 flights from 31 countries, including the US, Australia and France, during the second phase of the repatriation of Indian citizens stranded abroad from May 16.People will be allowed to board the flights, including feeder flights in the destination countries and within India, only after being thoroughly screened and provided they are asymptomatic for Covid-19, people familiar with developments said on Tuesday.Vande Bharat Mission, as the repatriation programme has been dubbed, focused on the neighbouring countries such as the Maldives and Bangladesh and West Asian states like the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia in the first phase that began on May 7.A total of 6,037 people have been flown back to India on 31 flights operated by Air India and Air India Express in the past five days. The civil aviation ministry is coordinating with the external affairs ministry and state governments for the operation.The maximum number of flights during the second phase will be from the US (13), the UAE (11), Canada (10), Saudi Arabia and the UK (nine each) and Malaysia and Oman (eight each).There will also be flights from Kazakhstan and Australia (seven each), Ukraine, Qatar, Indonesia and Russia (six each), the Philippines (five), France, Singapore, Ireland and Kyrgyzstan (four each), Kuwait and Japan (three each), Georgia, Germany, Tajikistan, Bahrain and Armenia (two each), and Thailand, Italy, Nepal, Belarus, Nigeria and Bangladesh (one each).The aircraft will fly to destinations across India, including Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka, Punjab, Odisha, Chandigarh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Jammu and Kashmir. The maximum number of inbound flights are to Kerala (31), Delhi (22) and Karnataka (17).During the first phase of Vande Bharat Mission that will end on May 15, a total of 64 flights from 12 countries are expected to bring back some 15,000 people to 14 destinations.“Each and every function in this massive air evacuation mission strictly adheres to the safety and hygiene protocol laid down by the government and DGCA [Director General of Civil Aviation]. MoCA [Ministry of Civil Aviation], AAI [Airports Authority of India] and Air India leave no stone unturned to prioritise the safety of passengers, the crew and ground handling staff in these sensitive medical evacuation missions,” an official statement said.The people cited above said Indian missions will identify people with compelling reasons for return from among those who have registered for the repatriation flights. The costs have ranged from about ₹15,500 for a flight from West Asian countries to ₹50,000 from the UK and ₹1,00,000 from the USA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/149-flights-from-31-countries-in-phase-2-of-vande-bharat/story-gEwjyTtVZAqFeyG7xkhQtM.html
13-05-2020||India||21-yr-old migrant headed to Odisha from Telangana, walks 300 km, dies of sunstroke||A 21-year-old migrant worker collapsed and died, apparently of sunstroke at Bhadrachalam on Tuesday after walking 300 km from here with three friends to try and reach Odisha in view of the lockdown, officials said.The group had set out on foot from Hyderabad on Sunday and were on their way to Malkangiri district in Odisha, they said.When they reached Bhadrachalam, the man complained of chest pain, vomited and collapsed on the road.His friends informed police, who rushed him to the area hospital at Bhadrachalam, where he was declared brought dead.The doctors at the hospital said they suspected he might have died of sunstroke as his skin and mouth was dry.They quoted his friends as saying that none of them had eaten anything since Monday afternoon.Officials later informed the man’s family members and arranged for a vehicle to take the body to Malkangiri.The distance from Hyderabad to Bhadrachalamby road is nearly 310 km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-yr-old-migrant-headed-to-odisha-from-telangana-walks-300-km-dies-of-sunstroke/story-ikOMLF9x7hu0fxv2D59VnO.html
13-05-2020||India||Gujarat editor reports likely CM change, booked||An editor of a Gujarati news portal has been booked on the sedition charges for uploading a news item suggesting that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) high-command may remove chief minister Vijay Rupani from his post and replace him with Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya, the police said on Monday.An FIR was registered by the Ahmedabad crime branch last Friday against Dhaval Patel, the editor of news portal Face Of Nation, under Section 124-a (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Disaster Management Act, a senior officer said. “As a precautionary measure, in view of the coronavirus pandemic, Patel has been detained, not arrested, and sent to SVP Hospital for a Covid-19 test,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP) BV Gohil.As per the FIR, Patel published a story on his news portal on May 7 suggesting a change of guard in the state. The article had claimed that Mandaviya has been called by the BJP high-command to discuss the same.The article further claimed that the high command was not happy with Rupani’s handling of coronavirus crisis in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-editor-reports-likely-cm-change-booked/story-EwxtKPCyXDdrYm2cBHMTML.html
13-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||In the 10 days between May 1 and May 10 (both included), six states accounted for 91% of average daily deaths from Covid-19 in India. Two of them, Maharashtra and Gujarat, accounted for 66%.The six states accounted for 86% of all deaths in the country arising from the pandemic till May 10, and 64% of all cases.There are states that are registering more cases than some of these states, but in terms of the number of deaths from Covid-19, these are the top six. Delhi and Tamil Nadu see more cases a day, but, on average, have seen fewer deaths in the 10-day period considered. Whichever way you look at it, that is a reflection of the quality of the public health system in these states – they are getting more cases but fewer people are dying. To be sure, there has been some confusion over the number of deaths in Delhi, with the hospital records showing one number and the government bulletin, another. But with a new protocol that requires hospitals to report deaths in time, this should pass (see page 2).Gujarat, West Bengal, and Madhya Pradesh are outliers in terms of the fatality rate – theirs is much higher than the national one (Gujarat’s is the highest). Maharashtra, despite accounting for almost a third of all cases in India, accounts for just over a third of all deaths because of Covid-19 in the country – its death rate is only marginally higher than the national one.Three of the six states – West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh – are also testing fewer people per million a day than the daily national average.As India exits the lockdown, albeit in stages, it would do well to focus on states accounting for the most deaths, and those that are not testing enough. With the focus moving to mitigation from prevention – it clearly has, even as the ministry of health continues to stick to its claim about the absence of community transmission in its briefings – public health systems should be able to treat those who require hospitalisation, and bring down the number of deaths. Widespread testing will help policymakers and public health workers measure the extent of the coronavirus disease’s prevalence, protect the most vulnerable (people over the age of 65 or 70), and track the progress of the disease in India’s hinterland, which is seeing an influx of returning migrant workers. As mentioned in this column yesterday, it does look like domestic flights will soon restart – a detailed note on guidelines for flying, once the lockdown ends, did the rounds on Tuesday. It makes flying cumbersome, and places inconvenient restrictions, but at this stage, just the prospect of being able to fly again should bring cheer to people who have a pressing need to travel (see page 1).The note mentions that the government’s contact-tracing app Aarogya Setu will be mandatory for fliers – earlier in the day on Tuesday, Railways said that the app would be mandatory for rail passengers too (see page 4). Rail services from Delhi to and from 15 other cities restarted on Tuesday (see page 4). It is expected that flights will start next week, although there is no confirmation of this yet.The biggest step towards a return to normalcy came late on Tuesday evening when Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an address to the nation, said his government would announce, over the following few days, a package for the economy worth a cool ~20 lakh crore. That’s a little less than 10% of GDP, and while the details are awaited (and need to be analysed), if at least some of it is in the form of direct payments, some, credit guarantees, and the rest, government spending, it should help. But more on this tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-Rsbqv5mfALymd4HBCHhoPK.html
13-05-2020||India||₹20 lakh crore boost for self-reliant India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a ~20 lakh crore economic package to help individuals and businesses deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown enforced to combat its spread, and to, as he put it, turn the “crisis into an opportunity”.Details of the package, which is the equivalent of a little below 10% of the GDP, will be announced over the next few days, starting Wednesday, by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The Prime Minister said the package – Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Mission) -- would cover “land, labour, liquidity, and laws”, industry and businesses of all sizes, and farmers, entrepreneurs, and the middle class. And he repeatedly stressed on the theme of self-reliance and the importance of keeping manufacturing, markets and supply chains local.“When India speaks of self-reliance, it does not advocate a self-centered system. In India’s self-reliance there is a concern for the whole world’s happiness, cooperation and peace,” Modi said, adding that local suppliers have met India’s demands in this hour of crisis, and now “Indians have to be ‘vocal about local’ and buy products from them”.The amount includes the ~1.7 lakh crore already announced — a cash transfer and food package aimed at the most vulnerable — and the measures announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The central bank has announced liquidity infusion and targeted credit measures aggregating anything between ~4.5 lakh crore. That means the package to be announced over the next few days will total around ~14 lakh crore.While the specifics of the package will emerge over the next few days, a spate of reports over the past few weeks have indicated the kind of initiatives that may be launched: a large fund for micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs); a well-capitalised bad bank; a loan guarantee scheme for businesses; incentives for local manufacturing; and direct cash transfers to the poor.The ~20 lakh crore package meets the demand of industry bodies — the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) asked for an “immediate stimulus package” of ~15 lakh crore on May 9; the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci) asked for ~10 lakh crore; and the PHD Chamber of Commerce ~16 lakh crore.The package, as a proportion of GDP, also compares favourably with the packages announced by other G20 nations. Japan is an outlier with a package that is estimated to be worth around 20% of its GDP but the US and Australia have announced packages estimated at close to 10% of their respective GDPs, and Canada 8.4%. China’s stimulus is estimated at around 2.5% of its GDP.The stimulus comes against the backdrop of predictions that the Indian economy will contract this year — securities firm Nomura believes that it will by almost as much as 5.2% — and a record decline of 16.7% in factory output in March, when less than 10 days were affected by the nationwide lockdown.Modi said that the virus, while ravaging the world, has also provided an opportunity to strengthen India’s resolve and not waver from its goals. “We are standing at a crucial juncture. This crisis has a message for us. It has provided us an opportunity... we have to protect ourselves and move ahead as well,” Modi said.The mention of land, labour, and laws by the PM presages significant reforms that could make it easier to do business. Already, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have suspended most labour laws (the former for both existing and new factories and the latter only for new ones) as part of an effort to boost the economy, attract investment, and find jobs for tens of millions of migrant labourers who have fled back home to some of the country’s least developed and industrialised states.A boost in local industrial and manufacturing activity also fits in well with Modi’s theme of a self-reliant India. “The only way ahead is to be self-reliant,” he said. At least some of his meetings over the past month-and-half have looked at ways to boost local manufacturing.In the speech, the Prime Minister spoke of the five pillars of a self-reliant India: an economy that doesn’t grow incrementally but makes quantum jumps; infrastructure development; a technology-driven system; a vibrant demographic mix; and better supply chains to spur demand.The Union Cabinet is set to approve the package on Wednesday morning.Several economists welcomed the package as “substantial” but said they would prefer to see the fine print and disaggregated allocations to gauge the full extent of the impact.“It’s welcome despite the government appearing initially to be hesitant. It has yielded to demands of so many economists and industry alike. The only way to go is to revise the fiscal policy (i.e. loosening government spending) so that economic growth can spring back,” said NR Bhanumurthy of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. “The biggest takeaway is the PM’s emphasis on self-reliance. This is a major change in India’s economic policy as we were earlier looking at globalisation. And if this self-reliance is boosted by India’s MSME sector, then we are looking at countering China by its own model. ~20 lakh crore is not a small amount; we need to know where the money will come and how it will be it is a redistributed,” said Abhirup Sarkar, an economist with Indian Statistical Institute.But Vivek Dehejia, a professor at Carlton University, was more sceptical. “The speech was skimpy on bold reforms and there was more discussion of the local, self reliance and Make in India (read import substitution). Colour me sceptical at this point,” he tweeted.The Opposition Congress party said that the PM should have shown greater empathy by addressing the plight of thousands of migrants displaced by the lockdown, instead of just “giving a headline”.“Dear PM, the mammoth heart breaking human tragedy of migrant workers walking back home needed compassion, care & safe return. India is deeply disappointed by your utter lack of empathy, sensitivity & failure to address the woes of millions of #MigrantWorkers!” the party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted.But, within the Congress, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot welcomed the stimulus announcement. The financial package announced by PM Modi ji was much awaited. Better late than never (der aaye durust aaye) We welcome this. Now when details emerge, we would know exactly how different sectors would benefit,” Gehlot said.Among a flurry of reactions from members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) praising the PM’s announcement, Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said that the ~20 Lakh crore package was the biggest India has ever seen. “Aatmanirbharta (self-reliance) is the new mantra,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-lakh-crore-boost-for-self-reliant-india/story-LVtoD7PNJ1eWVHsrkJwU8I.html
13-05-2020||India||Synergy among security forces helped, now deepen it: J&K police chief Dilbag Singh||Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh has said synergy among security forces in Kashmir had yielded the desired results but underscored that they had to strengthen the bond to successfully counter terror groups operating in Jammu and Kashmir, a statement by the police in Jammu said.The police chief has wrapped up a week-long visit to Kashmir where he, apart from reviewing the security situation at high-level meetings, also visited field units to reach out to police personnel.He had also visited the Northern Command Headquarters on Sunday and held detailed discussions with the GOC-in-C Lt Gen YK Joshi regarding the security situation along the borders with Pakistan, ceasefire violations and increasing infiltration bids by Pakistan to push in more terrorists.The hinterland situation and counter terrorist operations also came up for discussion along with counter measures to Pakistan initiated propaganda and other objectionable activities aimed at instigating and promoting terrorist violence in Jammu and Kashmir, the police spokesman said.Dilbag Singh has also held interaction with GOC 15 Corps Lt Gen BS Raju during this visit.In order to take stock of the security scenario, the DGP chaired review meetings which were attended by senior CAPF and Police officers at PCR Kashmir and at Police Golf Course Srinagar. He also visited Srinagar Cargo, District Police Lines (DPL) Budgam to review the working of J&K Police personnel on multiple fronts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/synergy-among-security-forces-helped-now-deepen-it-j-k-police-chief-dilbag-singh/story-mRHyNFnx1Sub4YD9Oaan5M.html
13-05-2020||India||Kerala’s Nipah survivor seeks to join Covid fight||When she was 19, M Ajanya, a student of nursing in north Kerala contracted the dreaded Nipah viral disease, which has a mortality rate of 80%. Ajanya was on a ventilator for a week but didn’t give up; nor did her doctors. She recovered. Now 21, Ajanya, who graduated this year from the Government Nursing College in Kozhikode with a graduate degree in GNM (general nursing and midwifery), is waiting for a job. “I am keen to work in a Covid hospital,” she says. Her tryst with Nipah, Ajanya says, has only made her love her chosen profession even more. “Many prayed for my life (when I was in hospital) and it is time for me to pay back.” The daughter of a farm labourer and an anganwadi worker, Ajanya contracted Nipah while interning at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital in 2018. “I was in the ICU (intensive care unit) looking after my patients as part of my training. On May 18, 2018, I developed high fever and other ailments and got admitted at the same ward. Two days later I lost consciousness. I was later told Lini Puthussery was in the same ward,” she said.Puthussery, also a nurse, succumbed to the virus later. Last year the state government instituted an award in her memory; the World Health Organization too lauded her dedication.“I consider nursing one of the noblest professions in the world. Becoming a nurse was my childhood dream. I feel I am nearer to my dream. I have applied to several places (for a job) I am waiting for the call. As a beginner, it is time for me to take challenges head on. I would love to treat Covid patients,” Ajanya says, adding that she is still in touch with some of the nurses and doctors who treated her. She was one of the two survivors of Nipah in 2019, from a total of 19 people infected with the deadly virus. The district medical officer Dr V Jayasree remembers Ajanya and the challenge her illness posed. “A head nurse stayed at the hospital for a week keeping an eye on her every minute. It’s great that she is ready to take up the profession.” Jayashree adds that the fight with Nipah has steeled medical professionals in north Kerala.With no known treatment, and completely blank about the source of the infection, health care workers fought back valiantly. Ajanya thinks health care workers will eventually get the better of Covid-19 too. “Many frontline warriors have fallen prey to the monstrous virus; their sacrifice has inspired people like me and I am sure we will tame it soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-nipah-survivor-seeks-to-join-covid-fight/story-CR8gRTGeB5fRxlo7S0LpOJ.html
13-05-2020||India||No cabin baggage, inflight meals in draft rules to reopen air travel||Cabin luggage will be barred and passengers aged above 80 years not allowed on flights when air passengers services, suspended since March 25 because of the Covid-19 lockdown, resume in the country, according to guidelines drafted by the government for the first phase of the restart of commercial flights.The draft standard operating procedures (SOPs) proposed by the civil aviation ministry for passengers, airlines and airport operators at a meeting on Monday have done away with the rule of keeping the middle seats vacant in compliance with social distancing norms. Passenger ID checks will also be not required so as to minimise the crowds at terminal gates.Stakeholders in the aviation business,including airlines and airport operators, have been asked to review the draft, a copy of which has been seen by Hindustan Times, and submit their feedback. “It is clarified that suggestions were sought on a draft discussion paper from airlines and airports. The suggestions have now been received.The final SOP is yet to be issued,” said Rajeev Jain, additional director general at the ministry of civil aviation. The rules make it compulsory for all passengers to arrive at the airport only after completing their web check-in at home. The reporting time for travellers at the airport is proposed to be increased by two hours. Only passengers whose flights are scheduled to depart in the next six hours will be allowed inside the airports. Cabin luggage will be disallowed, and only one piece of check-in baggage weighing less than 20kg will be allowed per passenger in the first phase of resumed airline operations.Those aged above 80 will not be allowed on flights. According to the draft SOPs, passengers stopped from boarding a flight because of age or if they are found to be running a high temperature will be permitted to change their travel date without any penalty.Other things such as road transport have to return to normal before commercial flights are resumed, said Sudhakara Reddy, president of the Air Passengers Association of India (APAI), noting that some states want the lockdown, already twice extended, to be prolonged beyond May 17, when it is due to end. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a televised address to the nation on Tuesday night, spoke of an impending Lockdown 4.  “If domestic air passenger services begin from next week, only a few passengers having personal vehicles will be able to fly as many states have requested that the lockdown be extended, making road transport difficult after landing,” Reddy said. “Only a few destinations will be open for all the stranded ones to fly back to their respective cities.” A full service airline official said on condition of anonymity: “It is too early to comment on the SOP as it is still being prepared.” Downloading the Aarogya Setu app will be mandatory for all the passengers. Only those with a “green status” will be allowed to enter the airport. Airlines have been asked to open check-in counters three hours prior to departure time and close them 60 to 75 minutes prior to departure. Boarding will commence an hour prior to departure time and the gates will close 20 minutes before.Frisking of passengers has been asked to be minimised and to be carried out only if the door frame metal detector beeps. The draft SOPs also ask the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) to not stamp passenger’s boarding pass in this phase. The airlines have been told to conduct a secondary temperature check at the boarding gate before the passengers enter their flight. The document also suggests that the same set of crew (pilots and cabin attendants) be rostered on a flight as long as possible to minimise the risk of infection.Passengers will not be served meals on board. Water will be available in cups and bottles in the galley. The last three rows of the aircraft will be kept vacant for isolation of any passenger who develops a medical condition. Crew members handling such cases will wear personal protection equipment.An adequate number of PPEs will be available on board to deal with more than one such case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-cabin-baggage-inflight-meals-in-draft-rules-to-reopen-air-travel/story-QIAso5NMbCodX2udpKXJ6O.html
13-05-2020||India||₹20L-Cr boost for self-reliant India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a Rs 20 lakh crore economic package to help individuals and businesses deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown enforced to combat its spread, and to, as he put it, turn the “crisis into an opportunity”.Details of the package, which is the equivalent of a little below 10% of the GDP, will be announced over the next few days, starting Wednesday, by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The Prime Minister said the package – Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Mission) -- would cover “land, labour, liquidity, and laws”, industry and businesses of all sizes, and farmers, entrepreneurs, and the middle class. And he repeatedly stressed on the theme of self-reliance and the importance of keeping manufacturing, markets and supply chains local.“When India speaks of self-reliance, it does not advocate a self-centered system. In India’s self-reliance there is a concern for the whole world’s happiness, cooperation and peace,” Modi said, adding that local suppliers have met India’s demands in this hour of crisis, and now “Indians have to be ‘vocal about local’ and buy products from them”.The amount includes the ~1.7 lakh crore already announced — a cash transfer and food package aimed at the most vulnerable — and the measures announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The central bank has announced liquidity infusion and targeted credit measures aggregating anything between ~4.5 lakh crore. That means the package to be announced over the next few days will total around ~14 lakh crore.While the specifics of the package will emerge over the next few days, a spate of reports over the past few weeks have indicated the kind of initiatives that may be launched: a large fund for micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs); a well-capitalised bad bank; a loan guarantee scheme for businesses; incentives for local manufacturing; and direct cash transfers to the poor.The ~20 lakh crore package meets the demand of industry bodies — the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) asked for an “immediate stimulus package” of ~15 lakh crore on May 9; the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci) asked for ~10 lakh crore; and the PHD Chamber of Commerce ~16 lakh crore.The package, as a proportion of GDP, also compares favourably with the packages announced by other G20 nations. Japan is an outlier with a package that is estimated to be worth around 20% of its GDP but the US and Australia have announced packages estimated at close to 10% of their respective GDPs, and Canada 8.4%. China’s stimulus is estimated at around 2.5% of its GDP.The stimulus comes against the backdrop of predictions that the Indian economy will contract this year — securities firm Nomura believes that it will by almost as much as 5.2% — and a record decline of 16.7% in factory output in March, when less than 10 days were affected by the nationwide lockdown.Modi said that the virus, while ravaging the world, has also provided an opportunity to strengthen India’s resolve and not waver from its goals. “We are standing at a crucial juncture. This crisis has a message for us. It has provided us an opportunity... we have to protect ourselves and move ahead as well,” Modi said.The mention of land, labour, and laws by the PM presages significant reforms that could make it easier to do business. Already, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have suspended most labour laws (the former for both existing and new factories and the latter only for new ones) as part of an effort to boost the economy, attract investment, and find jobs for tens of millions of migrant labourers who have fled back home to some of the country’s least developed and industrialised states.A boost in local industrial and manufacturing activity also fits in well with Modi’s theme of a self-reliant India. “The only way ahead is to be self-reliant,” he said. At least some of his meetings over the past month-and-half have looked at ways to boost local manufacturing.In the speech, the Prime Minister spoke of the five pillars of a self-reliant India: an economy that doesn’t grow incrementally but makes quantum jumps; infrastructure development; a technology-driven system; a vibrant demographic mix; and better supply chains to spur demand.The Union Cabinet is set to approve the package on Wednesday morning.Several economists welcomed the package as “substantial” but said they would prefer to see the fine print and disaggregated allocations to gauge the full extent of the impact.“It’s welcome despite the government appearing initially to be hesitant. It has yielded to demands of so many economists and industry alike. The only way to go is to revise the fiscal policy (i.e. loosening government spending) so that economic growth can spring back,” said NR Bhanumurthy of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. “The biggest takeaway is the PM’s emphasis on self-reliance. This is a major change in India’s economic policy as we were earlier looking at globalisation. And if this self-reliance is boosted by India’s MSME sector, then we are looking at countering China by its own model. ~20 lakh crore is not a small amount; we need to know where the money will come and how it will be it is a redistributed,” said Abhirup Sarkar, an economist with Indian Statistical Institute.But Vivek Dehejia, a professor at Carlton University, was more sceptical. “The speech was skimpy on bold reforms and there was more discussion of the local, self reliance and Make in India (read import substitution). Colour me sceptical at this point,” he tweeted.The Opposition Congress party said that the PM should have shown greater empathy by addressing the plight of thousands of migrants displaced by the lockdown, instead of just “giving a headline”.“Dear PM, the mammoth heart breaking human tragedy of migrant workers walking back home needed compassion, care & safe return. India is deeply disappointed by your utter lack of empathy, sensitivity & failure to address the woes of millions of #MigrantWorkers!” the party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted.But, within the Congress, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot welcomed the stimulus announcement. The financial package announced by PM Modi ji was much awaited. Better late than never (der aaye durust aaye) We welcome this. Now when details emerge, we would know exactly how different sectors would benefit,” Gehlot said.Among a flurry of reactions from members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) praising the PM’s announcement, Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said that the ~20 Lakh crore package was the biggest India has ever seen. “Aatmanirbharta (self-reliance) is the new mantra,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20l-cr-boost-for-self-reliant-india/story-4g47UGLGWjyu96p0JsOKEJ.html
13-05-2020||India||Country disappointed by PM Modi’s ‘failure’ to address migrants’ woes: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday termed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address as one that gave the country a headline and said the nation is disappointed by his “failure” to address the woes of millions of migrants.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the mammoth heartbreaking human tragedy of migrant workers walking back home needed compassion, care and safe return.“Dear PM, What you said today gives the country and the media a HEADLINE,” he said on Twitter.“When the ‘blank page’ is filled with ‘Heartfelt help of people’, the nation and Congress party will respond.“India is deeply disappointed by your utter lack of empathy, sensitivity and failure to address the woes of millions of migrant workers,” he said in a series of tweets.His colleague Manish Tewari also tweeted, “PMs speech can be summed up in one word - HEADLINE HUNTING. A NUMBER -20 LAKH CRORES. NO DETAILS.” Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, however, welcomed the financial package announced by the prime minister.“The financial package announced by PM Modi ji was much awaited. Better late than never. We welcome this. Now when details emerge, we would know exactly how different sectors would benefit,” he tweeted.Another Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said his party had asked for a fiscal injection last month and gave comparative figures of other countries and bemoaned a measly 0.7 per cent of GDP. “If substantially, concretely, new proposal is 10 pc of GDP, it would be great. Both God and devil lie in details, not available. 10 pc should be additional, not counting old pre corona schemes,” he tweeted.Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said, “Hoping that the Rs 20 lakh crore package is not scripted with same pen which was used to make the promises of giving everyone Rs 15 Lakh, cleaning ‘Maa Ganga’, bringing back black money in 100 days, transforming Varanasi into Kyoto and ending terrorism with demonetisation.” In a big push to revive the economy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced a Rs 20 lakh crore package, which combined the government’s recent announcements on supporting key sectors as also measures rolled out by the Reserve Bank of India.In a televised address to the nation, the prime minister said the details about the fourth phase of the lockdown will be made known before May 18, adding it will be different from the earlier phases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/country-disappointed-by-pm-modi-s-failure-to-address-migrants-woes-congress/story-6tqHRtXf6bwjzCuzxSqSgJ.html
13-05-2020||India||Detection in one hour, as sensitive as PCR test: Debojyoti Chakraborty||A precise and cost-effective test strip named after Feluda, a detective in a series of novels by filmmaker Satyajit Ray, has been developed at Council of Scientific & Industrial Research’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) in New Delhi to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19) within one hour. Feluda, the acronym for FNCAS9 Editor Linked Uniform Detection Assay, uses CRISPR gene-editing technology to identify and target the genetic material of Sars-CoV2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Senior scientist Dr Debojyoti Chakraborty, who has developed Feluda along with Dr Souvik Maiti, spoke to Sanchita Sharma about test strip. Edited excerpts:How does the CRISPR-based Feluda rapid test work? The CRISPR-based Feluda testing works by combining CRISPR biology and paper strip chemistry. Briefly, Cas9 protein, a component of the CRISPR system, is barcoded to interact specifically with CoV2 sequence in a patient’s genetic material. The complex of Cas9 with CoV2 is then applied to a paper strip where by using 2 lines [one control, one test], it is possible to determine if the original sample was infected with Covid-19.Are you a Satyajit Ray fan? Who came up with the acronym?Yes, I am a Satyajt Ray fan and the name was given by my wife, who is not a Bengali but is well aware of the sentiments. The name Feluda is also an acronym of FnCas9 Editor Linked Uniform Detection Assay.What is the sensitivity and specificity of Feluda? Antibody-based rapid tests have received flak in India and the world over for inaccurate and unreliable results... The sensitivity is similar or sometimes better than quantitative realtime PCR [polymerase chain reaction]-based tests...How long did it take to develop the test?Feluda is not limited to Covid-19. We were working on Feluda for the past two years to develop an assay that can work on detecting any DNA-RNA or their mutations. In end of January 2020, we started working on adapting it for Covid-19How long does it take to produce results?This process of detection takes about one hour to complete if the starting material is RNA, and gives a visual readout on the strip.What will be the cost of each test? Can it be used outside labs in under-resourced settings?At the lab level, the cost of each test is around Rs 500. Our efforts are directed for its use at places with very basic lab setups such as pathology labs, universities, health centres, etc.When will it be ready for the market? What is the role of Tata Sons in it?The CSIR-IGIB is an academic institute. The marketing will be done by industry. Tata Sons has recently signed an agreement with us for the same to take it to the masses. We hope this should be ready for the first phase of testing in four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/detection-in-one-hour-as-sensitive-as-pcr-test-debojyoti-chakraborty/story-0ETJfLcxG7puojAmQspuXJ.html
13-05-2020||India||With 1,026 new cases, Maha closer to 25k||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed district officials on Tuesday to prepare an exit plan from the ongoing lockdown as the state inched towards the 25,000 Covid-19 cases mark. The state reported 1,026 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 24,427.The state capital Mumbai neared the 15,000 case mark with its tally reaching 14,947 on Tuesday. Senior officials said the state government is in favour of easing restrictions further in less affected or unaffected areas while continuing the lockdown in red zones such as Mumbai, Pune and Nashik, which have reported a large chunk of the cases.The state has reported 5364 cases in the last four days and seen 190 deaths. Fifty three new fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 921.Even as the numbers rise, the state government is planning an exit plan that has to be prepared by May 15. Speaking to district officials, Thackeray emphasised strict lockdown implementation in containment zones and said that it should not spread out of these areas. The chief minister also said that districts with adequate health machinery should start door-to-door screening of people.“The plan has to come in from all the districts by May 15 based on which the state would prepare its plan and submit it to the Centre. The CM stressed that now the chain should be broken and that there should not be any transmission outside of the containment zones in the state,” a senior bureaucrat said on condition of anonymity.The decision came on a day the state government allowed home delivery of liquor, but not in Mumbai and Nagpur, where the civic bodies have denied permission for alcohol shops to open. According to excise commissioner Kantilal Umap, the order is to prevent people from crowding outside shops.“In view of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, we want people to remain at home and avoid coming in contact with each other. This [order] will prevent people from lining outside the shops,” said Umap.He also made it clear that home delivery will only be allowed in those areas where the civic body has given permission for shops to be open. “Liquor shops in Mumbai and Nagpur, which are closed, will not be allowed to run home deliveries,” he added.The Maharashtra government had allowed sale of liquor from May 4 but long queues and no social distancing forced then municipal commissioner Pravin Pardeshi to shut shops in Mumbai within two daysA statement from the chief minister’s office said Thackeray cited the example of Goa that carried out a door-to-door survey for Covid-19. “The size of Goa is like one of our districts. They went door-to-door and screened people for symptoms. If district authorities carry out a primary check-up, not just for coronavirus, but for other diseases as well, people would not only get timely treatment but also get cured,” the statement said.Thackeray also discussed measures to revive the state economy and said that though economic activities have resumed in the green zone of Maharashtra, authorities should ensure that there are no new cases, said the senior bureaucrat quoted above. “The chief minister has also asked the department concerned to prepare a plan if migrants do not come back in time. Maharashtra will also have to look at creating its new workforce,” the bureaucrat added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-1-026-new-cases-maha-closer-to-25k/story-7hZxtGA9ulKI5tNHSrT4BN.html
13-05-2020||India||India at 100k tests a day, says health minister Harsh Vardhan||As the number of coronavirus disease cases spurted in recent weeks, India has scaled up its Covid-19 testing capacity to 100,000 samples a day, which is nearly three weeks earlier than the Union health ministry’s initial May-end target.“…the testing capacity has increased in the country and it is 1 00,000 tests per day with 347 Government laboratories and 137 private laboratories. Cumulatively, 17, 62,840 tests have been done so far for Covid-19. Whereas, 86,191 samples were tested yesterday,” health minister Harsh Vardhan said in a statement on Tuesday.In the past 14 days, the number of cases have doubled every 10.9 days, and improved to 12.2 in the past three days. The fatality rate is 3.2%, and recovery rate 31.74%, which is better than the many other Covid-19-hit countries. The global fatality rate is around 7-7.5%. As of Monday, 2.37% of active Covid-19 patients were undergoing treatment in intensive care units (ICUs), 0.41% patients were critical and on ventilators, and 1.82% were on oxygen support.“In view of the surge of returning migrant labourers, States/UTs need to focus on more effective surveillance, contact tracing, adequate testing and timely treatment of all the returnees. This also includes the ones that shall be returning from abroad,” Harsh Vardhan said.The states have been directed to ramp up surveillance for Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) / Influenza Like Illness (ILI) in the affected and non-affected districts, and take the help of government medical colleges if required.“Such measures will help to indicate the presence of any possible hidden infection at an early stage thus helping in its timely containment,” the health minister said.The ministry, along with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is also conducting a community-based sero-survey to estimate the prevalence of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, infection within households in 69 districts of 21 states. “The survey is coordinated by ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) and National Institute of Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT), Chennai. This household level cross-sectional survey will cover 24,000 adults distributed equally across four strata of districts categorized on the basis of reported cases of Covid-19,” ICMR said in a statement.The survey will involve collection of venous blood samples from 400 randomly selected individuals (one per household) from 10 clusters in each district. Samples from each of these individuals will be tested for presence of IgG (immunoglobulin G) antibodies using the ELISA test developed by ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, and test kits being manufactured by Zydus Cadilla.The results of the survey will provide information about the spread of Sars-CoV-2 infection in different parts of the country.Besides this community-based survey, the health ministry is also initiating hospital-based surveillance to monitor the trend of infection in all districts.“It is a part of initiating systemic surveillance to know the extent of disease spread, to determine future course of action in order to curtail the virus spread. This is the most effective way,” says Giridhara R Babu, professor and head, lifecourse epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-at-100k-tests-a-day-harsh-vardhan/story-ge19xfTEwjIva0eJ7F1sbJ.html
13-05-2020||India||Goa declines nod to prosecute ex-CM Parsekar, 2 officers in mining graft case||The Goa government has declined to prosecute former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar and two officers who had been indicted by the Goa Lokayukta for allegedly renewing 88 mining leases in Goa “with malafide intention”. The lease renewals were struck down by the Supreme Court and petitioner Goa Foundation had filed complaint with the Goa Lokayukta alleging corruption in the lease renewals. After conducting an inquiry, the Goa Lokayukta ruled that the complaint had been substantiated and recommended that former chief minister Parsekar and two officers -- then Director of Mines Prasanna Acharya and Mines Secretary P K Sain -- be asked to demit office while also directing that an FIR be registered against the trio. Owing to the nature of the Goa Lokayukta Act, the Goa Lokayukta’s findings are recommendatory in nature with the recommendations being forwarded to the ‘competent authority’. The Goa Governor, who is the competent authority to decide on the Lokayukta’s recommendations in the case of the former chief minister, has not accepted the recommendation of registering FIR by ACB of state Government against Laxmikant Parsekar under the Prevention of Corruption Act and Under IPC for criminal conspiracy and for entrusting the investigation of such offences to the CBI.In a letter to the Lokayukta the Department of Personnel informed that the Governor denied sanction for the registering FIR and also denied sanction for prosecution against Parsekar.The Chief Minister, who is the competent authority to decide the Lokayukta’s recommendations with respect to the two officers also similarly did not accept the recommendation for registering an FIR and entrusting the investigation to CBI. While also denying the sanction to prosecute the two officers.In January this year, the Goa Lokayukta in his verdict on a complaint filed by the Goa Foundation found that the officials “have abused their official position thereby causing loss to the entire State of Goa and benefitting only a few mining lease holders.”The Goa Foundation had alleged that the act of the Goa government to renew the leases was an act of corruption. Between January 5, 2015 and January 12, 2015 the Goa government renewed 56 mining leases, 31 of which were renewed in a single day -- January 12, 2015, the day the Mines and Minerals Development Ordinance 2015 came into effect. The ordinance made it mandatory that leases will have to be granted through a process of auction, and the Lokayukta observed the hurry was obviously to avoid the process of an auction. Parsekar denied wrongdoing and claimed he acted on the basis of a resolution of the state cabinet and that he should not be singled out for prosecution since it was the collective responsibility of the cabinet, while Acharya has said he will explore legal options.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-declines-nod-to-prosecute-ex-cm-parsekar-2-officers-in-mining-graft-case/story-0j3f787iAZrhNcNLmA5I0I.html
13-05-2020||India||US provides $3.6 million to support coronavirus response in India||The US Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) will provide $3.6 million to assist the Indian government’s response to the Covid-19 epidemic. This initial tranche of funding from the CDC aims to strengthen and support the Indian government’s efforts to increase laboratory capacity for Sars-CoV-2 testing, including molecular diagnostics and serology, read a statement issued by the US embassy on Tuesday. The funding will also be used to support the development of infection prevention and control (IPC) centres of excellence that can improve the ability of hospital networks to detect Covid-19 and strengthen local health systems through enhanced surveillance and monitoring. The CDC will work with local partners to assist in the development of a strong public health workforce to support India’s capacity to respond to the current pandemic and future threats. “The scope of support will include planning for health emergency operations centres to further strengthen public health emergency management capacities. In addition, the CDC India program will provide technical assistance for the government of India’s ongoing crisis emergency and risk communication efforts,” the statement said.Since early January, the CDC’s India office has collaborated with sub-national and national government bodies to support the Covid-19 response. These efforts have focused on laboratory strengthening, infection prevention and control, health workforce development, emergency management, risk communication, and community engagement. The CDC conducted training courses across India for health care administrators, physicians, nurses, and hospital staff on preparedness and response, infection prevention, laboratory operations, and field epidemiology to equip front line workers with skills to collect, analyse and interpret data, and contribute to evidence-based decisions.The goal of the CDC’s global health response to Covid-19 is to limit human-to-human transmission and minimise the pandemic’s impact through partnerships with country and non-governmental partners to mitigate vulnerabilities. The CDC has a long-standing technical collaboration with India’s health ministry to control HIV, tuberculosis and malaria, eradicate polio, and prepare responses to influenza and other pandemic diseases. Over the past two decades, this partnership has deepened mutual cooperation through the exchange of scientific knowledge and technology. In India, US government agencies, including the US Agency for International Development (USAID), the CDC and other department of health and human services agencies, have provided more than $1.4 billion in health assistance and nearly $2.8 billion in total assistance over the last 20 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-provides-3-6-mn-to-support-coronavirus-response-in-india/story-I672nOhi2HPUvL2LnLsLxM.html
13-05-2020||India||Glenmark begins phase 3 clinical trials of favipiravir||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited has started the process of conducting phase 3 clinical trials of Favipiravir among Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in India to test the safety and efficacy of the antiviral drug, the company said on Tuesday.According to Glenmark executives familiar with the development, who didn’t want to be named, the company will be looking at recruiting patients from hospitals in the red zones of states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi where the Covid-19 case load is high.The drug, if commercialized, will be marketed under the brand name ‘FabiFlu®’ in India.Glenmark is looking at enrolling patients from at least 10 government and private hospitals from across the country for conducting the trials, and is expecting results by either July or August.“Glenmark is the first company in India to initiate Phase 3 clinical trials on Favipiravir for Covid-19 patients in India. Favipiravir is a generic version of Avigan of Fujifilm Toyama Chemical Co. Ltd., Japan, a subsidiary of Fujifilm Corporation. Clinical trials have commenced and over 10 leading government & private hospitals in India are being enrolled for the study. Glenmark estimates study completion by July/August 2020,” the company said in a statement.Favipiravir is an antiviral medicine used to treat influenza in Japan. What Glenmark is producing is a generic version of Avigan. It has successfully developed the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and the formulations for the product through its in-house research and development team.Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has been pushing the benefits of Avigan and built a huge inventory of it, despite there being no evidence as yet that the drug, which was developed as a possible cure for Ebola, works on curing any disease in humans. Glenmark received approval from India’s drug regulator general on April 30 for conducting the trials.“Several health and medical experts, both in and outside of Glenmark, are eager to see the effect that Favipiravir has on Covid-19 cases. We believe the study results will be significant as there is currently no effective treatment for the virus,” said Monika Tandon, vice president and head, clinical development, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals.In the past few months, after the outbreak of Covid-19, multiple clinical trials have been initiated on Covid-19 patients in China, Japan and the US.“The data we get from these trials will point us in a clearer direction with regard to Covid-19 treatment and management,” Tandon added.As per the approved clinical trial protocol, 150 subjects with mild to moderate Covid-19 will be randomized in the study in a 1:1 ratio to Favipiravir with standard supportive care or standalone standard supportive care. Treatment duration is a maximum of 14 days and the total study duration will be a maximum of 28 days from randomization, which is the process of assiging patients to groups that recieve different treatments. “Our effort is to launch a treatment for Covid-19 patients as soon as possible and control the spread of the pandemic. We will do all it takes to ensure accessibility of the product across the country if the clinical trials are successful,” said Sujesh Vasudevan, president, India formulations, Middle East and Africa, Glenmark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glenmark-begins-phase-3-clinical-trials-of-favipiravir/story-8ykNqhJWZhc2pWnAQZBWVN.html
13-05-2020||India||Low-cost ‘Feluda’ test to detect virus in an hour likely in 4 weeks||An accurate and low-cost strip test that can detect the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) within one hour is expected to be available for the first phase of testing in four weeks.Called Feluda, the test is named after a fictional detective created by the late Satyajit Ray, although it is also an acronym for FNCAS9 Editor-Linked Uniform Detection Assay. The test uses CRISPR gene-editing technology to identify and target the genetic material of Sars-CoV2, the virus that causes Covid-19. It has been developed by senior scientists Dr Debojyoti Chakraborty and Dr Souvik Maiti at the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) in New Delhi.“The CRISPR-based Feluda testing works by combining CRISPR biology and paper strip chemistry. Briefly, Cas9 protein, a component of the CRISPR system, is barcoded to interact specifically with the Sars-CoV2 sequence in the patient’s genetic material. The complex of Cas9 with Sars-CoV2 is then applied to a paper strip, where using two lines (one control, one test) make it possible to determine if the test sample was infected with Covid-19,” said Dr Chakraborty, senior scientist, CSIR-IGIB.Also Read: CSIR-IGIB and TATA Sons sign MoU for licensing ‘KNOWHOW’ for rapid diagnosis of Covid-19The entire diagnostic process takes about one hour, starting from RNA to giving a visual readout on the strip, he said.“Most labs are working with PCR(polymerase chain reaction)-based technology, which is costly and needs a lab set-up. Our paper strip does not require (biosafety) Level-2 or Level-3 lab for testing and can be done in any path lab,” said Anurag Agrawal, director, CSIR-IGIB, Delhi.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Friday granted emergency-use approval for the world’s first CRISPR-based test for Covid-19. Unlike the test developed by CSIR-IGIB, the one developed in the US can only be done in hi-tech laboratories. Its developers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard University, the Ragon Institute and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute in the US are working on a simplified version which they hope will get approved for point-of-care use.Unlike other CRISPR tests that use CAS12 and CAS13 proteins to detect Sars-CoV2, the CSIR-IGIB kit technology uses CAS9 protein (CRISPR-associated protein 9) to identify and bind to the target sequence.“It’s a very accurate and accepted testing method and the advantage is that it can be used in any lab that has the technology. Lab technicians, however, may not be trained to use the technology, but it is easy to train them. With training, there can be widespread deployment across India,” said Dr Nirmal K Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research.The acronym Feluda, wasn’t a coincidence. “Yes, I am a Satyajt Ray fan but the name was given by my wife, who is not a Bengali but is well aware of my sentiments,” said Dr Chakraborty.Also Read: Genetic sequencing takes lead in Covid-19 vaccine developmentCRISPR, which is short for Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats, is a gene-editing technology that can be used to detect a specific snippet of DNA from a sequence. It can also be used turn genes on or off without altering their sequence.“Feluda is not limited to Covid-19. We were working on Feluda for the past two years to develop an assay that can work on detecting any DNA-RNA or their mutations. At the end of January, we started working on adapting it for Covid-19,” said Dr Chakraborty.This is the only Covid-19 testing kit that has been developed using CRISPR-based technology in India. Feluda has been licenced to Tata Sons, which will commercialise the technology for Covid-19 detection.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“It uses a test protocol that is simple to administer and easy to interpret enabling results to be made available to the medical fraternity in relatively lesser time, as compared to other test protocols. We believe that CRISPR is futuristic technology that can also be configured for detection of multiple other pathogens in the future,” said Banmali Agrawala, president, infrastructure and defence & aerospace, Tata Sons, in a statement.Each Feluda test costs Rs 500 in the lab, and is expected to bring the cost of testing down from the Rs 4,500 per test for the real-time polymerase chain reaction test (RT-PCR), which is the only available test for detecting current Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-cost-feluda-test-to-detect-virus-in-an-hour-likely-in-4-weeks/story-q1Q8ATDRNnwEGuRbhWVI2O.html
13-05-2020||India||Face-offs along LAC with China as boundary issue yet to be resolved: Army||New Delhi: After Indian and Chinese soldiers scuffled twice along the disputed border between the two countries in Sikkim and Ladakh last week, the army on Tuesday reiterated that “face-offs and aggressive behaviour occur” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China as the boundary issue has not been resolved.“Patrols disengage after local level interaction and dialogue. Temporary and short duration face-offs occur as the boundary is not resolved. Troops resolve such incidents mutually as per established protocols,” the army said in a statement. HT was the first to report on May 10 about the intensifying India-China border tensions in north Sikkim, where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during a confrontation that was later resolved. Aggressive behaviour by the two sides resulted in injuries to troops on both sides, the army said in a statement on May 10.Scores of soldiers from the two countries also clashed near Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh last week, as reported by HT on May 11. While a few soldiers on both sides were injured in the scuffle that involved around 250 men, a flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the standoff.Chinese helicopter activity was observed across the LAC, the de facto border, on May 6 after the face-off was resolved. Indian Air Force Sukhoi-30 fighters were on a routine training mission in eastern Ladakh on May 6. “The presence of the Sukhois had nothing to do with the face-off. The weather was perfect for some good flying,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.China on Monday sought to downplay the latest round of aggressive confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers in north Sikkim’s Naku La area, saying both countries should jointly uphold peace and handle differences.The Chinese foreign ministry did not share details about the clash but attempted to subtly shift the blame to the Indian side, saying Chinese soldiers were always upholding peace and tranquillity along the border.Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a 73-day face-off in 2017 near the Sikkim border in Doklam. The two countries have a long-standing border dispute that led to the 1962 war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/face-offs-along-lac-with-china-as-boundary-issue-yet-to-be-resolved-army/story-OctnlzRQuxFd1gnYkAxQoL.html
13-05-2020||India||3-member EC panel to look into judgment invalidating Gujarat BJP minister’s election win||New Delhi: The Election Commission of India has decided to set up a three-member committee to look into the Gujarat high court verdict that invalidated the election of state education and law minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama. The minister had been elected from the Dholka assembly constituency in the 2017 assembly elections. The high court on Tuesday ruled that he won the poll through “corrupt practices” after a petition was moved by Congress leader Ashwin Rathod, who lost the election to Chudasama by a mere 327 votes. The petition had alleged several malpractices and irregularities in the election. The EC has now appointed Umesh Sinha, secretary-general at the Election Commission, to head the panel along with Chandra Bhushan Kumar, deputy election commissioner and Vijay Pandey, director, law, to examine the details of the judgment and present it before the Commission “at the earliest”. The Commission has also directed the Gujarat government to “initiate disciplinary action against the returning officer Dhaval Jani,” who oversaw the election. “The proceedings are underway,” states the release. The high court had also made scathing observations on the returning officer, stating that he had “allowed himself to be used as a tool” by Chudasama adding that he “obediently behaved and danced to the tunes” of the BJP minister.Meanwhile, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to expel Chudasama from the party.Questioning the Prime Minister’s “silence” on the issue, Sibal said if he was serious on ending corruption in the country, he should take strict action against the minister from his home state.“This is an example of how our governments, ministers, Election Commission are engulfed in corruption and Modi ji is silent,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-member-ec-panel-to-look-into-judgment-invalidating-gujarat-bjp-minister-s-election-win/story-nfx9oh7qS9qx8QwXZL43TP.html
13-05-2020||India||‘This summer is unusual with no major heatwaves, say meteorologists||With no major heat waves recorded in the core zones so far and “excess rainfall” across the country, this summer is turning out to be unusual, say meteorologists.Summer sets in March in the core heat wave zones of the north, central and east India, and intensifies in April and May until the first week of June, when the monsoon winds arrive. Apart from the northern and eastern plains, central India’s Vidarbha-Marathwada region, Gujarat, and parts of southern India in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are known as core heat wave zones, where temperatures rise above 45 degrees Celsius.In western Rajasthan, the maximum temperature even crosses the half-century mark.The IMD predicted above normal temperatures in core heat wave zones this summer. However, the temperature has not peaked to that level yet.Instead, India received 25 per cent excess rainfall between March 1 and May 11, according to the India Meteorological Department.O P Sreejith, a senior scientist with the Long Range Forecast unit of IMD in Pune, said March recorded 47 per cent more rainfall than normal and April saw 8 per cent more.“This is not a usual phenomenon,” said IMD Director-General Mrutunjay Mohapatra.Mahesh Palawat, the vice president of private forecaster Skymet Weather, said there are usually two instances of heat waves in April.The IMD declares a heat wave when temperatures rise 5-6 degrees Celsius above normal. If it is above 7 degrees Celsius than normal, the IMD declares a severe heat wave.Sathi Devi, head of the National Weather Forecasting Centre of the IMD, said there was one heat wave in Gujarat in April but it was not widespread.This month, temperature in parts of Rajasthan rose above 40 but a western disturbance brought rains and pulled the mercury down again.Devi attributed the lower temperatures in the northern plains to the frequent western disturbances that brought rain and thunderstorms.A western disturbance is a cyclonic storm originating in the Mediterranean and traversing across the central Asia. When it comes in contact with the Himalayas, it brings rain to the plains and hills. This is a crucial phenomenon in the winters.Devi said parts of east and south India have also been witnessing thunderstorm activities which have kept the temperatures below the normal.May has seen two western disturbances. Another one is expected later this week.“But the temperature could rise after May 16,” Skymet’s Palawat cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-summer-is-unusual-with-no-major-heatwaves-say-meteorologists/story-euOrmESuIh2jLpYlX39kxJ.html
13-05-2020||India||FAC to power ministry: Is Dibang hydropower project financially viable?||New Delhi: The environment ministry’s Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) has deferred its decision on granting forest clearance to two controversial projects --- the 3,097 MW Etalin Hydropower Project in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley, and the exploration of Uranium in Telangana’s Amrabad Tiger Reserve by Atomic Minerals Directorate for Exploration and Research.A FAC subcommittee report on April 21 recommended that the Etalin Hydroelectric Project, which will involve clearing 270,000 trees be allowed with a condition that the developer deposits money for wildlife conservation in the area, as first reported by HT. The FAC met on April 23 to take a call on it. According to the minutes of FAC’s meeting on April 23, which were finally uploaded on the Parivesh website late on Monday, FAC has sought comments from the power ministry on the Etalin Hydropower Project in view of the following: the project is delayed by six years and the country’s energy plan may have changed during the period; a large number of hydro-electric projects are pending due to environmental and forest clearance concerns; and the tariff structure of the project was already high when proposed in 2014.FAC has asked the power ministry to comment whether the project is viable in its current form. “It may be clarified that the ministry of power wishes to consider the project for approval in its present form or some other decision on the project has been taken,” the minutes said.FAC also directed Arunachal Pradesh to submit a cost-benefit analysis of the project and to review if trees marked for felling can be left as is because of high diversity of bird species supported by them. FAC asked the impact assessment division of the environment ministry to check if the environmental impact of the project has been assessed and sought inputs from the National Tiger Conservation Authority on this.However, the FAC panel accepted the findings of a controversial Wildlife Institute of India study titled “Wildlife Conservation Plan for Impact Zone of Etalin HEP” and said its findings need to be implemented.Earlier this month, several scientists and wildlife biologists wrote to FAC, warning about the massive loss of biodiversity if Etalin Hydropower Project were allowed to come up. The Idu Mishmi community from various parts of Dibang Valley have also opposed the Etalin project.Twenty-six scientists from 16 scientific institutions in a 58-page peer review of the WII study also flagged that the report has several “scientific biases” and doesn’t reflect a true picture of the biodiversity of Dibang Valley, where the Etalin Hydropower Project of 3,097 MW is planned.But FAC said the representations it got are all similar in content and add no new “scientific, economic or sociological evidence.” “We are shocked to see that the FAC has accepted ‘in toto’ the report of WII by accepting the recommendations of its subcommittee. Besides the seriously problematic parts of the report which our peer review points out, the decision that was based on this study does not even meet the basic mandate prescribed by the FAC in its earlier meetings. It is a truncated study of a few months instead of a ‘multiple seasonal replicate study’. Multiple reports indicate that this is both ecologically destructive and a techno-economically questionable project. From my study, I found that there are also serious threats to human well-being from natural hazards that cannot be stopped by such hydro-electric projects,” said Chintan Sheth, former research fellow with National Centre for Biological Sciences who was part of the peer-review.The Etalin Hydropower Project will involve clearing of at least 270,000 trees in subtropical evergreen and rain forests and in a vital tiger area according to FAC’s own fact sheet.The project is proposed to be developed by Etalin Hydro Electric Power Company Limited, a joint venture of Hydro Power Development Corporation of Arunachal Pradesh Limited and Jindal Power Limited (JPL). The total cost of the project is about Rs 25,296.95 crore, according to the FAC fact sheet. A senior executive of JPL said the company didn’t want to comment because the matter is being considered by the government.“People who are opposing the project are from other districts of Arunachal Pradesh. Land acquisition of the project is complete but we haven’t received compensation yet. Over 250 families here don’t have basic facilities like healthcare and education. Why is the government delaying this important project? It’s a source of revenue for Arunachal Pradesh. Researchers and NGOs have delayed it for six years,” said Rohit Mele, Project Affected People Forum.On the uranium exploration in Amrabad Tiger Reserve, FAC said it wants a clear view from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fac-to-power-ministry-is-dibang-hydropower-project-financially-viable/story-qmDFONKnHEBrCIi74wZyHK.html
13-05-2020||India||Assam to quarantine all returnees||Assam government on Tuesday stated that while all passengers returning by trains to the state will have to undergo mandatory quarantine for 9 to 14 days, only those who show symptoms for Covid-19 will be tested.“As per Centre’s guidelines, samples of only those symptomatic for Covid-19 will be collected and tested. But everyone coming back will have to undergo quarantine for 9 to 14 days,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.Earlier, Assam government had decided to test all passengers coming to the state, but with trains starting to bring back passengers in thousands, the strategy has been changed as per Centre’s directives.“Earlier we were dealing with very few cases. But the scenario has changed from Tuesday. It will be impossible to test thousands of passengers returning by trains as it will take many days to get results,” Sarma said.The first train carrying nearly 1000 passengers from Delhi to Dibrugarh in Assam will reach its destination on Wednesday. The service will continue daily for another week bringing back nearly 7,000 passengers. The state government has also requested five trains from Indian Railways to bring nearly 10,000 workers from various places in South India and West India.Passengers arriving by trains will be screened at railways stations. While those showing symptoms for Covid-19 will be taken to hospitals, others will be taken by buses to their home districts where they will be placed in facility quarantine.After completion of 9 to 14 days, the passengers will be placed under home quarantine along with other family members. Committees will be formed in each block and village to ensure compliance of home quarantine guidelines.“We have asked all 33 districts to set up quarantine facilities for 2,000-2,500 persons each. But if the number of returnees keeps increasing, we might have to set up quarantine facilities in each of the 126 assembly constituencies in the state,” Sarma said.From May 4 till May 12, a total of 3,597 persons stranded in other parts of the country had arrived in Assam by road using own vehicles and buses. Likewise, 3,507 persons stranded in other states in northeast had returned to the state.“Test results of these persons are still coming. Most of the results, except one, have tested negative and these persons would soon be released from facility quarantine,” Sarma said.Till Tuesday, a total of 65 Covid-19 positive cases have been detected in Assam. While two patients have died, 40 have recovered, 23 others are recovering in various hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-quarantine-all-returnees/story-C21ZkT4VwynxOarGKEcwrO.html
13-05-2020||India||Sentence Review Board recommends release of Manu Sharma||Manu Sharma, serving a life term after being convicted of the murder of model Jessica Lal in 1999, may soon be released if Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal accepts a recommendation by the Sentence Review Board (SRB), multiple government officials aware of the matter said.The seven-member SRB met on Monday to decide on the release of 34 convicts, including Sharma, who are all eligible for early release. The board’s recommendation has been sent to Baijal, who will either approve or reject it, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity.Any convict -- barring one found guilty of heinous crimes such as rape and murder, murder and robbery, murder in cases of terrorism and murder while out on parole -- who has completed 14 years in prison without remission is eligible for early release.Senior officers in Tihar jail, where Sharma is currently lodged, or those in the Delhi government refused to comment on the development. Sharma’s lawyer Amit Sahni said:” There is no official communication on the release. But I have learnt from the media that the SRB has recommended his release.” In November 2019, Sahni approached the Delhi high court seeking Sharma’s release. In his plea, he said that despite spending 23 years in jail (with remission added), and a record of good conduct in prison, the SRB denied his client’s release on four separate occasions in an “unfair and unlawful manner.” Remission is when a prisoner displays good conduct in prison, his/her sentence is reduced. While Sharma has served around 16 years of actual sentencing, he has completed 23 years with remission. The Delhi high court asked the board to consider Sharma’s case for release in its next board meeting, which took place on Monday. The government officials cited above said the SRB met on Monday afternoon at the Delhi Secretariat and discussed the cases of 34 prisoners for early release. The board consists of the state home minister, who is its chairman, and the prison’s director-general, state home secretary, state law secretary, a district judge, the government’s chief probationary officer and a joint commissioner-rank officer of the Delhi Police.Siddharth Vashishta,43, better known by his alias Manu Sharma, shot dead model Jessica Lal, who was tending an unlicensed bar at a private party on April 30, 1999, after she refused to serve him a drink well past midnight. He is the son of Haryana politician Venod Sharma. Sharma’s acquittal by a city court in February 2006 triggered protests across the country, after which the Delhi high court took up the case. The high court reversed the order, saying the lower court ignored or misread material evidence. Sharma was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment in December 2006. The Supreme Court upheld the order in 2010.Responding to the board’s decision to release Sharma, Lal’s sister Sabrina Lal on Tuesday said she had forgiven Sharma. “It has been 21 years [since the incident]. My fight was always for justice. He has served time for what he did. Now if he is free, it does not bother me much. It is fine. There comes a time, when we have to move on. I have clearly moved on. One can only hope that he(Sharma) does not ever repeat what he did 21 years ago.” Prison officials said Sharma’s work inside the prison helped his case for release. He runs a non-government organisation, Siddhartha Vashishta Charitable Trust, that started working in Tihar around eight years ago, and has funded the education of the children of prison inmates. The NGO has also worked towards the rehabilitation of families of underprivileged prisoners. Sharma was transferred in 2018 to the “open prison”, which many officials believed was the penultimate step before his release. Open jail inmates are allowed to step out of prison every morning, work during the day and return in the evening.“The government found him fit to be lodged in open jail two years ago. They considered him a reformed man and sent him outside to work every day. And yet they weren’t releasing him in the SRB board meeting. Considering the media frenzy in the case, it’s a bold yet practical and just decision by the SRB to release him. We hope Manu continues his humanitarian work in the prison,” said a jail officer who did not wish to be named.Another prisoner whose case was put up for premature release before the sentence review board was Santosh Singh, convicted of the murder of Delhi University student Priyadarshini Mattoo on January 23, 2006. No office commented on what the board decided on Singh’s case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sentence-review-board-recommends-release-of-manu-sharma/story-wnoyLB9Q4afdqXkwyPiwzJ.html
13-05-2020||India||2G net services restored in Kashmir||Low-speed 2G internet services were restored across the Kashmir Valley on Tuesday six days after they were suspended along with pre-paid mobile phones in view of the anti-insurgency operation in which top Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riyaz Naikoo was killed along with an aide in Pulwama.The prepaid mobile phones were restored on Friday, but the 2G services continued to remain suspended. Principal Secretary (home) Shaleen Kabra issued an order for the restoration of internet mobile services in Kashmir on Tuesday. The high-speed 4G internet services have remained suspended since telecom services were restored in Jammu & Kashmir in phases. A communications blackout was imposed in the region in August last year when Jammu & Kashmir was divested of its special status.The Supreme Court on Monday tasked a high-level committee of civil servants with deciding on the restoration of 4G mobile internet, responding to a petition that argued the absence of high-speed connectivity had hindered access to the latest information and advisories about Covid-19.Authorities have repeatedly snapped mobile internet services whenever there have been gunbattles between militants and security forces.Officials were anticipating attacks on security forces on 17th of Ramzan that marks the anniversary of the battle of Badr in which a few hundred Muslims led by the Prophet defeated much-powerful opponents in the 7th century Arabia, according to people aware of the matter. Last year also, there were similar reports about the possibility of attacks around the same time. The people said it was decided last week that 2G services will be restored after the 17th of Ramzan passes off peacefully. Since the day passed off peacefully, the services were restored on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2g-net-services-restored-in-kashmir/story-gXa3obS7BKdOXSCSWsi4tI.html
13-05-2020||India||Relief and apprehension among the homebound||Over 8,000 thousand passengers travelled to different destinations on Tuesday as the Indian railways resumed its passenger services after over one and a half months of stoppage owing to the Covid-19 lockdown in the country . HT talks some of the people who took a train journey on the first day of the resumption of rail services. PatnaDhiraj Kumar Jaiswal, a supervisor at a private company at Ghaziabad, was among those travelling back to Delhi with six members of his family including his two children, wife and two relatives.“With offices opening, I have no alternative but to return,” said Jaiswal, who has a masters degree in Business Administration. Jaiswal, 38, stranded at his Patna City home after he came for Holi, and then could not leave when train services were stopped on March 23 midnight. “It was a tough period. I came for Holi festival and got stuck up due to lockdown,” he said. Asked if the company paid him for the period, he said, “I have to check my salary once I reach Delhi. My mobile was also not working.”DehradunOmkar Singh, 20, from Champawat district, was working at a hotel in Vadodara. Singh reached Uttarakhand and was working in Gujarat for two years. “We did not get our salary for the past three months and still had to pay for my accommodation and food expenses. Two years ago, I went to Gujarat empty-handed and now, after two years, I have returned home the same way. I had to face many difficulties to return home, but it finally feels that the situation might improve a little because at least I will be home,” said Singh, after reaching Katgodam railway station in Uttarakhand at 11.30 p.m on Monday night from Surat in Gujarat.KolkataPB Verma, 80, and his wife, Prema Verma, had come to Kolkata to stay with their son, Umesh, a senior employee in a nationalised bank. They could not go back because of the lockdown. On Tuesday, they boarded the special train from Kolkata to Delhi and left for their home in Allahabad (which is on the Kolkata-Delhi train route).“We have a house at Allahabad and had come here to stay with our son during Holi. We were supposed to leave in the last week of April. But we got stuck. Today, I am relieved that I am going back home. But I am also apprehensive as Covid-19 is spreading fast and I am travelling in a train with hundreds of other passengers,” said Verma.MumbaiNafees Mohammed, 55, travelled from Khopoli in Maharashtra,was on his way from Mumbai to New Delhi. Nafees, who works on a construction site, travelled along with four other co-passengers from Khopoli to Mumbai railway station in a taxi. He arrived three hours before departure of the train Mumbai.“I have come along with people who used to work with me. We have been stuck for 50 days and have no way to go. There are limited sources available in Khopoli and I can’t wait to reach Delhi and meet my children. We suffered a lot for 50 days and had little money to commute.” Nafees said.JammuJaved Ahmed, 55, with his two brothers, reached Jammu Tawi railway station on Tuesday afternoon from Goa, where he runs a shop of Kashmiri jewellery and trinkets. They decided to return as tourism in Goa is unlikely to pick up in the coming months.“We three brothers are heading home to Srinagar. We have been running a shop in Goa for the past 18 years but now we have to leave. We are happy that they we will reach home soon. We may have to spend a few days in quarantine but that it is not an issue,” said Ahmed. He is not optimistic about his prospects in Goa. “If the situation improves across the world, especially in Europe, then only Goa tourism has a chance,” Javed, who departed on a Shramik Special train to Udhampur, said.AmritsarRameshwar Parshad Bharadwaj, 24, was worried about his old parents and that was why he wanted to return to Bihar from Amritsar. He, along with his wife and three children, left for his home on a Shramik Express train on Tuesday evening. The train was going to Janjgir Champa in Bihar. He said he has been coming to Punjab every year for the past eight years to work in brick kilns. “Although the work stopped since the lockdown was imposed, we were getting everything necessary to live. We were concerned about my parents at home,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relief-and-apprehension-among-the-homebound/story-GXApzea6CXndrovfBBIUNK.html
13-05-2020||India||8,000 passengers in 8 trains on Day 1 of railway reboot||Indian Railways resumed its passenger services after a gap of nearly two months on Tuesday with eight air-conditioned trains carrying a total of 8,121 people leaving for their destinations across the country, according to the railway ministry. While three of them left for Bilaspur (Chhattisgarh), Dibrugarh (Assam) and Bengaluru (Karnataka) from Delhi, the others began their journeys to the national capital from Howrah (West Bengal), Rajendra Nagar (Bihar), Mumbai Central (Maharashtra), Ahmedabad (Gujarat) and Bengaluru.Railways also reported 169,039 passenger bookings in 24 hours, after the online selling of tickets began at 6pm on Monday. Officials are accepting bookings up to seven days in advance for the 15 pairs of special trains the government has announced to resume passenger services. “After an unprecedented temporary suspension of passenger train services to curb the spread of Covid-19, New Delhi-Bilaspur Rajdhani Superfast train becomes the first train to resume operations,” Union railway minister Piyush Goyal said, soon after the train left for Bilaspur at 4pm. These premium passenger trains, which have a fare structure similar to that of Rajdhani trains, carried about 1,000 people each. They are being run in addition to Shramik Special services that are ferrying migrant workers stuck in different parts of India due to the lockdown to their destinations.The railways also said a total of 575 Shramik Special trains operated with 680,000 migrants till Tuesday since the beginning of the operations on May 1. Of them, 463 trains have reached their destinations and 112 are in transit, according to the ministry.The stations that resumed passenger services on Tuesday sprang back to life momentarily, though the usual rush and crowd were replaced by people standing in queues while wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Services have been suspended since March 22.In line with federal guidelines, passengers were allowed entry at stations only if they had valid tickets, and had to undergo thermal screening and use hand sanitizer before boarding the trains. The guidelines asked passengers to arrive at stations at least 90 minutes before their journeys to clear all formalities.At least two states, Jammu and Kashmir and Assam, announced that they will quarantine passengers arriving on the special trains.“All passengers arriving by trains or any other means in the UT (Union Territory) of Jammu and Kashmir shall be 100% tested using RT PCR (Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction) method…all such passengers will be put into mandatory quarantine till test results come out negative,” the UT’s guidelines said.The Assam government, too, made a similar announcement. “...everyone coming back will have to undergo facility quarantine for nine to 14 days,” state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. “...It will be impossible to test thousands of passengers returning by trains as it will take many days to get results.”According to the central guidelines, passengers will have to follow the health protocols put in place by the destination state/Union Territory on arrival.“It is up to the states to quarantine the passengers upon reaching depending on their guidelines,” a railway ministry official said.The Delhi government issued guidelines saying passengers reaching New Delhi will be allowed to go home, or to their destinations, if they do not have symptoms of the coronanvirus disease. “The persons who are found mild symptomatic shall be informed about self/home quarantine protocols,” the city-state’s guidelines said. Despite the government’s guidelines allowing passengers to travel to stations in their vehicles if have their tickets with them, there was confusion among some passengers.On Tuesday, the government said only those with confirmed tickets should proceed to railway stations along with a driver. “Police /security agencies would not be permitting anyone else,” the railway ministry said. Laveesh Chandan, 35, said: “I have to travel to Jammu (from Delhi) to get my family back, and have a train to Delhi the next day (May 14). There is no clarity on whether interstate taxi movement will be allowed since I am in Faridabad (Haryana), where the border is sealed.”“The other concern is even if I arrange a private car through a friend to drop me, and assuming that we are allowed to cross the border with my ticket, how will he return without a pass?” The passenger trains will connect New Delhi with Dibrugarh (Assam), Agartala (Tripura), Howrah (West Bengal), Patna (Bihar), Bilaspur (Chhattisgarh), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Bhubaneswar (Odisha), Secunderabad (Telangana), Bengaluru (Karnataka), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Thiruvananthapuram (Kerala), Madgaon (Goa), Mumbai Central (Maharashtra), Ahmedabad (Gujarat) and Jammu Tawi (Jammu and Kashmir).As passengers who managed to book their tickets heaved a sigh of relief, there were concerns too over the running of these trains.Anand Kumar, a resident of Darbhanga in Bihar, appeared relieved. “I have a business in Noida and got stuck at my home after I came here on March 18,” said Kumar, who was one of the 1,060 passengers who boarded the train to Delhi from Rajendra Nagar in Patna. He travelled to the station from Darbhanga after getting approval from district authorities.But Kerala said it was not ideal to travel in air-conditioned coaches during the outbreak of an infectious disease, and asked the railway ministry to deploy non-AC compartments for long-distance travel.“Health experts have warned that a closed environment is ideal for the virus to spread. We have asked the railways to deploy non-AC coaches,” chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.(With state inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/169k-bookings-in-first-24-hrs-as-rail-passenger-service-resumes/story-CKrnK0UHL6vRnwL6JzspyK.html
13-05-2020||India||India losing almost a million under-5 children annually: Study||Even as the under 5 mortality rate (U5MR) in India has reduced by almost 50% in the past two decades, the country is still losing at least a million children annually before they reach their fifth birthday.Of these, half a million children die within 28 days of being born (neonatal mortality) primarily due to lower respiratory tract infection, pre-term birth and diarrhoeal diseases, show recent papers published in The Lancet.“U5MR in India reduced by 49% from 83 in 2000 to 42 per 1000 live births in 2017, and neonatal mortality rate (NMR) reduced by 38% from 38 to 23 per 1000 live births during this period. There were 1.04 million under-5 deaths in India in 2017, of which 0.57 million were neonatal deaths, down from 2.24 million under-5 deaths including 1.02 million neonatal deaths in 2000,” says the study published on Tuesday.Air pollution is also found to have killed about 9% of the under-5 children in 2017 when data for the papers was collated.The two papers on child survival are published under the India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative, and have the first comprehensive estimates of district-level trends of child mortality in India from 2000.“It is not like we have not made any gains in the past 20 years. We have. In fact, neonatal mortality rate has reduced by 38% during these years and same goes for under-5 mortality rate that has seen nearly 50% reduction. The government has been focusing a lot on maternal and child care, and we are seeing results,” said Dr Rakhi Dandona, Public Health Foundation of India, one of the lead authors of the study.“However, what this study also shows is that India now needs to have an area-specific plan in place to reduce child deaths as no two states have the same problem and that is why the solution that worked in one state may not work in another. The study has in detail mentioned the risks and other issues that individual states face, and solutions will have to be created accordingly,” she added.Although the child mortality and child growth failure indicators have improved substantially across India from 2000 to 2017, the inequality between districts has increased within many states, and there are wide variations between the districts of India.“There is a silver lining to finding variations within states as it assures that the government is willing to work and has found appropriate solutions to problems they face at the local level, and one district improving exceedingly well means there are workable solutions that can be implemented in other districts, and because it’s the same state, could show similar results,” she said.Uttar Pradesh and Bihar continue to lag behind. The highest number of under-5 deaths in 2017 was in Uttar Pradesh (312,800 which included 165,800 neonatal deaths) followed by Bihar (141,500 which included 75,300 neonatal deaths).The NMR is a bigger concern for India as almost 60% districts need higher NMR reduction to individually meet the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) targets. The SDGs are a collection of 17 global goals designed to be a blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all. The SDGs were set in 2015 by the United Nations General Assembly, and intended to be achieved by 2030.As per the global SDG target, NMR has to be brought down to 12 per 1000 live births universally by 2030. India’s current NMR remains around 23 per 1000 live births.“Given the inequalities in the burden and reductions in neonatal mortality across Indian districts, a more granular approach at the district level to determine the strategies for improving newborn survival is needed. Without doubt, continuum of care has to be the pivot around which newborn and child survival strategies must revolve but to homogenize all continuum of care strategies and move them all in tandem is a challenge given the varied implementation capacities of states and districts. We must continue to strive to saturate the continuum of care strategies not only in quantity but also in quality. But in regions with high mortality burden, prioritised interventions should be the focus in the short term along with the holistic continuum of care interventions,” said Dr Siddartha Ramji, professor of pediatrics and neonatology, Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi.The top three causes of neonatal mortality continue to remain preterm birth, birth asphyxia (suffocation) and trauma, and lower respiratory infections, followed by congenital birth defects.The top three causes of under-5 mortality have been lower respiratory infections, preterm birth, and diarrhoeal diseases, followed by birth asphyxia and trauma.Experts said nutrition for prospective mothers is crucial. “The nutritional status of young girls is very important as they are going to be future mothers and they need adequate nourishment to avoid complications later on during pregnancy. If not during adolescence, they should at least start taking balanced meals once they get married. It helps to have a well-nourished body before one conceives. As we have seen, by the time women know they are pregnant, and access medical care, it is already about 10 weeks, and by then the cells of the baby have formed. Chances of complications are high in malnourished pregnant woman and the newborn is likely to be malnourished too,” said Dr Hemalatha R, director, National Institute of Nutrition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-losing-almost-a-million-under-5-children-annually-study/story-UpyB00QmJkopbmPzpJpDeM.html
13-05-2020||India||Aarogya Setu App a must for rail travel||It is mandatory for passengers to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones before commencing their train journey, the railway ministry said on Tuesday as services connecting 15 destinations with New Delhi resumed, reversing an earlier guideline. In guidelines for the resumption of passenger train services issued on Monday, the ministry said it advised passengers to download the Covid-19 tracking app. But in a subsequent tweet at midnight, the ministry said: ”It is mandatory for passengers to download Aarogya Setu app in their mobile phones, before commencing their journey.” According to officials aware of the development, a direction to the effect was issued by the home ministry after Prime Minister Narendra Modi met state chief ministers in a video conference on Monday. The rationale, the officials said, was to ensure that only asymptomatic people board the trains. “It is assumed that those who are booking tickets for Rajdhani (Express) fares will be carrying smartphones,” an official said, requesting anonymity.Many questioned the feasibility of implementing the guideline at railway stations, also noting that not all passengers may be carrying smartphones. According to another senior official who did not want to be named, passengers were screened at the entry of the railway stations on Tuesday and most had downloaded the app. But those who had not and did not show symptoms of the disease were also allowed to board the trains. “At the station, passengers were going through thermal screening and we were checking all their symptoms; even those who did not have the app and turned out asymptomatic were not stopped,” the official said. A similar instruction mandating the app may also be issued for passengers boarding flights when they resume, according to draft standard operating procedures sent by the civil aviation ministry to airlines and airport operators for feedback. The Centre has also mandated the app for Indians who are being evacuated from abroad. Passengers coming to Delhi by trains do not need to be quarantined if they are asymptomatic or mandatorily download the app, guidelines issued by the Delhi government said. They will be allowed to go home and requested to download the app “if possible”, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aarogya-setu-app-a-must-for-rail-travel/story-aDz06DoqJLgGA5vMpjzrUN.html
13-05-2020||India||Stuck at Delhi airport for 55 days, German man leaves for Amsterdam||A 40-year-old German, who lived in the transit area of Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport for 55 days as he could not fly out amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown, left for Amsterdam on Tuesday in a special relief flight after turning down offers to be taken to his home country, officials said.HT reported on Monday that Ziebat was living at the airport since March 18 after he arrived in New Delhi from Hanoi as a transit passenger on his way to Istanbul. March 18 was the day India banned all flights to Turkey to contain the spread of Covid-19. Four days later, India stopped all international flights.Before he flew out of Delhi at 3am on Tuesday, Zeibat was screened for Covid-19 and did not show any symptoms. He was recently served a “Leave India” notice by authorities. In the paperwork before taking the flight with 291 other people, Ziebat mentioned Terminal 3 as his house in India and the Indira Gandhi International airport as the place of his stay in the country, an airport official said on condition of anonymity.Another senior official of the Delhi airport said Ziebart told them on Monday he planned to leave India as soon as a flight was available. “Around 3am, he boarded Flight KL872. There were total 292 passengers onboard that flight. It was a special flight being operated from Delhi to Amsterdam. Because he was eligible to go to Europe, he was allowed to leave. His tickets cost him around Rs 43,000. He paid for his tickets on his own,” he added, asking not to be named.In his self-reporting form, which has been mandated by the ministry of health and family welfare for all international passengers, Ziebart mentioned Terminal 3 as his house and Delhi’s IGI Airport as his place of stay in India. His body temperature was checked and he told the medical staff that he did not have fever, coughing or any respiratory disorder, the officer added.An airport official earlier indicated that Ziebat, who has not applied for an Indian visa, was unlikely to get one even if he did because of a prior criminal record in Germany.A spokesperson for the German embassy in New Delhi told HT on Monday that Ziebat was offered a passage back to Germany, but he declined the offer.Another airport official said Ziebat was issued a “Leave India” notice and “he was asked to make arrangements for his departure from the country.” The notice was served because an international passenger can normally stay in transit for just one day according to Indian laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stuck-at-delhi-airport-for-55-days-german-man-leaves-for-amsterdam/story-Ql7W40huc84MpONmWW4DmJ.html
13-05-2020||India||Bengal transfers its health secretary||The West Bengal government has shifted health secretary Vivek Kumar from his post against the backdrop of a controversy over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis. Kumar is the second top bureaucrat to be transferred after food and supplies secretary Manoj Kumar Agarwal, who was sent on “compulsory wait” amid allegations of malpractices in the public distribution system.In a notification issued on Monday night, the government transferred Kumar to the environment department as principal secretary. Narayan Swaroop Nigam, the transport secretary, will take charge of the health and family welfare department in his place.Following this move, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the principal opposition to the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress, criticised the Mamata Banerjee government and alleged Kumar had been made a scapegoat.“This is called passing the blame on to someone else. Why was Kumar removed when chief minister Mamata Banerjee is also the health minister? She should have admitted her own mistakes. Owning up mistakes does not belittle anyone,” the BJP national general secretary and head of the party’s West Bengal unit, Kailash Vijayvargiya, tweeted. Anirban Ganguly, a member of BJP’s central policy research wing, tweeted: “Having abdicated her responsibilities as Health Minister @MamataOfficial makes her Health Secretary Vivek Kumar the scapegoat.”Arjun Singh, the BJP’s Lok Sabha MP from Barrackpore, wrote, “Didi continues to give competition to Tughlaq and beat him hands down. Principal Secretary Health and family welfare dept. Shri Vivek Kumar, has been transferred as he failed in covering up the lies of WBgov, as was ordered by his boss @MamataOfficial.”Trinamool Congress spokesperson Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, a Lok Sabha member and doctor by profession, rubbished BJP’s allegations. “It must have been a routine transfer because there is no question of deficiency, negligence, and poor performance on the part of the health department. Our health department is doing better than many other states on multiple parameters.” Some other officials in the state health department said Kumar had fallen out with the state government on a number of issues, including the mechanism for reporting daily updates on the Covid-19 situation.West Bengal has been criticised by the Union government and all opposition parties in the state for its handling of the pandemic, including lack of proper supplies for hospitals and frontline medical staff, alleged fudging of data, low testing rate and high mortality rate.The food secretary was removed in April amid widespread allegations of mismanagement in the public distribution system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-transfers-its-health-secretary/story-gYa7YkzyiVLO0hwTyV54dK.html
13-05-2020||India||Terrorists may exploit stimulus: FATF report||The global money-laundering and terrorist financing watchdog has warned that the stimulus measures and international financial assistance announced by various countries to mitigate the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic are likely to be exploited by terrorists and criminals by posing as genuine businesses seeking assistance.In a report released last week, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) cautioned that terrorists and criminals will use this economic downturn to move to new cash-incentive and high-liquidity lines of business in developing countries – both for laundering of proceeds as well as funding their terror operations.“In an economic downturn, criminals may seek to invest in real estate or troubled businesses to generate cash and mask illicit proceeds. Criminal groups can also introduce illicit proceeds into the financial system by restructuring existing loans and lines of credit. In addition, corporate insolvency proceedings can free up illicit cash contained in businesses whilst masking the funds’ origins,” FATF said in the first such report since the pandemic forced worldwide shutdowns in February-March this year.The report said FATF members have highlighted that tax evasion and related crimes may increase as individuals and companies facing economic difficulties look to reduce their fiscal burdens.Many countries are reporting an overall increase in cash withdrawals, which FATF said is likely to be used by criminals/terrorists to cover their illicit funds with “redeposit funds” when the markets stabilise. “Banknotes can be used to purchase safe-haven assets (e.g. gold), which are less easily traceable,” the report said.It added some of the countries have also reported an increase in fund-raising scams involving criminals, who have posed as international organisations or charities and circulated emails requesting donations for Covid-19 related fund-raising campaign (purportedly for research, victims and/or products).The FATF said the health crisis is also impacting the abilities of governments and private sectors in implementing anti-money laundering measure as well as international cooperation. Formal cooperation, such as mutual legal assistance and extraditions, are already impacted by the crisis due to limitation or suspension of court operations, and the delayed execution of orders caused by travel restrictions.The anti-money laundering/counter-terror financing (AML/CFT) on-site inspections have been postponed or substituted with desk-based inspections. Pakistan last month got a four-month reprieve for meeting a deadline set by the FATF to counter terror financing as the multilateral watchdog announced a temporary suspension of its activities because of the Covid-19 crisis.Several countries, according to report, have even suspended their decisions to impose monetary penalties on the violators. In fact, some Financial Intelligence Units in lower capacity countries are either significantly “reducing their operations” or even “shutting down completely”, the report said. There are also reports of delay or postponement of prosecutions due to the suspension of trials and hearings.“There are reports that diversion of law enforcement and security resources to Covid-19 responses in high-risk, poorly resourced countries, may embolden terrorists and terrorist financiers in their activities,” the FATF said.While banks worldwide are trying to follow anti-money laundering measures, several countries have flagged an increased activity in non-banking sectors like insurance, online gambling, precious metals, and stones and securities amid a decreased activity in others like real estate and casinos.The movement of migrant workers in various countries, including India, will particularly cause disruption for the money value transfer service sector due to confinement measures and company shutdowns, (the report said?).“Should the current economic situation further deteriorate, there is a risk that financial institutions may re-prioritize their AML/CFL efforts and focus on broader prudential and stability measures,” the FATF said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-may-exploit-stimulus-fatf-report/story-S69Up0MO92xOC7CliHX7dP.html
13-05-2020||India||How can Aarogya be made mandatory, Kerala High Court asks Centre||The Kerala high court asked the Union government on Tuesday to explain how the Aarogya Setu can be made mandatory when many do not have smartphones, giving it time till May 18 to file its response and also explain how the personal data of users will be protected. The hearing pertained to a petition challenging the Union government’s notification making Aarogya Setu – a tool meant to trace the contacts of people in case they are infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) – mandatory for when people travel to offices. Since that notification, the government has also made it must for travelling in trains.“There are valid concerns about the mandatory condition on the employers. Many have no smartphones. How do you propose to implement this?,” said justice Anu Sivaraman, while also refusing to stay the order -- a request by the petitioners. “Extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures,” the judge said. The bench comprised of justices Sivaraman and MR Anitha. The counsel for the Central government said that they will place a statement on record. “A privacy protocol has been developed. It (Aarogya Setu app) has been recognised as the best app in the world fighting Covid-19 right now. Around 130 COVID-19 hotspots have been identified. Lakhs of people are downloading the app every day,” the counsel said.The Union electronics and IT ministry on Monday released a protocol, defining conditions for the access and sharing of the sensitive personal information people provide on the Aarogya Setu. The collection must be strictly for the purpose of government’s health responses, and the data can be stored for six months, the protocols said.The contact tracing app was launched on April 2 and 96 million people registered on it till Monday, according to an IT ministry official who gave the figure during the government’s daily briefing on the crisis. The app was developed by a team under the Niti Aayog and is managed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC). Last week, Thrissur district Congress Committee general secretary John Daniel moved the high court saying the Centre’s April 29 directive for office-goers to download Aarogya Setu violated the fundamental rights of citizens, and that there chances that the personal data could be misused. “We are glad the court has decided to look into the matter and has directed the government to explain based on which considerations the Aarogya Setu app was made mandatory, especially because a majority of Indians don’t have access to smartphones,” said Devdutta Mukhopadhyay, associate counsel at Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) and one of members of the petitioner’s legal team. “To make having a smartphone a precondition for accessing essential services like the railways has an exclusionary impact. There are also concerns about the technical design of the app such as its centralised model, excessive data collection and weak anonymization. Today’s hearing was focussed on practical difficulties that will arise due to Aarogya Setu being made compulsory for all employees,” she added.IFF has detailed in a working paper the privacy and security concerns with the Aarogya Setu, which can potentially lead to surveillance, and the lack of legal frameworks that can allow such a tool to be deployed in India.Representatives from the IT ministry and NIC refused to comment on the hearing on record.“The data that the Aarogya Setu handles is secure and keeping these concerns in mind, we issued the protocols for the regulation of the app yesterday. The protocols detail how that data is going to be processed and fixes accountability,” said a senior IT ministry official, who is working on the government’s response to the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-can-aarogya-be-made-mandatory-kerala-hc-asks-centre/story-pQxvF6Tb7PPXtAoVMAsGDJ.html
13-05-2020||India||‘India is deeply disappointed’; BJP, Opposition lock horns over PM Modi’s speech||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hailed Prime Minister’s Narendra Modi’s address on Tuesday even as the Congress said the country was disappointed speech because it failed to address the woes of millions of migrant workers.“20 Lakh crore package announced by PM Narendra Modi is biggest package India has ever seen. Aatmanirbharta (self reliance) is the new mantra,” Union minister Prakash Javadekar said. Shahnawaz Hussain, BJP spokesperson said Modi motivated all Indians all to work hard to make India into a global economic power.But the Congress disagreed.“Dear PM, What you said today gives the country and the media a HEADLINE. When the “blank page” is filled with “Heartfelt Help of People”, the Nation & Congress Party will respond,” Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted.“Dear PM, The mammoth heart breaking human tragedy of migrant workers walking back home needed compassion, care & safe return. India is deeply disappointed by your utter lack of empathy, sensitivity & failure to address the woes of millions of #MigrantWorkers!” he said in another tweet.Earlier, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi urged the Prime Minister to ensure safe return of lakhs of labourers to their homes and deposit at least Rs 7,500 in their accounts.He also urged the Prime Minister to announce an economic package for the small and medium industry to ensure their livelihoods.“Prime Minister ji, I request you to announce steps on the safe return of lakhs of labourer brothers and sisters, who are walking on the streets, to their homes. Along with this, to give support to them in this time of crisis, ensure direct transfer of at least Rs 7,500 to the accounts of all of them,” he tweeted in Hindi minutes before Modi’s address to the nation.The Trinamool Congress demanded more details of the package and steps for migrant labourers. The party’s Rajya Sabha party leader Derek O’ Brien said, “We saw the wrapping paper but we don’t know what’s inside the package. Because he didn’t announce the details. How will this money be raised, will the government borrow, will it raise taxes? The devil lies in the details of the package, for which we have to wait for one or two more days.”Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav dubbed the speech unfortunate and said the speech should have had addressed the distress of migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-oppn-lock-horns-over-pm-speech/story-CPVrCA2AAuudnpPzFC5PgJ.html
13-05-2020||India||‘Have to protect ourselves and move forward’: PM Modi on lockdown 4.0||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced that the next phase of India’s lockdown, from May 18, will be entirely new, in a new form and with new rules, to meet the twin objectives of battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as well as moving ahead to meet other national objectives.During his address to the nation on Tuesday night, the PM said, “Experts and scientists have told us that the coronavirus is here to stay in our lives for a long time. But, at the same time, we cannot let our lives revolve only around the virus. We will wear masks, we will abide by social distancing, but we will not get distracted from our goals.” This is why, the PM said, the new phase of the lockdown — lockdown 4.0 — would assume new contours and be based on new rules. “States are giving us their inputs and advice. Based on that, all details about lockdown will be provided before May 18.” He said that he had complete faith that while abiding by rules, the country would both battle the disease and move forward. The PM’s remarks came on the 49th day of the lockdown. In the first phase, which lasted till April 14, there was a blanket ban on all activities. In the second phase, till May 3, there were relaxations introduced, particularly in rural areas, and for a limited set of economic activities to resume. In the ongoing third phase, from May 4, the government — based on a categorisation of areas into red, orange and green zones and containment zones — stipulated restrictions and relaxations in varying degrees. This included opening up of offices to a limited degree. On Tuesday, the government also resumed the use of passenger train services, albeit to a limited extent on key routes.The PM announced that the lockdown will have new contours a day after his detailed discussions with chief ministers on the way forward. A majority of the CMs wanted strict enforcement of the lockdown in containment zones, while greater relaxations in other regions. The PM had said that within a broad national framework, states would take the lead in the battle now — and had asked the states to carefully study which areas they wanted to continue the lockdown in, provide inputs to the Centre by May 15, and emphasised the role of green zones in resuming economic activity. In his speech, the PM spoke about the devastation caused by the pandemic, both globally and in India and its unprecedented nature. “But getting tired, defeated and broken is not acceptable to humanity. While remaining alert, abiding by the rules of this war (against the disease), we have to both protect ourselves and move forward.” The PM highlighted how the crisis can be turned into an opportunity, highlighting how from not producing any personal protective equipment kits or barely producing any N-95 masks, India was now producing 200,000 PPE kits and N-95 masks. This, he said, was an example of how India must strive for self-reliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-to-protect-ourselves-and-move-forward-modi-on-lockdown-4-0/story-4Bnknl724WZG2VeGbsoPGM.html
13-05-2020||India||Stimulus may offer cash aid to poor, credit for industry||The federal cabinet is set to approve a comprehensive economic stimulus package on Wednesday that would offer cash support to the poor and credit guarantees to industry and contain far-reaching stimulus measures for sectors ranging from agriculture to banking and insurance, two officials aware of the development said. The effort will be aimed at transforming India beyond a potentially lucrative consumer market to one in which investors share value with its people and create jobs.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here After approval by the cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the morning, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will announce components of the economic stimulus package later in the day. Modi said in a televised address to the nation on Tuesday night that the package, together with earlier announcements made by the finance minister and the Reserve Bank of India, would be worth about Rs. 20 lakh crore, equivalent to about 10% of the nation’s output of goods and services. The Prime Minister said every Indian had to become “vocal for their local”, not only to buy local products, but also to promote them proudly “We must make the local as a mantra of our life...The global brands were sometimes also very local like this. But when people started using them, started promoting them, branding them, felt proud of them, they became global from local products,” he said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“The announcement [by PM] beats most optimistic estimates. Reflects the seriousness of the challenge and resolve of the government to make the crisis an opportunity for India,” said Nilaya Varma, co-founder and CEO of consulting firm Primus Partners.The new measures to be announced by Sitharaman are expected to cost Rs. 16 lakh crore, according to the two officials cited in the first instance, who spoke on condition that they wouldn’t be identified.Policy proposals that will be put up for cabinet approval include raising the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the insurance sector from the current 74%, reducing the government’s equity stake in public sector banks from at least the 51% it is required to maintain in them, and labour law changes, the officials said.“The purpose is to position India an as important investment destination instead of an earlier brand positioning that it is a lucrative market with 300-million strong middle-class hungry to consume. Now, this market will be accessible to those who would invest in the country, share value with its people and provide employment to its people,” one of them said.Also read| Rs 20L-cr economic package to Lockdown 4: Key points from PM’s speechBoth large and small industries will get support in terms of liquidity and working capital and the government guarantee the credit flows. The Small industries Development Bank of India (Sidbi) will be the nodal agency for routing credit to micro, small and medium enterprises, the officials said.According to them, the states will get more say on matters of economic planning and mobilising financial resources, but they will have to commit to reforms, particularly in agriculture and the power sector, in which electricity distribution companies are owed Rs 90,000 crore. Hindustan Times reported on Tuesday that a comprehensive economic stimulus package is in the works, including aggressive implementation of the Rs 111 lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP). This will also include digital infrastructure to promote online health-care and education. To augment the resources of states, the Centre is already in talks with state governments to relax provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act so that the latter can borrow money to finance the fight against Covid-19. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The FRBM Act mandates states to keep their fiscal deficit at 3% of state gross domestic product (SGDP); states want greater leeway to borrow because they are strapped for funds -- they have suffered a revenue loss from dwindling tax collections because of the lockdown.Providing food, cash and other relief to the rural poor and migrant workers will be the focus of the coming package, the officials said. While they declined to give specific details, they said the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme will be the key vehicle for giving relief to the rural poor. Varma of Primus Partners said the focus on reforms, infrastructure, systems and protecting the most vulnerable sections int the package will pay off in the form of long-term growth. “We will need to ensure general consensus on the reforms proposed so that implementation does not fall prey to politics. Also, capacity of existing institutions to quickly translate this vision to action on the ground will be the key as well as focus on outcome and not mere spending,” Varma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stimulus-may-offer-cash-aid-to-poor-credit-for-industry/story-rpRbAnm5NhENABKfQ9ps5I.html
13-05-2020||India||Delhi records 13 deaths in biggest single-day spike; toll reaches 86||With 13 deaths, Delhi recorded highest number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) deaths in a single day on Tuesday, which took the total toll in the city state to 86. The highest single-day Covid-19 toll so far was six deaths, recorded on April 16. To be sure, not all the 13 deaths announced on Tuesday were recorded in the previous 24 hours. And it is likely that this trend could continue as Delhi reconciles its numbers with those of the hospitals, which were this week asked by the government to ensure the timely and proper reporting of all Covid-19 deaths.The bulletin also shows that with 8,431 tests done on Tuesday, the total number of tests in the city has crossed the 100,000-mark. This puts the number of tests per million in Delhi at around 5,200, the highest in India. On Tuesday, 383 people recovered from the viral infection, taking the number of recoveries to 2,512 so far in the city-state. This puts Delhi’s recovery rate at almost 33%, mirroring the national average of about 32%. All of the 13 deaths recorded on Tuesday were in Lok Nayak hospital, the city’s biggest Covid-19 treatment facility, where only five deaths were recorded since March 2 when Delhi’s first Covid-19 case was reported.These, however, were not the deaths that happened in the hospital on Tuesday, but a backlog of deaths that hadn’t been recorded in the government’s official bulletin so far. Last week, there were reports that the number of deaths recorded in the consolidated health bulletin prepared by the Delhi government did not match what doctors at these Covid-19 hospitals were saying, perceptibly due to an accounting problem.After the discrepancy came to light, an order on Monday from Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev asked all hospitals to report their deaths in a timebound manner. New standard operating procedures that were issued required all hospitals to send in their death reports, or ‘Nil’ (no deaths recorded) reports, by 5pm every day. Following this, a three-member death audit committee set up by the government would meet to review the numbers.The death audit committee was set up by the Delhi government to examine the case sheets, death summary and other documents of the deceased before declaring Covid-19 deaths in the health bulletin.“The central government and ICMR have issued detailed directions with regard to the identification and declaration of deaths where the underlying reason is Covid-19. As per this, every death has to be followed by a report sent by the hospital with a summary and a description of the underlying causes. Delhi Government has set up an independent death audit committee which studies these summaries as per these guidelines and declares the number of Covid deaths every day which is communicated by the health bulletin. We have now issued an order to ensure these reports are filed within 24 hours. The hospitals have told us that they were overwhelmed by the incoming cases and were not able to file paperwork and are now completing the same for all their cases. The first set of these reports were filed by LNJP which explains the increase in number of cases there. We are awaiting the same from other hospitals now,” the Delhi CM’s office said in a statement.According to the government health bulletin for May 12, Lok Nayak hospital has recorded a total of 18 deaths (including the 13 announced Tuesday) so far. But two doctors at the hospital, who asked not to be named, suggested the number of Covid-19 infected people who have died at the hospital was over 80.There are similar discrepancies at other hospitals too. For instance, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital has recorded 68 Covid-19 deaths so far. “Of these 51 people died in the hospital during treatment for Covid-19; the other 17 were either brought dead or died within hours of admission to the hospital. The hospital has shared the reports with the authorities concerned,” said Smriti Tiwari, the hospital’s spokesperson. The Delhi government report shows 26 deaths in the hospital.At Lady Hardinge Medical College, at least three people have died of Covid-19, according to medical director, Dr NN Mathur. The government record shows zero deaths in the hospital. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences has recorded at least 20 deaths so far, according to hospital’s medical superintendent, Dr DK Sharma. The government report shows two deaths. Along with the 13 deaths, Delhi also reported 406 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally of cases in the city-state to 7,639. This puts the doubling rate in the city at about 11 days, lower than the 13 days recorded at the beginning of the month.This is because of a spike in numbers in May with 200 to 400 cases being recorded every day. Delhi’s health minister attributed this to reports of pending samples coming in. “The doubling rate of the Covid-19 cases in Delhi has come down from 13 days to 11 days and the reason for this is several pending reports – in thousands -- are now coming back,” Jain said last week. Experts say that the doubling rate is a good metric for judging the spread of an infection in the city. “The doubling rate shows how much time it takes for the number of cases to double, which indicates the spread of the disease. We have to aim to increase this doubling rate,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.It is not just the number of cases that have gone up. The number of people in the intensive care units of the city has also more than doubled from around 50 persons at the end of April to 111 on May 12. The number of people on ventilators has gone up from just five on April 30 to 20 on May 12.“The number of people on ventilator going up does not mean that the severity of the disease is going up. We know that around 2% to 3% of those infected will develop severe symptoms and as more cases come, more people will need ventilators. But why it has not gone up proportionally is because a person on a ventilator will not recover in just seven days and go home unlike those with mild symptoms,” said Dr Kishore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-13-deaths-in-biggest-single-day-spike-toll-reaches-86/story-Fc0DYrgO72fii8QPKvUSYK.html
13-05-2020||India||India-China face-offs, aggressive behaviour along LAC due to boundary issues, says Army||After Indian and Chinese soldiers scuffled twice along the disputed border between the two countries in Sikkim and Ladakh last week, the army on Tuesday reiterated that “face-offs and aggressive behaviour occur” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China as the boundary issue has not been resolved.“Patrols disengage after local level interaction and dialogue. Temporary and short duration face-offs occur as the boundary is not resolved. Troops resolve such incidents mutually as per established protocols,” the army said in a statement. HT was the first to report on May 10 about the intensifying India-China border tensions in north Sikkim, where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during a confrontation that was later resolved. Aggressive behaviour by the two sides resulted in injuries to troops on both sides, the army said in a statement on May 10. Also read: Army confirms India-China face-off, minor injuries to both sidesScores of soldiers from the two countries also clashed near Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh last week, as reported by HT on May 11. While a few soldiers on both sides were injured in the scuffle that involved around 250 men, a flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the standoff.Chinese helicopter activity was observed across the LAC, the de facto border, on May 6 after the face-off was resolved. China sought to downplay the aggressive confrontation in north Sikkim, saying both countries should uphold peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indo-china-face-offs-aggressive-behaviour-occur-along-lac-due-to-boundary-issues-says-army/story-ADacsyptGXMlPgMvaW6wZJ.html
13-05-2020||India||India slams Kabul hospital terror strike that killed 11 mothers, 2 newborns||India on Tuesday condemned the terrorist attack at a maternity clinic in Kabul that killed 16 people including 11 mothers and 2 babies. An external ministry statement described the attack as “barbaric”.A group of terrorists had stormed a maternity hospital in western part of Kabul and opened fire. A gunfight with security forces ensued. When it ended several hours later, officials confirmed that 16 people had died and an equal number were injured.Counter-terror officials Kabul said 11 mothers and at least two newborn babies were among the dead.“Such reprehensible attacks, including on mothers, newly-born children, nurses and mourning families are appalling and constitute crimes against humanity,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement late on Tuesday evening.“The perpetrators of such heinous acts and their sponsors and supporters should be held accountable and brought to justice. They should be forced to eradicate safe havens and sanctuaries that have abetted terrorism in the region for decades and caused immense miseries to untold number of people in the region,” New Delhi said in an unusually sharp reaction, that one official said, matches the brutality of the terror strike.No one immediately claimed responsibility for the attack in Kabul, where both the Taliban and the Islamic State Khorasan Province frequently target Afghan military and security forces, as well as civilians.The Taliban denied they were involved.Counter-terror officials in Delhi and Kabul signalled they would let the investigators complete the probe before arriving at any conclusions. The Taliban had denied involvement in the March 25 Kabul gurdwara attack also. But the Afghan security forces last week busted a module being jointly run by the ISKP and the Taliban-linked Haqqani Network that has strong ties to Pakistan’s deep state. This joint module was responsible for the March 25 gurdwara attack, the Afghan forces had said.Tuesday’s attack provoked Afghanistan Ashraf Ghani to deliver a televised address to the nation that ordered security forces to end their “active defence position” and “return to offensive postures, and resume their operations against the enemy.”Also Read: What the Afghan peace deal means | OpinionWhile the firefight at Kabul’s Dasht-e-Barchi hospital was underway, a suicide bomber targeted a funeral ceremony in Nangahar province - a hotbed of the Islamic State group - killing at least 24 people and injuring 68. There was a third attack on an Army check post in Laghman province.Tuesday’s terror attacks could jeopardise a tottering peace deal signed between the United States and the Taliban in February. But the pact has not stopped attacks on Afghan security personnel and other civilian targets.In its statement, New Delhi said the holy month of Ramzan should be a period of fasting, prayer and reflection. “We call for an immediate cessation of terrorist violence and cooperation to deal with the humanitarian situation arising from the spread of coronavirus in Afghanistan,” the external affairs ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-slams-kabul-hospital-terror-strike-that-killed-11-mothers-2-newborns/story-QcY1x3g1QF2zF7s2wqwoaJ.html
13-05-2020||India||Bathinda’s hero: This cop is everyone’s favourite, fans love to draw his sketches||The Senior Superintendent of Police, Bathinda, Punjab, Nanak Singh is admired by all for being a compassionate cop. Along with his team, he is relentlessly fighting against Covid-19. Singh’s team responds to senior citizen’s calls for medical assistance, prepares and distributes food among the poor, and also feeds stray animals.The cop regularly engages with his fans on social media, and shares touching videos of his team standing by the needy. He never forgets to credit his policemen for all the hard work. As a tribute, admirers have been drawing Singh’s sketches and sending him on social media. “Such gestures make us feel special, give us the courage to keep going in this trying phase. Social media helps forge a direct connection with people which solves many problems,” says Singh.Singh’s team also created a short movie to spread awareness about the deadly virus. Dr. Nanak Singh, SSP, Bhatinda Police, says, “With everyone inside their houses locked in, a short movie was the perfect way to warn people about the virus. We showed how the police force has been functioning to curb the spread of the virus, and full cooperation of the public is needed to save lives,” he said.A hunger helpline has also been set up in the district to provide assistance to slum-dwellers, labourers and nomadic families. Singh says, “We don’t want anyone to sleep with an empty stomach. Social organisations have been asked not to distribute ration to the needy directly and instead send goods for distribution to the hunger helpline, which will ensure greater reach.”  One of the most novel ideas of Bathinda Police is an open jail for violators of the lockdown rules. These violators are kept for 7 to 8 hours at SSD School (an open jail centre) in Bathinda, and then released. Our Police ensures that these violators are taught the rules of the lockdown and how breaking them will harm their and their loved one’s health. He says, “ We avoid keeping them in real jails. This concept of open jails acts as a deterrent and make people realise their mistakes.”  Apart from surprising children with cakes on their birthdays, Bathinda Police cares for their staff too. In this scorching heat, water bottles, Vitamin C capsules and umbrellas are being distributed daily to the police personnel. “It is important that the first responders are healthy otherwise the purpose of all our drives will be defeated,” says Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bathinda-s-hero-this-cop-is-everyone-s-favourite-fans-love-to-draw-his-sketches/story-5UZE3RuJU4QOG2WB7UAKJN.html
13-05-2020||India||Aarogya Setu to cancellation charges: Things to keep in mind while travelling on IRCTC special trains||Indian Railways is gradually restarting passenger train operations from Tuesday initially with 15 pairs of trains and the first one will start from New Delhi.These trains will be run as special trains from New Delhi station connecting 15 important cities of the country—Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Trivandrum, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi.Booking for reservation on these trains started on Monday and will be available only on IRCTC website and mobile application. Booking of tickets through ‘agents’, both IRCTC and Indian Railways, shall not be allowed. There is no provision of tatkal and premium tatkal accommodation and no current booking shall be allowed either. The fare will be equivalent to the ticket fare that is charged for Rajdhani train.Here’s what you need to keep in mind before travelling:* All passengers will have to mandatorily download and use the Aarogya Setu mobile application.* Travel light as no porters will be available at stations.* Passengers will have to reach the station at least 90 minutes in advance to facilitate thermal screening.* They will have to wear masks and maintain social distancing.* Passengers won’t need a pass to reach the stations, will only need to carry tickets* For the movement of the passenger as well as the driver of the vehicle transporting them to and fro the railway station shall be allowed on the basis of the confirmed e-ticket.* No linen, blankets and curtains shall be provided inside the train.* Passengers are encouraged to carry their own food and drinking water as provision for pre-paid meal booking, e-catering has been disabled. Dry, ready-to-eat food and bottled water shall be provided on demand, inside the trains on payment basis. No catering charges shall be included in the fare.* The Maximum Advance Reservation Period (ARP) will be of maximum seven days. * Online cancellation shall be permitted up to 24 hours before the scheduled departure of the train. No cancellation permitted less than 24 hrs before the departure of the train. Cancellation charge shall be 50% of the fare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aarogya-setu-to-cancellation-charges-things-to-keep-in-mind-while-travelling-on-irctc-special-trains/story-CAoUi5GQ2uLsFjgtobbMjP.html
