14-05-2020||India||Full list of containment zones in Noida, Greater Noida as on May 14||Coronavirus containment zones in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar district, home to NCR towns of Noida and Greater Noida, have been revised on Thursday. According to the new list released by the district magistrate’s office, there are 35 containment zones in the district as on Thursday.A tweet by Noida DM says that all containment zones in Gautam Buddh Nagar districts are “de-sealed” after 21 days of sampling of the last positive case and following consultations with the state government.These zones are broadly classified into two categories depending upon the number of cases and the perimeter of containment. Areas in containment zone category 1 have one positive case and a perimeter of approximately 400 metres, while category 2 containment zones have more than one positive case and around 1km perimeter.Here’s the latest revised list of containment zones in GB Nagar as on May 14, 2020Containtment Zone Category 11. Sector 48, Noida2. Parasvnath Prestige Sector – 93 A, Noida3. Sector 122, Noida4. Village Tilapta, Greater Noida5. Village Chipyana Buzurg, Noida6. Village Salarpur, Noida7. Sector 7, Noida8. Ajnara Daffodil, Sector 137, Noida9. Village Surajpur10. Village Tugalpur11. Village Chaprauli, Sector 168 Noida12. Village Dadupur13. Jal Vayu Vihar, Greater Noida14. NCR City Village Girdharpur Near Chaprola15. Chi-II Greater Noida16. Yakubpur Noida, Sector 8317. Malakpur SurajpurFor Coronavirus Live UpdatesContainment Zone Category II1. Sector 8, Noida2. Sector 5, Noida3. Sector 9, Noida4. Sector 10, Noida5. Sector 15, Noida6. Sector 19, Noida7. Chaudra Village, Sector 22, Noida8. Sector 30, Noida9. Nithari Sector 31, Noida10. Sector 45 Noida, Village Sadarpur and Khajoor Colony11. Sector 55, Noida12. Village Mamura, Sector 66, Noida13. SKYTECH Matrott, Sector 76, Noida14. Ace Golfshire, Sector 150, Noida15. Village Bisrakh, Greater Noida16. Nat Madhiya Near CNG Pump, Greater Noida17. PI First and PI First Advocate Colony, Greater Noida18. Jonchana Jewar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-list-of-containment-zones-in-noida-greater-noida-as-on-may-14/story-OPMTohNT9QuFOjodOrNPrK.html
14-05-2020||India||India objects to Pak-China decision to construct dam||India on Thursday opposed a move by Pakistan and China to build a major hydropower plant in the Gilgit-Baltistan region, saying it has shared its concerns regarding such projects with both countries.The Pakistan government on Wednesday signed a Rs 442-billion contract with a joint venture formed by China Power and the Frontier Works Organisation (FWO), a commercial arm of the Pakistani military, for constructing the Diamer-Bhasha dam.The state-run Chinese firm has a 70% stake in the joint venture and FWO 30%. The eight million acre feet reservoir with a height of 272 metres is set to be the world’s tallest roller compact concrete (RCC) dam. Construction work on the dam is expected to begin in a couple of weeks, the Pakistani media reported.Responding to the development, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the Gilgit-Baltistan region is part of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir that was illegally occupied by Pakistan.“Our position is consistent and clear that the entire territory of the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been, are, and will continue to be an integral and inalienable part of India,” Srivastava said.“We have consistently conveyed our protest and shared concerns with both China and Pakistan on all such projects in the Indian territories under Pakistan’s illegal occupation,” he said.In the past too, India has opposed projects jointly taken up by Pakistan and China in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir as part of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-objects-to-pak-china-decision-to-construct-dam/story-iRkl4uMSvSWhF9CNdRrOKJ.html
14-05-2020||India||India committed to maintaining peace at border: Army on Sikkim face-offs||New Delhi: India on Thursday emphasised the need for peace and tranquillity along the border with China following two clashes between Indian and Chinese troops, saying such incidents occurred because of differing perceptions of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Amy chief Gen MM Naravane said Indian troops have always upheld peace and tranquillity along the frontier, and the country’s force posture would not suffer because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Indian and Chinese border troops first clashed in eastern Ladakh near Pangong Lake on May 5 and then in north Sikkim last Saturday. Several soldiers on both sides were injured in these incidents, which marked the first major flare-up along the LAC since the 73-day standoff at Doklam in 2017.“The Indian side remains committed to the objective of maintaining peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a regular news briefing via video conference.He noted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping, during their informal summits at Wuhan in 2018 and Mamallapuram in 2019, had reaffirmed both sides will continue efforts to ensure peace and tranquillity along the border. “This is essential for the overall development of the bilateral relations,” he said.Both the Indian army chief and the external affairs ministry spokesperson pointed out face-offs between border troops along LAC occurred because of differing perceptions of the alignment of boundaries that are not resolved.Navarane described the face-offs as “temporary and short” and said the two incidents resulted in minor injuries to troops following “aggressive behaviour by both sides”. The two sides also “disengaged after dialogue and interaction at [the] local level”, he said.Srivastava said such incidents could have been avoided “if we had a common perception of the LAC”. The two sides have established mechanisms to resolve such situations.The India-China border has “largely been peaceful” as a result of directions from Modi and Xi to their militaries to “earnestly implement various confidence-building measures…including the principle of mutual and equal security, and strengthen existing institutional arrangements and information-sharing mechanisms to prevent incidents in border regions”, Srivastava said.Naravane contended the two clashes were not co-related and had no connection with other global or local activities. “I can say with confidence that the development of infrastructure capabilities along our northern borders is on track. Our force posture will not suffer due to the Covid pandemic.”The Border Roads Organisation is continuing its work amid the Covid-19 pandemic to connect far-flung areas so that civilians in those locations are connected and to facilitate faster development, the army chief said.The face-off at Doklam, which was triggered by China’s efforts to build a road in territory claimed by Bhutan, took India-China relations to a fresh low. It also sparked one of the worst military stand-offs since the 1962 war, and ties returned to an even keel after the first informal summit at Wuhan in 2018. Since New Delhi’s decision to scrap Jammu & Kashmir’s special status last August, China, acting at the behest of its traditional ally Pakistan, has criticised India’s actions in Kashmir several times. China has opposed the division of the state into two union territories. These developments have affected bilateral ties. HT was the first to report on May 10 about intensifying of India-China border tensions in Sikkim, where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Scores of soldiers from the two countries clashed in Ladakh on the night of May 5-6, as reported by HT on May 11. A few soldiers from both sides were injured in the scuffle that involved around 250 men, and a flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-committed-to-maintaining-peace-at-border-army-on-sikkim-face-offs/story-VNqX5G7xOYAfx8hRyosZjN.html
14-05-2020||India||Kerala reports spurt in cases after more than a month||Thiruvananthapuram: After maintaining a tight rein for one-and-a-half months, Kerala on Thursday reported a spurt in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases with 26 new infections, the highest since March-end. Out of the 26 new cases, seven were people who had returned from West Asia and eight from other Indian states , including Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The state, which has built a track record for the highest recovery rate and lowest fatality rate ,is concerned about a further increase in the number of Covid-19 cases after the return of expats from West Asia and an influx from other Indian states. Among Gulf returnees, 22 have tested positive so far and more flights and trains are expected in the coming days. Of the 560 cases Kerala has reported since the outbreak began, 64 are in hospital undergoing treatment; 492 have been discharged. Four Covid-19 deaths have taken place so far in the state, making for a fatality rate that’s less than 1%.“The sudden spurt exposes the lurking threat. We have been insisting for a strict protocol due to this. Many questioned us when we insisted on passes for those coming from other states. It is not time to play politics,” said Vijayan, referring to three Congress MPs and two state legislators who were asked to go into quarantine.MPs Remya Haridas, T N Prathapan and V K Sreekandan and state legislators Anil Akkara and Shafi Parambhil had visited the Kerala- Tamil Nadu border checkpost on May 9 to distribute food and other essentials to people stranded there. The district medical board has asked them to stay in 14 days’ home quarantine after one man they allegedly interacted with tested positive for Covid-19. The MPs described the move as politically motivated but said they will heed the directive of the district administration.“We have given instructions not to arrange any reception to those coming to the state due to the prevailing situation. Despite this, some leaders rushed to the border post and interacted with many. This should have been avoided. It is no time to play politics,” Vijayan said.Kerala pressed the emergency button as the influx from West Asia and other Indian states began. What aggravated its concern is that, other than expatriates based in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), most of the returnees from West Asia haven’t been subjected to thorough medical tests.“It is a critical phase for the state. In last few days we had only single digit cases and some days were free of them. Social distancing, masks and hand hygiene have become part of our life. There is no escape from them now. We have to go by the directives of health officials and I am sure we will overcome this,” said the CM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-spurt-in-cases-after-more-than-a-month/story-rc8XpyX016Xx8BysKdYjRP.html
14-05-2020||India||Maha cases cross 27k in highest 1-day spike||Mumbai Maharashtra recorded 1,602 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, the state’s highest one-day spike for a second consecutive day, according to official figures released by the government. With the latest increase, the state’s case tally has crossed the 27,000 mark within 14 of going past 10,000 on April 30. Maharasthra’s case count stands at 27,524. Of these, 20,441 are active cases, state health officials said. On Wednesday, the state recorded 1,495 cases, the highest in a single day until then.The death toll in the state crossed the 1,000 mark as 44 fatalities were recorded on Thursday. Of those, 25 were in Mumbai, 10 in Navi Mumbai, five in Pune, two in Aurangabad and one each in Panvel and Kalyan. Of the 44 deaths, 34 patients had co-morbidity conditions, said the officials cited above.Mumbai, the worst-hit city in the country, also recorded its highest one-day spike with 991 cases. It crossed the 16,000 mark and the total case count in the city stands at 16,738. On Sunday, the city recorded 875 cases, which was the highest in a day till then. The death toll of Mumbai breached the 600 mark with 25 fatalities on Thursday. The toll now stands at 621. Officials said this could not be termed as exponential growth and the state had also not reached the community transmission stage.As the Centre is planning more relaxations after May 17, the number of fresh cases is rising rapidly in Maharashtra. For more than a week (from May 6), the state has been getting over 1,000 cases on a daily basis and by the end of this phase of the lockdown (May 17), it is likely to breach the 30,000 mark. In May (14 days) alone, the state has reported as many as 17,026 cases.On May 6, fresh daily cases stood at 1,233, on May 7 at 1,216 cases, on May 8 at 1,089, on May 9 at 1,165, on May 10 at 1,278, on May 11 at 1,230, on May 12 at 1,026 and on May 13 at 1,495. Besides, on May 10, the state also declared 665 cases separately saying that they were registered in the previous few days and were being declared as per the central government’s directive to bring the data on a par with the national figures on the ICMR website. Between April 19 and 30, the state was getting around 500 new cases on a daily basisDr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said, “The numbers are rising but it cannot be called exponential growth as in that case the number multiplies on daily cases. If the number of fresh cases becomes double on a daily basis only then can it be called exponential growth.”“The state has also not reached community transmission stage as it comes with exponential growth only,” he added.The first positive case was found on March 9 and it took 30 days for the state to cross the 1,000 mark.As cases are rising, the number of people to have recovered so far rose to 6,059 as 512 positive patients recovered on Thursday.The doubling rate in the state stands at 10 days. The state government has decided to take the rate to 20 days in the days to come, said health minister Rajesh Tope. The government has resolved to bring the entire state in a green zone by this month’s end.So far, 15,465 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 315,686 people have been put under home isolation. The state currently has 1,512 active containment zones. Around 14,253 survey teams comprising doctors and assisting staff have screened more than 5.9 million people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-cases-cross-27k-in-highest-1-day-spike/story-pXIYIXwHUjAzwYic8CScJM.html
14-05-2020||India||Chaos at MP-Maha border as workers rush to return home||Bhopal: Raj Kishore, 42, an employee in a sweet shop in Mumbai for the past five years, set out on Wednesday more than 1200 kilometres to his home in Agra district in Uttar Pradesh when he was informed about the Maharashtra government’s bus service to Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh border.On Thursday, Kishore along with hundreds of other workers, was waiting for hours for his turn to get a bus at Bijasan, a check-post on MP-Maharashtra border, in Barwani district, 313 kilometres south west of Bhopal. The day’s temperature had climbed to 42 degrees C. He intended to go back either by buses provided by MP government or private vehicles like trucks, taxi, auto-rickshaws etc.According to the MP government, free buses are being provided at the Maharashtra border to take workers to Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh, 650 km away, after a change of buses at Dewas and Guna. Similar arrangements have also been made at other border checkposts since Tuesday when the rush of migrant workers started, the officials said.Those dropped at the border by buses or reaching the border on foot or bicycles have to wait for hours to get a bus..Ram Verma, who had been waiting for least six hours with his wife and two children, 5 and 7 years old, at Bijasan, said, “I stuck around in Mumbai till now but getting stranded without a job meant taking care of my family with no money in hand. At least, I can have something to eat in my village.” He lost his job as a salesman in Mumbai after the lockdown was announced. Om Prakash Mishra from UP’s Jaunpur district, who fixes tiles in buildings under construction in Mumbai, reached Chhindwara, on Thursday morning, in a truck by paying Rs 3,000. “With no job for two months I had run out of money. I requested my family to send money to me for the travel expenses,” he said.A government official in Barwani, which is witnessing migrant labourers from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, said the rush was unprecedented. “More than 20, 000 to 25, 000 workers are coming daily for several destinations in MP, UP, Bihar, Jharkhand and Rajasthan. We have arranged for about 120 buses. Seeing the rush, we need 200 buses,” he said. “Managing them is becoming very difficult. Many of them are very aggressive. We are not using force as it could lead to law and order situation,” he said. As there are not enough buses, he said, they were trying to arrange trucks and tempos for workers to return home. Sendhwa sub-divisional magistrate, Ghyanshyam Dhangar, said they were trying to arrange more buses as each bus was accommodating no more than 40 workers to maintain social distancing norms.. Kavita Kanesh, in charge of the police outpost in charge at Bijasan, said, “The labourers are desperate to go home. We give them food and water but what gives them the biggest joy is a seat in any bus or any vehicle.” Amit Tomar, district collector, Barwani district, said, “As per the announcement of the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, we are providing facilities like food, water, and shelter to those labourers who are coming in their own vehicles or through other vehicles and providing the facility of buses to others who are entering Madhya Pradesh on foot from Maharashtra. All the facilities are free. Medical examinations of the labourers are also being conducted.”(With input from Sachin Pandey in Chhindwara and Mayank Bhargva in Betul)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chaos-at-mp-maha-border-as-workers-rush-to-return-home/story-PGqD5R18zYN2VufuKMX27N.html
14-05-2020||India||Mamata declares 105 trains for migrants, Centre says more needed||Kolkata: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has faced flak for going slow on the return of migrant workers, on Thursday announced her government has arranged 105 trains to bring them home over the next month even as railway minister Piyush Goyal said the state needed as many trains daily. The Centre and West Bengal government have been at loggerheads over the return of migrants and the Covid-19 management. Banerjee on Monday accused the Centre of trying to gain political mileage amid the pandemic at the expense of her government.“I am pleased to announce that we have arranged 105 additional special trains,” Banerjee tweeted and shared on social media details of their schedule.Goyal responded to Banerjee’s tweet hours later. “I feel sad that while there is a need for 105 trains/day to bring back migrants to WB [West Bengal], the state is accepting only 105 trains over 30 days. I once again hope for the sake of Bengali brothers and sisters in different parts of the country that WB will accept them back with open arms,” he tweeted. “Many migrants want to return to WB & if the State does not accept them then we may find more cases of migrants & even children walking for hundreds of kms & resorting to other dangerous means. WB should speed up setting up of adequate arrangements to receive their own migrants.”Tamil Nadu-based writer Nityanand Jayaraman tweeted a video of a group of workers from Bengal starting for their homes on bicycles, nearly 1,700 km away.Activist Anuradha Talwar, who has been working with stranded migrant workers, said migrants from Bengal were initially against walking or cycling home and preferred to wait. She added they were of late running out of patience.In response to Goyal’s series of tweets, Trinamool Congress national spokesperson Derek O’Brien said : “The railway minister has been all but absent during this monumental crisis when millions of poor migrant workers have been abandoned. They’ve been left to fend for themselves, stuck across the country waiting for some help from the government to safely return to their homes and families. These people could have been moved in a matter of days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-declares-105-trains-for-migrants-centre-says-more-needed/story-TyHPnEMoE9CNP9GPXJ0E5H.html
14-05-2020||India||PM Modi interacts with Bill Gates, discusses global response to Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday interacted with philanthropist and Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and discussed the global response to Covid-19 and the importance of global coordination on scientific innovation to combat the pandemic. The Prime Minister underlined the conscious approach that India has adopted in its fight against the health crisis - an approach based on ensuring public engagement through appropriate messaging, a PMO release said. He explained how this people-centric bottom-up approach has helped win acceptability for physical distancing, respect for frontline workers, wearing of masks, maintaining proper hygiene, and respecting lockdown provisions. He also highlighted that the previous initiatives taken by Government including expanding financial inclusion, strengthening last-mile delivery of health services, popularising cleanliness and hygiene through the Swachh Bharat Mission and drawing upon India’s Ayurvedic wisdom to enhance people’s immunity, had helped increase the effectiveness of India’s response to the present pandemic. The Prime Minister appreciated the health-related work being done by the Gates Foundation not only in India but also in many other parts of the world, including that for coordinating the global response to Covid-19.He sought suggestions from Gates, who is co-chair, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, on how India’s capacities and capabilities could be better leveraged for the general benefit of the world.Some of the ideas that PM Modi and Gates explored in this context included drawing upon India’s unique model of last-mile health service delivery in rural areas, dissemination of the effective contact-tracing mobile app developed by the government, and above all by leveraging India’s massive pharmaceutical capacity to scale-up the production of vaccines and therapeutics upon their discovery. They agreed that given India’s willingness and capacity to contribute to global efforts, particularly for benefit of fellow developing countries, it was important for India to be included in the ongoing global discussions for coordinating responses to the pandemic.The Prime Minister also suggested that the Gates Foundation could take the lead in analyzing the necessary changes in lifestyles, economic organisation, social behaviour, modes of disseminating education and healthcare, that would emerge in the post-Covid world, and the associated technological challenges that would need to be addressed. He said that India would be happy to contribute to such an analytical exercise based on its own experiences.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-interacts-with-bill-gates-discusses-global-response-to-covid-19/story-M49hchzrJ0LMXwHtgIULfN.html
14-05-2020||India||Shops in malls, complexes should be allowed to open on odd-even basis: Delhi to Centre||The Delhi government on Thursday submitted a proposal to the Centre on lockdown relaxations post May 17 and suggested opening of markets, shopping complexes and operation of buses and metro services with strict social distancing norms.The government has suggested operation of construction activities in the national capital and that movement of labourers within Delhi be allowed, sources in the government told PTI.Taxis with two passengers will be allowed, they said, adding that in buses, 20 passengers are likely to be allowed to travel under strict social distancing norms.“The government has suggested that opening of markets, complexes and malls should be allowed in Delhi. However, shops engaged in non-essential items in shopping complexes and malls should be allowed to operate on odd-even basis,” a source said.In next two-three days, the government will come out with a standard operating procedure to allow economic activities from Monday in the national capital.The nationwide lockdown was imposed from March 25 to April 14, then extended to May 3 and again to May 17 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that different economic activities will be allowed in the city from May 18 based on decisions taken by the Centre on lockdown relaxation.Addressing an online media briefing, he said most people suggested that schools, colleges, barber shops, spa, salons, cinema halls and swimming pools should not be opened post May 17, and there should be just limited operation of metro services.On Tuesday, Kejriwal had sought suggestions from Delhiites on lockdown relaxations post May 17 and asked them to send their views by 5 pm on Wednesday.During a video conference chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers of different states on Monday, Kejriwal had said barring containment zones, economic activities should be allowed to resume in the national capital.Buses, taxis and auto-rickshaws should be allowed to operate in the city but with social-distancing, he said during the online briefing on Thursday. “The country, including Delhi, has been closed for the last one and a half months due to coronavirus-induced lockdown. It was easy to close, but we have to work very hard to open up the economy. We usually do hard work. The coming times are very difficult,” Kejriwal said.The chief minister said the government had received over 5 lakh suggestions from Delhiites on lockdown relaxations post May 17 and most of them suggested strict action against those not wearing mask and violating social-distancing norms.“Different activities will be allowed in Delhi from Monday based on Centre’s decisions on lockdown relaxation. But, it is sure that we have to follow social-distancing strictly,” Kejriwal said.“We also got suggestions from market associations and most of them advocated opening of markets on odd-even basis.Some people said malls can open by allowing opening of one-third shops,” he said.Some suggestions were in favour of closure of hotels, but most of them advocated opening of restaurants through which home-delivery of food and take-away facility can be allowed, he said.Kejriwal said people have suggested lifting of restrictions on movement between 7 pm and 7 am, saying it doesn’t fulfil any purpose.However, they advocated restrictions on movement of senior citizens, heart patients, pregnant women and those having co-morbidities.He said people also suggested opening of parks where they could perform yoga and do exercise.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had recently asked states to send their proposals on what they want post May 17, when the third phase of lockdown ends, Kejriwal said.The chief minister said he decided to seek suggestions from people on lockdown relaxations instead of preparing Delhi’s proposal sitting in an air conditioned room.On Tuesday, Kejriwal had made it clear that the lockdown cannot be lifted completely given that the city was recording a high number of coronavirus cases daily.According to the government, 4,76,000 WhatsApp messages, 10,700 emails, 39,000 calls apart from 22,700 responses on Change.Org has been received. PTI BUN ANB ANB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shops-in-malls-complexes-should-be-allowed-to-open-on-odd-even-basis-delhi-to-centre/story-aLH7gT198oqOoRoIv8Ui2J.html
14-05-2020||India||8-year-old girl donates savings to lockdown-hit poor||An eight-year-old girl here has donated about Rs 25,000 of her savings to the poor who are struggling due to the Covid-19 lockdown.Dhiya, who dreams of becoming an IAS officer, has been saving up money to purchase a laptop, apparently to prepare for civil services exam, officials in the Collectorate here said.On hearing about the humanitarian attitude of the girl, Puducherry Collector T Arun invited the Class III student and her parents to his office on Thursday to felicitate her.The aspiration of the student to sit in the collector’s chamber was fulfilled, as Arun let her see for herself how an IAS officer functions.Earlier, the girl decided to do her bit after she was moved by the plight of the poor who haven’t had a morsel to keep them going till the lockdown ends.So, she decided to use her savings to buy provisions, essential goods and others for distribution to the suffering artists, drivers and other sections of people reeling under poverty, officials said.With the consent of her parents, the girl spent the amount on the commodities and distributed them to the poor.She had saved the money given to her as gift from her parents and relatives on various occasions.With a broad smile and amid applause by all those present including her parents, the girl got a hands-on experience of what it means to be a civil service official when she was allowed access to the Collector’s chamber.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-year-old-girl-donates-savings-to-lockdown-hit-poor/story-8OCGJBy0dXw5R3VSrVr7kO.html
14-05-2020||India||Odisha Tribal woman not allowed in her home a day after delivery due to Covid stigma||In another case of stigmatisation associated with coronavirus, a tribal woman who delivered a baby girl in a quarantine centre in Odisha was not allowed to enter her home by villagers over fears that she may be carrying the infection.Suffering labour pains, the tribal migrant worker walked over 25 km to reach a quarantine centre near her village in Balasore district and delivered a baby girl there on late Wednesday night. Upon her return home on Thursday, instead of a welcome, she was greeted by vehement protests by villagers who feared she may have contracted coronavirus.The 32-year-old tribal woman working in Bengal had hopped onto a bus on Wednesday that dropped her at Soro town of Balasore district. From there, the pregnant woman walked 25 km to reach the quarantine centre running at Oupada block of the district. As she went into labour, the local administration sent the doctor of the local primary health centre to assist her in delivery. After she delivered a baby girl at the centre, the doctor advised her to be quarantined at her home.However, when the woman reached her home in Patharpada village in Oupada block, the locals strongly resisted her entry and demanded that she be put in quarantine. “The local people said they would not allow her to enter as she has come from Bengal, a Covid hotspot. As there was no other way, the woman was quarantined in another centre where she would have a little more privacy,” said Dr Jitendra Behera of Oupada primary health centre.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19In another incident, a 12-year-old girl of Angul district was prevented from entering her home when she returned from Bhubaneswar, once declared a Covid hotspot, which now, only has a handful of active cases. The girl had gone to Bhubaneswar to look after her pregnant sister. On Thursday, the girl’s brother-in-law brought her back to Radharamanpada village of Angul district and dropped her close to her house.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHowever, the girl’s own family members refused to let her enter and demanded that she be put in quarantine. Angul district sub-collector Basudev Satapathy said the girl was made to sit under the scorching sun for over 3 hours as the family was scared over letting her enter due to her travel to Bhubaneswar. “It was with much difficulty that we managed to persuade the family members to put her in home quarantine,” said Satpathy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-tribal-woman-not-allowed-in-her-home-a-day-after-delivery-due-to-covid-stigma/story-8QHaMsnUwgZa5DcNL6EX8L.html
14-05-2020||India||Leopard strays into Hyderabad, takes refuge in farmhouse||Officials of the Telangana forest department are making efforts to capture a leopard which suddenly appeared on the main road on the outskirts of Hyderabad and then entered a nearby farmhouse after attacking a man standing on the roadside on Thursday morning.Locals noticed the big cat at around 6 am lying alongside a road divider at Mylardevpalli near Katedan industrial area on the inner ring road that connects the Hyderabad-Bengaluru national highway.According to a local resident, the leopard appeared frightened and was not moving, even as vehicles were passing by. “For about two hours, it was lying there. The police authorities arrived there to stop vehicular movement on either side. But as the crowds started swelling in the area and taking pictures on their mobiles, it got panicky and suddenly got up. It ran towards one side of the road and jumped into a farmhouse nearby,” he said.While running away from the crowd, the leopard attacked a person, identified as Subhan, a truck driver from East Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh, who was standing on the roadside.“He managed to escape with minor injuries and he was sent to hospital,” Mylardevpalli police inspector K Sathaiah Goud told Hindustan Times.Forest officials from Nehru Zoological Park, which is close by, arrived there with a cage and were making efforts to tranquillise the animal. “There are a large number of trees in the compound of the farmhouse. The forest officials are trying to locate it,” the inspector said.The forest officials deployed drone and trap cameras to spot the leopard’s location. They suspect that the animal might have suffered an injury. “It appears to be a two to three years old cub. We hope it will remain in the present location that is safe. We are trying to ensure that it does not come out to residential colonies,” Goud said.The area is connected to forest area in Narsingi and the sprawling agriculture university campus besides the ICRISAT campus. Officials believe that the big cat strayed from the forest cover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-strays-into-hyderabad-takes-refuge-in-farmhouse/story-K1wlJBIt2qLtzwS89CNnHO.html
14-05-2020||India||Tripura govt to recruit 48 medical personnel to tackle Covid-19 outbreak||The Tripura government will appoint a total of 48 medical professionals including 24 doctors and 24 nurses to strengthen healthcare services in the state during the Covid-19 outbreak.The decision was shared by chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on his Facebook page on Thursday.These doctors will be involved in the treatment of Covid-19 positive patients for seven days and then they would be taken to quarantine centres for 14 days. After completion of the quarantine days, they would get holidays for seven days. The doctors will be given Rs 50,000 as honourarium for 28 days in a month. And they will also be given Rs. 2,000 everyday, if they carry out hospital duties at other times, Deb wrote on Facebook.For nurses, the honourarium will be Rs 20,000 and for additional duties, it will be Rs 500 everyday. “ ... I believe that the new doctors and nurses will play a vital role in serving coronavirus patients,” the CM wrote on Facebook.The decision came a few days after a government doctors’ association under the banner of the All Tripura Government Doctors’ Association (ATGDA) placed a memorandum before the Health Department demanding recruitment of new doctors and nurses to tackle the outbreak of the disease and to set up separate Covid-19 hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-govt-to-recruit-48-medical-personnel-to-tackle-covid-19-outbreak/story-ddeiDcUCAjBxW7p5RBQlbM.html
14-05-2020||India||9 labourers electrocuted as tractor rams power pole in Andhra Pradesh||At least nine agricultural labourers, including seven women, died of electrocution and another five people were injured after the tractor in which they were travelling rammed an electric pole in Andhra Pradesh’s Prakasam district Thursday evening, police said.The incident happened at Raparla village of Naguluppalapadu block, when the victims were returning to their village Machavaram after harvesting chilli in agricultural fields a few kilometres away. Around 15 people were travelling the in the tractor.While nine of them died on the spot, the condition of two of the five injured is said to be critical. The deceased were identified as: Pika Koteswaramma (50), Nukathoti Lakshamma (65), Kakumanu Rama Devi (55), Kakumanu Kumari (45), Kakumanu Ramasri (40), Golla Ravi Sankar (20), Kakumanu Siva (17), Kakumanu Mounika (18) and Kakumanu Amulya (18) – all from Machavaram village.Unconfirmed reports said Nalluri Chenchaiah (32), who was driving the tractor, also died in the accident. Chenchaiah was the farmer, who had engaged the labourers for his chilli fields. Ongole special branch police sub-inspector Srikanth Babu told Hindustan Times that the condition of the driver was very critical but his death was not confirmed yet.According to the preliminary inquiries by the police, Chenchaiah lost control of the tractor while at a turn at Raparla village and hit an electric pole.“Live wires which had snapped fell on the tractor resulting in the death of nine people. The tractor overturned by the side of the road,” the police said.Prakasam joint collector Murali inspected the spot and supervised the arrangements for shifting the injured to hospital.Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered the best possible treatment to the injured and announced ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased.Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan also expressed shock over the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-labourers-electrocuted-as-tractor-rams-power-pole-in-andhra-pradesh/story-oI23D25FireKYhHpAR37TK.html
14-05-2020||India||Manipur reports third Covid-19 case after three-week gap||After its first two Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals last month, Manipur reported its third case on Thursday, the health department said.“One person (31) from Imphal East district who returned from Mumbai with a patient (non- Covid) has tested positive today,” Dr Kh Sasheekumar Mangang Additional Director of the state health department said in a press statement Thursday night.The male patient is now at a Covid treatment block/isoltation ward of JNIMS (Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences), the release said, “Contact tracing and active surveillance in the containment zone will be done immediately.”As a precautionary measure, district rapid response teams and surveillance teams have been constituted in all the districts including 40 sub-surveillance teams in each district, it said.The Covid treatment block at JNIMS and RIMS (Regional Institute of Medical Sciences) are in readiness, it said. Quarantining of returning persons for 14 days and social distancing remain vital to break the spread of Covid-19 in Manipur. Everyone is requested to cooperate for collective safety of the state, it added.The first two Covid-19 cases were reported in Manipur on March 24 and April 2. Both patients had recovered during treatment and were discharged from two government hospitals in Imphal on April 12 and 21 respectively.Manipur is expecting arrival of another special carrying 918 passengers from Punjab at Jiribam which is the state’s rail head about 220 km west of Imphal on Friday, state chief secretary Dr J Suresh Babu said. Another train carrying 1,400 stranded people of the state is expected to arrive at Jiribam from Bengaluru on May 17.On Wednesday, 1,140 people who were stranded in Chennai, were the first to arrive by a special team.So far 1,710 people have been tested for Covid-19 while 2,09,069 people have been screened at various screening centres opened at entry points, according to the status report of state surveillance officer of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme. Currently, there are 743 people at quarantine centres while 1,870 people completed quarantine so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-reports-third-covid-19-case-after-three-week-gap/story-kG86jI0ZFSv0QQgNC1sdPP.html
14-05-2020||India||Chaos at MP-Maharashtra border as migrants rush to return home||Raj Kishore, 42, has been working in a sweet shop in Mumbai for the past several years. He set out for a long journey to cover a distance of more than 1200 kilometres to his native place in Agra district in Uttar Pradesh when he was told about the Maharashtra government’s bus service to the state border with Madhya Pradesh.On Thursday, Kishore along with hundreds of other workers was waiting for hours braving the scorching heat at 42 degree Celsius for his turn to board a bus at Bijasan, a check-post on the MP-Maharashtra border, in Barwani district, 313 kilometres south west of Bhopal.According to the Madhya Pradesh government, buses are being provided free of cost at the Maharashtra border to take workers to Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh, 650 km away, after change of buses at Dewas and Guna. Similar arrangements have also been made at other border check-posts since Tuesday when the rush of migrant workers started, the officials said.Although on paper the plan looks good, those reaching the border have to wait for hours to get a bus. But, the workers are willing to bear this pain for the assurance of reaching home.Ram Verma, who had been waiting for a bus for at least six hours with his wife and two children, aged 5 and 7 years, at Bijasan, said, “I waited till now but getting stuck any more meant taking care of my family with no money in hand. At least, I can have something to eat in my village.” He lost his job as a salesman in Mumbai after the lockdown was announced. Om Prakash Mishra from UP’s Jaunpur district, who fixes tiles in under construction houses in Mumbai, reached Chhindwara, on Thursday morning, in a truck by paying Rs 3,000. “With no job for two months I had run out of money. I requested my family to send money to me for the travel expenses,” he said.A government official in Barwani, who was not willing to be named, said he has never seen such a rush of migrant workers there and there was total chaos at the border check posts.“More than 20,000 to 25,000 workers are coming daily for several destinations in MP, UP, Bihar, Jharkhand and Rajasthan. We have arranged for about 120 buses. Seeing the rush, we need 200 more buses,” he said.The official said the workers jostle with each other and are even occupying bus floors and roofs. “Managing them is becoming very difficult. Many of them are very aggressive. We are not using force as it could lead to a law and order situation,” he said. As there are not enough buses, he said, they were trying to arrange trucks, tempos and trolleys for workers to return home. “If we don’t provide them with transport, there can be a law and order situation,” he said. Area’s sub-divisional magistrate Ghyanshyam Dhangar accepted there was shortage of buses as they cannot accommodate more than 40 workers in a bus to maintain social distancing norms. Police outpost in-charge at Bijasan, Kavita Kanesh said, “The labourers are desperate to go home. We give them food and water but what gives them the biggest joy is a seat in any bus or any vehicle.” District collector, Barwani district Amit Tomar said, “As per the announcement of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan we are providing facilities like food, water, shelter to those labourers who are coming in their own vehicles or through other conveyances and providing facility of buses to others who are entering Madhya Pradesh walking from Maharashtra’s border. All the facilities are free. Medical examination of the labourers is also being conducted.”(With inputs from Sachin Pandey in Chhindwara and Mayank Bhargva in Betul).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chaos-at-mp-maharashtra-border-as-migrants-rush-to-return-home/story-LaDlWTiz6kIyvKpEOH90ZL.html
14-05-2020||India||India opposes Pakistan-China move to build major dam in Gilgit-Baltistan||India on Thursday opposed a move by Pakistan and China to build a major hydropower plant in the Gilgit-Baltistan region, saying it has shared its concerns regarding such projects with both countries.The Pakistan government on Wednesday signed a Rs 442-billion contract with a joint venture formed by China Power and the Frontier Works Organisation (FWO), a commercial arm of the Pakistani military, for constructing the Diamer-Bhasha dam.The state-run Chinese firm has a 70% stake in the joint venture and FWO 30%. The eight million acre feet reservoir with a height of 272 metres is set to be the world’s tallest roller compact concrete (RCC) dam. Construction work on the dam is expected to begin in a couple of weeks, the Pakistani media reported.Responding to the development, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the Gilgit-Baltistan region is part of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir that was illegally occupied by Pakistan.“Our position is consistent and clear that the entire territory of the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been, are, and will continue to be an integral and inalienable part of India,” Srivastava said.“We have consistently conveyed our protest and shared concerns with both China and Pakistan on all such projects in the Indian territories under Pakistan’s illegal occupation,” he said.In the past too, India has opposed projects jointly taken up by Pakistan and China in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir as part of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-opposes-pakistan-china-move-to-build-major-dam-in-gilgit-baltistan/story-HgRauxDzd8FjagWbAZaBAM.html
14-05-2020||India||Drama at Bengaluru station as 50 passengers refuse quarantine, will be sent back to Delhi||The first passenger train at Bengaluru railway station in nearly two months arrived with about 1000 passengers from New Delhi on Thursday and while the majority were screened and sent to 14-day quarantine to institutional facilities as per the SOP, 70 travellers created a ruckus refusing to be quarantined.The train had left New Delhi at 9.30 pm on Tuesday and arrived at the Bengaluru station around 7.30 am on Thursday, late by nearly an hour. The Karnataka health department had set up ten health check-up counters and passengers were disembarked slowly bogie by bogie.There was heavy deployment of Railway protection force at the station. The DC of Bangalore Urban district G L Shivamurthy said that rooms had been reserved in around 90 hotels near the Majestic railway station. Passengers willing to stay in the hotels had to bear the cost with varying tariffs (depending on facilities) while separate arrangements had been made for those who didn’t wish to stay in hotels. These people had to stay at institutional quarantine facilities at government hostels run by the social welfare department. About 15 BMTC buses were also arranged to ferry the passengers to their respective hotels taking into account social distancing and other hygiene factors.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHowever, about 50 passengers refused to be quarantined claiming that they had not been informed about the requirement. A video of them standing in a group and chanting ‘no quarantine’ went viral. After much discussion and attempts to convince them by the IGP (Railways) D Roopa failed, she requested the railways to attach an extra bogie and send back those who refuse to be quarantined if they were ready to pay for their tickets.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Karnataka’s primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar was clear that all passengers who come from another state must compulsorily be quarantined for a period of 14 days. “We have communicated this on SMS too, to all ticket holders. However, we understand that in this incident, those who were on the waitlist may have got seats and thus remained uninformed. We were able to convince some of them to go to institutional quarantine and the rest have chosen to go back.”Those who refused to be quarantined are to be sent back on the Rajdhani Express which departs late on Thursday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drama-at-bengaluru-station-as-50-passengers-refuse-quarantine-will-be-sent-back-to-delhi/story-F5SsGtD432CRZ6GuMlQCCJ.html
14-05-2020||India||LG Polymers in Vizag gets ‘Styrene inhibitor’ to boost safety after gas leak||LG Chem on Thursday said following the gas leak at its Visakhapatnam polymers plant, the company has started support measures to eliminate all risk factors.In this effort, the company sought Dorf Ketal Chemicals’ services by getting its Actify series of green retarder and Styrene polymer inhibitor. The Dorf Ketal product will be added into the tanks of the Styrene stored at LG Polymers. This will prevent further degradation and hence another probable gas leak, thereby ensuring the site is safe. The Styrene gas leak incident killed 11 people and forced the evacuation of thousands.ACtify Green Retarder is a new innovative green polymer retardant that is thermally stable and provides excellent protection during unscheduled shutdowns, said the company in a press release. Dorf was asked to provide ACtify 2680, green retarder that is safe to use and handle, and ACtify 2673, a polymerisation inhibitor which is used in Styrene plants. The South Korean chemical giant is working closely with related authorities to analyse the cause of the incident, prevent a recurrence, and support damage recovery in a prompt and expedient manner.On the support measures, the company said a special task force is currently supporting the bereaved victims and families and visiting them at the hospitals and their homes.“We assure everyone we will do our best to resolve the situation and prevent any incident in the future,” the company said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lg-polymers-in-vizag-gets-styrene-inhibitor-to-boost-safety-after-gas-leak/story-LmTtyoQt7ppSNm5GYUdI0N.html
14-05-2020||India||India yet to decide on issue of engaging the Taliban||India has responded cautiously to US special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad’s suggestion that New Delhi should directly engage with the Taliban, people familiar with developments indicated on Thursday, adding that a decision in this regard is yet to be made.During his visit to New Delhi last week, Khalilzad, the special representative for Afghanistan reconciliation, called for India to engage with the Taliban and directly discuss its concerns related to terrorism. During a media interview, he said that the US wants India to take on a more active role in the Afghan peace process.“We have our own perspectives on Afghanistan and our traditional and neighbourly relations with the people of Afghanistan will continue to guide our Afghan policy,” one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The people indicated that India is yet to decide on the crucial issue of whether to engage with the Taliban.For years, the Indian government has stayed away from any move to engage the Taliban, either directly or indirectly, largely because of concerns related to the terror group’s close links to the Pakistani military establishment.The closest India has come to being at the same table as the Taliban was when New Delhi sent two former ambassadors as “non-official” representatives to a meeting under the Moscow Format mechanism in Russia in November 2018.During their meetings with Khalilzad last week, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval conveyed India’s strong concerns about a spike in terrorist violence in Afghanistan and called for rooting out terror sanctuaries in Pakistan to ensure peace in the war-torn country.“India is deeply concerned at the upsurge in violence and supports call for immediate ceasefire and [the] need to assist the people of Afghanistan in dealing with [the] coronavirus pandemic,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement on Khalilzad’s meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-yet-to-decide-on-issue-of-engaging-the-taliban/story-0e6T85ahCNlMHgFgitGgvM.html
14-05-2020||India||Gujarat launches scheme to provide loans to small traders hit by lockdown||Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday launched the Gujarat Self-Reliance Scheme under which loans up to Rs one lakh will be given at 2% interest to small traders without security for three years with no equated monthly instalment (EMI) for the first six months to boost the economy hit hard by the lockdown.“Under this self-reliant scheme, small traders, middle class people, workers, vendors, auto-rickshaw drivers, labourers and all those facing financial difficulties due to lockdown will get loans up to Rs 1,00,000. Around 10 lakh people will get a loan of Rs.5000 crore under the self-reliant scheme,” said a press statement from the chief minister’s office.Under this scheme, beneficiaries will have to pay only 2% interest per annum; the remaining 6% interest will be borne by the State GovernmentThis scheme will be effective from May 21, 2020. Co-operative banks and Credit Co-operative Societies will provide unsecured loans up to Rs.1,00,000 at 8% rate of interestBeneficiaries will get loans for a period of 3 years. No instalment and interest will have to be paid for the first 6 months. However, the loan should be paid in 30 equal instalments from the next month onwards.Beneficiaries can get the free of cost application form from Co-operative banks or Credit Co-operative societies. The State government has exempted the stamp fee on these loans.“Our aim is to become the leading state of the country once and for all,” the statement said. Meanwhile, with 324 positive cases reported on Thursday, the toll of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat has gone up to 9,592. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health) said that Ahmedabad reported most of the cases with 265. Surat reported 16 cases while 13 were reported from Vadodra and the rest were from other cities.“Total 20 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours out of which 13 had co-morbid conditions and 191 were discharged from hospital,” Ravi said while addressing a press conference.“As of now, 24 people are on ventilator. 1.24 lakhs tests have been done so far. We are conducting 1,858.79 tests per million of population. We are better than many other bigger states. The national average of testing is also 1,346,” added Ravi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-launches-scheme-to-provide-loans-to-small-traders-hit-by-lockdown/story-e7kk3zCUICmUwYcYTw8VYN.html
14-05-2020||India||As arrivals rise, so do Goa’s worries, 8 new entrants test positive in 24-hours||On a day when eight persons entering the state turned out to be positive for coronavirus, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said he was ‘worried’ about passengers arriving by the resumed train services to the state. Addressing a press conference, Sawant cited the instance of the eighth new patient, who was declared to have been cured of coronavirus after treatment and was quarantined in Mumbai, but reported positive when tested upon entry in Goa. Sawant said he hoped those arriving by trains would strictly adhere to 14-days of home quarantine even if their tests -- taken once they alight -- are reported negative. “As the chief minister of the state, I’m very worried about those who are arriving by trains. I do not know whether they will abide by their home quarantine instructions. Look at the case of the seafarer (the eighth case). He was tested negative and today he has been found positive after fourteen days,” Sawant said. He said he has requested the union railways minister to remove the Margao halt for Kerala bound trains from New Delhi. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn Thursday, New Delhi - Thiruvananthapuram special brought 17 passengers to Margao, Goa, and all were found to be negative in tests using rapid RT-PCR tests. The only other resumed train service to Goa is New Delhi-Margao special, which will roll in for the first time on Saturday May 16. The train is expected to bring in 720 persons and will pose a huge challenge for the state administration to test and quarantine all the arrivals. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Sawant, however, said that the trains could not be stopped since stranded people needed to go home. According to the registrations on the Goa government web portal, around 6,200 Goa residents stranded across the country are seeking to return, apart from 8,211 people from abroad. Besides these, 3,842 seafarers are stranded abroad onboard various ships, wanting to return. Goa’s Covid-19 total has now risen to 15, eight of whom are active cases detected over the last 24-hours, including a one-year-old girl, four other members of her family, their driver, a lorry driver and a seafarer. Sawant has however ruled out imposing restrictions on movement within or from outside the state arguing that there was little threat of community transmission since all cases were “imported” and restrictions on the movement of goods would affect the state. “We are testing all those entering the state except the truck drivers who are only screened for symptoms,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-arrivals-rise-so-do-goa-s-worries-8-new-entrants-test-positive-in-24-hours/story-x1dpxYM3zGRGqSUsKAg3xJ.html
14-05-2020||India||Karnataka CM announces additional economic stimulus package of Rs 162 cr for cultivators||After announcing a Rs 1610 crore economic stimulus package on May 6, the BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government in Karnataka has announced a further Rs 162 crore financial package mainly aimed at vegetable and fruit growers apart from handloom workers in the state. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa who announced the additional package said that fruit farmers and vegetable farmers who have suffered losses due to the lockdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic would be given a helping hand by the government.Fruit farmers who have grown - banana, papaya, grapes, pineapple, anjur, watermelon or avocado and vegetable farmers who have grown - tomato, chillies, cabbage, sweet gourd, ash gourd, ridge gourd, carrot, onion, capsicum and greens would get Rs 15,000 per hectare. The entire package for fruit and vegetable farmers is expected to cost the exchequer Rs 137 crore. The CM also said that 1.62 lakh people working in the handloom sector in the state would be given a sum of Rs 2000 each which will cost an additional Rs 25 crore.Since flower growers had earlier been given a compensation of Rs 25,000 per hectare, there was no additional compensation announced for them. With this announcement the total economic stimulus package of the state stands at Rs 1772 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-announces-additional-economic-stimulus-package-of-rs-162-cr-for-cultivators/story-pBrDwSw1yNf2KxF7O97WMM.html
14-05-2020||India||ICMR issues revised guidance document on rapid antibody test kits for Covid-19||The ICMR on Thursday issued revised guidance document on rapid antibody test kits for COVID-19 and listed the firms whose kits have been validated and found satisfactory.The apex health research body had issued on Wednesday night a guidance document in which two Chinese firms -- Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics -- whose importer’s licenses were cancelled by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation last month, found a mention among the list of companies, test kits of whose, have been validated at the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune so far.The document, however, was taken down from the website in the morning and a revised one was uploaded later.The revised document also mentions the two Chinese firms, but states that “the marketing licenses to the distributors of these two companies have been cancelled by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO).” The health research body, however, underlined that such rapid antibody test are not recommended for diagnosis of coronavirus infection. It had earlier said that such test kits are to be used only for surveillance purpose.“Till date, 42 antibody-based rapid tests have been validated, and the following were found to be satisfactory. Ten of these kits are manufactured in India,” the ICMR said in the revised guidance document.“These rapid antibody test kits have been validated in the laboratory. However, the performance of the kits may be subject to variation under field conditions,” the ICMR underlined.   According to the guidance document, the rapid tests can be done on blood/serum/plasma samples and the result is available within 30 minutes.“The test may remain positive for several weeks after infection. A positive test indicates exposure to SARS-CoV-2 while a negative test does not rule out COVID-19 infection,” the ICMR said.The list of kits includes COVID-19 IgM IgG Rapid Test: BioMedomics (CE-IVD); New Coronavirus (COVID-19) IgG/IgM Rapid Test: Voxtur Bio Ltd, India; Makesure COVID-19 Rapid test: HLL Lifecare Limited, Indi; Abchek COVID-19 IgM/IgG Antibody Rapid Test: NuLifecare and; One Step COVID-19 IgM/IgG Antibody: SIDAK Life Care Pvt. Ltd. The list also mentions the batch numbers of the kits.The Centre on April 27 had said that it has “not lost a single rupee” with respect to the supplies of the COVID-19 rapid antibody test kits while cancelling the shipment of the equipment from two Chinese companies after those were found to be “under-performing”. In an advisory sent to chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories, the ICMR had said that it “evaluated the kits of Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livson Diagnostics in field conditions. The results have shown wide variation in their sensitivity, despite an early promise of good performance for surveillance purpose”.The testing technique is used to detect antibodies in the blood of people who may have had novel coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-issues-revised-guidance-document-on-rapid-antibody-test-kits-for-covid-19/story-lzfap0MKaVg445pP7FJZ2M.html
14-05-2020||India||Hygiene, masking, distancing: Dr Naresh Trehan’s mantra to fight coronavirus||As the country heads for the fourth phase of lockdown, which Prime Minister Modi says will be completely different, Dr Naresh Trehan, chairman of Medanta City, impressed upon the citizens the need to behave themselves in order to fight the coronavirus.Dr Trehan underlined that the coronavirus, the vaccine for which is still far away, is a “people’s war” and even though doctors are the frontline warriors in this, it is to be won by the whole population. With lockdown restrictions set to be eased, Dr Trehan, speaking exclusively to Hindustan Times, said the country needs hygiene, masking and social distancing.Watch| Lockdown 4 and how India should live with the virus: Dr. Naresh Trehan answers “To fight this war, we need to behave ourselves, by changing our social behaviour pattern. Hands hygiene, masking, and distancing. We will be able to contain this menace, if we behave responsibly,” said Dr Trehan.If the advice is not heeded, the doctor warned, the repercussions could be disastrous. “We will have a spread which will be unmanageable given our population,” said the doctor.He said there should be a constant “hammering of the fact that the only way to survive this is to act responsibly”. On the question of restarting the economic activity, Dr Trehan said it should be done in a “calibrated” manner.“We are at a juncture where economic activity must be opened , and opened gradually in a calibrated manner with monitoring,” he said. Talking about the serpentine queues seen outside liquor shops, Dr Trehan said the states must pitch in too and play their part. He said there will be confusion, but it should not turn to chaos.On the migrants’ situation, the doctor urged the Centre to make a “cohesive plan”. “If you decide to send them back, then make it possible for them to go back. We still see people walking on the streets. We must manage ourselves properly. We must have a cohesive thinking. It’s heart wrenching,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hygiene-masking-distancing-dr-trehan-s-mantra-to-fight-coronavirus/story-DAK4rZ9EGPqf7TOQAHyUhP.html
14-05-2020||India||32,000 Indians to be repatriated in second phase of Vande Bharat Mission||The second phase of India’s massive programme to repatriate citizens stranded abroad because of the Covid-19 pandemic will bring home about 32,000 people, more than double the figure for the first phase, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.State-run Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express will operate 149 flights to 31 countries, including the US, Australia and France, during the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission beginning on May 16. The first phase, which mostly focused on West Asian countries, has 64 flights.“There will be more flights and more destinations in the second phase. We are looking to bring back about 32,000 people,” said one of the people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity.About 15,000 citizens are expected to be repatriated from 12 countries during the first phase of Vande Bharat Mission, which will end on May 15, and 56 flights have already brought back more than 12,000 Indian nationals.An additional 904 Indians were repatriated from the Maldives by two Indian warships on May 10 and 12, and some more nationals arrived in the country on deportation flights from various countries.The people said requests from OCI card holders can be considered after the government meets the minimum expectations of its Indian nationals seeking to return home. Embassies in West Asian countries are also in touch with stakeholders following offers from private firms to repatriate Indian workers who had been laid off, they said.So far, a total of 188,646 Indian nationals have registered with the external affairs ministry to return, and priority will be given to those with compelling reasons for repatriation, such as workers laid off due to the pandemic, pregnant women, and people with medical emergencies.“An additional 18 countries are covered under the second phase, including Indonesia, Thailand, Australia, Italy, France, Germany, Ireland, Canada, Japan, Nigeria, Kazakhstan and Ukraine. We are broadening the ambit of Vande Bharat Mission every week in a phased manner, in line with our quarantine capacity and health protocols,” said external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava.He described Vande Bharat Mission as the largest and most complex exercise undertaken by the government for repatriating citizens stranded abroad, for which the external affairs ministry is working closely with the ministries of civil aviation, home and health and state governments.Referring to the deployment of the warship INS Kesari for Mission Sagar, an operation to provide medical aid and supplies to the Maldives, Mauritius, Madagascar, Comoros and Seychelles, Srivastava said the vessel is currently docked at Male to offload 550 tonnes of food supplies. The warship is carrying two medical assistance teams, a consignment of Covid-19-related essential medicines and food supplies. “This is inspired by the prime minister’s vision of Sagar – security and growth for all in the region. This is also in keeping with India’s role as a first responder in the region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32-000-indians-to-be-repatriated-in-second-phase-of-vande-bharat-mission/story-3K0lN9LCP9VE5ixcYQsJZM.html
14-05-2020||India||Migration toll continues to rise, 15 die, nearly 100 injured road accidents||Fifteen migrant workers on their way back to their homes were killed in three accidents, one each in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar in the past 24 hours, police officials said.They added that close to 100 were also injured in road accidents across states on Thursday, as migrant workers continue to seek rides on trucks, cycle, or just walk on the country’s highways to return home. The government, starting May 1, announced special trains for migrant workers, but there are still far too few of them and far too many workers wanting to return home. Some of the workers do not have documentation required to travel; others have not registered for the trains or buses being run. Millions of workers were left without work across cities and towns in India when the lockdown was announced on March 24, resulting in the first wave of workers going back to their villages. Every phase of the extension has seen a new wave -- the lockdown was extended twice, from April 14 to May 3 and then May 3 to May 17. On May 8, 16 workers sleeping on rail tracks were run over by a goods train in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad district. On May 9, five workers were killed in Madhya Pradesh’s Narsinghpur district when the truck in which they were travelling hit the central verge of the road. Late on Wednesday night, six labourers, who were walking from Punjab to their village in Gopalganj, Bihar, were killed and four others were seriously injured when a Uttar Pradesh Road Transport bus ran over them on the Saharanpur-Muzaffarnagar highway.Dr Vineet Kaushik of Muzaffarnagar district hospital confirmed that 10 people were brought in and six of them were declared dead. In Madhya Pradesh’s Guna, eight migrant labourers, travelling in a truck from Mumbai to Unnao in Uttar Pradesh, were killed and 55 others were injured when a bus rammed into their truck early Thursday, police said.Guna district Superintendent of police Tarun Nayak said, “Eight of the labourers were killed on the spot and the injured have been hospitalised. Once discharged, they will be sent to their homes in buses.”Mahendra Pal, one of the injured workers said, “The truck driver demanded Rs 3,000 per person. However, the amount was to be paid after reaching our destinations.” Another traveller, Mohd Sibu, said, “I asked for money from my family as I had no money left with me. We got the truck at Thane (Maharashtra).”Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said, “The state has issued instructions to the authorities to make all arrangements for the treatment of labourers.”In Bihar, a migrant worker was killed and 27 others were injured in an accident Samastipur district. Police said a bus carrying 44 migrants collided with a truck on Thursday. All the injured were taken to Sadar hospital were two of them are said to be in serious condition.In Odisha, at least 15 migrant workers were injured, four of them seriously after the minibus in which they were travelling, crashed into a tree in Angul district on Wednesday night, hours after authorities arranged the bus for them. Police officials said they had stopped the 15 migrants walking towards Purinakote area of Keonjhar district from Palasa in Andhra Pradesh and arranged the bus for them.In all, the government officials in states have confirmed death of 109 migrant workers on roads during 50 days of the lockdown so far. (With inputs from States)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migration-toll-continues-to-rise-15-die-nearly-100-injured-road-accidents/story-FPREVhHX55gptBBoVv60kM.html
14-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times | Covid-19 in UK: Number of Indian-origin victims rises to 665 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 in UK: Number of Indian-origin victims rises to 665New figures released on Thursday show that the number of people dying of coronavirus and categorised as ‘Indian’ rose to 665 in England as of May 12, while the UK-wide death toll rose to 33,614 with a cumulative number of positive cases of 233,151. Read more. 1,700 km cycle journey from Chennai underlines limitations of Bengal’s plan to bring migrants homeOn Thursday, Tamil Nadu-based writer and social activist Nityanand Jayaraman posted on Twitter a short video of a batch of migrant workers from Bengal starting for their home on bicycles, embarking on a nearly 1,700 km journey. Read more. Vijay Mallya’s extradition nears after refused recourse to UK Supreme CourtThe extradition of businessman Vijay Mallya to face charges of major financial offences neared on Thursday after the high court of England and Wales refused him permission to appeal in the UK Supreme Court on the ground that his case does not involve a ‘point of law of general public importance’. Read more. ‘The best way to use MS will be to…’ Former player on how India can get the maximum out of DhoniFormer India fast bowler Venkatesh Prasad feels MS Dhoni is better suited to play up the order than as a finisher. The former India captain, who has not played since the World Cup, has enjoyed good numbers batting at No. 3 and 4, scoring 2351 runs from 46 combined innings, averaging 82.75 and 56.58 respectively. Read more. Ramayan: Karanvir Bohra spots actor dancing during fight scene, quips ‘we used to think what an epic war’ like Game of ThronesTelevision actor Karanvir Bohra has spotted a major gaffe in the 1987 series Ramayan. He shared a video from a war sequence, in which an extra seems to be engaged in a fight with an invisible opponent as he brandishes his sword in the air. Read more. How to talk to your kids about the coronavirusMany schools have been shut in many parts of the world to contain the spread of Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). New data suggests that although children are less likely to get sick from COVID19, they still can spread the disease to other vulnerable groups. Read more. DU to conduct final year exam for all UG, PG students from July 1, check detailsDelhi University (DU) on Thursday said that the examinations for the final semester/term/year for all UG and PG students will be conducted from July 1, 2020, onwards. A notification regarding this decision has been uploaded on the varsity’s official website. Read more. Elephant calf charges at a tourist vehicle, then quickly retreats. Adorable video will break the cuteness barometerElephants are the gentle giants that most people love but do you know what is better than them? It’s the baby elephants. Thanks to the Internet, the videos of these fuzzy-headed adorable creatures never fail to amuse and amaze people. Read more. On The Record: Justice Abhay Thipsay (retd) on advising Nirav Modi’s lawyersA deposition by a former High Court judge in the Nirav Modi extradition case in the United Kingdom has caused a political storm. The Bharatiya Janata Party has called the involvement of Justice Abhay Thipsay (retired), a Congress member, an example of the grand old party trying to shield the fugitive diamantaire. Amid the war of words, Justice Thipsay spoke to Hindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury, to present his side of the story. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-in-uk-number-of-indian-origin-victims-rises-to-665-and-all-the-latest-news/story-j258iJAuGV7ag7NZg97yAK.html
14-05-2020||India||Kerala’s worst fears come true with Gulf returnees driving a big spike in Covid-19 cases||Kerala reported a big spurt in coronavirus cases on Thursday with 26 new cases, the highest since March-end, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He said out of 26, seven were middle-east returnees and eight came from other states including Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.The state’s worst fears of a steep rise in cases with the fresh wave of residents returning from the Gulf countries and other states have come true. 22 people returning from the middle-east have tested positive so far and the number is likely to go up even further with more flights expected in the coming days.“The sudden spurt exposes the lurking threat. We have been insisting for a strict protocol due to this. Many questioned us when we insisted for passes for those coming from other states. It is not the time to play politics,” said the CM taking a dig at three Congress MPs and two legislators who were asked to proceed on quarantine.MPs Remya Haridas, T N Prathapan and V K Sreekandan and legislators Anil Akkara and Shafi Parambhil had visited the Kerala- Tamil Nadu border checkpost on May 9 to distribute food and other essentials to the stranded people. The district medical board has asked them to proceed on a 14-day home quarantine after one of the youths they allegedly interacted with tested positive. The MPs later dubbed the move as “politically-motivated” but said they will go by the directive of the district administration.“We have given instructions not to arrange any reception for those coming to the state due to the prevailing situation. Despite this, some leaders rushed to the border post and interacted with many. This should have been avoided. It is no time to play politics,” he said. But the MPs said it was a politically- laced move.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“We will go by the directive of the administration. But we suspect some foul play in this. The youth collapsed in the morning and when TV channels reported this, we went there in the afternoon. He was tested positive on May 11. We feel it is a move aimed at cornering us,” said Palakkad MP V K Sreekandan adding the CPI (M) district committee had raised a demand to send him and others in quarantine two days ago. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe state, which is maintaining a healthy graph with high recovery and low mortality rates, pressed the emergency button as the exodus of expatriates from middle-eastern countries and other states began. The fact that most of the returnees from Arab nations other than the United Arab Emirates (UAE) were not tested before starting journey has aggravated concerns.“It is a critical phase for the state. In the last few days, we had only single-digit cases and some days were free of cases. Social distancing, masks and hand-hygiene have become part of our life. There is no escape from them now. We have to go by the directives of health officials and I am sure we will overcome this,” said the CM.Kerala has a total of 560 positive cases, including 64 active cases under treatment in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-worst-fears-come-true-with-gulf-returnees-driving-a-big-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-kwtEDbxwl64JeqfsL66SJK.html
14-05-2020||India||Maharashtra sees 1602 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day spike; tally at 27,524||Maharashtra on Thursday reported 1602 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike so far, taking the state’s coronavirus case count to 27,524, according to state health department data.With 44 deaths registered today, the death toll in Maharashtra due to the contagious coronavirus disease has now breached the 1000-mark and stands at 1019.Of the 44 deaths recorded in the state, 25 coronavirus positive patients succumbed to the infection in capital Mumbai, 10 in Navi Mumbai, 5 in Pune, 2 in Aurangabad and one person each died in Panvel and Kalyan.ALSO READ | Why Maharashtra was not able to check rapid Covid-19 spreadEarlier on Thursday morning, a 45-year-old police constable from Mumbai Police who had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 2 succumbed to the disease. His wife who had also tested positive for Covid-19 is being treated at the hospital and is said to be recovering. The constable has an eighteen-year-old son and a minor daughter, both of whom have tested negative for the disease. The deceased Bhagwan Parte was posted at the Shivaji Nagar police station in the eastern suburbs of the city. The police station’s jurisdiction comprises of dense slums which have a significant number of Covid-19 cases. He was on patrolling duty in a patrolling van and started showing symptoms of coronavirus on April 30. Parte was a resident of Navi Mumbai and was hospitalized at a medical facility in Kalamboli where his condition steadily worsened.With a spike of 3,722 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 count touched 78,003 on Thursday morning, according to data from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.According to the latest update by the Health Ministry, there are 49,219 active cases in the country, while 26,235 patients have been cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated so far.With 134 new deaths being reported due to the disease since yesterday, the country’s death toll due to the disease is now 2,549.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sees-1602-new-covid-19-cases-its-highest-single-day-spike-tally-at-27-524/story-HiwzJiW4tXSK3uS7b0cJPO.html
14-05-2020||India||Fresh announcements on economy to help farmers, migrants: PM Modi||The second tranche of stimulus for the country’s economy unveiled by the government on Thursday has a series of progressive measures and it will help the migrant workers and farmers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a Rs 3.16 lakh crore package of free foodgrains for migrant workers, concessional credit to farmers and working capital loan for street vendors as part of the second tranche of fiscal stimulus to heal an economy hit hard by the coronavirus-forced lockdown.“Today’s announcements by FM Nirmala Sitharaman will especially benefit our farmers and migrant workers,” the prime minister tweeted.The announcements, Modi pointed out, include a series of “progressive measures and will boost food security, credit to farmers as well as street vendors”.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Modi had introduced massive new financial incentives on top of the previously announced packages for a combined stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-announcements-on-economy-to-help-farmers-migrants-pm-modi/story-XQPJhQblLJgFKsb8z9vs8O.html
14-05-2020||India||2 Karnataka Congress leaders seek govt permission for Eid namaz at mosques||Two senior Karnataka Congress leaders - former union minister C M Ibrahim and MLC Abdul Jabbar have written a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa asking that Muslims be permitted to offer prayers on Eid-ul-Fitr at mosques and Idgah Maidans.Eid-ul-Fitr which marks the end of the Islamic month of Ramzan during which Muslims fast, is expected to be celebrated on May 24 or 25 depending on the sighting of the moon. In the letter, Ibramhim and Jabbar pointed out that Muslims all over the state had not been able to offer namaz in mosques due to the Covid-19 pandemic and suggested that on at least on Eid, the government offer permission to offer prayers at mosques Idagah Maidans till 1 pm in the afternoon. Mosques across the country have been shut since the lockdown began.The state government was yet to officially react to the request but the minister for Rural Development and Panchayati Raj K S Eshwarappa hit out at Ibrahim saying “We already know what the support of the likes of Siddaramiah, Ibrahim and Zameer Ahmed Khan has done to Tablighis who returned to the state. Law is the same for everybody and all communities.”Ibrahim defended his demand saying that the community has till now followed government orders to offer namaz at home rather than mosques but Eid was an important festival and that all precautions including consultation with medical experts could be done by the government before granting permission.Karnataka recorded 28 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday to take its tally to 987. A total of 460 people have recovered while 35 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-karnataka-congress-leaders-seek-govt-permission-for-eid-namaz-at-mosques/story-W70h4kJOmYTsnm0jpyPsDI.html
14-05-2020||India||Migrant worker, his pregnant wife and 2 kids walking to MP village from Jaipur||Lean and frail, 24-year-old Malti Arwar is walking with a handbag full of clothes balanced on her head, a nylon bag and a steel pot with food in both her hands and an eight-month-old child in her womb. Along with her husband Naresh and children Tanu and Pradeep, she started walking from Jaipur towards their village in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday.“Chhattarpur Jila, Gram Maharajanpurva, post Bachhaun,” Naresh said, his eyes sparkling with the mention of his birthplace again and again. It doesn’t matter if it is a good 700 km away and they are on foot. The 25-year-old man is a skilled labourer and worked with a contractor for a government project before the lockdown and his wife is expecting a child soon.He said he registered on the e-mitra for interstate travel on May 2 but after getting no response for 12 days, the family decided to hit the highway on foot. “Kisi ko jaante nahin Jaipur mein... paisa bhi khatam ho gaya,” said the 25-year-old man.The shade from a huge bag perched on his head envelopes his sweating face. He shows the 12-digit token number generated by e-mitra portal where people wishing to travel register for permission. The token number scribbled on a paper is folded neatly and kept in the pocket of his shirt.Naresh looks hopefully towards the highway for a ride but the vehicles passing by are few and they do not stop. After they pass, mingled sounds of anklets and rubber slippers of Malti scrapping the scorching charcoal can be clearly heard as she totters along. While 5-year-old Pradeep adjusts his toy goggles and the mask he put on especially for the long walk home, they have just reached Paldi Meena near Kanota.Also Read: 1,700 km cycle journey from Chennai underlines limitations of Bengal’s plan to bring migrants homeJaipur district collector Joga Ram said the administration has set up camps for workers walking on highways. “We have requested them not to walk. We have also pressed 15 buses to bring walking people to these camps,” he said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19According to information provided in the Rajasthan High Court on Thursday, more than 9 million people have registered on the government portal for permission to go home from Rajasthan. Until May 13, 31,197 workers, students and migrants have been sent home by 27 trains and 33,000 more will be sent by 22 trains by May 18, said the government in an affidavit in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-two-kids-in-tow-and-a-third-in-womb-a-migrant-couple-walking-from-jaipur-to-their-village-in-mp/story-0qO09ljDsQTV4wDddF3quJ.html
14-05-2020||India||First responders: The police story in the fight against Covid-19 in Kasargod||The “triple lock” containment strategy used by the police in Kerala’s Kasaragod district to contain Covid-19 could be the perfect example of how the expertise of cops in surveillance and investigations as well as their familiarity of an area and connect with the community can play an important role in managing a pandemic.Local police is not only the first responder to any disaster but it is the key department for helping civil administration in arranging resources as well as maintaining law and order while continuing its routine schedule at police stations.In fact, a research paper by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD), a think-tank of ministry of home affairs, written by 1982 batch Bihar cadre IPS officer Paras Nath Rai, says, “Police has a major role in disaster management. As police will continue to have the first responder role given its proximity to the incident site it has to bring about a change in its approach. It has to adopt disaster management function as a primary role and not as a side work”.Rai argued that the local police must be “trained, equipped and supported with legislation and logistics so that they find themselves capable to support the victim in the golden hour”.While response of most of the state police forces’ has been appreciated for the past two months in implementing the Covid-19 lockdown barring few incidents of violence against migrant labourers and misunderstanding the government orders on movement of essential items, Kasargod police’s strategy has particularly been touted as most effective.One of the main features of Kasargod’s police strategy was to monitor the movements of Covid-19 patients and their primary and secondary contacts and for which they used an application – CovidSafety, and not Aarogya Setu.The CovidSafety app has been extremely helpful in detecting violation of home quarantine by people as it alerts the police if the quarantined person moves 50 meters away from his location, according to Inspector General of Police and Commissioner of Police Kochi – Vijay Sakhare.Kasargod was one of the first districts to have reported Covid-19. Sakhare says ‘triple-lock’ strategy is a combination of professional policing techniques and innovative use to technology. The police used traditional methods to restrict movement of all people residing in the district by putting barricades, and human surveillance by deploying officers outside residence of patients, and several apps for tracing, delivery of essentials and medicines. Some of the platforms launched by Kasargod police include – CovidSaftey app for contact tracing, which Sakhare said most of the people downloaded; “Swaraksha Kasargode” – for free medical consultation and ambulances and “Amrutham” – for home delivery of essential items by the police apart from drones. The district reported 92% less cases by the end of April due to this strategy.The Kochi police commissioner says the triple lock strategy has been scaled up to cover the new returnees to the state after the Centre and state governments have opened up the borders. He adds that “home quarantine is no quarantine” unless affected persons stay inside. “The possibility of these persons spreading infection to other family members and the community is very real,” Sakhare says. Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava says “No civil administration can think of managing an epidemic without the help of police because of its authority it has in the community. Be it implementing the lockdown or managing security of quarantine centres and containment zones, hospitals, movement of migrant labourers, supply of essentials and giving permissions, all these are the strengths of police. Managing a disaster of this scale while continuing the regular police work is a challenge too but then it’s our first duty to serve the people”.Former Delhi Police chief Neeraj Kumar agrees with Shrivastava. “Police have to do everything in such situations despite the fact that they are most vulnerable to infection. The Covid-19 pandemic has also brought out the human side of the police”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-responders-the-police-story-in-the-fight-against-covid-19-in-kasargod/story-azjf2uHOLEokSsYI9ukBVN.html
14-05-2020||India||1,700 km cycle journey from Chennai underlines limitations of Bengal’s plan to bring migrants home||On Thursday, Tamil Nadu-based writer and social activist Nityanand Jayaraman posted on Twitter a short video of a batch of migrant workers from Bengal starting for their home on bicycles, embarking on a nearly 1,700 km journey.This was barely a few hours before Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee - who has been facing flak from the opposition for allegedly going slow on bringing back migrant workers - announced that the state had arranged for 105 trains to bring these workers home. People stranded across the country, however, seem to have lost hope.“#MigrantsOnTheRoad Chennai Kolkata Highway. This batch of 20 left Chennai this morning for Murshidabad, WB. 1700 km. No help from govts. Public public partnership only. Courtesy Lorry drivers, dhaba balas, people of India,” Jayaraman wrote on Twitter.In Bengal, right to food activist Anuradha Talwar, who has been working with stranded migrant workers in different states over the past few weeks, said migrants from Bengal were initially against the idea of walking or cycling back home and preferred to wait but are now running out of patience.“We are in touch with these workers and most from Bengal were in favour of waiting for train services to resume. Too few from Bengal actually took to the road to walk or cycle hundreds of kilometres. But they are running out of patience due to lack of clarity over the state government’s initiatives and have started making their own arrangements,” said Talwar.The number of workers from Bengal who migrate to other states is estimated to be around 12 lakh. They mostly go to the southern states of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka and the western states of Maharashtra and Gujarat. Most of them work in the construction, zari, restaurant, sugar mill, jewelry and the garment sector.Bengal has so far seen a very few people return from distant states on their own, whereas, people did return in groups on their own from the neighbouring states of Jharkhand and Odisha.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Among those who travelled several hundred kilometres on their own, was a group of construction workers from Chhattisgarh who walked and hitched rides, a middle-aged man from Tamil Nadu and a septuagenarian from Bihar who cycled the distance.“I gave my mobile phone to a security guard at the construction site where I worked in exchange for his bicycle and a few hundred rupees. I rode throughout the day and sometimes at night too. I took rest only when I could not take the pain anymore,” said Atiul Shah, a 23-year-old resident of South 24 Parganas district in Bengal, who returned from Salem in Tamil Nadu on April 29. As on Thursday, 10 trains have brought back stranded migrant worker and pilgrims and several buses have brought back students stranded in Kota, Rajasthan.Mamata Banerjee, however, has blamed other states for the plight of the migrant workers. “No one stranded in our state is getting mad to go back because we have truly treated them as our guests. But people from Bengal who got stranded in other states did not receive this gesture. We appeal to those who are returning not to go back to those states that did not take care of them in this crisis. We’ll make some arrangements for them,” Banerjee said.The first four of the 105 special trains that Banerjee on Thursday tweeted to have arranged, are expected to arrive with migrants from Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad on Sunday. While one will reach Howrah, the rest three will go to Malda and New Cooch Behar stations.“More than one lakh people have already returned. This includes migrant labourers, tourists, patients and students. The most, around 90,000, came on buses while some arranged their own vehicles to reach the state borders. Some came on foot,” said Banerjee.Opposition parties, however, accused Banerjee of being apathetic towards the migrants. “We are fed up appealing to her. Every appeal falls on deaf ears,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha.Bharatiya Janata Party state unit president Dilip Ghosh made the same allegation. “We have given the government a list of more than 4,00,000 migrant workers stranded in different states,” Ghosh said.Some workers who were fortunate to get on board trains are unhappy with the arrangements made by the railways. On Thursday, a section of the passengers who came from Bengaluru on a New Jalpaiguri-bound Shramik Special train alleged that they faced an acute shortage of drinking water and food. They also alleged that no social distancing was maintained on the train.Special train reaches Bengaluru from Delhi, passengers to undergo 14-day quarantineMore than 50 passengers on this train got down at Durgapur where the train stopped briefly to change the engine. They staged a protest. Later, the railway authorities had to coordinate with the state government to arrange buses for these passengers. The train was sanitized and drinking water was supplied.The government has stuck to its stand that it would not allow a large number of workers to enter the state at one go. “We will do it in a staggered manner to ensure the virus does not spread to new areas. Every person needs to be screened and we are planning for the return of every single person,” said chief secretary Rajiva Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-700-km-cycle-journey-from-chennai-underlines-limitations-of-bengal-s-plan-to-bring-migrants-home/story-qJUeVDPKoZii1u2YC2RvvO.html
14-05-2020||India||US vs China over Covid-19 goes up a notch ahead of WHO meet. Round 2 over Taiwan||Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the World Health Organisation director general who has been blocking darts hurled at him over the global health agency’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic, has landed himself at centre of another bout of shadow boxing between the United States and China over letting Taiwan attend next week’s World Health Assembly as an observer.The self-ruled island, which Beijing considers a wayward province awaiting reunification, has been excluded from WHO membership due to objections from China.Taiwan attended the World Health Assembly as a non-voting observer from 2009 to 2016. But Beijing has blocked Taipei’s representation at the event after a China skeptic, Tsai Ing-wen was elected president in 2016. She was re-elected this year and is due to begin her second term on 20 May, two days after the WHA’s 18 May meet.More than a dozen countries have proposed resolutions for the WHO to let Taiwan attend the World Health Assembly as an observer, arguing that the world needed to hear Taiwan that has been held up as a model in fighting the virus first detected in central China’s Wuhan last year.The disease has since then killed 2,97,000 people, infected over 4 million, grounded the world economy and set off a back and forth between the United States, China and WHO’s Tedros.Taiwan has had just about 400 cases and 7 deaths.Also Read: WHO chief Tedros unbowed amid attacks, Donald Trump’s criticismTo be sure, this will not be the first time that an attempt has been made to restore Taiwan’s observer status for the World Health Assembly.Fourteen member states had proposed Taiwan’s inclusion as an observer at WHO’s last annual meet on 28-29 May 2019. The WHO had then cited “procedure followed in previous years” to let two of them speak in favour of the resolution and two against before the general assembly delivered its ruling.Apart from China, Cuba had opposed Taiwan’s inclusion. Eswatini in southern Africa and Honduras in central America had spoken in favour.Diplomats in Geneva and Washington told Hindustan Times that the effort this time was to lobby for other countries to speak too. The chorus is growing, one of them said.Already, fence-sitter Canada has backed Taiwan’s claim to be allowed to participate at the WHA meet apart from other countries such as Australia, Japan, Germany, France, the UK, Australia, New Zealand and the US that is fronting this campaign.A report in the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation’s CBS News said Canada had, for the first time, even gone to the extent of issuing a verbal demarche to two senior WHO executives asking that Taiwan be admitted as an observer to the Monday meeting because its input would be “meaningful and important.”Also Read: Need a reformed WHO| HT EditorialChinese diplomats have been on an overdrive over the coronavirus diseases, initially to play down the havoc that the Sars-CoV-2 virus could wreck on the world. And later when the situation became manageable back home, to even jeer at countries that were struggling with containing its fallout if they underscored transparency and accountability from the WHO or Beijing.Where it could, it has also penalised critics. Like when Australia supported the US call for a probe into the origin of the virus, Chinese authorities threatened to impose heavy duties on barley imports and went ahead to suspend beef imports from four Australian suppliers.Indian hasn’t taken a stand on Taiwan’s inclusion yet. But one government official noted how Beijing, that wants the world to acknowledge its ‘one China’ principle, didn’t demonstrate respect for India’s sovereignty when it comes to Kashmir, or building the China Pakistan Economic Border through Indian territory occupied by Islamabad.It is not clear if senior minister Nitin Gadkari’s comment in an interview to NDTV that the virus that causes coronavirus disease was an off-the-cuff remark or an indicator that the government has an open mind on the origin of the disease. Gadkari told the news channel that the virus that causes Covid-19 wasn’t a natural virus but created in a laboratory, echoing a charge that has been repeatedly made by Washington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-vs-china-over-covid-19-goes-up-a-notch-ahead-of-who-meet-round-2-over-taiwan/story-RF7px60rX9DqpvwVZ58FgO.html
14-05-2020||India||Sitharaman announces 2% interest subvention on smallest category of MUDRA-Shishu loans||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced Rs 1500 crore interest subvention for MUDRA-Shishu loan payees of up to Rs 50,000, for a period of at least 12 months as part of the second tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore  economic stimulus package  given by the Centre to cover losses due to the nationwide lockdown.For small businesses, the minister announced a 2 per cent interest subvention on the smallest category of loans to be given under the MUDRA-Shishu loan scheme, which would add up to Rs 50,000.“The Government of India will provide interest subvention of 2% for prompt payees for a period of 12 months. Total relief of Rs 1500 crore will be made available by the government to MUDRA-Shishu loanees,” Sitharaman said.ALSO READ | Credit boost of Rs 2 lakh cr for 2.5 cr farmers through Kisan Credit Cards, says Nirmala Sitharaman This measure would cost the Central government at least Rs 1500 crore annually.“Small businesses under MUDRA have been disrupted the most and it has also impacted their capacity to pay EMIs. A loan moratorium has already been granted by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The current portfolio of MUDRA-Shishu loans is Rs 1.62 lakh crore (on maximum loan amount of Rs 50,000),” the finance minister added. The Finance Minister on Thursday announced the second tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package focussing on migrants, street vendors, traders, self-employed people and small farmers. In a major step by the Union government, the minister also announced free food grain supply to all migrant labourers who are non–card holders or do not fall under the Food Security Act for the next two months.This is the second phase of announcements by the Union Finance Ministry elaborating on the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package.A day earlier, Sitharaman had said that over the next few days, the finance ministry would hold daily media briefings to put forth Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision and share more details on the economic package meant to revive the industry grappling with a 51-day nationwide lockdown. The lockdown had been imposed towards the end of March to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitharaman-announces-2-interest-subvention-on-smallest-category-of-mudra-shishu-loans/story-zAsrbgyHa0uST6vblmj3iO.html
14-05-2020||India||Seven migrant workers walk 1,800 km from Mumbai to reach home in Chaibasa||Sataria Hembrom and six other migrant workers walked almost 1,800 km from Mumbai to reach his home in Chaibasa district in Jharkhand, trekking up to 45 km a day and going without food sometimes.After exhausting all their hard earned money during the Covid-19 lockdown and finding no other option for survival, the seven men from at Purnapani panchayat left Navi Mumbai, where there worked at a construction site, at 3 am on May 2 on an empty stomach.They walked 40 km to 45 km a day, sleeping at petrol pumps, under trees and on the side of highways, braving the fear of being crushed by heavy vehicles. They cried in pain on several nights and compromised with hunger on many occasions.On a few lucky days, they received sympathy from policemen and truck drivers, who helped shorten their journey by giving them a lift in their vehicles.“We worked at a construction site in Navi Mumbai where work came to a standstill after the announcement of the lockdown. We were surviving on the money we had saved. Gradually, the virus started spreading and ration shops closed down. Then, we had two options – either face the disease on an empty stomach or walk home,” said 31-year-old Hembrom.Another worker who made the journey with Hembrom, Sahil Kumar Gaud, said they could not sleep for several nights because of fears they might not see their families again. “We decided to go back home on foot. Initially, we had doubts but we had no option,” he said.After leaving their accommodation on May 2, they walked for nine hours from 3 am to noon on the first day, resulting in blisters on Hembrom’s feet. “He was in extreme pain from the first day,” Gaud said.“Sometimes, we used to be frustrated thinking we won’t reach our home, as the simmering heat was a major obstacle in our journey,” he added.Every day, Gaud said, they started their trek at 4 am and walked till noon. “After taking some rest under a tree or at petrol pumps, we walked again from 3 pm till 9 pm. On several nights, we cried in pain but we had no other option.”Gaud said, “Sometimes, we would eat using the little money we had left at roadside dhabas and sometimes, social workers would feed us.” He further said, “At some places, police stopped us. But after hearing our story, they put us in their vehicles and helped us shorten the journey. At some places, truck drivers helped us shorten the journey.“The trek was the toughest in Chhattisgarh, where we got no help, excluding food. We had to cross the entire state on foot. No vehicles helped us in the state,” he added.The seven men reached Chaibasa at 9 pm on Wednesday, and were screened by the local administration and sent to home quarantine.Despite the buses and trains organised by the government, thousands of migrant workers have been going home on foot or bicycle. The workers alleged they had no information about the train or bus services when they left the places where they were working.Chief Minister Hemant Soren, in a statement issued on Thursday, said the state government is making efforts to bring back 685,000 stranded Jharkhand residents in a systematic manner by coordinating with the railways and the Central government. He requested opposition party leaders to urge the Central government to arrange more trains for workers from Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-migrant-workers-walk-1-800-km-from-mumbai-to-reach-home-in-chaibasa/story-tpe7OL6jzdIm4gSpzZ4MhM.html
14-05-2020||India||Coronavirus crisis: Reverse migration gives hope to north Bengal tea gardens||With thousands of workers returning to West Bengal as a result of migrants exodus during nationwide lockdown to combat the coronavirus pandemic outbreak, the tea gardens in the Darjeeling hill region and other north Bengal districts are hoping to be able to tide over the shortage of workforce witnessed in recent years.A large section of tea garden labourers - who are paid Rs 176 a day at the 283 tea gardens of the region - left their jobs in recent years and went to other states in search of greener pastures. These workers still exist on the payroll of the tea companies as “absentees.”The tea industry in north Bengal requires around three lakh workers to ensure optimal operation. R P Thapliyal, chairman, Tea Association of India, north Bengal unit, said the daily shortage in manpower hovers around 30 per cent.The migration to other states resulted in a shortage of workers with planters finding it difficult to carry out maintenance jobs such as cleaning weeds and pruning tea bushes. To overcome this, planters are forced to hire local people from outside the industry. This leads to additional expenditure.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Planters said the manpower-shortage factor affected the recent harvesting of first flush tea, the most premium product, and it was made worst due to the enforcement of social distancing norms. S K Lama, general secretary, Himalayan Plantation Workers’ Union, which is affiliated to the Gorkha National Liberation Front, said, “Tea gardens can employ people returning from other states. They used to work in these tea gardens till recently. The trade unions will demand their absorption.”A senior workers’ welfare officer from a garden owned by a nationally known company said, “Some people have already applied for jobs in our garden in the Dooars region. We are forced to hire workers from outside the industry. If the migrant labourers are declared medically fit, then there should be no problem in allowing them in. After all, they are already trained.”A planter in the Darjeeling hills, who did not wish to be named, said, “Once the government allows us to operate with full strength we will hire many of these home-bound workers.”J B Tamang, a senior leader of Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Labour Union (DTDPLU), affiliated to the Binoy Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM), said “Some gardens are operating with only 50 per cent manpower. The workers left because the wages in the gardens is lower than what some industries offer in other states.”The returnees, however, have an obstacle to cross before they can find work again at the tea gardens, according to Ram Avtar Sharma, secretary, Tea Association of India.“These people are absentees and some disciplinary action has already been initiated against them. The labour laws will follow their own course. Future will decide whether they will be employed, but there is hope.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-crisis-reverse-migration-gives-hope-to-north-bengal-tea-gardens/story-ibLgfVBQJph2a2UWzVHDPM.html
14-05-2020||India||Nirmala Sitharaman announces Rs 30,000 crore funds for small farmers||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a Rs 30,000 crore additional emergency working capital funding to benefit farmers amid the Covid-19 lockdown.“Rs 30,000 crore additional emergency working capital fund to be provided through NABARD to three crore small, marginal farmers,” Sitharaman said at the said in an address to the media on the government’s Rs 20 lakh crore economic package.NABAD will extend additional refinance support of Rs 30,00 crore for crop loan requirement of rural cooperative banks and regional rural banks RRBs).The scheme is front-loaded with on-tap facility to 33 state cooperative banks, 351 district cooperative banks and 43 RRBs available on tap based on their lending.The scheme is designed to meet post harvest (rabi) and current kharif requirement in May/June will benefit around three crore small and marginal farmers.Sitharaman also announced Rs 2 lakh crore concessional credit boost to 2.5 crore farmers through Kisan Credit Cards.In her press conference on Wednesday where she focused largely on MSMEs, Sithraman had said the economic package was intended to show the government was responsive to the needs of the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmala-sitharaman-announces-rs-30-000-crore-funds-for-small-farmers/story-1Ng4qYUDmBXcL7EmWE7p9I.html
14-05-2020||India||Heavy rain, hailstorm hit parts of Delhi, Ghaziabad||The temperature across many parts of Delhi-NCR plunged late Thursday afternoon as strong winds whipped up dust storms that were followed by heavy rain. Hailstorm was also witnessed.The dust storm darkened the sky that had been bright the whole day. While showers and wind brought down the mercury by several notches, some areas in Delhi such as Kashmere Gate received heavy rain amid lightning and thunder. According to the Met department, rain and thundershower were predicted North and northwest India between May 13 and 14.Last Sunday, dust storms raged across Delhi and Noida. The change in weather due to rain was seen all over the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-hailstorm-hit-parts-of-delhi-ghaziabad/story-lxyhwq9iuLnAuiNWDhm1qO.html
14-05-2020||India||ED arrests Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan in Yes Bank money laundering case||Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) promoters, Kapil and his brother Dheeraj Wadhawan, were arrested on Thursday in connection with a money laundering case of Yes Bank being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The duo was produced before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court, which remanded them to ED’s custody till May 24.A single-judge bench Bombay high court (HC), comprising Justice Bharati Dangre, on Tuesday had rejected the Wadhawans’ anticipatory bail plea and said that custodial interrogation was needed because of the serious nature of allegations such as money laundering and the accused had entered into a conspiracy with several others, including Yes Bank promoter Rana Kapoor and his family members.The judge said that only the applicants can shed light on the nature of the transactions and the alleged conspiracy could be cracked after their interrogation.ED had initiated proceedings against the Wadhawans based on a first information report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on March 7 against Kapoor for conspiracy, cheating and under relevant provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act.It is alleged that between April and June 2018, Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term, non-convertible debentures of DHFL and Kapoor received Rs 600 crore as kickbacks from DHFL, in the form of loan advanced to two firms, DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Private Limited and Morgan Credits Private Limited. While Kapoor’s daughters hold 100℅ stakes in DOIT, Morgan Credits is controlled by his wife. ED also alleged that the Wadhawans had formed at least 79 companies to siphon off money.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, appearing on behalf of ED, opposed the pleas and stated that the debentures were not yet redeemed by DHFL and Yes Bank had not received its amount back. He added that DHFL has extended a loan of Rs 600 crore to the firms controlled by Kapoor’s family by showing grossly overvalued properties. ED officials said that it had served the summons to the Wadhawans to cooperate with them and to appear before the last week of March, but they did not cooperate. The agency also said that the claims of lockdown restrictions do not hold because if they could travel to Mahabaleshwar, they could have visited the ED office as well.The Wadhawans, along with a group of 23 people, had flouted the prevailing lockdown restrictions and travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Khandala on April 8. The family had managed to leave Mumbai on the permission letter issued by senior state government officials, which is under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-arrests-kapil-and-dheeraj-wadhawan-in-yes-bank-money-laundering-case/story-5ruy9FPxpuhmmGaeSbenrK.html
14-05-2020||India||Credit boost of Rs 2 lakh cr for 2.5 cr farmers through Kisan Credit Cards: Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced concessional credit boost worth Rs 2 lakh crore to 2.5 crore farmers through Kisan Credit Cards issued by the government.“A special drive will be undertaken to provide concessional credit to PM-KISAN beneficiaries through Kisan Credit Cards. Fishermen and Animal husbandry farmers will also be included in this drive,” the finance minister said.This move by the Centre will enable farmers to gain access to institutional credit at concessional interest rate. Across the country about 2.5 crore farmers will be covered and will benefit from credit flow of about Rs 2 lakh crore. At least, 25 lakh new Kisan Credit Cards are in the pipeline for small and marginal farmers, the minister indicated.ALSO READ | Free food grain supply for 8 crore migrants for next 2 months: Nirmala SitharamanGovernment agency NABARD will also extend additional re-finance support of Rs 30,000 crore for crop loan requirement which farmers can avail through Rural Co-operative banks and RRBs.“Interest subvention and prompt repayment incentive on crop loans due from March 1 has been extended to May 31,” the finance minister said.Sitharaman said that 3 crore marginal farmers have already availed Rs 4 lakh crore of loans on concessional rates in the last few months.The Finance Minister on Thursday announced the second tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package focussing on migrants, street vendors, traders, self-employed people and small farmers. In a major step by the Union government, the minister also announced free food grain supply to all migrant labourers who are non–card holders or do not fall under the Food Security Act amounting to an expenditure of Rs 3,500 crore by the Centre for the next two months.This is the second phase of announcements by the Union Finance Ministry elaborating on the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package.A day earlier, Sitharaman had said that over the next few days, the finance ministry would hold daily media briefings to put forth Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision and share more details on the economic package meant to revive the industry grappling with a 51-day nationwide lockdown. The lockdown had been imposed towards the end of March to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/credit-boost-of-rs-2-lakh-cr-for-2-5-cr-farmers-through-kisan-credit-cards-says-nirmala-sitharaman/story-Zzwfmp3mw0UsIkJqVK8ZFL.html
14-05-2020||India||Covid-19 to have significant deflationary impact due to demand evaporation: CEA||Ruling out any impact of stimulus on the price situation, Chief Economic Advisor K V Subramanian on Thursday said the COVID-19 pandemic has severely dented the demand for non-essential or discretionary goods, creating deflationary conditions. He also said that a good part of the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package is designed in a manner that the fiscal deficit remains under control. “COVID has a significant deflationary impact because demand especially for non-essential or discretionary goods and services will go down significantly. Therefore, it is unlikely that there would be too much inflationary impact through fiscal deficit or stimulus package,” Subramanian told PTI in an interview. The proposed stimulus package will generate demand by infusing liquidity into the system and thus perk up the economy, the CEA said. “A good part of stimulus is utilising leverage to deliver...while at the same time ensuring that the fiscs remain actually under control,” he said. Last week, the government raised its market borrowing programme by a whopping 54 per cent of the Budget estimate to Rs 12 lakh crore for the current fiscal to fund a comprehensive stimulus package of Rs 20 lakh crore to fight the COVID-19 crisis. According to some estimates, Rs 4.2 lakh crore additional borrowing by the government will push the fiscal deficit to 5.8 per cent of the GDP in FY21 as against the budget target of 3.5 per cent. With regards to proposed structural reforms, Subramanian said Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his recent address touched some important aspects like land, labour, laws and liquidity. “Land and labour are really factor market reforms because these are factor inputs that really affect the cost of doing business and you have seen a lot of changes on these recently at state level,” he said. Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have announced fundamental labour reforms and other states are also in line to follow up, he said, adding, Karnataka had just gone ahead and changed the regulation on acquisition of land for business. Land can now be directly bought from farmers in the state and other states will also imbibe the model, he said. “Land and labour are state-level subjects. What the PM has outlined is what states are implementing. I think from the perspective of the cost of doing business, these are very important,” he said. On growth he said, India will witness a V shape rebound rather than U shape post COVID-crisis. “It is possible that there may be a lot of pessimistic assessments, I would rather be aware of that bias while making judgement. When you look at researches around Spanish Flu of (1918), it was far more devastating. even then it was V shaped recovery,” he said. That is the best estimate that one can make at this point of time, he said. Pointing out that the Spanish Flu was far more devastating than the current COVID crisis, he said, that flu had affected one-third of the global population in contrast to one per cent now by coronavirus and despite all that it was a V shaped recovery then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-to-have-significant-deflationary-impact-due-to-demand-evaporation-cea/story-u7uz9SHZMDj3qjYWH2dTWM.html
14-05-2020||India||Rs 20 lakh cr Covid package’s 2nd chunk delivered: Total economic pkg in numbers||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s second installment of the Rs 20 lakh crore Atma Nirbhar Bharat economic relief package on Thursday focused on farmers, migrant labourers and street vendors. Apart from free food grain to migrant workers to credit facility for street vendors to concessional credit for farmers, the finance minister not only revealed new measures but also highlighted the steps taken by the NDA government in the last two months to assist the vulnerable class hit by the economic slump triggered by coronavirus pandemic.Here’s a comprehensive list of the economic relief measures announced by the finance ministry including the package announced on Thursday and Wednesday.1. Rs 5,000 crore special credit facility for nearly 50 lakh street vendors with initial working capital of up to Rs 10,000.2. Rs 3,500 crore for supply of food grains to migrants who are neither NFSA nor state card beneficiaries in the states they are stationed in. About 8 crore migrants to be given 5 kg of grains and 1 kg of chickpeas per family for two months under this scheme.3. Rs 1,500 crore worth of interest subvention for small businesses under Mudra-Shishu loans for a period of 12 months. The government will pay 2% interest for loan account holders making regular payments.4. Rs 30,000 crore additional emergency working capital for three crore farmers to be allocated through NABARD to rural cooperative banks and RRBs for funding crop loans requirements.5. Rs 6,000 crore for Compensatory Afforestation Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) for forest and afforestation related works in urban areas to create job opportunities for tribals. This is over and above the Rs 90,000 crore to be provided by NABARD through the normal refinance route this year.6. Rs 70,000 crore boost to the housing sector and middle-income groups through the extension of Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme to March 31, 2021. Move to benefit 2.5 lakh middle income families and create jobs and spur construction-linked demand.7. 14.62 crore person-days of work generated till May 13, 2020, under MGNREG scheme and actual expenditure incurred is around Rs 10,000 crore.8. Rs 11,002 crore released as Centre’s advance to states for SDRF funds to support shelter and food for the migrant workforce.9. 63 lakh loans of Rs 86,600 crore approved in agriculture between March 1 and April 30, 2020. 10. Working capital limit of Rs 6,700 crore sanctioned for procurement of agricultural produce to state government entities since March 2020.11. Three crore farmers have already availed the benefit of 3 months loan moratorium on agricultural loans of Rs 4.22 lakhs crore.12. Rs 2 lakh crore concessional credit boost for 2.5 crore farmers through Kisan Credit Cards. 25 lakh new Kisan Credit Cards have already been sanctioned with a loan limit of Rs 25,000 cr.13. Rs 3 lakh crore emergency working capital facility for businesses including MSMEs14. Rs 20,000 cr subordinate debt for stressed SMEs15. Rs 50,000 crore equity infusion through MSMEs Fund of Funds16. No global tenders for government orders of up to Rs 200 crore17. Rs 2,500 crore worth of extended EPF support for businesses and organized workers for another three months- from June to August 202018. Rs 6,750 crore infusion of liquidity through a reduction in EPF contribution for employers and employees for three months from 12% to 10%19. Rs 50,000 crore liquidity through 25% reduction in rates for the tax collected at source and tax deduction at source for the remaining duration of FY 2020-21.20. Rs 30,000 crores liquidity facility for NBFC/HCs/MFIs21. R 45,000 crore partial credit guarantee scheme 2.0 for NBFCs22. Rs 90,000 crore liquidity injection for DISCOMs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-20-lakh-cr-covid-package-s-2nd-chunk-delivered-here-s-total-economic-pkg-in-numbers/story-eNdYBHL12Pcr704DWJzmXJ.html
14-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times | ‘Destination address must’: Railways to passengers taking special trains and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Destination address must’: Railways to passengers taking special trainsThose travelling in the special passenger trains, operational since Tuesday, will now have to mandatorily provide their destination address as well while booking tickets. The move will help the government in contact tracing passengers affected by Covid-19, the railway ministry said. Read more. Vande Bharat-II: Air India to operate flights to 31 countries from May 16Air India has opened bookings for the second phase of 149 repatriation flights under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission to bring back Indians stranded in 31 countries from May 16. Read more. Nirav Modi cites rats, insects in Mumbai jail to avoid extraditionIndia has provided sovereign assurances and details of the Barrack number 12 of Arthur Road jail in Mumbai, where diamantaire Nirav Modi facing extradition is to be lodged, as a British valuer of gems and jewellery deposed in his favour on the fourth day of his trial on Thursday. Read more.No sixes in the last 10: Yuvraj Singh slams Greg Chappell’s ‘play along the ground’ statementGreg Chappell is a name in Indian cricket that everyone would like to forget. His stint as head coach was marred in controversy as most of the cricketers lamented his ways and strategy at that time. Read more. Lockdown hasn’t deterred Tamil film industry, post-production work begins on over half dozen projectsAfter Tamil Nadu government granted special permission earlier this week to carry out post-production of films and TV shows, over half a dozen Tamil films have resumed work in lockdown. Read more. Vaseline, white eyeshadow and more: Marilyn Monroe’s makeup routine and the making of a Hollywood divaThere are very few names that capture glamour quite like the diva Marilyn Monroe, known for bright blond coif, a beautiful pair of lips, ‘bedroom’ eyes, and that striking beauty mark. One of Hollywood’s most famous screen sirens, Monroe became a sex symbol and beauty icon during the Golden Age of Hollywood. Read more. Kid uses a can to remind people that ‘sorry’ doesn’t fix things. TikTok video gets over 7 million viewsTikTok is usually all about fun and quirky videos but this slightly hat-ke clip caught our attention. The video shows the interesting use of an empty can to show how saying sorry doesn’t always fix things.Read more. ‘Coronavirus may never go away’: WHO issues warning The World Health Organisation has warned that Coronavirus may never go away completely. Dr. Michael Ryan said that Covid-19 may become just another endemic virus like HIV. He said that nobody can predict when this virus will disappear and added that the only chance of eliminating the virus is a highly effective vaccine. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-destination-address-must-railways-to-passengers-taking-special-trains-and-all-the-latest-news/story-uv2sG6XhygsXSOLOiFav1J.html
14-05-2020||India||‘Lockdown taught us harsh lessons of life’, say migrants arriving in Haridwar||Three Shramik Special trains from Bengaluru, Pune, and Surat ferried over 3,000 stranded passengers from Uttarakhand’s Garhwal and Kumaon division to Haridwar, which has emerged as the base station in the hill state, amid the easing of lockdown restrictions that were imposed since March 25 to contain the spread of raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, since Wednesday.The returnees are being sent to their respective destinations from Haridwar by state-run buses.On Thursday, 1,076 passengers returned to Haridwar from Bengaluru Shramik special train, while on Wednesday 1,173 and 1,206 had arrived from Surat and Pune, respectively.Pooja Pant, a Pune-based student, said that lockdown has taught harsh lessons that “life isn’t the same and our home state is much safer in comparison to other places”.Vikas Negi from Rudraprayag district, who worked at an eatery in Gurugram, Haryana, he has had sleepless nights for the past six weeks, as he was worried about how to return home due to the lockdown restrictions.“We’re dependent on relief camp food for all these weeks. I still feel the dread how we spent the initial few days after the lockdown restrictions were announced,” said Negi before boarding a state-government bus that would take to his native place in Rudraprayag district from the railway station premises.Similarly Pankaj Singh from Kumaon, who worked in a Pune-based hotel said that he ran out of money after his company said that they couldn’t pay him his salary because of the losses incurred due to the lockdown restrictions.The returnees praised the state government’s initiative to bring them back home, as they had given up hope that train services would resume before another month.Jhabreda legislator Desh Raj Karnwal, who welcomed passengers from Pune, said it was a joyous occasion as the migrants have returned home despite facing hardships due to lockdown restrictions.Chief medical officer, Haridwar, Dr. Saroj Naithani, urged the returnees to adhere to the health department’s guidelines.“All 13 district authorities have been urged to keep a close tab on the migrants who have returned home,” she said. Many of the returnees are planning to stay on in the hill state, and don’t want to go back.“We were neglected by our employers when we needed their support the most. The state government must give us jobs to ensure that we stay back in our home state,” said Narendra Negi, from Pauri Garhwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-taught-us-harsh-lessons-of-life-say-migrants-arriving-in-haridwar/story-HqOGgeNxIt63FG5StUxbhP.html
14-05-2020||India||Doubling time of Covid-19 cases slows down to 13.9 days in last 3 days: Harsh Vardhan||The doubling time of coronavirus infection cases has slowed down to 13.9 days in the last three days, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday, as the COVID-19 death toll rose to 2,549 and the number of cases to 78,003.The minister, who visited the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) here and dedicated the COBAS 6800 testing machine to the nation, said 14 states and Union Territories have not reported any case of COVID-19 in last 24 hours.These states and UTs are Gujarat, Telangana, Jharkhand, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Goa, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Puducherry.Also, Daman and Diu, Sikkim, Nagaland and Lakshadweep have not reported any case so far.“It is heartening that the last three days’ (COVID-19) doubling time has slowed down to 13.9 days, while the doubling time in the past 14 days was 11.1,” Vardhan was quoted as saying in a health ministry statement.About ramping up testing capability, the minister said, “We have now developed a capacity to conduct 1,00,000 tests per day. Today marks an important milestone as we have carried out nearly 20 lakh COVID-19 tests at more than 500 laboratories -- 359 government and 145 private -- in the country.” The COBAS 6800, he said, is the first fully automated, high-end machine for real-time COVID-19 PCR testing procured by the government, and is installed at the NCDC.“The COBAS 6800 will provide quality, high-volume testing with a high throughput of test around 1200 samples in 24 hours. It will largely increase the testing capacity with reduction in pendency,” Vardhan said.Highlighting its other features, the Union Health Minister said COBAS 6800 is robotics-enabled minimising the chance of contamination as well as the risk of infection among healthcare workers since it can be operated remotely with limited human intervention. As the machine requires a minimum BSL2+ containment level for testing, it cannot be placed at just any facility. COBAS 6800 can also detect other pathogens such as viral Hepatitis B and C and HIV, according to an official statement.Vardhan also visited the control room and testing laboratories, and reviewed the current status of COVID-19 testing with NCDC Director Dr S K Sing and other senior officials, it said.“I salute the pathologists, lab technicians, scientists and other staff who are our ‘Corona Warriors’ and working under tremendous risky conditions day and night to save their fellow countrymen,” he said and stressed the people need to shun stigmatising frontline healthcare providers and applaud their contribution.Vardhan also emphasised on the quality and sturdiness of community surveillance and contact tracing in fighting the coronavirus outbreak. “It is the need of the hour that all people who are either at home or facility quarantine, need to maintain a strict vigil, and practise the protocols of social distancing, and personal hygiene. Special care needs to be taken of the elderly, pregnant women and children,” he said.As many as 134 COVID-19 deaths and 3,722 fresh instances the respiratory infection were reported in 24 hours till Thursday 8 am, according to the Union Health Ministry.With 26,235 people having cured of the disease so far, Vardhan said the recovery rate has further improved to 33.6 per cent from 32.83% on Wednesday on while the fatality rate was 3.2 per cent. He also added that as of Wednesday there were 3 per cent active COVID-19 patients in ICU, 0.39 per cent on ventilators and 2.7 per cent on oxygen support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doubling-time-of-covid-19-cases-slows-down-to-13-9-days-in-last-3-days-harsh-vardhan/story-nIpydMFPbd3M0NTlxq1BdP.html
14-05-2020||India||ED arrests Wadhawan brothers in Yes Bank case under PMLA||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday arrested DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan in connection with its money laundering probe against Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor and others, officials said.The brothers were remanded to 10-day ED custody by a special court in Mumbai, they said.The Wadhawans are presently in jail after being arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is also probing the same case.They were arrested under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), the officials said.The Wadhawan brothers, also being probed by the ED in another money laundering probe linked to late gangster Iqbal Mirchi, were summoned by the agency multiple times in the Yes Bank case but they had cited the ongoing Covid-19 travel restrictions to skip the summons.Five vehicles of the Wadhawan brothers were seized by the ED in April after they and their family members were reported to have unauthorisedly travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Lonavala in Maharashtra during the nationwide coronavirus-induced lockdown.As many as 44 companies belonging to 10 large business groups, including Anil Ambani Group, Essel Group, ILFS, Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd, Cox & Kings, and Bharat Infra, reportedly accounted for bad loans of Rs 34,000 crore of Yes Bank.The ED has accused Kapoor, his family members and others of laundering “proceeds of crime” worth Rs 4,300 crore by receiving alleged kickbacks in lieu of extending big loans through their bank that later allegedly turned non-performing assets (NPA).Kapoor is also in ED custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-arrests-wadhawan-brothers-in-yes-bank-case-under-pmla/story-japeqMyEwBdQvbePMAVbOJ.html
14-05-2020||India||FM Nirmala Sitharaman announces Rs 5,000 crore credit facility for street vendors||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a Rs 5,000 crore credit facility for 50 lakh street vendors.“The government will support nearly 50 lakh street vendors with Rs 5,000 crore special credit facility,” Sitharaman she said in an address to the media on the government’s Rs 20 lakh crore economic package.The government will launch a special scheme within a month to facilitate easy access to credit for street vendors to offset the adverse impact on livelihoods of street vendors.The credit facility will have an initial working capital of up to Rs 10,000 cr.Sitharaman said the scheme will provide liquidity of Rs 50,000 cr.Earlier, she said Thursday that the centre has permitted state governments to utilise State Disaster Response Fund for setting up shelter for migrants.“Centre has permitted state governments to utilise SDRF for setting up shelter for migrants and providing them food, water etc...We are conscious, we are attending to the migrants and giving them in various different ways,” she said.The government had come under fire from the opposition after the lockdown sparked massive migrations from urban centres as migrant workers headed home, mostly on foot.Many of the migrants have been killed on the roads and rail tracks in accidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-announces-rs-5-000-crore-credit-facility-for-street-vendors-during-economic-package-announcement/story-PeMFohyAAeWNgctK8nVgfL.html
14-05-2020||India||Two Jodhpur doctors become plasma donors after recovering from Covid-19||Two doctors from Jodhpur have emerged as corona warriors from corona survivors.The doctors, who contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, while treating patients at Mathuradas Mathur Hospital, have become among the handful from Jodhpur -- four at last count -- to donate their plasma to treat the critically ill after they recovered from the viral infection. The duo donated their plasma to the hospital authorities on Wednesday. Dr. Mohit Kakkar was on duty at the outpatient department (OPD) of the hospital’s Covid-19 wing when he tested positive on April 11. He was discharged from the hospital on April 28.“I’ve recovered from Covid-19. There is no need to panic. Infection can be avoided by maintaining social distance and taking other precautions,” he said. Dr. Kakkar urged infected patients, who are healthy and have recovered, to donate their plasma. “Plasma therapy is a ray of hope for critical patients,” he added. Dr. Kapil Mehta from the hospital’s medicine department also donated his plasma on Wednesday. Though he was on duty in Mahatma Gandhi Hospital, he was posted at the (OPD) of Mathuradas Mathur Hospital’s Covid-19 wing for two days, when he tested positive on April 17.“I was discharged on April 25. I’ve also completed my 14-day home quarantine. I hope plasma therapy will work on Covid-19 patients even though trials are still on. I’d like to urge all those who’ve recovered from the viral outbreak to donate their plasma to save critical patients,” Dr. Mehta said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given its approval to the Jodhpur-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) for plasma therapy after Jaipur’s Sawai Man Singh Hospital became the first healthcare facility in Rajasthan to get ICMR’s nod.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-jodhpur-doctors-become-plasma-donors-after-recovering-from-covid-19/story-vqk2IevJoVH2zYVQ2l3VoI.html
14-05-2020||India||Free food grain supply for 8 crore migrants for next 2 months: Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced the second tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package  focussing on migrants, street vendors, traders, self-employed people and small farmers. The minister announced free food grain supply to all migrants who are non–card holders amounting to an expenditure of Rs 3,500 crore by the Centre for the next two months.At least 8 crore migrant workers will be given free food grains of 5 kg of rice or wheat and 1 kg of chana or pulses, for all those migrants who do not fall under the Food Security Act, the finance minister said. “Free food grains supply to all migrants for the next 2 months-- for non-card holders, they shall be given 5kg wheat or rice per person and 1 kg chana per family per month for the next 2 months. About 8 crore migrants will benefit from Rs 3,500 crore to be spent on this by the Centre,” Sitharaman said.Also Watch | Govt announces free food grains for 8 crore migrants for next two months ALSO READ | Rs 10,000-cr job work offered under MNREGS to migrant workers: FMAn initiative of ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ will also be implemented for about 67 crore beneficiaries in at least 23 states covering 83% of the Public Distribution System (PDS) population and that will also be covered by national portability by August 2020, the finance minister said. PDS ration cards will be made portable to allow migrant workers to use those same ration cards across states, she said. The Union government has earmarked an amount of Rs 3,500 crore for giving free food grains to those 8 crore migrant workers who do not have either Central or state PDS cards, Sitharaman elaborated.This is the second phase of announcements by the Union Finance Ministry elaborating on the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package.A day earlier, Sitharaman had said that over the next few days, the finance ministry would hold daily media briefings to put forth Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision and share more details on the economic package meant to revive the industry grappling with a 51-day nationwide lockdown. The lockdown had been imposed towards the end of March to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.The finance minister on Wednesday had announced a slew of measures under the huge economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore that she said would infuse vigour in the economy and benefit various economic and industrial sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-food-grain-supply-for-8-crore-migrants-for-next-2-months-nirmala-sitharaman/story-bqRuwxF4dACid5EcDoQYmK.html
14-05-2020||India||Vande Bharat-II: Air India to operate flights to 31 countries from May 16||Air India has opened bookings for the second phase of 149 repatriation flights under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission to bring back Indians stranded in 31 countries from May 16.The second phase will have more than double the 64 flights to be operated during that first phase that will end on May 15. More than 8,000 Indians have been flown back so far in the first phase, mainly from West Asia, in flights operated by Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express.Aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted on Wednesday, “Mission Vande Bharat continues to fly high with flights that spread hope and happiness. 2171 Indians have returned on-board 11 flights from Bahrain, Newark, Manila, Dubai, Muscat, Singapore, Dhaka, Dammam and Kuala Lumpur till midnight 12th May 2020.”The airline will be operating to more than 30 destinations in the second phase.Air India tweeted: “FlyAI: Reservation for travel from India to select destinations in USA, UK, Australia & to Frankfurt, Paris & Singapore will commence from 1700 hrs on 14th May 20 on https://t.co/T1SVjRluZv You may also call on 01242641407/ 02026231407/ 18602331407 or do a live chat via our website.” People familiar with developments said most of the departing flights will take off from Delhi. These include flights to San Francisco, Moscow, Frankfurt, Paris, Chicago, Singapore, Washington, Narita, Riyadh, London, Vancouver, Melbourne, Jeddah, Dammam, Sydney, Toronto, Abu Dhabi, Dhaka, Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur, Kathmandu, Rome, Muscat, Cebu, Tbilisi and Rome. Indians stranded in Manila, Kuala Lumpur, Riyadh, Dammam, Abu Dhabi, Jakarta, San Francisco, Sydney, Singapore, Jakarta, Moscow, Frankfurt, Chicago, Kyiv, Almaty, Yerevan, Dushanbe, Bishkek, Karaganda, Paris and Birmingham will return to the country between May 18 and June 3.Most of the flights will land at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport. The second phase will also see the use of more feeder flights at the destination countries and within India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vande-bharat-ii-air-india-to-operate-flights-to-31-countries-from-may-16/story-Lw2dkBEbhp0bPwxckA6NKO.html
14-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Woman carries physically challenged son from Surat to MP on makeshift stretcher||The indomitable spirit of the poor and the needy are on show, as the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak is threatening to disrupt the country’s socio-economic fabric.Consider the case of Rajkumari (40), a migrant labourer, who had made the industrial township of Surat in Gujarat, a Covid-19 hotspot, her home for the past three years as a part-time construction worker and domestic help. She decided on reverse migration to her native place in Madhya Pradesh’s Satna district over a week ago after running out of food and money since the nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced on March 25 to contain the viral outbreak.She was unfazed by the mounting challenge of carrying her physically challenged son on a makeshift stretcher and another two sons in tow, and much of the 1,000 plus kilometres between Surat and Satna to be covered by foot while braving the scorching summer heat and pangs of hunger.On Tuesday, Panna district officials accosted her after she had alighted from a bus near the town’s bypass and was walking towards Satna, carrying her physically challenged son, who from a distance appeared like a corpse in a shroud, raising locals’ suspicions.“Some people in Panna town saw a woman carrying a corpse in a shroud, as the physically challenged son wasn’t visible from a distance. They found out about her deplorable plight only after speaking to her,” said Deepa Chaturvedi, tehsildar, Panna.Rajkumari embarked on her reverse migration journey to her native Majhgawan in MP’s Satna over a week ago.“We’ve been living in Surat for the past three years. I used to work at construction sites and also as a domestic help to make both ends meet. However, I was rendered jobless since the lockdown restrictions were enforced. Soon, I ran out of money and food. I was left with no option, but to go back to my native village while carrying my physically challenged son and two other offsprings,” she recounted to local media persons.“We walked for the better part of our return journey home. At times we managed to hitchhike because of some kind drivers that we met on the way. We also boarded a bus as well, but a man extorted Rs 200 from me. On Tuesday, a bus dropped us on the Panna bypass road from where we’re planning to find our way to the native village,” she added.Tehsildar Chaturvedi said the woman and her children have safely reached their native place under the watch of the Panna district administration authorities. “We took her and the children to a quarantine centre, where they underwent medical tests. They were sent to Satna by an ambulance. We also arranged food grains and some cash for the distressed woman and her children,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-woman-carries-physically-challenged-son-from-surat-to-mp-on-makeshift-stretcher/story-pNljn8SGwrM3iu15PfCrsL.html
14-05-2020||India||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, 8 others elected unopposed to Council||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and eight others were declared elected unopposed to the state Legislative Council on Thursday.Apart from Thackeray, Council Deputy Chairperson Neelam Gorhe (Shiv Sena), four candidates of BJP - Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil, Gopichand Padalkar, Praveen Datke and Ramesh Karad; NCP’s Shashikant Shinde and Amol Mitkari and Congress’s Rajesh Rathod were in the fray for the nine seats, which fell vacant on April 24.“All of them were elected unopposed,” an official said.“The result was officially announced on Thursday after the deadline for withdrawal of nominations ended at 3 pm,” the official said.The 288-member legislative assembly was the electoral college for the biennial elections to the nine seats.With this election, 59-year-old Thackeray, who is also the president of Shiv Sena, makes his debut as a legislator.He was sworn in as chief minister on November 28 last year and required to become a member of either house of the legislature before May 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-8-others-elected-unopposed-to-council/story-gAWCODqUUC3cC4PqXW45yO.html
14-05-2020||India||India will reach 2 million Covid-19 tests today, says health minister Harsh Vardhan||Exuding confidence that India will achieve the testing capacity of 1 lakh COVID-19 tests per day before May 31, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said that the country will reach the mark of 2 million (i.e. 20 lakhs) coronavirus tests today.“Yesterday we have tested over 90,000 COVID-19 samples. We are continuously increasing our testing capacity. Though we had earlier said that we will increase our testing capacity to 1 lakhs tests per day before May 31, but we will achieve it before the due date. Today, we will reach 2 million tests countrywide,” said Vardhan here at National Centre for Diseases Control (NCDC).Union Health Minister Vardhan visited NCDC to inaugurate the COVID-19 realtime automated testing machine.NCDC is India’s premier institute for research in epidemiology and communicable disease control.“Across the country, Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and NCDC have developed over 500 labs for testing COVID-19 samples. I came here to inaugurate Rosch company’s Cobas 6800 machine. It is fully automated and can conduct 800 tests in a day, even if it is not operated in the night. I am dedicating this machine to the nation,” he said.“In this series, two machines were installed earlier-one in ICMR, Bhuwanesar and one in National Institute of Virology, Pune. The latest is installed here in NCDC. We have ordered more machines and we will deploy these machines in various parts of the country,” he added.As per the latest update by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), there are 49,219 active cases in the country while 26,235 patients have been cured and discharged, one migrated, and 2,549 deaths so far. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-reach-2-million-covid-19-tests-today-says-health-minister-harsh-vardhan/story-AmZGiBaHwtAJN0U0wz2Q1L.html
14-05-2020||India||Mussoorie gets 1st Covid-19 case, Uttarakhand 75th, as doubling rate crashes down in the hill state||Three people including a woman from Mussoorie, who returned to the state from different parts of the country this week tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total to 75 cases in Uttarakhand.A health bulletin issued by the state health department confirmed that three people tested positive from Dehradun district.“Three samples were tested positive for Covid-19 in district Dehradun, as per Doon Medical College Lab Report. It includes two male patients, aged 36 and 45 years respectively, and one 36 years old female. All three patients have a history of travel outside the state.”The 36-year-old woman is the first patient to test positive for coronavirus in the hill station of Mussoorie after she returned from Delhi on May 12. Teams from the local administration and the police rushed to the Landour Bazaar area in the hill station on Thursday morning and sealed the area completely. The woman, along with her family members, has been shifted to an isolation facility and officials are conducting contact tracing.Dr Alok Jain, the in-charge government sub-district hospital in Mussoorie said, “The whole area has been sealed and the markets have been told to shut down in the area. We are tracing her close contacts, who will also be tested.”The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19With these three cases, Dehradun now has a total of 39 positive cases including ten active cases. The latest cases have led to the doubling rate in the past seven days in Dehradun district to reduce to 35.36 days from 84.89 days. Till Tuesday, the doubling rate in the capital city was 167.38 days.On Wednesday, a 52-year-old woman who had also returned from Delhi had tested positive from Dehradun district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mussoorie-gets-1st-covid-19-case-uttarakhand-its-75th-as-doubling-rate-comes-crashing-down-in-the-hill-state/story-uZnGIGooCmlmujrnmjfnoO.html
14-05-2020||India||Vande Bharat Mission: 312 passengers from Philippines, US land in Hyderabad||As part of the biggest ever off- shore evacuation drive of stranded Indians under the Vande Bharat Mission,two Air India flights with 149 and 163 passengers from Manila and Washington respectively landed here on Thursday, airport sources said.The national carrier, Air India flight AI 1612, from Manila in Philippines arrived via Delhi at the Hyderabad international airport at 1.58 AM, whileAI 104 flight from Washington via Delhi landed at 8.22 AM.The passengers of both the flights were serviced through the fully sanitized international arrivals of the main passenger terminal of the airport, they said. The airport also enforced the social distancing among passengers right from the aerobridge to across the terminal, sources added. All the passengers and cabin crew were brought from the aircraft in a batch of 20-25 people each. Each passenger or crew member was screened by the thermal cameras positioned at the aerobridge exit under the supervision of the Airport Health officials (APHO) prior to Immigration formalities.After the screening of passengers, CISF personnel in their protective gears escorted the group of passengers to immigration clearance, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vande-bharat-mission-312-passengers-from-philippines-us-land-in-hyderabad/story-CHNO9hpaAlxXcREjA11GAP.html
14-05-2020||India||Rajasthan issues SOP for evacuation of 8,500 people stranded abroad||The Rajasthan government has issued a standard operating protocol (SOP) for around 8,500 people from the state arriving from overseas mandating 14 days of home or institutional quarantine amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Many residents of Rajasthan who had travelled to different countries before the lockdown, have been stranded abroad. They are to be evacuated in the second phase of the Vande Bharat mission beginning on May 16.In order to facilitate their return, the Centre is bringing them back by non-scheduled commercial flights and naval ships. It is estimated that about 8,500 people of Rajasthan are likely to be brought from overseas.The passengers are expected to arrive at five airports – Jaipur, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Bikaner and Jaisalmer in Rajasthan besides Delhi and Ahmadabad airports and seaports at Kochi and Chennai.According to the SOP signed by additional chief secretary Subodh Agarwal, the passengers arriving at state airports should get a health check-up. They should also decide on the choice of paid institutional quarantine. All will need to be quarantined for minimum period of 14 days on paid (institutional) basis.Passengers have to download Arogya Setu and RajCovidInfo mobile application. People with influenza like illness or ILI symptoms should be taken to medical facility, the SOP said.Under the SOP, passengers arriving at airports near in Delhi and Ahmedabad the local governments will carry out health checks and institutional quarantine. In case they do not, than state buses will carry asymptomatic passengers landing in Delhi to Alwar Delhi while those landing in Ahmedabad will be taken to Udaipur.Passengers arriving at seaports far away from Rajasthan will undergo health check-up and quarantine by the respective states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-issues-sop-for-evacuation-of-8-500-people-stranded-abroad/story-rq1cXkebvrFFg3eGilZkQI.html
14-05-2020||India||On lockdown relaxations, Delhi CM Kejriwal holds meeting with L-G Baijal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal held a meeting with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and State Disaster Management Authority on Thursday, wherein the suggestions received on the lifting of coronavirus lockdown were discussed. Chaired meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority with Hon’ble CM, Delhi @ArvindKejriwal Dy CM @msisodia , Minister Health @SatyendarJain , CS, CP & other members.DDMA reviewed health preparedness & relief measures to contain Covid-19. pic.twitter.com/9WcC1cCVEvThe Delhi government has received an overwhelming response from the public with over 5 lakh suggestions through messages, e-mails and calls on lockdown relaxations. “We had sought suggestions from people and we have received more than 5 lakh suggestions. Based on these, we will send a proposal to the Centre,” said CM Kejriwal.Kejriwal also said different economic activities will be allowed in the city from Monday based on decisions taken by the Centre on lockdown relaxation.Addressing an online media briefing, he said that most people suggested that schools, colleges, spa, swimming pools and malls should not be opened post May 17, and there should be just limited operation of metro services.“We also got suggestions from market associations and most of them advocated opening of markets on an odd-even basis,” he said.On the issue of allowing public transport to function, he said that the people have opined that taxis and auto-rickshaws should operate with the rule that one passenger should be allowed to sit in an auto-rickshaw and maximum two passengers to sit inside a cab; and after every trip, the vehicles must be disinfected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-press-conference-coronavirus-lockdown/story-bSvr60h2tCRyosXY2tgL1L.html
14-05-2020||India||BJP says Congress trying its best to save Nirav Modi; Congress rubbishes claims||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday said the deposition by former high court judge Abhay Thipsay in Nirav Modi’s extradition trial in the UK is an example of the Congress sparing no efforts to shield the diamond merchant.On Wednesday, Thipsay made a statement on legal nuances under Indian law centred round the inadmissibility of some police statements in the case against Nirav Modi, and the definition of deception under Indian law.Reacting to Thipsay’s comments, law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said his statement is legally untenable.“A retired judge is giving a judicial certificate, his opinion is legally unsound. This is an attempt to give a misleading defence of a questionable legal variety and we are confident that the legal process will not be affected,” he told journalists during a web conference.Prasad alleged the former judge is a member of the Congress, and it was during the tenure of the Congress-led UPA governments that loans were sanctioned to the firms of Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi.“Who is this judge Abhay Thipsay? He’s a retired judge from Mumbai high court. Ten months prior to his retirement, he was transferred by the Supreme Court collegium on administrative grounds to Allahabad high court,” he said.“After retirement, he joined the Congress party in the presence of Rahul Gandhi, Ashok Gehlot and Ashok Chauhan,” he added. Prasad further said the Congress didn’t deny that its former president Rahul Gandhi was present at an event along with Nirav Modi. The event was held in September 2013.“His uncle’s (Choksi’s) company [Gitanjali] was given benefit when [P] Chidambaram was the finance minister. Gitanjali’s exports benefited after the results of the 2014 general election were announced, a caretaker government took a decision that was questionable,” Prasad said.The Indian government, he said, is making all efforts to ensure that Nirav Modi is extradited from the UK.“When the country is trying to bring him back, and the process is underway, a Congress judge is taking a legally unsustainable stand. The BJP condemns this sinister attempt of the Congress to bail out this criminal,” he said. The Congress rubbished the allegations, saying advocates have right to appear for their clients. “Hope #Lawminister has intentionally or unintentionally not reopened can of worms re senior distinguished #BJP lawyers, now departed souls (#RIP), whose children held briefs & retainers 4high profile accused in #UK! Such reasoning denies legal rep 2accused b4 conviction and after!” party spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi tweeted. “#lawministers know right of advocates 2appear 4clients which cnot b trifled with. #Thipsay gave evidence in UK court which he has right 2do wo dictation by BJP. 1 of 3accused in Indira assassination was acquitted cos lawyers like #jethamalani were nt browbeaten into nt appearing!” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-says-congress-trying-its-best-to-save-nirav-modi-congress-rubbishes-claims/story-JXaNkZyuAZteDEweiaytVO.html
14-05-2020||India||India permits 835 healthcare professionals to travel to Saudi Arabia for fight against Covid-19||The Indian government has facilitated the travel of 835 healthcare professionals to Saudi Arabia following a request from Riyadh, and the first batch of doctors and nurses departed from Kerala in a special flight on Wednesday, people familiar with developments said.Saudi Arabia is the second West Asian country, after the United Arab Emirates (UAE), to which the Indian government has permitted doctors and healthcare professionals to travel to support efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.During their recent telephone conversations with external affairs minister S Jaishankar, the foreign ministers of several West Asian countries had requested that their medical personnel currently in India should be allowed to go back. Jaishankar had assured them this matter will be given sympathetic consideration.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageSaudi Arabia’s state-run national carrier Saudia will operate special flights from Kochi on May 13, 16, 20 and 23 to repatriate the 835 healthcare personnel, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.“Indian healthcare professionals are returning to Saudi Arabia to resume their duties,” the Indian embassy in Riyadh tweeted on Thursday.Ambassador Ausaf Sayeed recently addressed 50 industry representatives from India via video conference as part of the CII India and the World Series interactions and spoke about opportunities for trade and investment cooperation between India and Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia is home to 2.6 million Indians as of August 2019, and a large number of doctors and nurses are among the Indian professionals working in the country.On May 10, a group of 88 Indian doctors and healthcare professionals travelled to the UAE to bolster efforts to fight Covid-19. The group included 60 nurses trained in critical care and some professionals who were recently recruited by a firm in the UAE. Both India and the UAE have also provided each other essential medical supplies.Many West Asian countries have sought essential medicines such as hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol from India to support their efforts against the Covid-19 pandemic. India has already supplied or is in the process of providing these medicines to Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Egypt and Palestine as humanitarian aid and on a commercial basis.Indian medical professionals are also among 212 doctors who benefited from a 10-year “golden residency” visa granted on Wednesday by UAE Prime Minister Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum for their role on the frontline of the battle against the Coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-permits-835-healthcare-professionals-to-travel-to-saudi-arabia-for-fight-against-covid-19/story-nOCLSNcZNqBUsIbrOY4EWO.html
14-05-2020||India||‘Destination address must’: Railways to passengers taking special trains||Those travelling in the special passenger trains, operational since Tuesday, will now have to mandatorily provide their destination address as well while booking tickets. The move will help the government in contact tracing passengers affected by Covid-19, the railway ministry said.Making the announcement, the railway ministry on Thursday said its online ticketing arm, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), will note the destination address of each passenger booking the tickets.“This will help us in contact tracing, if required later,” a spokesperson for the ministry said.The ministry has also cancelled all tickets for regular trains booked before and during the lockdown for travel up to June 30, all passengers will be issued full refund, the ministry said.Advance booking of tickets, before lockdown, was allowed up to 120 days from the date of journey.“Tickets booked for May and June must have been booked in the month of January-February-March. We have refunded 100% money to all,” the spokesperson said.To be clear, the bookings for special passenger trains that had begun from May 12 will continue. Shramik Special trains for ferrying stranded migrants will also continue to ply, the ministry clarified.Till Thursday morning, 800 Shramik Special trains had ferried nearly 10 lakh migrants home, the railways said.The railways has till Wednesday, reported 2,34,411passenger bookings for all 30 trains with earnings of Rs 45.30 crore.Officials are accepting bookings up to seven days in advance for the 15 pairs of special trains the government has announced to resume passenger services.For the passenger trains plying now, the refund rules issued by the ministry will apply.Online cancellation will be permitted up to 24 hours before scheduled departure, and the cancellation charge shall be 50% of the fare.As per the current guidelines, passengers will have to book general category tickets online — on the IRCTC website and on its app. A few reservation counters will be opened for HOR (high official requisition) holders, freedom fighters, and sitting and former lawmakers, among others.However, there will be no RAC (Reservation against cancellation) on these trains.“Anyone who is not allowed to board the train because of symptoms will be issued full refund,” the ministry said.In an order issued late Wednesday night, the Centre also allowed wait-listed tickets to be issued for the special passenger trains from May 22 onward, the booking for which will begin from May 15.To be sure, wait-listed tickets are currently not being issued for the passenger trains that began from May 12.The national carrier may also deploy Shatabdi and other mail express trains too. Only Rajdhani trains are being deployed now for ferrying passengers.“It has been decided that in these special trains and special trains to be notified in due course of time…there shall be no Reservation Against Cancellation (RAC) in these trains and wait list tickets shall be issued subject to maximum limits; 200 for sleeper, 100 each for AC chair car and 3 AC, 50 for 2 AC and 20 each for Executive Class and 1 AC,” the order, a copy of which has been reviewed by Hindustan Times, said.Officials said passengers booking the trains had cancelled some tickets at the last minute. “We will start issuing very few waitlist tickets from May 22 because some passengers are cancelling their tickets at the last moment,” a senior railway ministry official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/destination-address-must-railways-to-passengers-taking-special-trains/story-k4f1iw5XcrQNU9yDda7OBN.html
14-05-2020||India||3 more Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand, state tally reaches 75||Three more Covid-19 cases have been reported from the Dehradun district on Thursday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand to 75, said the state Health Department. Out of the 75 cases, 24 patients are active coronavirus cases while 50 patients have recovered from the infection. As of Thursday, one fatality has been reported due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-more-covid-19-cases-in-uttarakhand-state-tally-reaches-75/story-nEXWZx0MRzGE7tgW88h9WJ.html
14-05-2020||India||People disallowed to board trains due to Covid-19 symptoms to get full refund||Passengers who are disallowed from travelling on trains because of symptoms associated with the novel coronavirus will receive full refund for their tickets, the railways has said.According to the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs, all passengers shall be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic passengers shall be allowed to enter/board trains.“If, during screening, a passenger has very high temperature/symptoms of COVID-19 etc., he shall not be allowed to travel despite having confirmed tickets. In such case full refund shall be provided to the passenger,” the order stated.It said that on a group ticket if one passenger is found unfit to travel and all other passengers on the same PNR also do not want to travel, in that case full refund shall be granted for all passengers.In case of a group ticket if one passenger is found unfit to travel but the other passengers on the same PNR want to travel, full refund of fare shall be granted to the passenger who was not allowed to travel.“For all the above cases, TTE certificates as per extant practice shall be issued to the passenger at the entry/checking/screening point itself mentioning number of passengers not travelled due to symptoms of COVID-19 in one or more passengers,” it stated.“Full fare for the part passenger/full who have not travelled shall be refunded by IRCTC in the customer’s account,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-disallowed-to-board-trains-due-to-covid-19-symptoms-to-get-full-refund/story-7qDuUKjogK3mAGY9m6LCdP.html
14-05-2020||India||3 MPs, 2 MLAs asked to quarantine themselves in Kerala, Congress cries foul||The district medical board in Kerala’s Palakkad on Thursday directed three MPs and two MLAs to go on 14-day home quarantine after a young man they interacted with on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border on May 9 tested positive for Covid-19.There were chaos in Waylayar check post a couple of days back after Kerala denied permission to its people who came without passes from the originating destination and the state’s entry pass. In the melee one of the youth from Malappuram had collapsed and had to be given first aid. The young man who had come from Chennai tested positive two days ago.Congress MPs Remya Haridas, T N Prathapan and V K Sreekandan and legislators Anil Akkara and Shafi Parambhil had visited the check post to distribute food and other essentials to the stranded people. The MPs dubbed the quarantine order as politically-motivated but said they will go by the directive of the district administration. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also criticised the order.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“As public servants it is our duty to go by the directive. But we suspect some foul play in this. We went there in the afternoon after TV channels reported that the youth collapsed in the morning. He was tested positive on May 11. We feel it is a move to embarrass us,” said Palakkad MP V K Sreekandan.He also said that the CPI (M) district committee had raised a demand to send him and others into quarantine two days ago.“MPs said they were not there when the incident took place. It is sad, even in trying times the ruling CPI (M) is playing politics,” said Chennithala.The district administration has refuted allegations of politics and said more than 100 people including 50 journalists, 60 police officers, two-dozen medical and revenue officials were asked to proceed on quarantine. It said all people present there on the particular day will be quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-mps-2-mlas-asked-to-quarantine-themselves-in-kerala-congress-cries-foul/story-zWPzFyiJPvE2CqCDn3ttzH.html
14-05-2020||India||Maharashtra cops asked not to collect fine from vehicles carrying migrants||Highway Police have issued an order asking their personnel not to collect fine from vehicles carrying migrant labourers during the lockdown.Following complaints that some police personnel were collecting money illegally in the guise of fine from such vehicles, the highway police warned that those found indulging in such acts would be terminated from service.Amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, thousands of migrant workers who have lost their jobs and people stranded in Maharashtra have been returning to their native places.Many of them are leaving in private vehicles, and the state highway police have been taking action against them for violation of provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act.However, senior police officials recently received complaints that at some places, the highway police personnel were collecting money illegally in the guise of fine from those vehicles.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray also took note of the complaints and state Director General of Police conveyed his displeasure over such incidents.Subsequently, the highway police on Wednesday issued an order to stop any kind of fine collection from vehicles carrying migrants labourers, and asked that if any action is needed to be taken under the Motor Vehicles Act, it should not involve taking money.“If any officer or personnel is found collecting money from those vehicles, then he or she will not only be suspended but also terminated from service,” the order said.The order was circulated in north and west Maharashtra, and Konkan, which falls under the jurisdiction of Thane region’s superintendent of police of the state highway.The order also said that the police personnel should help migrant workers in their travel during this tough time.PTI DC GK GK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cops-asked-not-to-collect-fine-from-vehicles-carrying-migrants/story-FXTqvKQLvRoVipxHUGbfIO.html
14-05-2020||India||Class ninth student allegedly gang raped by trio in Rajasthan’s Alwar district||A minor girl, studying in class ninth, from Rajasthan’s Alwar district was allegedly abducted and gang-raped by a trio. The accused also filmed the entire incident on their mobile phones, officials said on Thursday.According to police officials, the 16-year-old is a resident of Phoolbagh police station area of Bhiwadi police district.As per the complaint lodged by the victim’s family member, she had gone to her uncle’s house in a nearby village on May 10 around noon and didn’t return. Around 9 pm, the family members received a call that their daughter is admitted in a clinic.Also read: Rajasthan records 268 new Covid-19 positive cases in 12 hoursThe victim told her family members that while she was returning from her uncle’s village, three youngsters stopped her at an isolated place in Alampur village. She said she was forcefully taken to an empty ‘rain-basera’ (shelter house) where she was raped by the trio. The accused also reportedly recorded the entire incident on their mobile phones. The victim said her head was bagged on a wall after which she fell unconscious. When the minor opened her eyes she found herself in a nearby clinic.On May 12, the condition of the victim deteriorated after which she was referred to a government hospital in Alwar.“Three accused have been detained. Police is questioning the accused,” said S Sengathir, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Jaipur range.“The condition of the victim is stable. Her medical examination has been done and her statements would be recorded today,” added Sengathir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/class-ninth-student-allegedly-gang-raped-by-trio-in-rajasthan-s-alwar-district/story-Vzb0YcUgmuJ0bsyglixHpI.html
14-05-2020||India||Migrant workers walking home put in a minibus. It crashes injuring 15||At least 15 migrant workers injured, four of them critically, as the minibus they were travelling in, crashed into a tree in Angul district late Wednesday night.Police officials in Angul said a group of 15 migrants were walking towards Purinakote area of Keonjhar district from Palasa in Andhra Pradesh, amid the Covid-19 lockdown.On Wednesday, they were stopped at the Boudh district by officials who arranged a minibus for them to help them reach Keonjhar. However, at Thakurgarh area of Angul district last night, the minibus veered off the main road and crashed into a tree.After the accident, the injured were rescued. While 11 were discharged after minor treatment, four are still in Angul district headquarters hospital as they suffered major injuries.This is the fourth such incident involving migrant workers from Odisha getting injured and killed in road accidents since the Centre allowed them to go back to their home State.Early this month, two migrant workers coming back from Surat to their homes in Ganjam district were killed and a few injured when the bus carrying them swerved off the same Kalinga Ghati road in Kandhamal district and dashed against a roadside wall. The two deceased were thrown off the vehicle. A day later, another bus carrying 50 migrant workers from Surat to Ganjam hit a roadside kerb at Kalinga Ghati hilly road leaving 3 injured.In another accident, 5 passengers, including two minors, from Odisha were injured when the bus carrying them from Surat fell on the roadside ditch on Nagpur-Amravati National Highway in Maharashtra.After the accidents, the Odisha government had stopped inter-state transportation of the migrant workers by buses as Shramik Special trains from different States to Odisha became operational. However, movement of buses carrying migrant workers between districts still continues. With 90,000 migrants arriving in Odisha over the last 2 weeks, the number of Covid-19 positive cases have also gone up sharply as most of the positive cases were reported from among the migrant workers travelling from Covid hotspots like Surat, Bengal, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.Odisha has so far reported 611 positive cases with 73 new cases reported on Thursday. Ganjam district that accounts for a huge population of migrant workers has so far reported 252 cases, the highest in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-walking-home-put-in-a-minibus-it-crashes-injuring-15/story-8QTKlSZMKahuFTWe0l6ZXI.html
14-05-2020||India||27-year-old SDM down with Covid-19, first IAS officer to test positive in Bihar||A Bihar-cadre 2017-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer from Uttar Pradesh has become the first bureaucrat from the state to test positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19.Posted as a Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) in Bihar’s Nalanda district, the 27-year-old officer tested positive for the disease on May 12. His sample was sent for test to the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) in Patna on May 11.Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar, confirmed that the officer has tested positive.The young IAS officer does not have any travel history in the past 14 days, and is believed to have contracted the infection from local contacts. The health department had so far collected samples of 46 people who are believed to have come in contact with the officer.As per government records, the officer has been put under isolation at the local Ajanta Hotel, which the government had taken over and converted into an institutional isolation centre for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients or those showing mild symptoms of the virus, said health officials.The IAS officer hails from an ordinary background. His father was a clerk at the UP government secretariat in Lucknow and mother a primary school teacher when he cracked the civil services examination in 2017.Efforts to reach Nalanda district magistrate Yogendra Singh proved futile as he did not respond to phone calls or text message.This is the first case of an IAS officer testing positive in Bihar.Earlier, a young Indian Police Service (IPS) officer from Jharkhand cadre, posted as Superintendent of Police in Ranchi, had been quarantined at the Patna Medical College Hospital after the officer and his wife returned from their honeymoon in Italy. The IPS officer and his wife had left Indian shores for Italy and Switzerland on March 8 and returned on March 13.Around 30 policemen, including 21 from the Bihar Military Police (BMP) alone, have tested positive for the virus so far in the state. The BMP-14 headquarters and barrack is at Khajpura, which is a designated red zone.An auxiliary nursing midwife (ANM) from Parwalpur had also tested positive for the virus on May 12. The government had extensively used ANMs and anganwadi workers (AWW) for its house-to-house survey across the state to screen people for Covid-19.Nalanda, with 63 cases, is among Bihar’s top five districts, contributing to 953 Covid-19 cases in the state. As on Thursday noon, Bihar has 546 active cases after seven deaths and 400 patients having been cured and discharged from government facilities so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27-year-old-sdm-down-with-covid-19-first-ias-officer-to-test-positive-in-bihar/story-vS4LvCu1xprNemoaTcOwrK.html
14-05-2020||India||Delhi’s 42 Covid-19 hotspots offer hope, not red zone ground rules||Nearly half of Delhi’s 80-odd containment zones stand a good chance of coming out of the hard lockdown over the next few days but the city will mostly remain a red zone with limited relaxations beyond 18 May if the Centre does not tweak its policy of listing districts and not specific localities as red zones, a senior Delhi government official told Hindustan Times.“It is going to be a huge setback if the health ministry does not revisit the concept, practice and impact of notifying districts as red zones,” the official said.At internal meetings, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal have articulated their reservations about the health ministry’s one-size-fits-all approach that applies the same formula to a district in a metro such as Delhi as a rural district in Odisha or Chhattisgarh.“We have conveyed the point to the Prime Minister and Home Minister and are hopeful of a change,” the official said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here At Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s marathon video conference with chief ministers on Monday, many states had made the point that the lockdown should continue only in the containment zones and people living outside this hotspot should be encouraged to get on with their lives and resume economic activity.PM Modi did not get into the details but signalled that states would have a greater say in determining the extent of restrictions and relaxations in lockdown 4.0 within a broad national framework.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage An official said some leeway to determine the containment zone also would help. For example, he said they have placed 2,600 people under a hard lockdown in Pratap Khand, Shiva Khand and Govind Khand of Jhilmil colony though cases had been reported from only Pratap Khand part of this locality.Containment ZonesAs of 13 May, a senior government official said, of the 80 containment zones in the national capital, Covid-19 cases were being reported from only 39. The remaining 41 containment zones have not reported a single case over the last fortnight and would be taken out of the containment zone policy if this trend continues.But under the existing red, orange and green classification of districts, this would not help.Because the remaining 39 containment zones are spread across 10 of 11 districts of Delhi.“If the Centre does not change its policy, 10 districts of Delhi would still come under the red zone classification,” he said.Containment Zones that stand a chance of being de-containedAF BLOCK SHALIMAR BAGHGali no 3 shalimar villageIsrael Camp,Rangpuri PahariH.No-62 B Block Gali No-4 Shastri ParkT-606, Gali No-18 GautampuriBlock No. X H. No. 303/6 Gali No.1, to H. No. 289 gali No.3 Yadav VillaEntire effected street near Gandhi ParkEntire effected street of Gali No. 5 6 & 7 L1 Sangam ViharAffected area around H No a-176 Deoli ExtensionShop No. J-4/49 Khirki Extension Khirki VillageJain Mohalla Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715 Chirag DelhiBoundary Start from B-4/200 and cover the whole locality till backside of HumayupurH No 859/20 L-II Sangam ViharH No 153/B 4th floor Savitri NagarEntire area affected at gali no 2,3,&4 odf deoli extensionH.NO F-258, campa cola gali, Lado saraiHOUSE NO-141 TO 180 BLOCK-14 KALYANPURIGali having House No-34/156 to 34/189 (Resettlement colony), Block-34, Trilokpuri, Delhi-92Gali Having H. NO-b-811.A(old No. b-226)to h.no.B-794 to b-811A Krishna Bhawan B block New Ashok Nagar Delhi110096H. No. 300 St No.-3 Krishna Puri Main Road Mandawali to H. No-739/16 Gali. No.-3 Krishna Puri MandawaliH/2-98 C1 BENGALI COLONY MAHAVIR ENCLAVE DELHI-459/702 PLOT NO. 1 SHAHJANABAD BLOCK-9 SECTOR-11 DWARKA NEW DELHI-7547 Dindarpur Village, Najafgarh, Delhi - 110043RZF-756/7, Gali No. 01 Band, Raj Nagar-II, Dwarka, New DelhiC-2/119 Block JanakpuriH.No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835- khadda Colony, Jaitpur Extn. Part-IIH.No. 1144 to 1134 & 618 to 623, Khadda Colony, Jaitpur Extn. Part-IIGali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar ExtnMahela Mohalla, Madanpur KhadarH-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave.House No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash.E-Block (House No. 48A to 84A), Abu Fazal Enclave.Gali No. 1, 2 & 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar, New DelhiA-280, J.J.Colony Madipur785, 3RD FLOOR, CAMP NO 2, NANGLOIRZ168, K2 BLOCK, NIHAL VIHARG1 2ND FLOOR, MANSAROVAR GARDENE Pocket GTB EnclaveF-70-90 Block Dilshad ColonyGali no. 3,4,5 East Ram Nagar ShahdaraGali No 18, H. No 701/23 to 500/36 B, Vijay Park, MaujpurContainment Zones that continue to report Covid-19 casesInderpuri,EA blockBudh NagarPilanji VillageA-97,98,99 Near Buland Masjid Shastri ParkE-51 main Road Shastri Park, E-224 Gali No-8 Shastri ParkSadar BazarNabi KarimChandani MahalBara Hindu RaoOberoi apartmentNawabganjH No 50 Hauz Rani from Mother Dairy to Raja Ram Mohan SchoolF-313, Near Shiva Mandir Lado Sarai & F-274, 2 nd floor lado saraiApartments in Samshi talaab ward no .8 MehrauliJamila Masjid BaoliB-BLOCK , JAHANGIR PURIC-BLOCK JAHANGIR PURIH-3, BLOCK JAHANGIR PURIG, H AND I BLOCK, POLICE COLONY, MODEL TOWNK-BLOCK JAHANGIR PURIG-BLOCK JAHANGIR PURISANJAY ENCLAVE JAHANGIR PURIGali no 3 , 4 and 5 Majlis Park Adarsh Nagar DelhiRoom No. 13, PLOT NUMBER 1294, SONU YADAV KA MAKAAN, THEKE WALI GALI, OPP. D C OFFICE, KAPASHERA, NEW DELHI.Markaz Masjid And Nizammudin BastiThe Complete area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar & nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir NagarEntire Gali starting from House No. G-54 to F-107 & Entire Gali from CN-854 to H.No. 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlakabad Village, New DelhiGali No. 6, A Block, Abul Fazal Enclave, Shaheen Bagh, DelhiEntire Gali starting from House No. G-54 to F-107 & Entire Gali from CN-854 to H.No. 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlakabad Village, New Delhi(Whole Gali H.No. 48 to Choupal) A-Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony, Delhi.House No. F-138 & F-139, Gali No.01 (Shiv Mandir Wali Gali ) Harsh Vihar, Hari Nagar Extension, New Delhi.WHOLE BLOCK 1751-1851 TO CHOUPAL CHOWK, KOTLA MUBARAKPURD BLOCK, (162-152), SAHEEN BAGHTILAK VIHARPratap Khand Jhilmil ColonyDayanand ViharH.no.15 to 101Gali No. 8 & 9, Shalimar VillageChandra Shekhar Azad Colony, Wazirpur Industrial Area, DelhiBB Block, East Shalimar Bagh, Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-42-covid-19-hotspots-zones-offer-hope-not-red-zone-ground-rules/story-v4p6HAvEPhZYt3xS765loL.html
14-05-2020||India||President hits brakes on plan to buy new limousine, trims banquets to save money||President Ram Nath Kovind will not ride the brand new Rs 10 crore limousine that was to be procured for his use at the next Republic Day parade. And the text time Rashtrapati Bhavan hosts a state banquet, the usually lavish spread will pruned to avoid any semblance of opulence.Flower decorations on the sprawling campus of Rashtrapati Bhavan, too, would be limited. No new construction work will be sanctioned in the world’s second-largest presidential estate in the next one year.These are some of the measures being adopted to save funds as much as possible by the republic’s highest office at a time when millions of Indians-- especially migrant workers, poor households and daily wagers—are striving to make ends meet amid the lockdown imposed for the coronavirus pandemic.A brand-new limousine was to be procured this year for use by the president, who has been using an earlier version of the Mercedes-Benz S Class (S600) Pullman Guard. The new set of wheels—with state-of-the-art security features -- was scheduled to come before the next Republic Day. The plan has now been shelved.Rashtrapati Bhavan plans to pare the opulence of state banquets “Menu and guest list will be trimmed for all future banquets. We will ensure full honour for the state guest but we will also be careful not to show off. There will be no opulence.” To be sure, there’s no immediate state visit to India in the works as nations around the world battle the Covid pandemic. The aim, added another official, is to reduce costs by 20% so that the money can be spent for the poor.The President’s Estate will also stop all new construction work, but the limited ongoing work will continue.“Money will be utilised for poor people. But stop in work doesn’t mean cut in money for contract workers. Idea is to reduce consumption by those who are better off in the Rashtrapati Bhavan,” said the second official.So far, President Ram Nath Kovind has given Rs 5 lakh from his salary to the PM Cares Fund. Officials in Rashtrapati Bhavan have contributed another Rs 18 lakh to the fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-s-virus-led-austerity-drive-no-new-limousine-no-lavish-spread-limited-flower-decorations/story-DqXmGUgGycTYu3nUvqihJM.html
14-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: With tourism hit, hotels in Darjeeling region start delivering food at home||With lockdown hitting tourism, the biggest industry in West Bengal’s Darjeeling region, some big names in hotel and restaurant business are now home-delivering food from their famous kitchens to wade through the crisis.Home delivery, the companies say, can ensure some revenue by helping them stay in touch with old patrons and meet new customers at the same time.Among big names venturing into the new territory are Club Montana Vista of the Ambuja Neotia group and Courtyard of the Marriott Hotels group. Both are located in Siliguri, north Bengal’s biggest trade hub and gateway to the North-East.Club Montana Vista, which is famous for its restaurant and the Sunday brunch, has tied up with Swiggy for the home delivery. Hirak Jyoti Maitra, deputy general manager (sales), said, “Our management decided to activate some revenue model. The food is being delivered by Swiggy. We will soon finalise a tie-up with Zomato.”Located inside the Uttorayon township, Club Montana Vista earlier used to deliver food to customers inside the township only and the job was handled by its employees. “Now we can reach any address in any part of Siliguri,” said Maitra.Courtyard, on the other hand, has tied up with Zomato to deliver food within a radius of eight kilometres.Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network, said, “Many hotels are trying to innovate to bring home at least some revenue during this crisis.”Requesting anonymity, a senior employee of a popular hotel said, “This is an opportunity to reach out to new customers by delivering food at their doorstep. We need additional operations to sustain. Though the response so far has not been overwhelming because of the fear among people, we hope to do better.”Considered a landmark, Mayfair Resort in Darjeeling has not started home delivery yet but is planning to stay connected with customers by accepting orders. “The customers have to pick up the food,” said Sabyasachi Mohanty, the manager.“Our main objective is to stay in touch with patrons who have enjoyed our food items for years,” said Mohanty.Some of the famous hotels in picturesque Darjeeling are, however, willing to wait for the business to revive after the lockdown.Elgin Hotel, the oldest heritage star-category hotel in Darjeeling, was set up in 1887. It has 35 rooms and employs 45 people. Diamond Oberoi, its managing director, said, “Though we are struggling, I hope so see some positive developments after October.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-with-tourism-hit-hotels-in-darjeeling-region-start-delivering-food-at-home/story-pdDJlOl4oEeuCBMDjjy4cI.html
14-05-2020||India||‘Public suggestions on lifting Covid-19 lockdown to be discussed at 4pm today’: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that the administration has received over 5 lakh suggestions by the public on the lifting of coronavirus lockdown and the ideas will be discussed at a meeting at 4 pm today, news agency ANI reported. A meeting between Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and State Disaster Management Authority will be held today wherein the suggestions will be discussed and a proposal will be drafted for the Centre, the chief minister said. Also Watch | ‘Most people don’t want…’: Kejriwal on Delhi’s suggestions over lockdown Also read: Lockdown 4.0 - Here’s what different states are considering to openMost people also said that hotels should stay closed however restaurants should be opened for take-away & home delivery. There is almost a consensus that barber shops, spas, saloons, cinema halls, & swimming pools should not open yet: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal https://t.co/v9tUHDbEPD“The suggestions given by you all will be discussed at the meeting. To what extent should relaxations be given in Delhi, these suggestions will be sent to central govt,” Kejriwal said. “We had sought suggestion from people, we have received more than 5 lakh suggestions. Based on these suggestions, we will send a proposal to the Centre,” the Delhi CM said. Kejriwal said that most of the people have suggested schools and educational institutes to remain shut till summer vacations. The public has also suggested hotels to remain shut, however, restaurants should be opened for take-away and home delivery, Kejriwal said.The CM said that there is almost a consensus on barbershops, spas, salons, cinema halls and swimming pools to remain closed as well. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday sought suggestions from residents of the national capital about relaxing norms after May 17, when the nation-wide lockdown clamped to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is scheduled to end.The CM said that the citizens can send their suggestions via WhatsApp messages, email or by recording their message through dialling 1031. “These suggestions will be taken into account for drafting a proposal which will be shared with the Central government,” Kejriwal said. Delhi has reported 7,998 cases of coronavirus till date. One hundred and six people have died from the infection while 2858 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-suggestions-on-lifting-covid-19-lockdown-to-be-discussed-in-meeting-at-4pm-today-kejriwal/story-VPbpeMAqnu1g6Zxm69GdCO.html
14-05-2020||India||Palghar lynching: People launch online campaign to bring back top cop sent on forced leave||Five days after Palghar Superintendent of Police (SP) Gaurav Singh was suddenly sent on compulsory leave, locals have started an online campaign to being him back.The IPS officer was sent on leave by an order from Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in connection with the lynching case in Palghar in which three people were killed.An online petition has been launched by Sujit Singh, who runs a gymnasium in Palghar, and Karan Chaudhary, a social activist. They have requested President Ramnath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and other leaders to get Singh back as the SP in Palghar.So far, the petition on change.org has received more than 350 signatures.IPS officer Gaurav Singh was sent on immediate leave from May 8. The petioners say that he has helped clean up the district of illegal activities like sand mining, gutka and liquor mafias and brought strong process into implementation so that citizens bond strongly with police whenever they have any issues.“We have personally brought to his notice several issues of our district and the ‘super cop’ expeditiously took action, thus winning the hearts of Palghar residents,” said Asif Dhanani, a lawyer who is among the signatories.“The SP is an asset for us,” added Dr Hitesh Churi, a medico from Palghar. “The officer should be reinstated to the same post and I hope the national leaders will allow him to complete his two-year tenure.”Meanwhile, the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of state police arrested 12 more accused in connection with the case. One of those arrested in a minor.With these arrests, the total number of accused has now reached 146. A local court sent five of those arrested to police custody till May 16. Seven others have been sent to police custody is till May 19.Ten arrested minors were earlier sent to Childrens’ Remand Home in Bhiwandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/palghar-lynching-people-launch-online-campaign-to-bring-back-top-cop-sent-on-forced-leave/story-7efF3m3HaxlbgYp6al6UAK.html
14-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Migrant influx pushes up Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Migrant influx pushes up Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, govt fears spread in rural areasThe Rajasthan government and health authorities are on the edge fearing a spike in coronavirus cases as lakhs of migrants return from some of the worst-hit Covid-19 states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. Read moreHow UP plans to create jobs for economic recoveryThe Uttar Pradesh government faces the challenge of giving jobs to the unemployed following the Covid-19 pandemic as more and more migrant labourers continue to arrive in Uttar Pradesh, which has over 33 lakh registered jobless people. Read more5 lakh suggestions received, policy soon on easing lockdown curbs, says Delhi ministerDelhi health minister Satyendra Jain said on Thursday that the state government has got around five lakh suggestions from the public on Covid-19 and they will be formulating a policy soon. Read moreTruck bomb in eastern Afghanistan’s Gardez kills five, 14 injuredA truck packed with explosives blew up near a court in the eastern Afghan city of Gardez on Thursday, killing at least five people, two days after gunmen attacked a maternity ward in the capital Kabul, killing women and newborn babies. Read moreMumbai Indians all-time IPL XI: Hard-hitting T20 specialists make formidable line-upA little over a year ago, Mumbai Indians pulled off yet another robbery in an IPL final. Rohit Sharma’s men beat MS Dhoni’s Chennai Super Kings by 1 run to clinch their fourth title and become the most successful franchise in the history of the IPL. Read moreDeepika Padukone wants Kartik Aaryan to trim beard, actor says his family have refused to give him food until he shavesActor Kartik Aaryan, on Wednesday, was caught in a tight spot and couldn’t decide if he should shave his beard. He took to Instagram to ask his fans for feedback. Read moreKareena Kapoor Khan finds eyeshadow ‘too mainstream’; rocks no-makeup look like a divaBollywood divas are making the most of sans makeup looks as they, like everyone else, practice social distancing and quarantine. Read moreMumbai cop who said ‘I’ll be back on duty soon’ after testing positive for Covid-19 returns homeMumbai Police, a few days ago, took to Twitter to share an encouraging and heartening video of a 29-year-old policeman who tested positive for coronavirus. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-migrant-influx-pushes-up-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-and-all-the-latest-news/story-c8vJb3muXXJScual1IQCJP.html
14-05-2020||India||Over 41% of 161 Covid-19 deaths in Madhya Pradesh not associated with comorbidities||Over 41% of 161 Covid-19 patients, who died of the disease in Madhya Pradesh till May 3, did not have comorbidities while more than 30% of them succumbed on the first day of their hospitalisation, a state government report based on an analysis of the deaths has said.Madhya Pradesh is among the worst-hit states by the pandemic and has reported 215 deaths and 3,785 Covid-19 cases so far. It had one of highest death rates in the country--5.90%-- as of Monday, according to a government bulletin. The national death rate is 3.24%. Notably, 25% of the deaths have been reported from rural areas.The analysis of the state health department found that 47 of the 161 patients, who died of Covid-19, were in the 51-60 age group. As many as 46 were in the 61-70 and 33 in the 41-50 age group. Thus, 126 patients out of 161, or 78.26%, were aged between 41 and 70.The report said 68.69% of the patients died within three days of their admissions to hospitals. Of them, 30.77% of the deaths were reported on the first day of the hospitalisation.The report said the time between the beginning of Covid-19 symptoms and admissions to hospitals is decreasing. “At the beginning of the outbreak, it was high (12 days) and in the last two weeks, it is around 3-4 days. This indicates that now people are recognising symptoms and reaching on time to hospitals.”The report has suggested a death audit and a comprehensive strategy in tackling the disease like early recognition of high risk and critically ill patients, early intervention guided by experts. It has called for special care of aged people with comorbidities as well as treatment, management and strengthening of health institutions. The report has underlined the need for rational allocation and proper management of human resources and the participation of private doctors and hospitals.Indore’s chief medical and health officer, Dr Pravin Jadia, called late arrival of patients a major issue. “While the administration has launched a massive campaign for screening all the people, we are repeatedly making an appeal to people to immediately consult the health department on the numbers publicised in case they have any [Covid-19] symptoms...”Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said a majority of Covid patients deaths have been associated with comorbidities globally whereas a large number of people with no diseases other than Covid-19 were dying in Madhya Pradesh. He called it a matter of serious concern. “...a large number of deaths on the very day or within a few days of their hospitalisations corroborate our stand that the government has been slow in its approach in screening, identifying and treating Covid-19 patients.”He said there should be a death audit in Madhya Pradesh and the government must have a comprehensive regional and zonal plan to fight the disease. “Otherwise, it will be very difficult for the government to control the situation.”Principal secretary (health department) Faiz Ahmad Kidwai said certain deaths occurred due to late arrival of patients to hospitals and added the government is making all-out efforts to screen and identify Covid-19 patients while making repeated appeals to people to come forward and not associate any stigma with the disease if they are having any problem. “People must understand that it is a viral disease and if diagnosed and treated timely, it curable. More than 1,900 people have been cured and discharged from hospitals across the state.”Madhya Pradesh was among the states, where the Centre last month deputed interministerial central teams to probe perceived lapses in efforts to control Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-over-41-of-161-covid-19-deaths-not-associated-with-comorbidities/story-zk0kWYRgqk0DXtOUb2RDCO.html
14-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Two officials of Ghazipur market test positive; to remain closed for 2 days||The Delhi government on Thursday closed the Ghazipur fruit and vegetable wholesale market for two days after two officials of the market committee tested positive for Covid-19. Officials at the wholesale market, one of the largest in the region, said the closure was necessary to sanitise the area and control the spread of the coronavirus.SP Gupta, chairman of the Ghazipur Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), said the market will remain closed for trading activities on Thursday and Friday.“The deputy secretary and secretary of the market management committee tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday and Wednesday. We closed our office as soon as we came to know about the case on Tuesday. The mandi has been shut for two days from Thursday so that it can be thoroughly disinfected,” Gupta said.There are around 10 officials of the market committee who had been in contact with the two Covid-19 patients. “All are in home quarantine and their samples will be taken on Thursday,” he said.This is not the first time that Covid-19 cases have been reported from Delhi’s wholesale markets.On April 24, a total of 300 shops were closed at Azadpur APMC, Asia’s biggest vegetable and fruit market, after the death of a trader who tested positive for Covid-19. So far, 18 Covid-19 cases have been reported from the Azadpur wholesale market.Delhi has so far recorded almost 8,000 infections and 106 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-two-officials-of-ghazipur-market-test-positive-to-remain-closed-for-2-days/story-vKYiZia1ufpiJFEausxQyM.html
14-05-2020||India||INS Jalashwa returns to Male for her second repatriation mission||INS Jalashwa, Indian Naval ship, arrived here on Thursday on her second journey to repatriate Indian nationals to Kochi, Kerala as a part of Operation Samudra Setu.“Back for the second voyage! #INSJalashwa approaching Male port. She will make her second journey tomorrow from #Male to #Kochi to repatriate Indian nationals from the Maldives as part of Op. #SamudraSetu,” the High Commission of India in Maldives said in a tweet.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageNavy ship Jalashwa will be evacuating approximately 700 Indian nationals from Male to Kochi on May 15, during her second repatriation sortie under the Government of India’s Operation Samudra Setu.The Navy ship has already repatriated 698 citizens to India on May 10 during her first sortie.Operation Samudra Setu is repatriation mission launched by the Indian Navy to bring Indian citizens home from foreign shores in the wake of Covid-19.The mission is being conducted in close coordination with Ministries of Defence, External Affairs, Home Affairs, Health and various other agencies of the Government of India and state governments.INS Magar, the Indian Naval ship which departed from Male, Maldives on Sunday carrying 202 Indian nationals, entered Kochi harbour in Kerala on Tuesday.The entire exercise is part of Vande Bharat Mission of the Government of India for repatriation of Indian nationals from the Middle East and Maldives in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ins-jalashwa-returns-to-male-for-her-second-repatriation-mission/story-gadr4T95itOou8mLTPgdUM.html
14-05-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray holds key meeting over Covid-19 lockdown; cases cross 25,000-mark in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar are holding a meeting with few key ministers on Thursday to review the current economic situation of the state in the backdrop of Covid-19 lockdown, news agency ANI reported.The ministers are expected to discuss the measures to be taken for the revival of the state’s economy. Thackeray and his colleagues are also likely to discuss the post-lockdown economic revival plan for the state.Maharashtra is the worst-affected state due to Covid-19. According to Union health ministry update on Thursday morning, the state had 25,922 Covid-19 positive cases and 975 deaths.The state recorded 1,495 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday - its highest single-day jump. It also registered 54 deaths due to the disease yesterday.The country’s worst-affected city, Mumbai, also breached the 15,000-mark on Wednesday with 800 new cases, taking its count to 15,747.Of the 54 deaths recorded on Wednesday, 40 were in Mumbai, six in Pune, two each in Jalgaon, Solapur and Aurangabad and one each in Vasai-Virar and Ratnagiri. More than 50% of the state’s Covid-19 cades have come in the month of May alone. Between May 1 to May 13, Maharashtra has clocked 13,820 cases, which is 53.31 per cent of the total cases. The total number of patients recovered till date is 5,547.To ease the pressure of the state police for enforcing the lockdown, the state government has asked for 20 companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF). Thackeray has earlier indicated that the state could seek additional forces from the Centre to give a break to the state police force in phases. The state’s other hotspots include Pune city, with 2,830 cases, Thane with 1,122 cases, Navi Mumbai with 1,018 cases, Malegaon with 617 cases and Aurangabad with 586 cases.The state has till date tested 2,30,857 samples at both, government and private labs.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-to-hold-key-meeting-over-covid-19-lockdown-cases-cross-25-000-mark-in-maharashtra/story-hhljKGBXlcikTLzt8qCKDN.html
14-05-2020||India||Railways’ announcement on ticket cancellation, contact tracing: All you need to know||The Ministry of Railways has announced that all rail passenger tickets that were booked before the commencement of the coronavirus lockdown for the travel period up to June 30, 2020, will be cancelled and a full refund shall be provided to the customers.The ministry also stated that Shramik special trains for the repatriation of migrant labourers to their native places will continue. It also said that the cancellation of tickets will not apply to the 15 interstate passenger trains that started operation on May 12.Here’s all you need to know about development:   • The cancellation of rail tickets will not apply to Shramik special trains or the 15 special passengers trains that started running on May 12. •The ministry said that the process of the cancellation of tickets for special trains will remain unaffected and fixed as per notified by the government. • The railways said that with effect from May 13, the IRCTC has started taking destination address of all passengers who are booking tickets in the 15 special interstate trains. The move will help in Covid-19 contact tracing, if required later. • The provision to include the destination address has been made on the IRCTC website from May 13.• The ministry has also made it mandatory for passengers to fill up their address details for any bookings in the wake of the coronavirus crisis.Also read: Railways introduces waiting lists for travellers from May 22• “With effect from May 13, IRCTC taking destination address of all passengers booking tickets. This will help in contact tracing, if required later,” Railway spokesperson RD Bajpai said, adding it would now be a permanent feature for the near future.• The Railways has also stated that passengers disallowed from travelling on trains because of symptoms associated with the novel coronavirus will receive a full refund for their tickets, news agency PTI reported. • It said that on a group ticket if one passenger is found unfit to travel and all other passengers on the same PNR also do not want to travel, in that case full refund shall be granted for all passengers.According to the ministry, rail tickets worth Rs 45.3 crore have been sold by the IRCTC since May 12. Over 2.3 lakh passengers have made bookings for special trains so far. In a late night move on Wednesday, the Railway Board issued a directive introducing the provision of waiting lists starting May 22 for journeys not only on its currently operational special trains but also on all its forthcoming services. The new changes in guidelines will come into effect for tickets booked from May 15 for journeys beginning from May 22.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-announcement-on-ticket-cancellation-contact-tracing-all-you-need-to-know/story-JriqtcdSwfUGV0zE18IVQM.html
14-05-2020||India||Migrant influx pushes up Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, govt fears spread in rural areas||The Rajasthan government and health authorities are on the edge fearing a spike in coronavirus cases as lakhs of migrants return from some of the worst-hit Covid-19 states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh.So far, 177 migrants have tested positive in the state, health department data shows.The highest number of positive cases among migrants has come in from Pali district with 32 positive cases reported. Rajsamand has the second highest number of cases (25), followed by Ajmer with 19, Sirohi with 14, Jalore with 12, Churu with 11 and Dungarpur with 10 cases.The already stretched local administrations are struggling to cope with the influx of migrants and to contain spread of the virus to rural areas where most of them are headed. To deal with the rush of migrants, the state government has sealed the state’s borders to regulate entry and made 14-day quarantine mandatory.Around 19 lakh migrants have registered with the government, of which around 13 lakh have registered to return to Rajasthan.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has acknowledged that preventing the spread of the virus in rural areas as migrants return will be the next big challenge for the government.State health minister Raghu Sharma sounded a note of caution on Wednesday saying that the return of the migrants presents a challenge and the government’s priority is quarantine.“The total focus of the health department is now on strengthening quarantine facilities. The migrants are welcome but they have to undergo the 14-day quarantine period compulsorily so that people in the state who have been in lockdown since 50 days and kept themselves safe, do not get infected,” he said.Sharma urged the local representatives to ensure that adequate quarantine facilities are developed in their respective areas. He said that migrants can opt for quarantine in a government facility or at their homes.The local administrations are deploying additional police and healthcare teams to ensure that screening is done and samples are taken and migrants stay in quarantine for the 14-day period.Fresh Covid-19 cases have been reported from districts that were either free of the virus or were on way to recovery.Sirohi and Jalore districts, which were free from the disease till the beginning of May, have been hit by a slew of cases as migrants return to villages.Churu district, which had no Covid-19 positive for 25 days, reported two new cases on May 8. Both were migrants who returned from Surat in Gujarat. Since then, the numbers have grown.Similarly, Jhunjhunu which had not reported any Covid-19 case in the last 16 days, has reported new cases of migrants who travelled from Surat and Delhi.Dungarpur, which was on the verge of becoming free from Covid-19, has also seen a rise in numbers of infected. The district had only one active case till May 5.In Jaisalmer too, there was a ray of hope that the district will be free of Covid-19 after 34 of 35 positive cases recovered. But it has now reported new cases.Health authorities have so far managed, with great effort, to keep the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases under control by enforcing the lockdown, curfews in hotspots and social distancing.But with thousands of migrants returning home, screening, sampling and enforcing quarantine is proving to be a challenge for the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-influx-pushes-up-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-govt-fears-spread-in-rural-areas/story-13XTvmJn33GI5tj6CGMsDN.html
14-05-2020||India||Jaishankar applauds Sitharaman’s ‘bold initiatives’, says ‘foreign policy begins at home’||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday lauded Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcements under government’s Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package and described them as “bold initiatives”. “Foreign Policy begins at home. A strong economy allows our voice to be heard in the world. Applaud FM @nsitharaman’s bold initiatives under PM @narendramodi’s leadership in reviving the MSME sector,” Jaishankar tweeted. Also appreciate the support provided to stressed sectors of the economy. India is today driven by a new vision, a stronger purpose and a deeper commitment. A self-reliant India has more to offer to the world.#AtmaNirbharBharatThe foreign minister said that the MSMEs are the backbone of the economy and we “must never allow it to be hollowed out”. Jaishankar said he appreciates the support provided to stressed sectors of the economy. “India is today driven by a new vision, a stronger purpose and a deeper commitment. A self-reliant India has more to offer to the world. #AtmaNirbharBharat,” Jaishankar posted in a tweet. Also read: FM Sitharaman’s 2nd phase of announcement on economic package today at 4pm Today’s announcements by FM @nsitharaman will go a long way in addressing issues faced by businesses, especially MSMEs. The steps announced will boost liquidity, empower the entrepreneurs and strengthen their competitive spirit. #AatmaNirbharBharatAbhiyanThe finance minister’s Wednesday’s announcement was studded with a slew of measures for helping various economic sectors amid the coronavirus crisis. Sitharaman announced a Rs 5.9 lakh crore stimulus on Wednesday with a sharp focus on MSMEs. The government also announced a liquidity scheme for NBFCs, HFCs and MFIs. While the rates of TDS and TCS were reduced by 25% to help investors and professionals, statutory deductions on EPF contributions for formal sector employees and employers too were lowered.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the announcements by the FM “will go a long way in addressing issues faced by businesses, especially MSMEs”.“The steps announced will boost liquidity, empower the entrepreneurs and strengthen their competitive spirit,” PM Modi tweeted on Wednesday. The finance minister will hold the second phase of briefing on the economic package today at 4 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-applauds-sitharaman-s-bold-initiatives-says-foreign-policy-begins-at-home/story-9fpN2rF4GBvLSK0TbVJCKJ.html
14-05-2020||India||Goa’s Covid-19 tally doubles to 14 overnight, 7 entering the state found positive||Goa’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally doubled on Wednesday to 14, as seven new positive cases were reported and all among those who entered the state by road after the lockdown restrictions were partially eased.The seven patients are undergoing treatment at the dedicated Covid-19 facility in South Goa from Thursday morning.State health minister Vishwajit Rane said that a preliminary rapid TruNat test conducted on the seven people on Wednesday proved Covid-19 positive and so did the confirmatory tests, whose results came later at night.Of the seven new Covid-19 positive cases, five belong to one family, who returned to Goa from Maharashtra’s Solapur district, where they had gone prior to the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak, were announced.The five include a husband, wife, their two children -- a son and a daughter -- and a granddaughter, who is the youngest Covid-19 patient in the state to date.The other two Covid-19 positive cases are both truck drivers -- one was returning from Gujarat and another from Mumbai.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant told media persons that contact tracing of all the seven new Covid-19 positive cases was on.“The five members of a Goan family was directly taken to a quarantine facility on Wednesday. There’s no fear of community transmission. Those who came in contact with the drivers will undergo tests,” the CM said.“All those who tested Covid-19 positive came from outside Goa,” he added.Prior to Wednesday, Goa reported its last Covid-19 positive case on April 3, and the state was declared a Green Zone on April 17 after the patient recovered. The state is yet to report a Covid-19 related death.Besides those stranded people from Goa who are returning to the state by their own vehicles, the state administration is ensuring repatriating and ferrying the rest, who don’t have many any mode of conveyance.On Wednesday, 60 students from Karnataka’s Ghatprabha were brought back to Goa by state-run buses and another 26 are on their way back home from Kochi and Mangaluru. On Thursday, 24 more will leave Bengaluru for Goa.“In the last couple of days, 15 buses have brought back to Goa 241 people stranded from Kasargod in Kerala; Mangaluru, Bengaluru, Belgaum, Hubli, Dharwad, Khanapur, Jamboti, and Gadag in Karnataka; Navi Mumbai and Pune in Maharashtra; Ahmedabad, Vadodara, and Surat in Gujarat and Dadra & Nagar Haveli,” the state government said in a release.Altogether, 4,476 people stranded in Goa from Madhya Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, and Himachal Pradesh have left for their respective states by four Shramik Special trains over the last few days, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-s-covid-19-tally-doubles-to-14-overnight-7-entering-the-state-found-positive/story-dfl17sCMos99GiwwPUS0bN.html
14-05-2020||India||‘Please take my money unconditionally and close’: Vijay Mallya to Indian government||Embattled liquor baron Vijay Mallya, who is fighting against his extradition to India, on Thursday asked the government to accept his offer to repay 100 per cent of his loan dues and close case against him. While congratulating the Indian government over the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package, Mallya lamented that his repeated offers to repay his dues have been ignored. “Congratulations to the Government for a Covid -19 relief package. They can print as much currency as they want BUT should a small contributor like me who offers 100% payback of State owned Bank loans be constantly ignored?” he said in a tweet. Congratulations to the Government for a Covid 19 relief package. They can print as much currency as they want BUT should a small contributor like me who offers 100% payback of State owned Bank loans be constantly ignored ? Please take my money unconditionally and close.Mallya, promoter of the defunct Kingfisher Airlines, who is wanted in India over alleged fraud and money laundering charges amounting to estimated Rs 9,000 crore, added,”Please take my money unconditionally and close.” Earlier this month, Mallya had filed an appeal in the UK Supreme Court after losing an appeal in the London High Court against an extradition order to India on alleged charges of fraud and money laundering related to unrecovered loans to Kingfisher Airlines. In the past, Mallya had tweeted that he had offered to pay 100 per cent of the amount borrowed by Kingfisher Airlines to the banks but neither banks were willing to take the money nor the Enforcement Directorate was willing to release his attached assets at the behest of the banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/please-take-my-money-unconditionally-and-close-vijay-mallya-to-indian-government/story-OX6mTTbNNoDmfMybIOuoxO.html
14-05-2020||India||FM Sitharaman’s 2nd phase of announcement on economic package today at 4pm||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will address the media again on Thursday at 4 pm in the second phase of announcements on government’s Rs 20 lakh crore package. This comes a day after she held a press conference and shared details of the stimulus package on Wednesday. On Wednesday, the finance minister said that, over the next few days her team will come before the media to put forth PM’s vision and share more details on the economic package.Sitharaman on Wednesday announced a slew of measures under the economic package that she said would infuse vigour in the economy and benefit various economic sectors. Also read: Sitharaman announces boost to MSMEs; EPF support to workers, businessesTDS, TCS rate for non-salaried payments for period up to March 31, 2021 has been cut by 25%. The move will release Rs 50,000 crore, she said. The finance minister announced that the due date for all income tax returns has been extended to November 30.In order to provide more take home salary for employees and to give relief to employers in payment of Provident Fund, Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPF) contribution is being reduced for businesses and workers for 3 months, amounting to liquidity support of Rs 6,750 crores, the finance minister announced.Also read: Nirmala Sitharaman Press Conference: Rs 9250 crore relief for provident fund contributors“Definition of MSMEs has been revised, investment limit to be revised upwards, additional criteria of turnover also being introduced,” the finance minister stated.The finance minister reiterated the importance of “self-reliant India” (Atmanirbhar Bharat) in her address on Wednesday. She said the announcement of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package for ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ is to spur growth in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-announcing-details-of-centre-s-economic-package-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-to-address-press-conference-at-4pm-today/story-NvxhDtMv2sWjn2G7I5jzHN.html
14-05-2020||India||Secondary temperature check, same pilot and crew: All you need to know about new rules for flying||The government is preparing guidelines for air passenger service, which is set to resume in the country soon. The service has been suspended since March 25 because of the Covid-19 lockdown.Among the proposals being considered by the government are barring the cabine luggage and passengers above 80 years not to be allowed.Here is all you need to know about the news guidelines being formed by the government before it resumes flight services.• The draft standard operating procedures (SOPs) proposed by the civil aviation ministry have done away with the rule of keeping the middle seats vacant in compliance with social distancing norms.• Passenger ID checks will also not be required so as to minimise the crowds at terminal gates.• The rules make it compulsory for all passengers to arrive at the airport only after completing their web check-in at home. The reporting time for travellers at the airport is proposed to be increased by two hours.• Only passengers whose flights are scheduled to depart in the next six hours will be allowed inside the airports.• Cabin luggage will be disallowed, and only one piece of check-in baggage weighing less than 20kg will be allowed per passenger in the first phase of resumed airline operations.• Those above the age of 80 will not be allowed on flights. According to the draft SOPs, passengers stopped from boarding a flight because of age or if they are found to be running a high temperature will be permitted to change their travel date without any penalty.• Downloading the Aarogya Setu app will be mandatory for all the passengers. Only those with a “green status” will be allowed to enter the airport.• Airlines have been asked to open check-in counters three hours prior to departure time and close them 60 to 75 minutes prior to departure. Boarding will commence an hour prior to departure time and the gates will close 20 minutes before.• Frisking of passengers has been asked to be minimised and to be carried out only if the door frame metal detector beeps. The draft SOPs also ask the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) to not stamp passenger’s boarding pass in this phase.• The airlines have been told to conduct a secondary temperature check at the boarding gate before the passengers enter their flight.• The document also suggests that the same set of crew (pilots and cabin attendants) be rostered on a flight as long as possible to minimise the risk of infection.• Passengers will not be served meals on board. Water will be available in cups and bottles in the galley.• The last three rows of the aircraft will be kept vacant for isolation of any passenger who develops a medical condition. Crew members handling such cases will wear personal protection equipment.An adequate number of PPEs will be available on board to deal with more than one such case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/secondary-temperature-check-same-pilot-and-crew-all-you-need-to-know-about-new-rules-for-flying/story-nuoCUXeRaAEQn51iYrvL2M.html
14-05-2020||India||Railways says all tickets booked for travel on or before June 30 cancelled; Shramik, special trains remain unaffected||The Ministry of Railways has announced that all train tickets booked before March 25 for travel on or before June 30 will stand cancelled and a full refund will be provided to customers.The announcement applies to the reservation of passenger rail travel tickets booked before the coronavirus lockdown for travel up to June 30, 2020. The operation of Shramik special trains, for the purpose of the repatriation of stranded migrant labourers amid the coronavirus lockdown, will remain unaffected. 15 special interstate passengers trains that resumed operation on May 12 shall also run uninterrupted without any change. The latest announcement by the ministry does not apply to the above-mentioned train services.  Also Watch | ‘Waiting list of 3 lakhs to get trains’: Former migrant worker | On The Record Also read: Migrant influx pushes up Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, govt fears spread in rural areasWith effect from May 13, the IRCTC has started taking the destination address of all passengers who are booking tickets, the ministry stated. The move will help in Covid-19 contact tracing if required. The ministry said that it will introduce a new provision for this in the form for online booking. All passenger train operations were suspended in March after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced nationwide coronavirus lockdown to break the chain of the infection in the country. Goods trains and rail operations for essentials were carried out by the Railways. Also read: Railways introduces waiting lists for travellers from May 22Earlier this month, the government began operating special ‘Shramik’ trains to ferry stranded migrant labourers across the country to their native places amid the coronavirus lockdown. Lakhs of migrant workers have reached their native lands with the help of over 600 special trains so far. The ministry also started 15 interstate passenger train services on May 12. 15 trains, starting from the national capital and connecting various cities across the country, started operation on May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-tickets-booked-for-passenger-trains-travel-on-or-before-june-30-cancelled-shramik-special-trains-remain-unaffected/story-P6oGxxtRXldXhUkPFntJHL.html
14-05-2020||India||Gujarat Covid-19 tally inches towards 9,500-mark; all 23 districts affected||Gujarat has the second highest number of coronavirus disease cases in the country after Maharastra. According to Union health ministry update on Thursday, the number of cases in the state is 9,267.More than 500 (566 to be exact) people have died due to the disease in the state and the number of cured/discharged patients is 3,562, according to the health ministry.Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has announced formation of a committee of experts, headed by former Union Finance Secretary Dr Hasmukh Adhia, to deal with the Covid-19 situation in the state.The committee will be providing comprehensive recommendations to the Gujarat government for post-Covid-19 economic revival in the state, as per the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO).Three hundred sixty four new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Gujarat on Wednesday. Twenty four people died of the disease on Wednesday.Among the 16 districts where new cases were found, Ahmedabad reported 292, Surat 23 and Vadodara 18. The tally of coronavirus cases in Ahmedabad rose to 6,645.In Surat and Vadodara, it rose to 967 and 592, respectively.The number of Covid-19-related deaths in Ahmedabad thus rose to 446, and that in Surat to 43.As many as 1,22,297 samples weretested in the state till Wednesday, 2,760 in the last 24 hours, state health authorities said.Amreli district recorded its first coronavirus case on Wednesday. The pandemic, thus, has now spread to all 33 districts of Gujarat.Apart from Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Surat, the districts with high number of cases in Gujarat are Gandhinagar (142), Bhavnagar (100), Banaskantha (82), Anand (80), Aravalli (76), Mehsana (67), Rajkot (66), Botad (56).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-covid-19-tally-inches-towards-9-500-mark-all-23-districts-affected/story-NL94hCKQscce5x84lwCGGJ.html
14-05-2020||India||‘Special corona charges’ on liquor sale in Chhattisgarh||Chhattisgarh government will give paddy difference amount of Rs 685 under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana on the occasion of the death anniversary of the late former prime minister, the cabinet decided on Wednesday. The government also decided to impose ‘special corona charges on the sale of liquor in the state. The move was decided during the meeting chaired by Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel.Agriculture Minister Ravindra Choubey, while informing about the cabinet decisions during the meeting, said that the state government is sensitive towards the farmers of the state in this crucial time and the amount will be transferred soon in the farmers’ bank account.Notably, a budgetary provision of Rs 5,100 crore was made by the Chhattisgarh government in this regard after the chief minister promised to pay Rs 2,500 per quintal to the farmers last year.The cabinet also decided to impose a ‘special corona charges’ on the sale of liquor in the state.“Under this special corona tax, there will be an increase of Rs 10 per bottle for local liquor and a 10% increase in the retail rate of all types of foreign liquor (spirit/malt),” the press note read.The cabinet also decided that, in the view of the present circumstances in amid the coronavirus lockdown, refined iodized salt will be included in the public distribution system for APL families.“A maximum of 2 kg salt per ration card per month will be provided on a ration card from June 1,” the release stated.The government has decided to distribute lentils under the Food Security Act.“ The lentils will be procured as per rate proposed by NAFED from April to June,” said the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-coronavirus-fee-on-liquor-sale-in-chhattisgarh/story-Zt1fyItSg7lnT4khc8CBMK.html
14-05-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Nearly 26,000 patients in Maharashtra, cases cross 9,000-mark in Gujarat and TN||The number of coronavirus cases in the country breached the 78,000-mark on Thursday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 78,003. There are 49,219 active coronavirus cases in the country, 26,234 patients have been cured or discharged while 2,549 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra near the 26,000-mark while in Gujarat, the second worst-affected state, the Covid-19 cases have crossed 9,000.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraWith 25922 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 975 deaths so far while 5547 patients have recovered.GujaratThe state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 9267. While 566 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 566 recoveries so far.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 9227 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 2176 recoveries and 64 Covid-19 deaths.DelhiAs many as 7998 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. One hundred and six people have died from the infection while 2858 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 4328 on Thursday. The state has reported 121 fatalities, and 2459 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 4173 positive cases of coronavirus. Two hundred and thirty-two people have died from Covid-19 here while 2004 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 3729 in Uttar Pradesh. While 1902 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 83 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 2137 positive Covid-19 patients and 1142 cases of recovery. Forty seven people have died.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 2290 on Thursday. There have been 207 deaths and 702 recoveries in the state.TelanganaThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 1367 in state so far. Nine hundred and forty people people have made a recovery from the virus while 34 people have died from Covid-19.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 971. 11 people have died from the infection while 455 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 925 Covid-19 cases and 31 deaths. As many as 466 people have been cured and discharged.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 793 and 1924 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 32 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen 11 deaths. Four hundred and eighteen people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 200 in Punjab.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 534 coronavirus cases on Thursday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 490 people have successfully recovered.In Bihar, 940 people have tested positive for coronavirus, seven people have died while 388 patients have recovered. Odisha has 538 Covid-19 positive patients, 143 have recovered while three people have died. Jharkhand has 173 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 79 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 72 coronavirus patients, 46 patients have recovered from the infection, one patient has died. Himachal Pradesh has 66 cases, two patients have died and 39 have recovered. Assam has reported 39 Covid-19 cases, two people have died while 39 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 59 cases of coronavirus and 55 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 187 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 28 have recovered, three people have died. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, all patients have recovered.Ladakh has 43 patients, 22 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported 13 cases, 9 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 13 cases and one death, 10 patients have recovered. One patient has died. Manipur had two coronavirus cases, and those have recovered. Tripura, meanwhile, has 155 cases, 16 patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Dadar Nagar Havel, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. All patients in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-nearly-26-000-patients-in-maharashtra-cases-cross-9-000-mark-in-gujarat-and-tamil-nadu/story-l98Crk3B80fMVxl9zJw37O.html
14-05-2020||India||Chandauli records first Covid-19 case, all 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh now affected by coronavirus||The entire Uttar Pradesh is now under the grip of coronavirus, after Chandauli reported a Covid-19 positive cases, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported.Chandauli was the only district (out of 75 in Uttar Pradesh) where no single case of Covid-19 was registered.The state saw 116 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, which pushed the overall tally in the state to 3,758. Out of these, 2,514 cases have been reported from nine districts, namely, Agra, Kanpur, Lucknow, Meerut, Noida, Saharanpur, Firozabad, Ghaziabad and Moradabad. Four more people died of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, raising the death toll in the state to 86. Out of these four, two died in Moradabad, and one each in Sant Kabir Nagar and Gautam Buddha Nagar.Out of the total fatalities, the maximum 24 deaths has been reported from Agra, followed by 14 from Meerut, seven from Moradabad, six from Kanpur Nagar, four each from Firozabad and Mathura, three from Aligarh, two each from Ghaziabad, Jhansi and Gautam Buddh Nagar, and one each from Hapur, Lalitpur, Allahabad, Etah, Mainpuri, Bijnore, Kanpur Dehat, Amroha, Bareilly, Basti, Bulandshahr, Lucknow, Varanasi and Shravasti, it said.Of the total 3,758 cases, 1,965 were treated and discharged while 1,707 are under treatment, a release from Uttar Pradesh health department said.Principal Secretary Health Amit Mohan Prasad said on Wednesday that the testing capacity has been increased in Uttar Pradesh and as many as 5,405 Covid-19 tests were conducted across the state since Tuesday evening.“We are emphasising on surveillance and 2.96 crore people have been surveyed by 71,914 teams in UP. Those having symptoms have been given required treatment,” he added.Prasad also said that said that the recovery rate was increasing which was a good sign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandauli-records-first-covid-19-cases-all-75-districts-of-uttar-pradesh-now-affected-by-coronavirus/story-Xoj1TVEqE1gxsDV5CwbpjN.html
14-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: States tread carefully, likely to redefine zones after May 17 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.States tread carefully, likely to redefine zones after May 17State governments on Wednesday started working on their strategy for the fourth phase of the lockdown, which is expected to largely affect only the containment zones, which range from a building to a locality, and which is also expected to see the resumption of almost all activities, except large social gatherings and the reopening of educational institutions. Read more‘Where is fiscal stimulus?’ Manish Tewari questions govt’s Covid-19 relief packageOn a day when the government announced the first part of the Rs 20 lakh crore financial relief package for various sectors to tide over the Covid-19 crisis, Congress leader and former Union minister Manish Tewari said that it is a clear case of skewed priorities of the government. Read moreKedarnath area to get oxygen plant, will help pilgrims visiting the shrineThe Kedarnath area in Uttarakhand will soon get an oxygen plant which will help many pilgrims who face problems due to lack of oxygen at high altitude. Read moreTruck collision in Madhya Pradesh kills at least 8 labourers, 50 injuredAt least eight labourers were killed and around 50 others sustained injuries in a truck collision in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna late Wednesday night, news agency ANI reported. Read moreOil prices edge higher on surprise US stock drawdown, but demand concerns lingerOil prices crept up on Thursday, supported by a surprise decline of US crude inventories, but gains were capped by worries that a potential second wave of the coronavirus pandemic might trigger fresh lockdowns and slam fuel demand once again. Read moreHow Vettel lost his way at FerrariIn 2010, he became the youngest driver ever to become Formula One’s world champion. For the next three seasons, no one could touch him. When Ferrari dreamt of a driver who would take them out of their long, slow fall, it’s no wonder they dreamt of Sebastian Vettel. Read moreAamir Khan’s daughter Ira pens heartfelt post on death of his assistant Amos: ‘Legends never die’Actor Aamir Khan’s daughter, Ira Khan, has condoled the death of his longtime assistant Amos, who died of a heart attack on Wednesday. “Legends don’t die,” she posted on her Instagram stories. Read moreDeepika Padukone, Alia Bhatt, Kareena Kapoor: Throwback to the best celebrity looks in redStyle icon Audrey Hepburn once said that there is a shade of red for every woman and it stands true in so many ways. Red is one go-to colour when it comes to experimenting with textures, patterns, silhouettes and cuts. Read moreWatch: ‘We will deal...’: Army chief on India, China soldiers’ fight in Ladakh, SikkimIndian Army chief General MM Naravane commented on the recent face-off with Chinese forces. Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in scuffles in Ladakh and Sikkim. On May 9, 150 soldiers were involved in a physical clash at Naku La. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-states-tread-carefully-likely-to-redefine-zones-after-may-17-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8Kmv4Vtz4Vze4t7QkGnEwL.html
14-05-2020||India||MSMEs get big boost, TDS rate cut: All about govt’s Covid-19 financial package||Finance minister Niramala Sitharaman announced a Rs 5.9 lakh crore stimulus on Wednesday with a sharp focus on MSMEs. The government also announced a liquidity scheme for NBFCs, HFCs and MFIs. While the rates of TDS and TCS were reduced by 25% to help investors and professionals, statutory deductions on EPF contributions for formal sector employees and employers too were lowered. Big boost to small biz in first trancheFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday unveiled a ₹5.9 lakh crore stimulus package which includes ₹3 lakh crore collateral-free loans to small businesses, ₹75,000 crore liquidity infusion in non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), ₹90,000 crore financial support to power discoms and ₹50,000 crore cash in the hands of taxpayers. Read moreTDS rate cut to leave professionals, equity investors with cashThe government’s move to reduce the rates of tax deduction at source (TDS) and tax collection at source (TCS) by 25% will benefit investors and professionals by putting more cash in their hands. Read moreCredit guarantee, equity support for small businessFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday offered struggling small businesses, the country’s dominant job creator, a rescue package that includes credit guarantees, equity support and a better chance to win government contracts as part of the ₹20 trillion package to revive the economy. Read moreGovt announces ₹75,000 cr fund for non-banking, micro financiersFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced measures worth ₹75,000 crore for liquidity-starved non-banks, mortgage lenders and micro financiers as part of the government’s economic rescue package. Read moreBusinesses hope for rise in demand with tax, PF reliefConsumer product companies are hoping that steps announced on Wednesday by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will generate demand by putting more money in the hands of consumers through cuts in the tax deducted at source (TDS) and contribution towards Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF). Read morePower discoms to get ₹90,000-cr liquidity fund as demand dropsThe government on Wednesday announced a ₹90,000 crore liquidity injection into fund-starved electricity distribution companies (discoms) as part of a stimulus package to revive the country’s battered economy. Read moreCentre curtails EPF contributions by 2%, move likely to benefit 650,000 firmsThe Centre on Wednesday reduced statutory deductions on employees’ provident fund (EPF) contributions for both formal sector employers and employees from the usual 12% each to 10%, for the May-July period. Read moreStates told to extend deadlines of real estate projectsOffering some relief to real estate developers, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday asked states and union territories to extend the registration and completion date by six months of all projects registered under the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the first part of the economic package India has been waiting for since late March, when a lockdown was enforced to combat the rapid spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreLiquidity efforts good for market but issues remainThe Union government’s stimulus package to inject liquidity and improve credit flow is likely to cheer markets on Thursday, even as market analysts feel the impact of the policies will depend on their implementation. Read moreIdea of a resilient India is driving the policy package that is being laid out: Jayant SinhaFormer union minister and chairman of the parliamentary standing committee on finance, Jayant Sinha said in an interview that the priority of the Narendra Modi government is to strengthen India and to make it resilient. Read moreOpposition parties hit out at Centre on Covid-19 packageThe opposition parties expressed disappointment with the special Covid-19 stimulus package announced by the Centre on Wednesday with the Congress claiming that it has nothing for the migrant workers walking back to their home states. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msmes-get-big-boost-tds-rate-cut-all-about-govt-s-covid-19-financial-package/story-ap2RLd4wN715MNBgP36BlI.html
14-05-2020||India||3 people including Jamaati tests positive for Covid-19, tally mounts to 72 in Uttarakhand||Three people, including a 30-year-old jamaati from Nainital district with travel history from Amravati in Maharashtra, tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand on Wednesday. With this, the total number of coronavirus cases in the state has climbed to 72 in the state.Dr Bharti Rana, chief medical officer of Nainital district, said that the 30-year-old jamaati who tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday was part of a group of 14 jamaatis who recently returned to the state.“A group of 14 jamaatis reached Nainital on May 8 using their private vehicle from Amravati in Maharashtra when we had immediately put all of them in institutional quarantine and sent their samples for testing. Seven people tested negative earlier, the 30-year-old tested positive on Wednesday. The results of six people are awaited,” said Dr Rana.A 27-year-old man with travel history from Gurugram tested positive in the hilly district of Almora while a 52-year-old woman from Dehradun was found Covid-19 positive.As per the health bulletin released by the state government on Wednesday, “One new positive case of Covid-19 was detected in district Almora. The sample was tested positive at Viral Research and Diagnostic Lab in Haldwani. As per the travel history, the 27-year-old male patient came from Gurugram to Ranikhet.”This is the second Covid-19 case reported from Almora district after 38 days, the last case was reported on April 4.Earlier in the day, a 52-year-old woman from Dehradun tested positive for Covid-19. “A 52-year-old female patient’s swab samples tested positive at Doon Medical College Lab Report,” said the daily bulletin issued by the state health department.This is the first positive case to be reported from Dehradun after a gap of four days since the last case was reported on May 8. With the latest case, the doubling rate in the past seven in Dehradun district reduced to 84.89 days from 167.38 days. So far, the district has reported 36 cases with 26 patients successfully recovering from the disease. There are ten active cases in the district now.On Tuesday, a 23-year-old girl, who had recently returned from Gurugram to Haldwani in Nainital district, tested positive for coronavirus. This was the first Covid-19 positive case in Nainital district after 18 days. The last one was reported on April 24.Uttarakhand has tested 10,792 swab samples so far. Maximum number of tests have been done in Dehradun, Nainital, Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-people-including-jamaati-tests-positive-for-covid-19-tally-mounts-to-72-in-uttarakhand/story-TsK3d6CggtCC5WZvnDQjaI.html
14-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 78,000-mark; 3,722 cases in 24 hours||The total number of coronavirus positive cases in India reached 78,003 on Thursday, after a jump of 3,722 cases in the last 24 hours. One hundred thirty four people died due to the disease in 24 hours (between Wednesday and Thursday).According to the Union health ministry update at 8 am, the death toll due to Covid-19 stands at 2,549. The number of active cases in the country stands at 49,219.The health ministry had said on Wednesday that the doubling time of infection has imporved to 12.2 days from 10.9 days.Maharashtra has the most number of positive Covid-19 cases with 25,922 positive cases, followed by Gujarat with 9,267, and Tamil Nadu with 9,227 cases.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the first part of the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Sitharaman announced a series of liquidity measures for millions of small businesses reeling under the impact of Covid-19 lockdown, including collateral-free automatic loans worth Rs 3 lakh crore. She also announced a Rs 30,000 crore special liquidity scheme for non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), housing finance companies (HFCs) and micro-finance institutions (MFIs).PM Modi had announced the package to deal with the economic crisis due to the Covid-19 and called for building a self-reliant India based on five pillars of economy, infrastructure, modern systems, technology, demography and demand.A decision on the future course of action on the lockdown is expected in the next few days, though PM Modi has said that the ‘fourth’ phase would be different from the third one, in which some relaxations were already given.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar participated in the virtual meeting of Foreign Ministers of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) member countries on Wednesday to discuss cooperation to fight the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-78-000-mark-3-722-cases-in-24-hours/story-h5bAMZ79k2KFme1SPI7uKN.html
14-05-2020||India||‘Where is fiscal stimulus?’ Manish Tewari questions govt’s Covid-19 relief package||On a day when the government announced the first part of the Rs 20 lakh crore financial relief package for various sectors to tide over the Covid-19 crisis, Congress leader and former Union minister Manish Tewari said that it is a clear case of skewed priorities of the government.He also said what Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced is just liquidity plus package, there is no fiscal stimulus.Here are the excerpts from Tewari’s interview with Hindustan Times’ Saubhadra Chatterji.Q: The government announced the first part of its Rs 20 lakh crore fiscal package. What is your reaction.Manish Tewari: It is a clear case of skewed priorities of the government. Today, India faces the single biggest humanitarian crisis after the Partition in 1947 and the displacement of people from East Pakistan. There are millions of migrant labourers left without jobs and shelter above their heads. But, for the government, it seems they don’t exist.Q: But this is just the first part of a series of announcements.Manish Tewari: Yes. And we would be closely watching the future announcements too. But the MSME package doesn’t overshadow the fact that the government’s top priority should have been those millions of workers. Why is the government silent on millions of poor, hungry and devastated migrant workers? The second priority of the government should have been to pump up the MGNREGS to provide work to these jobless workers.Q: But the government’s first package had announcements for the farmers and rural India. The Centre has already released Rs 33,300 crore under MGNREGS for this year.Manish Tewari: Do you know the problems farmers are facing today? Yes, the government has given Rs 2,000 under PM Kisan to farmers but many of them are not getting the MSP for their produce. They are offered lower prices on grounds like colour variation, high moisture, etc. This is not the time to do such things. Farmers need to be paid their dues but it is not happening.Q: Do you think that this package will provide a fresh lease of life to Indian MSME sector?Manish Tewari: We welcome the subordinate debt scheme of Rs 20,000 crore and equity corpus fund of Rs 10,000 crore. But if you see the MSME package, it is in favour of the large MSME enterprises, and not the smaller ones. Where is the fiscal stimulus? This is just a liquidity plus package.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/where-is-fiscal-stimulus-manish-tewari-questions-govt-s-covid-19-relief-package/story-l3V6KvqS6lybjmZjzaHzSO.html
14-05-2020||India||Opposition parties hit out at Centre on Covid-19 package||The opposition parties expressed disappointment with the special Covid-19 stimulus package announced by the Centre on Wednesday with the Congress claiming that it has nothing for the migrant workers walking back to their home states.The Congress fielded former finance minister, P Chidambaram, to counter the government’s announcements.“There is nothing in what the finance minister said for the lakhs of poor, hungry and devastated migrant workers who have walked — and many thousands are still walking — back to their home states. This is a cruel blow dealt to those who toil every day,” he said, addressing a news conference through video. “There is also nothing by way of cash transfer to the bottom half of the population (13 crore families) who have been pushed into destitution. Only yesterday, Prof Thomas Pikketty [the French economist] pleaded for cash transfers to the poor,” added Chidambaram.“Except for the modest MSME package, we are disappointed with today’s announcements,” he said. West Bengal chief minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee said, “The special economic package announced by the union government is nothing but a big zero. It is eyewash to fool the people. There is nothing for the unorganised sector, public spending and employment generation,” she told reporters.“Yesterday, when the Prime Minister announced Rs 20 lakh crore package, we were hopeful that the interest of the states will be looked into. But today, after the union finance minister made the announcements, it was found that everything that was said was a bluff,” she said.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav called the package mere rhetoric. “First it was the false promise of Rs 15 lakh, and now it is the claim of Rs 20 lakh crore...Now, the 133 crore people will be hit by a 133-time bigger ‘jumla’ (rhetoric)...How can anyone believe this...,” he tweeted in Hindi.Congress leader Manish Tewari also criticised the government’s move. “ It is a clear case of skewed priorities of the government. Today, India faces the single biggest humanitarian crisis after the Partition in 1947 and the displacement of people from East Pakistan. There are millions of migrant labourers left without jobs and shelter above their heads. But for the government it seems they don’t exist,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-hit-out-at-centre-on-covid-19-package/story-cgtZ2OoqF4e7G8rc70Mk2J.html
14-05-2020||India||Truck collision in Madhya Pradesh kills at least 8 labourers, 50 injured||At least eight labourers were killed and around 50 others sustained injuries in a truck collision in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna late Wednesday night, news agency ANI reported.The labourers were travelling in the truck from Maharashtra to their native place in Uttar Pradesh when it collided with a bus in Guna’s Cantt PS area last night. The injured were moved to the nearest district hospital. More details on the accident are awaited. Watch | Lockdown: 14 migrant workers killed in separate road accidents in UP, MP Meanwhile, in another mishap involving migrant workers, six labourers lost their lives while four others were injured as a roadways bus ran over them in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar late Wednesday night.Madhya Pradesh: 8 labourers dead & around 50 injured after the truck they were travelling in, collided with a bus in Cantt PS area in Guna last night. Injured persons shifted to district hospital.All the 8 killed labourers were going to their native places in UP from Maharashtra. pic.twitter.com/OaB9SCLpjYThe labourers were on their way to Bihar from Punjab when the accident took place. Amid the coronavirus lockdown, the country has witnessed an exodus of migrant labourers, many of those often resort to risky measures just to reach their native land. Most are seen travelling in a risky situation with no masks in overcrowded trucks. Rising temperature and death of at least 8 migrant workers in the past 20 days led to Madhya Pradesh government lifting restrictions on the MP-Maharashtra border for labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand, officials said.The influx of migrant labourers, about 25,000 per day on an average, has caused worries to the administration. These labourers are covering hundreds of kilometres travelling or walking through the state up to the UP border. Screening such a large number of workers, including the elderly, women and children, is practically not possible, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truck-collision-in-madhya-pradesh-kills-at-least-8-labourers-50-injured/story-5jgBFIBVO79r9D041W6JPP.html
14-05-2020||India||Kedarnath area to get oxygen plant, will help pilgrims visiting the shrine||The Kedarnath area in Uttarakhand will soon get an oxygen plant which will help many pilgrims who face problems due to lack of oxygen at high altitude.Mangesh Ghildiyal, district magistrate of Rudraprayag, said that an oxygen plant is being built in a Covid-19 hospital of the district, looking at the increasing number of migrants returning and yatra in the future. The project is worth Rs 60 lakh, said Ghildiyal.“We decided to build an oxygen plant here in the district as with increasing migrants returning to the district, we wanted to boost our infrastructure to be able to deal with any extreme situation if cases arise. This will also help the numerous pilgrims that come to Kedarnath shrine and face problems due to lack of oxygen at that height,” said Ghildiyal.In the past decade, over 250 people have died on their way to Kedarnath shrine due to problems related to lack of oxygen.“We usually keep 30 oxygen cylinders on the way to the shrine starting from Gaurikund apart from small oxygen cylinders that can be carried in hand. When pilgrims need to use oxygen from these cylinders, it becomes difficult for us to refill them as we had to transport them to Rishikesh for filling. Now with the new plant, we will be able to save time and money on refilling these cylinders,” added the district magistrate.He further said that nearby districts like Chamoli will also be able to take benefit of this plant in emergency situations, as it would be easier to transport oxygen cylinders from one district to another instead of travelling to plains in Rishikesh.The district administration is also looking at options to connect the plant to other hospitals in the district or make arrangements for fast transportation of oxygen cylinders to remote areas during emergencies.Located at a height of nearly 3,500 metres above sea level, the Kedarnath temple remains covered in snow for most part of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kedarnath-area-to-get-oxygen-plant-will-help-pilgrims-visiting-the-shrine/story-ZzeGGP42f88nLZ333IkY5K.html
14-05-2020||India||2 women, one of them student leader, arrested for smuggling liquor in Uttarakhand||The Nainital Police have arrested two women - one of them a student leader - in an alleged liquor smuggling case in Haldwani. The police have registered an FIR against them.Bhagwan Singh Mahar, in-charge of the Mukhani police station in Haldwani said, “Our police team conducted vehicle checking at RTO Road in Haldwani on Tuesday evening. During this, we caught two girls carrying 24 bottles of liquor. They had purchased the same from Mandi and were going to Lamachaud area,” he said.Mahar said that one of the women is a former student union leader of a government college and another is her friend, who is also active in student politics.“In the preliminary inquiry, it was revealed that they were smuggling liquor. We have registered an FIR against both of them under Section 60 of the Excise Act,” he said.Meanwhile, two people at a quarantine centre in Nainital district were booked by the revenue police after they created ruckus at the Haldwani centre in drunken condition on Wednesday.Vinod Kumar, sub-divisional magistrate Nainital said Priti Chaurasiya, gram pradhan of Okhaldunga complained to him that a group of nine people who had come from Rohtak (Haryana) had been quarantined at a school in her village. She complained that two people from this group, who were in a drunken condition, attacked her and other quarantined people, he said.Kumar said both the people - Jagdish Singh Jaitwal and Manmohan Singh Jaitwal - have been booked by the revenue police of the area under IPC sections 188 (disobedience the order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 51 (B) of the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-women-one-of-them-student-leader-arrested-for-smuggling-liquor-in-uttarakhand/story-3yu8PvSBt4VDtp4rXKu9cM.html
14-05-2020||India||UP roadways bus runs over 6 migrant labourers on way to Bihar from Punjab||Six migrant labourers died and four were injured when a roadways bus ran over them on Uttar Prdaesh’s Saharanpur- Muzaffarnagar highway 59 late Wednesday night. The group of labourers was walking back to their village Gopalganj in Bihar from Punjab after closure of the factory where they worked.Two critically injured labourers were referred to a hospital in Meerut while two others who sustained minor injuries are undergoing treatment at Muzaffarnagar district hospital and will be discharged later in the day. Watch | Lockdown: 14 migrant workers killed in separate road accidents in UP, MP Ten people were brought to the hospital late Wednesday and six of them were declared dead after examination, Dr Vineet Ksushik of Muzaffarnagar district hospital said. The incident took place between Ghalauli checkpost and Rohana toll plaza on Saharanpur- Muzaffarnagar state highway at around 12.30 am. On hearing screams of the injured, nearby villagers rushed to the spot and informed police. The injured were immediately taken to the district hospital.Meanwhile, taking advantage of darkness the bus driver fled the spot. The police are trying to identify him using the CCTV footage of the toll plaza. The deceased were identified as Harek Singh(52), his son Vikas(22), Gudd (18), Vasudev (22), Harish Sahni (42) and Virendra (28). Those admitted to Meerut were identified as Sushil and Ramjeet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-killed-as-bus-runs-over-migrant-labourers-on-way-to-bihar-from-punjab/story-lr3j1hpQhLc2zMuJgE9ekM.html
14-05-2020||India||‘Artificial virus, not natural’, says Nitin Gadkari on origin of Covid-19||The coronavirus, which originated from China’s Wuhan and has claimed over 2.5 lakh lives worldwide, is not a “natural virus” and it was created from a laboratory, said Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday.“...We need to understand the art of living with corona. That art of living is very important as it is not a natural virus. It is an artificial virus and many countries across the world are researching for a vaccine,” Gadkari said in an interview to NDTV.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here This is the first time that the Indian government has made a comment on the origin of the deadly contagion. This admission by a senior cabinet minister is significant as most countries have blamed a lab in Wuhan for the creation of the virus.“The second thing is detection methodology. We need some good methodology. Immediately, we can identify (the virus). This is unexpected because this a virus from laboratory, this is not a natural virus,” the union minister added.Gadkari’s statement comes at a time when countries across the world, including the US, have raised suspicions that the virus which has brought the world to a grinding halt, was created in labs in Wuhan, the capital of central China’s Hubei province.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayUS President Donald Trump, on multiple occasions, has blamed China for allowing the virus to spread around the world. He has also referred to it as ‘Chinese virus’. A war of words also emerged between Trump and Chinese diplomats of the world over blaming each other for the origin of the virus.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Gadkari, however, expressed confidence that the countries, including India, are prepared to handle the coronavirus crisis.“So, probably the world is prepared, India is prepared, scientists are prepared and the system is prepared by which after getting the solution for that, we can create a positive confidence. By taking the vaccine, there will be no problem. So, I feel that as early as possible, we will get the alternative solution for all these things and that will resolve the problem,” Gadkari said.Also read: Fourfold rise in daily coronavirus cases across IndiaMeanwhile, multiple government agencies are planning measures against China for its handling of the coronavirus pandemic, The Washington Post had reported on April 30, citing officials.According to data from US-based John Hopkin University, the global number of confirmed Covid-19 cases has neared 43 lakh, with the death toll exceeding 2.92 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/artificial-virus-not-natural-says-nitin-gadkari-on-origin-of-covid-19/story-v87wiGTrrBoKmOg7wYszXI.html
14-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the first part of the economic package India has been waiting for since late March, when a lockdown was enforced to combat the rapid spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. While some economic activity has resumed in the country, especially since May 3, the toll on the economy is high — securities firm Nomura expects that the Indian economy will shrink by 5.2% in the year to March 31, 2021 — necessitating a stimulus package. The Prime Minister announced a ~20 lakh-crore one on Tuesday, and a day later, the finance minister spelt out the fine print of some of the measures.More will follow. Some experts have pointed out that the package includes monetary measures which can’t really be called a stimulus, and that a credit guarantee doesn’t mean the outgo of the entire amount guaranteed but entails only the risk of a possible outgo of the portion guaranteed. Still, India does finally have a stimulus plan; in terms of magnitude, it compares favourably with what many of the G20 nations have announced (except Japan, which has announced a package amounting to almost a fifth of its economy); and directionally, this is one more step in India’s return to some sort of normal.And that — the return to normal, not the package — is the focus of this column.Since March 25, India has been locked down. Some areas were locked down harder than others but, at least till May 3, there was a lockdown across the country. All establishments and offices, except those related to important departments of the government or providing essential services, were closed. People worked from home (or pretended to). Markets remained closed, except for stores selling essential products. Many states instituted curfews; and most people stayed indoors.Since May 3, some offices in some states (and some parts of some states) have started functioning. Stores selling non-essential products have been allowed to open in some states. As have private offices (although they have been told they can operate with at most a third of their workforce).It is now becoming clear that starting May 17, the lockdown could be eased even further. Over the past week, the refrain in government circles has changed from “flattening the curve” to “learning to live with the virus”. This is understandable. It is important that India opens up — but safely. State governments are currently figuring out what the best way to open up would be. Many are said to be considering travel between districts, may be even across their borders, even as they plan to sharply define containment zones where infections are still raging, and continue to lock them down. This is a pragmatic approach — but it poses significant challenges.In the absence of a cure or a vaccine for the coronavirus disease, wearing masks, social distancing, regular hand washing, and avoiding social and religious gatherings is the surest way to stay safe. Yet, even the partial removal of lockdown restrictions has resulted in chaotic scenes in many parts of the country. Some states are already talking about tourism. Others are talking about religious gatherings and events.Scientists around the world agree that the removal of a lockdown will always mean a rise in the number of infections; administrators know this too, but believe that they can manage if the increase remains below a certain threshold.That’s where people come in.As states exit the lockdown, it will be difficult for their police departments to enforce basic health and distancing protocols. This has to be done voluntarily by people. If they do not wear masks (or wear them improperly), and if they do not follow social distancing norms, it could mean a return of a wave of infections. That is the risk India faces.And it is a problem that has only one solution — a responsible citizenry that recognises what is at stake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-90e1QsApjRfQ61IyYzqdeL.html
14-05-2020||India||With no regular patients in Bengal’s hospitals, piles of medicines likely to expire in June||Several medicines and drugs that were purchased and stored in state-run hospitals and rural health centres to treat regular patients are now lying unutilized and are nearing their expiry dates. The reason being because of the lockdown hardly any patients are turning up for treatment in hospitals.District hospitals have alerted the state health department that unless these drugs are utilized they could expire and this would lead to loss of government property.“Due to the lockdown for prevention of Covid-19 cases, general patient flow of different disciplines decreased remarkably. For this reason the outflow of the following medicines has decreased. At present the following medicines are lying in the store as slow moving items which may not be consumed within their potency period,” said a letter sent by the Asansol district hospital in West Burdwan.The list includes ampules, vials, tablets and tubes of various kinds of injections, drops and lotions needed to treat patients suffering from cardiac arrest, malaria, labour pain and peptic ulcers. There are also antibiotics, anesthesia and eye-drops. The stock of some drugs like dobutamine and dobramycin are supposed to expire in June 2020. In another letter, accessed by HT, the superintendent of the state-run Gangarampur subvisional hospital in South Dinajpur district has alerted this could lead to loss of government property.“Will be highly obliged if you take necessary action so that the medicines can be utilized to avoid loss of government property,” the letter sent on April 27 stated.Similarly, several medicines at the Habra state general hospital in North 24 Parganas are also nearing their expiry dates, a letter accessed by HT said. Chandrima Bhattacharya, minister of state for health in West Bengal, said: “I am not aware. Please contact the health department.” Senior officials of the department, however, remained tightlipped and said only the minister can comment.Meanwhile, with allegations surfacing that there is a shortage of PPE kits, masks and gloves as a result of which several doctors and other frontline medical staff have been infected with the virus, the state government has started procuring such items from the small and medium scale industries. A committee has also been formed to speed up the procurement.The state has ordered around 16.5 lakh PPEs out of which till May 12 it has received 7.4 lakh. Another 9 lakh is pending. Around 32.5 lakh masks (N95 and FFP2) have been ordered out of which only around 3.6 lakh have been received till date.“Usually it is the West Bengal Medical Services Corporation Limited which goes for bulk purchases of medicines and medical equipment. But because of the crisis a special committee has been formed to speed up the procurement process. A helpline has also been launched where frontline medical staff can place their demands,” said a senior official of the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-no-regular-patients-in-bengal-s-hospitals-piles-of-medicines-likely-to-expire-in-june/story-3lCU12slTfB6La4H7rQGDM.html
14-05-2020||India||Bihar reports 7th Covid-19 death; 2 nurses among 4 who test positive in Patna||Bihar on Wednesday reported its seventh death of a coronavirus patient, as migrant workers contributed to more than one-third of the total cases, with the virus spreading to cover the entire state late on Tuesday.Fifty-three people, including two nurses — one from the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, and another from the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), both in Patna — also tested positive, while a 56-year-old woman, suffering from cancer of gallbladder and infected by the virus, died at the NMCH on Wednesday. This was Bihar’s first female fatality to the Sars-CoV-2 virus, with co-morbid conditions, as the total number of cases swelled to 932.A resident of Ashiana-Digha More, the NMCH nurse had come in contact with two Covid-19 patients during the course of their treatment at the hospital, said NMCH medical nodal officer, Dr Ajay Kumar Sinha.Five health personnel at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna have already tested positive for the virus so far, the latest being a nurse on Wednesday. The nurse who stays on the hospital campus, used to reside with another nurse who had previously tested positive and had to terminate her pregnancy due to some gynaecological complications.The two nurses were among the four people to have tested positive in Patna. Nine other cases were reported from Nawada, seven from Bhojpur, six from Bhagalpur, four each from Siwan and Banka, three each from Begusarai, Rohtas, Khagaria and Muzaffarpur, two from Gopalganj and one each from Madhubani and Kaimur.Around 130 people reported positive on Tuesday in what was the biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases since March 22, when Bihar reported the first three cases of the fast spreading contagion.As of Tuesday, 343 Covid-19 cases were reported last week, according to government data shared through a tweet by its principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar.MIGRANTS LEAD SPIKE IN CASESThe government attributed the sharp increase in the number of cases to the return of migrants from other states.“Of the total Covid-19 cases, 332 are those who came to the state from within India during the lockdown period. Of them, 277 people came after May 3 (lockdown 3.0),” said Bihar’s health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh.Singh said of the 277, most had come from Delhi (78), followed by Gujarat (71), Maharashtra (57), and West Bengal (20) and Haryana (13). He also said the percentage of cases testing positive as against the samples tested, had gone up of late.“As of now, 2.32% of the total samples tested (39,149) have turned positive. This figure used hover between 1.7%-1.8% until recently, but has shown an increase since the migrant workers have begun returning home in an organised and structured manner. The increase in number of cases is the outcome of the random tests we have been conducting on them,” added Singh.Bihar’s concern may be far from over as over 4.27 lakh migrants are still expected to come by 267 additional Shramik Express trains.“Till May 11, we had received 1,37,401 migrant workers by 115 special trains for them. We are now planning to run 267 more trains, which are expected to ferry an additional 4,27,200 passengers. Together, we will receive 5,64,600 migrant workers. This is not the final figure on migrant workers expected to reach Bihar from outside the state,” said Anupam Kumar, secretary information and public relations department (IPRD).Over 85,500 migrants are expected to return to Bihar between Wednesday and Thursday.“We transported 34,629 passengers by 25 trains today and expect another 50,910 passengers by 34 trains tomorrow,” said Kumar.He also clarified that the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state was not due to increased testing of samples, but because of the home-coming of migrant workers.QUARANTINE PARAMETERSAround 1.89 lakh people, mostly migrants, were staying for 21 days in 4,163 block quarantine centres, set up to curb the large-scale spread of the virus if they were to directly return to their respective villages.Spelling out the different parameters set by the government for quarantining people coming from outside the state, he said students coming from outside the state, including Kota, had been allowed home quarantine, as many of them were minors and girls.“Those returning from abroad will have to stay at institutional quarantine centres on payment basis. The government has already identified hotels in Gaya and Bodh Gaya, where international passengers coming to the state will be quarantined,” added Kumar.Normal train passengers would not be quarantined as they were coming under relaxation measures after proper screening at the station of origin, he added. The government re-started limited train operations from Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-reports-7th-covid-19-death-2-nurses-among-4-who-test-positive-in-patna/story-pes9NryPXigVL5TeT1CoeI.html
14-05-2020||India||Faulty Chinese kits part of ICMR list, may be removed||Rapid testing kits by two Chinese companies that were found faulty last month were included in a revised list of kits approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday but the apex research body said it was looking at dropping the two firms.The Covid-19 IgM/IgG antibody rapid test kit from Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics (CEIVD) and SARS-CoV-2 antibody test (Lateral flow method) from Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech were found to be showing unusually high variations in their results in various states. The apex research body had prohibited their use.The ICMR said all 15 kits validated by the National Institute of Virology in Pune were included.“We are looking at getting the names of the two companies dropped from the list to avoid any confusion. However, the sensitivity and specificity of a test kit varies from batch to batch which is why lot testing is done for quality assurance. As we have said these kits are not meant for diagnostic purposes and can show variation in the field settings,” said Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, spokesperson, ICMR. The body also put a disclaimer in the document, saying “These rapid antibody test kits have been validated in the laboratory. However, the performance of the kits may be subject to variation under field conditions. Above listed kits are validated with the mentioned batch number only. Responsibility for batch to batch consistency lies with the manufacturer.”Four days after procuring and distributing kits from these two companies to states on April 21, ICMR had asked states to not use them after unusually high variations (between 6 and 71%) were seen in field settings. After a week-long investigation, on April 27, ICMR had prohibited their use. The import license of these two companies was also cancelled by the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation soon after.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faulty-chinese-kits-part-of-icmr-list-may-be-removed/story-pobkoQQCzqxMAzB3YbRrFM.html
14-05-2020||India||Four-fold rise in daily coronavirus cases across India||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases reported in a day has seen a nearly four-fold rise over the past one month, with 990 cases reporting positive on April 15 as opposed to 3,525 cases reported on May 13, according to data collated by the Association of Healthcare Providers of India (AHPI), and released on Wednesday. Hindustan Times’s own dashboard, showed 12,330 new cases on April 15 and 78,015 on May 13.However, the case positivity rate has been hovering between 3-4%, with upper limit so far being 6.21%, and the case recovery rate has also seen a steady rise in India and currently stands at 32.8%, the body said. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said while reviewing one of the states for Covid preparedness on Wednesday that while the doubling time for the number if infections reduced to 11 days over the past two weeks, it has improved to 12.6 days over the past three days, an indication that the spread may be slowing. As on Tuesday, there are 2.75% active Covid-19 patients in intensive care units (ICUs), 0.37% on ventilators, and 1.89% on oxygen support, according to the Union health ministry data. There are nine States and union territories that have not reported any cases of Covid-19 in last 24 hrs: Andaman Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Goa, Chhattisgarh, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram. Daman and Diu, Sikkim, Nagaland and Lakshadweep have not reported any case to date.The sample testing capacity has also been strengthened, and on Tuesday India tested 94708 samples for Covid-19 in a single day in 352 of its government laboratories and 140 approved private laboratories, according to health ministry.Currently, India can test one lakh samples a day, and a total of 18,56,477 tests have been done so far since the country first started testing samples for Covid-19 on January 24 in the Indian Council of Medical Research’s apex virology laboratory in National Institute of Virology in Pune. That translates into around 1430 tests per million of population. “India has done well in managing the disease so far, and in future also if required we have requisite infrastructure in place to deal with the rush of patients,” said Harsh Vardhan.As on Wednesday, India has about 900 dedicated Covid hospital operational with 1,79,882 beds (Isolation beds- 1,60,610 and ICU beds- 19,272), and 2,040 dedicated Covid health centres with 1,29,689 beds (Isolation beds- 1,19,340 and ICU beds- 10,349), along with 8,708 quarantine centres, and 5,577 Covid care centres with 4,93,101 beds, according to the health ministry data. The Centre has also provided 7.8 million N95 masks and 4.2 million personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to the States and union territories, and central government hospitals.“From only importing PPE kits to manufacturing close to 3 lakh PPE kits domestically in a day, India has come a long way in just a little over a month. We are prepared in every which way,” Harsh Vardhan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourfold-rise-in-daily-cases-across-country/story-6yBVjvMvt8kNEmDioOblhP.html
14-05-2020||India||Web courses on India’s traditions in the works||New Delhi: The Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) plans to launch an online platform for short but specialised courses on traditional Indian knowledge as people are confined to their homes because of the Covid-19 pandemic globally. The external cultural relations wing hopes the Universalisation of Traditional Indian Knowledge Systems (UTIKS) Platform will serve as a bridge between Indian culture and the global population.The courses will include subjects like Ramayana and Mahabharata epics, traditional Indian dances, Panchtantra tales, arts like making sky lanterns, freedom struggle, Indian wildlife, temple architecture, folk arts, yoga.“Through the UTIKS Platform, for the first time, a structured attempt is being made to generate academic interest in various nuances of Indian culture and later an opportunity to enhance its understanding is being offered. India’s soft power is all about creating a sound understanding about our culture and this new initiative would go a long way in achieving this,” ICCR chairperson Vinay Sahasrabuddhe said.Sahasrabuddhe, a Bharatiya Janata Party member of Rajya Sabha, said not just foreigners but even those in India, who are ignorant about culture and diverse manifestations of the country’s unity, will be helped in enhancing their understanding.An ICCR official said many were taking up short-duration courses offered by platforms like Coursera and edX especially with normal lives have been disrupted because of the pandemic. It was felt that student-friendly courses related to traditional Indian knowledge system can serve as a strong bridge between India and those who want to study its culture, the official added. The official said the UTIKS platform will evoke greater curiosity in the minds of those, who know precious little about the Indian culture. It will also be for those introduced to the culture who want to know more. “It would help India as an easy to understand civilisation and culture, doing away with the enigma that surrounds the idea of India in a more learner-friendly manner,” said the official.The ICCR has some content for the courses. It also plans to tie up with specialised bodies like the National Gallery of Modern Art and the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts to create high-quality courses.A list of proposed courses, accessed by HT, ranges from those on Indian traditional celebration practices like rangoli, mehndi, sky lanterns, cookery, tea and coffee varieties, kahwa, masala tea, pickles, snacks, deserts, traditional games, Indian epics, dances, constitution, social justice traditions, gender, sustainability philosophy, rural governance, temple architecture and traditional embroideries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/web-course-on-india-s-traditions-in-the-works/story-nJMyPsH7QjDJAnxfmHIZ6H.html
14-05-2020||India||Why Maharashtra was not able to check rapid Covid-19 spread||On April 7, exactly four weeks after the first Covid-19 case was detected in Maharashtra on March 9, the count crossed 1000 to 1018. That day, the death toll in the state was 64 (India’s overall toll was 160 that day), and the mortality rate stood at 6.29% (more than double of India’s mortality rate of 3.02 on the same day).Thirty days later – on May 7 – the state had 17,974 cases and 694 deaths. In the next six days, India’s worst-affected state added nearly 8,000 cases to take the total to 25,922 and 975 deaths on Wednesday. Simultaneously, Maharashtra has recorded 5,547 recoveries. The states with the next highest number of cases and deaths are Tamil Nadu (9227 cases, 64 deaths) and Gujarat (8904 cases, 537 deaths). Delhi is fourth with 7998 cases and 106 deaths.As of Wednesday, May 13, Maharashtra’s mortality rate stood at 3.76%, a significant improvement from the first few days of April, but still above the national average of 3.23%. If Maharashtra is excluded from the national data, India would have 49,912 cases and 1477 deaths on May 13, bringing the mortality rate further down to 2.96%. The global mortality rate, according to data on worldometers.info, is 6.72% (6 pm, May 13). On Wednesday, Mumbai’s numbers stood at 15,747 cases and 596 deaths, giving a mortality rate of 3.78%.Also Watch | Covid spurt in Mumbai: Official admits ‘some evidence’ of community spread What exactly went wrong in Maharashtra’s case? Why does one of India’s most industrialised and prosperous states have both the most number of Covid-19 cases as well as deaths? The answer perhaps lies in what the state did not do in January and February right up to March 9, when the first two Covid-19 cases were detected in Maharashtra. In an interview with HT on April 8, Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra, laid the blame on travellers returning from the United Arab Emirates for the initial spurt in cases. “In Maharashtra, more than 40% of the infections were owing to travellers who returned from the UAE,” he said. “Even though Maharashtra’s first case was of a Dubai returnee, the state government waited for 10 days to start screening travellers from the UAE. This was a major loophole in the screening process.”Indian airports began universal screening only in the third week of March. By then, on average, 42,000 international travellers landed in Mumbai every day. On March 22, India banned all domestic and international passenger flights to and from Indian airports. “By then, it was too late,” said a Maharashtra state health department official, who wished to remain anonymous. “We had thousands of fliers coming into Mumbai every single day and only a handful of them were screened for symptoms. What we cannot know for certain is the number of asymptomatic patients from the United States, the United Kingdom, Singapore and other south-east Asian countries that may have passed through Mumbai international airport between February and March 22.”Dr Bharat Purandare, infectious diseases expert, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, Pune, said in an earlier interview to HT, “In retrospect, we can say that the government should have made universal screening of all passengers mandatory much earlier. Also, we should have stopped international flights in the first week of March.”A month after the first case was detected, Maharashtra was testing at 290 per million population. Since then, the state has improved its testing rate on May 13 to 1892 per million population. Gujarat tests at 1760 per million and Tamil Nadu is at 3523 per million (all data according to respective state health departments). The trouble with Mumbai, which now accounts for a fifth of all cases in the country, though, is that its detection rate over the last few days has risen to 33%. Which means that, for every 100 persons tested, 33 are detected with Covid-19.Civic officials said that this was due to the change in testing protocol targeted at containment zones. Additional municipal commissioner, Suresh Kakani, told HT on May 12, “Detection rate is increasing because of the increased number of testing samples per day. Often, pending test results were added to a particular day’s count. Hence it did not give us clarity. If we calculated the detection rate against 124,000 samples tested with 14,521 positive cases, then the detection rate remains 11.71%. This figure is higher than the state and national average because of targeted testing conducted by BMC in containment zones.” The national average is 4.3% and Maharashtra’s average is 7%.Civic officials said Mumbai’s high number is primarily because of aggressive testing of high-risk contacts. Moreover, state and BMC health officials blamed the lack of physical distancing in Mumbai’s most densely populated areas for the cluster spread. “Eight out of Mumbai’s 24 wards account for more than 50% of the city’s cases,” a senior civic official told HT on Wednesday. “These are among the most densely populated areas. Worli Koliwada, Dharavi, Kurla, Byculla, Saki Naka, and Andheri (West) are areas where the population density is anywhere between twice to 10 times that of Mumbai’s average.” According to United Nations population data for July 2019, Mumbai’s population density is 32,303 per square km. Dharavi, India’s largest slum, has nearly 1000 cases. Its population density is 354,166 people per square km, according to BMC population data.(With inputs from Kushel Madhusoodanan, Rupsa Chakraborty and Eeshanpriya M S)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-the-state-was-not-able-to-check-rapid-covid-spread/story-RakrhoQUlNLLg1pc2jMe1N.html
14-05-2020||India||Maha tally 25k, Mumbai at 15k||Mumbai: Maharashtra breached the 25,000 mark for Covid-19 cases with the highest single-day jump of 1,495 infections on Wednesday. The state also recorded its highest number of deaths in a 24-hour period with 54 fatalities that took the toll to 975.Mumbai also breached the 15,000 Covid-19 case mark with 800 new patients that pushed the city’s tally to 15,747. The state now has 25,922 cases, making it the state worst hit by the disease in the country.Of the deaths recorded on Wednesday, 40 were in Mumbai, six in Pune, two each in Jalgaon, Solapur and Aurangabad, and one each Vasai-Virar and Ratnagiri. The health department added that it has not added Mumbai’s 220 patients from May 7 in the total tally earlier, due to the absence of reconciliation on the portal of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Out of the total Covid-19 cases in the state, over 50% of the cases were reported in this month alone. Since May 1, Maharashtra has clocked 13,820 Covid-19 cases, which accounts for 53.31% of the total cases.Maharashtra’s mortality rate stood at 3.76%, but still above the national average of 3.23%.With the numbers soaring in Aurangabad city, state health minister Rajesh Tope and district’s guardian minister Subhash Desai took stock of city’s preparedness on Wednesday. The city has 586 cases and 18 deaths. Malegaon, in Nashik district, is another hotspot in the state where cases have seen a surge. Tope visited Malegaon on Wednesday to take stock of the situation.The current doubling rate -- the number of days in which positive cases double – in Maharashtra is 11.1days while that for India is 12.5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-tally-25k-mumbai-at-15k/story-XD94ya32ZBdUHGf07tkdtM.html
14-05-2020||India||CAPF canteens to go ‘Indian’ from June||New Delhi Canteens of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) will sell only indigenous products beginning June 1, Union home minister Amit Shah announced on Wednesday, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for popularising local commodities (be vocal about local, he exhorted) in order to make India a self-reliant country in the face of the challenges posed by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).CAPF comprises seven central paramilitary forces, namely the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Border Security Force (BSF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), National Security Guards (NSG) and the Assam Rifles.Shah appealed to people to make the maximum use of “swadeshi (locally made)” products and encourage others to do the same. “Moving in this direction, the home ministry has decided that all canteens of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) will sell only indigenous products from June 1. With this, a million CAPF staffers and five million family members will use local commodities,” he tweeted.In another tweet, Shah underscored that PM Modi’s appeal to make the country self-reliant and use local products will lay the foundation for India becoming a world leader.Shah also said the combined sales of all CAPF canteens is worth ₹2,800 crore annually. There are over 119 CAPF master canteens and 1,625 subsidiary canteens across the country — from border areas to places hit by Maoist violence. “If every Indian pledges to use products made in India, the country can become self-sufficient in five years,” Shah said.CAPF canteens were set up in 2006, after demands by central paramilitary personnel who cited that the army already has such canteens.CAPF canteens are already selling local products to a large extent, following an October 2019 home ministry order that asked them to shun foreign brands and introduce “swadeshi” goods, including food items, accoutrements for combat and regular duty uniform, bed sheets, towels, household goods, clothing and stationery, and other items. A large number of items is procured from Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC).ITBP director general SS Deswal, who is also holding an additional charge as the BSF chief, said: “Most of the items we use in our daily life are made in India and are procured from Indian companies. These include uniforms, food, clothes and even weapons. In fact, during the Covid-19 pandemic, all masks, sanitizer and equipment used for sanitization (by ITBP and BSF) are manufactured by Indian companies. The canteens will be replenished with only local products from June 1.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capf-canteens-to-go-indian-from-june/story-pQBV2z7zb1efRBdIKznyPJ.html
14-05-2020||India||Govt to begin antibody tests in 21 states to check virus prevalence||new cases rising over the past few weeks, India has scaled up its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing capacity to one lakh samples a day, nearly two weeks ahead of the Union health ministry’s initial target of reaching that number towards the end of May.“…the testing capacity has increased in the country and it is 1, 00,000 tests per day with 347 government laboratories and 137 private laboratories. Cumulatively, 17, 62,840 tests have been done so far for Covid-19. Whereas, 86,191 samples were tested yesterday,” said health minister, Harsh Vardhan, in a statement on Tuesday.The cases doubling time in the past 14 days has been 10.9. Over only the past three days, however, this has improved to 12.2 days. Also, the disease fatality rate is 3.2%, and recovery rate stands at 31.74%, which is better than those in many other affected countries. As of Monday, there have been 2.37% active Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in the intensive care (ICU), 0.41% patients are critical, and on ventilators, and 1.82% are on oxygen support.“In view of the surge of returning migrant labourers, States/UTs need to focus on more effective surveillance, contact tracing, adequate testing and timely treatment of all the returnees. This also includes the ones that shall be returning from abroad,” Harsh Vardhan said.The states have been directed to ramp up the surveillance for Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI) / Influenza Like Illness (ILI) in the affected and non-affected districts, and take the help of government medical colleges if required.“Such measures will help to indicate the presence of any possible hidden infection at an early stage, thus helping in its timely containment,” he said.The ministry, along with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is also conducting a community based sero-survey to estimate the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, infection within the Indian households in 69 districts of 21 states, covering at least 24,000 adults. “The survey is coordinated by ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) and National Institute of Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT), Chennai. This household level cross-sectional survey will cover 24,000 adults distributed equally across four strata of districts categorized on the basis of reported cases of Covid-19,” said ICMR in a statement.The survey will involve collection of venous blood samples from 400 randomly selected individuals (one per household) from 10 clusters in each district. Samples from each of these individuals will be tested for presence of IgG antibodies using ELISA test developed by ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, and is being manufactured by Zydus Cadilla.The results of the survey will provide information about the spread of SARS-CoV-2 infection in different parts of the country.Besides this community-based survey, health ministry is also initiating hospital-based surveillance to monitor the trend of infection in all districts.“It is a part of initiating systemic surveillance to know the extent of disease spread, to determine the future course of action in order to curtail the virus spread. This is the most effective way,” said Giridhara R Babu, Professor and Head Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-begin-antibody-tests-in-21-states-to-check-virus-prevalence/story-UjfXd3f5kB09J5vKZ0IKwM.html
14-05-2020||India||India to recruit 1,500 patients for WHO’s solidarity trial||India will be recruiting at least 1500  patients in about 30 hospitals across the country for the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) global solidarity trial for treatment of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is coordinating trials on behalf of the country has already begun fast-tracking the process of recruiting patients for the multi-country trial to compare four treatment options to assess their relative effectiveness against Covid-19.The trials include four potential anti-viral drugs, remdesivir, chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir-ritonavir and lopinavir-ritonavir with interferon (β1a). By enrolling patients in multiple countries, the trial aims to rapidly discover whether any of the drugs slow disease progression or improve survival.“Right now, we are really following the numbers, so the trial sites will be in areas from where most cases are being reported. Nine of the sites have already been approved and four more sites are very close to being approved. Though 1500 patient is the initial number, there is no cap and we can always recruit more patients for the trial, if required,” said Dr Sheela Godbole, head, division of epidemiology, ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute (NARI), which is the nodal centre for coordinating the trials in India.“Fast-tracking means trying to add as many sites as possible in a short span of time, and at the same time complying will all the local ethical and other regulations meant for such researches. The ethics committees are minutely looking at each application and approvals are being given after due diligence. Just because we are fast-tracking the process does not mean we will be compromising on quality,” she added.On March 28, ICMR announced that India will be participating in the WHO Solidarity trial, for which over 100 countries have requested participation to find effective therapeutics as soon as possible, via the trial. “The participation of multiple clinical trial units or hospitals in multiple countries will ensure adequate enrolment of participants in the shortest possible time. This will help fast-track identification of correct treatment options for the Covid-19 disease,” said ICMR in a statement. However, patients who give their consent to participate in the trial will not get to choose which arm of the trial they become a part of. It will be a randomized allocation of medicines for patients. All drugs to be tried in the trials, except for remdesivir, have already been in use in India for various other health conditions.“It is meant to see how the medicines behave in early stages of disease and what is the effect as the disease progresses,” said Dr Godlbole.“The results will be based on global enrollment, meaning the data from patients recruited from all countries will be analysed to reach a conclusion. It won’t be based on only what the results were among Indian patients. It will take some time,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-recruit-1-500-patients-for-who-s-solidarity-trial/story-vNomMlnezRmmCB86oXR7pI.html
14-05-2020||India||₹3k-crore from PM-Cares fund to be spent on migrants and ventilators||The PM CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations) fund announced its first ever allotment on Wednesday -- Rs 3100 crore to be spent on meeting the demand for ventilators, welfare of migrant workers, and supporting the ambitious programme to develop a vaccine against Covid-19 virus. In a statement, the government said: “Rs.2000 crore will be earmarked for the purchase of ventilators, Rs. 1000 crores will be used for care of migrant labourers and Rs.100 crores will be given to support vaccine development.”The first allotment comes just six weeks after the fund was formed on March 27. The fund, set up as a trust, is headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi . Other ex-officio members of the trust are Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, home Minister Amit Shah and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.The Prime Minister—Chairperson of the Board of Trustees—shall have the power to nominate three trustees to the Board who are “eminent persons in the field of research, health, science, social work, law, public administration and philanthropy” a government statement released at the time of the fund’s creation said. The first allotment of Rs 3100 crore comes hours after the finance minister announced the details of the first tranche of the Centre’s relief package. With tens and thousands of migrants fleeing back to their states of domicile, Rs 1000 crore will be given to states ; this will be at the disposal of the District Collectors/Municipal Commissioners. They fund will be used to support the states in “providing accommodation facilities, making food arrangements, providing medical treatment and making transportation arrangements of the migrants,” the statement added. The money will be divided between the states on the basis of their population and number of Covid-19 cases. “State/UT-wise funds will be released on the weightage of (a) Population of the State/UT as per 2011 Census – 50%, weightage (b) Number of positive COVID-19 cases as on date – 40% weightage and (c) Equal share (10% weightage) for all states/UTs to ensure basic minimum sum for all states,” the statement said. With India being able to produce sufficient number of PPE (personal protective equipment) kits for frontline healthcare workers, the PM CARES fund has allotted the lion’s share of the first allotment to the other key component—ventilators. The fund will be used to purchase 50,000 ‘Made-in-India’ ventilators to augment the infrastructure for tackling the Covid pandemic. These ventilators will be provided to government-run COVID hospitals in all States/UTs. While a large part of the fund will be used for immediate requirements, the government is also keen on developing an indigenous vaccine. Pointing out that a vaccine against COVID-19 is the “most pressing need” and that Indian academia, start-ups and industry have come together to wok on cutting-edge vaccine design and development, PM CARES fund plans to spend Rs 100 crore ton this initiative. The PM’s Principal Scientific Advisor will supervise the utilization of this fund. The PM Cares fund has attracted contributions from large companies, and also high-profile personalities from all walks of life. The creation of the fund has generated some controversy with several opposition parties wondering about why the PM’s National Relief Fund wasn’t being used for this. Some chief ministers have raised objections about contributions by companies to the PM Cares fund being eligible for spends under Corporate Social Responsibility activities, but those to the chief ministers’ funds not being eligible. The government has said that the fund will be audited by independent auditors, and not the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. The current corpus of the fund isn’t known.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3k-crore-from-pm-cares-fund-to-be-spent-on-migrants-and-ventilators/story-a8Ay5vLm4LZfnleL7cMGHP.html
14-05-2020||India||States tread carefully, likely to redefine zones after May 17||State governments on Wednesday started working on their strategy for the fourth phase of the lockdown, which is expected to largely affect only the containment zones, which range from a building to a locality, and which is also expected to see the resumption of almost all activities, except large social gatherings and the reopening of educational institutions. Officials in several states said guidelines defining containment zones would come by Saturday. They said a district may have red, orange and green areas, unlike the existing definition where an entire district is defined as red, orange or green, depending on number of Covid cases. HT learns that states may be allowed to take a call on this classification ; currently the zoning is done by the union health ministry. The officials, who asked not to be identified said their states would likely allow all industrial activities, offices, and stand-alone stores to function from May 18 onwards. Public transport will also resume, they said. And people will be allowed to travel freely between districts, except in containment zones, and to other states with travel passes. And home delivery of all goods, not just essentials, would be allowed, the officials added. HT spoke to 18 officials across 15 states. All the officials said educational institutions would continue to remain closed. Most schools in the north close around the middle of May in any case; and those in the south that usually reopen in June may take a call on whether or not to do so closer to the end of the month, they added. Religious and political meetings are unlikely to be allowed for some more time. Malls and other public places will also remain out of bounds for people. Marriages and funerals will be allowed with limited attendees, the officials said.Some states may have state specific relaxations. For instance, the Karnataka government wants interstate travel with a 14-day quarantine. The Rajasthan government has allowed inter-district travel and wants interstate travel, as does the Chhattisgarh government. Kerala wants restricted interstate travel . Bihar and Jharkhand are against any interstate movement and have asked the Centre to provide guidance on the issue. Telangana, which has extended the lockdown till May 29, is likely to announce more relaxations in sectors such as information technology and real estate. Kerala wants the resumption of metro services, local trains, domestic flights, restaurants and hotels to revive the tourism sector. Karnataka may open restaurants, hotels, gymnasiums.and golf courses after May 17. Andhra Pradesh has proposed resumption of all activities except in containment areas. Both Himachal and Uttarakhand will allow hotels and resorts to open with limit capacity.In effect, a weekly atlas of what’s open and what’s not, and in which state, may be needed. Gujarat, which has second highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country, wants to resume all economic activity in major urban centres except Ahmedabad, which accounts for 70% of the state’s cases. Rajkot will fully open from Thursday and Surat from Monday, officials said. Similarly, Tamil Nadu, another highly industrialised state and with the third highest number of cases in the country, plans to open all places except containment areas.Maharashtra, which has the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the country and 1,289 containment areas, has opted for a minimalistic approach.State officials said it does not want metro services to resume, nor will it allow inter-district travel. It will also not allow offices to open fully although more industries will be allowed to function in orange and green zones.In cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Thane and Nashik, all hotspots, the officials said, lockdown 3.0 conditions are likely to continue. “Newer hotspots like Aurangabad and Jalgaon have been added to the list of cities such as Mumbai and Pune. In such a scenario, the lifting of the lockdown for at least two more weeks is not possible,” said a senior government officer.The eastern states of Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha want to continue with stricter lockdown because they are seeing a rise in cases with the return of migrant workers. “We will have no exemptions in the fourth phase as Covid cases are increase. In fact, we are looking at stricter lockdown,” a Bihar government official said. State governments have formed committee of officials to chalk out specific guidelines for the next phase of the lockdown, which would be much more state specific than all the earlier versions of the lockdown. Andhra Pradesh has formed as many as six committees to work out strategies, said K S Jawahar Reddy, state special chief secretary (medical and health). The Kerala government constituted a task force headed by former chief secretary K M Abraham, which is expected to submit report by Thursday. Rajasthan government’s expert panel on the exit strategy will submit report on Friday. The Gujarat government has formed a committee of medical experts to suggest control spread of Covid once the lockdown measures are relaxed. Several states such as Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan have sought people’s suggestions for exiting the lockdown and activities to be allowed after May 18. Maharashtra has sought inputs from district collectors by Thursday. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has already held consultation with all legislators on lockdown 4. In Madhya Pradesh, all district collectors and MLAs have been asked to collect the responses and submit them to the state government by Thursday. Officials said most suggestions that have come in so far pertain to the home delivery of ration and money to the poor, opening of all grain markets fully and allowing more work under MGNREGA. MP home and health minister, Narottam Mishra said, “Lockdown restrictions will continue to be implemented strictly and relaxationwill be as per the prime minister Narendra Modi’s direction.”In Uttar Pradesh, a senior government official said, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has sought suggestions on restarting economic activity, measures to attract investment and ensuring jobs to migrant labourers. (With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-tread-carefully-likely-to-redefine-zones-after-may-17/story-jHYYhx7zgHevbBowy0DMHP.html
14-05-2020||India||Idea of a resilient India is driving the policy package that is being laid out: Jayant Sinha||Former union minister and chairman of the parliamentary standing committee on finance, Jayant Sinha said in an interview that the priority of the Narendra Modi government is to strengthen India and to make it resilient.The economic package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the measures announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman are aimed at making India a competitive nation that will also be an attractive investment destination, he added. Edited excerpts Small enterprises which employ around 110 million people had a long list of demands. With the six measures that have been announced for them today, has the government addressed those concerns?The Prime Minister has been very clear that the idea of a resilient India is driving the policy package that is being laid out . As the finance minister explained carefully today, there already have been several tranches, which have dealt with a number of most urgent issues that had to be addressed. We have provided food, gas cylinders, cash support for the most vulnerable sections of society. Now, what we also had to do is to address the requirements of the MSME sector and many representations were received from MSMEs, laying out all the challenges that they were facing both in terms very low demand for their services and products as well as all of the cash pressures that they are facing right now.What the finance minister has done today has squarely addressed all of the urgent concerns raised by the MSME sector. Will going local be a priority for the government?The priority for the government is to strengthen India and to make it resilient. We want to first make India a very competitive nation so that our local companies, products and services are purchased by the domestic consumers as well as enthusiastically by consumers around the world. One aspect of being resilient is that our local companies are as competitive as possible. The other part of becoming competitive is to be able to attract global companies to invest in India and to build products and services here. So global and local are two sides of the same coin. Our local companies must become stronger and more global and Indian must become more attractive and a better platform for global companies; and doing so is going to make India more resilient and more self reliant.A lot of people equate going local with protectionism, which in turn is limiting. There has also been some criticism of efforts by some states to amend labour laws. The Prime Minister was very clear on Tuesday and said that India must contribute to global growth, provide support and be very much a part of the global supply chains. He was crystal clear in that regard and that is why I said we have to strengthen our local companies and be an attractive investment destination for global companies.To that end there many aspects of production that we have to address; labour being one of them. The Prime Minister also said that we have to address all factors of production, whether it is land, labour, liquidity as well as laws so that we are globally competitive for both local companies as well as global who want to be stay production units in India. The Congress says there is nothing for the poor, hungry, workers walking home? That there are no cash transfers.  We are running many Shramik specials (trains) and many state government have also made arrangements for buses so that people who want to move from the cities back to the rural areas can do so. All provisions are being made for people to travel; and then in the rural areas tremendous amount to support has been provided. About 800 million families have got double the ration, 80 million people have got gas cylinders, we have provided 30 million senior citizens, widows and disabled people with a thousand rupees in their accounts; some 200 million women Jan Dhan account holders have got Rs.500 per month. Then additionally we will support MSMEs, ensure that informal workers in the city are able to continue working and get their salaries. So their need to go back to their homes will be reduced because their employers are going to be supported by the MSME package.There is also a demand that the union government should borrow more and spend more; and allow states to do so too.That is already what we are doing; the government has announced that instead of Rs 7.8 lakh crore borrowing they are going to do Rs 12 lakh crore borrowing. For MSMES we are saying that they will be able to automatically borrow more money that will be hundred percent guaranteed by the government, similarly NBFCs are going to be able to borrow more. The states have got relief through the ways and means account so they can also borrow more. At every step along the way we are providing financial support to every section of society, to all the different governments and many more announcements are to come. Former finance minister P Chidambaram said the PM’s announcement was intended to grab headlines, but that the page is however, blank.The page is being filled out day by day with very substantial details. Today’s announcements will continue and there is a very comprehensive detailed document that is being prepared which will be circulated with all the necessary details about Atmanirbhar Bharat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/idea-of-a-resilient-india-is-driving-the-policy-package-that-is-being-laid-out-jayant-sinha/story-tK5N1cJNGvXxxFxkLmDKHL.html
14-05-2020||India||NO2 over China, US, Europe dips||Nitrogen dioxide (NO2) pollution over northern China, Western Europe and the US decreased by 60% in early 2020 till April as compared to the same period last year, according to two papers published in the American Geophysical Union’s (AGU) journal.“The reductions in India are almost similar to what the AGU papers are suggesting. Our analysis will take some time to be released because we are also trying to simulate lockdown conditions to understand exactly ceasing of which economic activity led to how much reduction. We are also focusing on industrial areas and areas where thermal power plants are located,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor at the Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, IIT Delhi, whose team, like AGU scientists, is tracking satellite data from Tropospheric Monitoring Instrument (TROPOMI).A Central Pollution Control Board official said they had seen similar reduction in NO2 concentrations from March 25 to April 15, and assessments till May are being made. Reduction in NO2 is important for India because NO2 emissions lead to secondary particulate matter formation.In northern China, average NO2 concentrations reduced by 60% and particulate matter (PM) pollution reduced by 35% since January 23 during lockdown, which is the most significant drop in emissions since air quality monitoring from satellites began in the 1990s. The AGU papers indicate that curbs on traffic and industrial pollution can significantly improve air quality.But one of the papers found that the average surface ozone (O3) concentration over China increased by a factor of 1.5-2 during lockdown, which may be as a result of NO2 levels dropping. In highly polluted areas, O3 can be destroyed by NO2, which brings ozone levels down, the study said. “Without analyzing supporting data, it is difficult to comment on the exact reason. One hypothesis is that more sunlight is available to accelerate ozone cycle reactions during lockdown due to a large reduction in particulate matter,” said Dey.O3 is a highly reactive gas that can cause respiratory and heart disease even at relatively lower concentrations. It is a secondary pollutant formed when sunlight and high temperature catalyse chemical reactions in the lower atmosphere.NO2 pollution reduced by an average of 40% over Chinese cities and by 20%- 38% over Western Europe and the US during the 2020 lockdown, as compared to the same time in 2019. The main source of NO2 emissions is fuel combustion by vehicles and industries. But NO2 pollution did not decrease over Iran, one of the hardest-hit countries. The authors suspect this is because complete lockdowns weren’t in place until late March and before that restrictions may have been ignored.The lockdown can give scientists and policymakers clues on emissions regulations in future, the authors said. “Maybe this unintended experiment could be used to understand better the emission regulations. It is some positive news among a very tragic situation,” Jenny Stavrakou, an atmospheric scientist at the Royal Belgian Institute for Space Aeronomy in Brussels and co-author of one of the papers, said in a statement in Science Daily on May 11.Model studies will be needed to separate the effects of the enforced lockdown from other contributing factors like meteorology. The authors also recommended further studies to evaluate the effect of temporary lockdowns on climate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no2-over-china-us-europe-dips/story-jfwaT9oTHJ0iYamwpvGlHL.html
14-05-2020||India||Covid poses risk to healthy Indian lives: WHO report||Indians lose a decade of healthy life to non-communicable diseases like diabetes, cancers, and heart and lung diseases, and the threat to a healthy life will be compounded by of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, said the World Health Organization (WHO)’s annual report card of the global health status released on Wednesday. The average life expectancy in India is 68.8 years, with women living close to three years longer than men. Life expectancy is 70.3 years for women in India, and 67.4 years for men, said the 2020 World Health Statistics report.The healthy life expectancy in India is 59.3 years, and lags far behind developed nations. It’s similar for women and men, with women living 59.9 years compared to 58.7 years for men. The healthy life expectancy is the highest in Japan, with people living 74.2 years of disease free life. It’s also high in France, Italy, Norway, South Korea and Australia, where people live a healthy between 73 years and 73.5 years.The biggest gains in life expectancy and healthy life expectancy were among low-income countries, where life expectancy rose by 11 years between 2000 and 2016 because of improved access to services to prevent and treat infections such as HIV, malaria and tuberculosis, said the WHO report.The deaths and economic disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic are threatening to derail the health gains and the progress made towards achieving global development goals, the report said.“The good news is that people around the world are living longer and healthier lives. The bad news is the rate of progress is too slow to meet the Sustainable Development Goals and will be further thrown off track by Covid-19,” said Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director-general, WHO.The adolescent birth rate (births per 1,000 women aged 15-19 years) in India was still high at 10.7, with around 72% women in the reproductive age having access to modern methods of contraception.“It is disappointing to see India among the bottom of all countries in context of healthy life expectancy, which is now primarily driven by non-communciable diseases (NCDs), such as diabetes, cancers, heart and lung disease, and stroke. The Covid-19 pandemic will bring this down further as our recent research shows that poor control of diabetes and its many complications will rise in the future,” said Dr Anoop Mishra, chairman of Fortis Centre for Diabetes, Obesity and Cholesterol, New Delhi.The report said there is an overall shortage of services within and outside the health system to prevent and treat NCDs. In 2016, 70% all deaths worldwide were attributable to NCDs, with 85% of them occurring in low and middle-income countries. Two in three deaths in India are from NCDs.“One of the key lessons from the Covid-19 pandemic is that we must invest in data and health information systems, as part of our overall public health capacity, before a crisis strikes. To emerge from this crisis stronger, we must be able to monitor progress with real-time, reliable and actionable data,” said Dr Ghebreyesus.Strengthening country capacity for data and information requires collaboration across governmental and non-governmental institutions, including ministries of health and finance, national statistics offices, offices of the registrar general, local and regional government, and academia.“We need health systems that have equally good outreach in rural and urban areas, and that’s still work in progress in India. It takes several years for the data to become reliable as there is lacunae in data collection for the first five to seven years before systems become stable enough. Unless data collection is stable, the numbers are not reliable, particularly with emerging infections like Covid-19,” said Dr V Ramana Dhara, professor at Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad.The WHO report said between one-third and half the world’s population was able to obtain essential health services in 2017, with 40% of all countries reporting less than 10 doctors per 10,000 people. Over 55% of countries have fewer than 40 nursing and midwifery personnel per 10,000 people, said the report. According to the health ministry, India has a doctor-population ratio of 1:1,457 and Nurse-population ratio of 1:675.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-poses-risk-to-healthy-indian-lives-who-report/story-DV5xFRaZQRsk7Fwlar8YuL.html
14-05-2020||India||Odisha district turns hot spot with 210 infections in 12 days||On May 2, Odisha’s Ganjam reported its first case of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with an 18-year-old migrant worker testing positive for the infection. He was part of a 69-member group that came back from Gujarat’s Surat after the resumption of bus services for stranded labourers stuck in different parts of the country due to the lockdown. Six of the teenager’s co-passengers, too caught the infection. Since then, the district has been reporting a steady surge in cases.It now has the most cases (210) among all districts in Odisha, which has a total of 538 cases and three fatalities. On Wednesday, Ganjam recorded 52 cases (all migrant workers), the highest in the coastal state. According to the state health and family welfare department, migrant workers returning from Gujarat and West Bengal accounted for 92 of the 101 new cases in the state. These people were housed in quarantine shelters after their return.“Migrants from Surat, a Covid-19 hot spot, have been the biggest source of the infection in Odisha, followed by migrants from West Bengal...Of the 538 cases total, nearly 300 are Surat returnees, while another 150 are those who returned from Bengal. Till migrant workers started arriving, we had things pretty much under control,” said Bijoy Mohapatra, director of health services, Odisha.Mohapatra’s concerns underscore a potential challenge Odisha and other eastern Indian states, which have a frail health care system, could be facing. Bihar and Jharkhand, too, have seen a steady inflow of migrant workers returning home since the beginning of May as the central government allowed special buses and trains to ferry them to their destinations. Now, both states are reporting a steady rise and spread in fresh infections.It took Odisha 42 days from March 15, when the first case was reported in the state, to record 100 infections. The next 100 cases took 15 days. The tally reached 300 in another week as migrant workers started returning. Then, the cases reached 400 in two just days. On Wednesday, Odisha’s case count crossed 500.According to officials, an estimated 80,000 migrant workers have arrived from various states in buses and trains till Wednesday, and another 450,000 are expected to return in the next 10 days.“Though most of the cases are quarantine centres, there is a danger of local transmission...The more we test, the more positives we will get,” Mohapatra said.Till Wednesday, Odisha tested 72,756 samples. As of Tuesday, Odisha tested 1,621 samples per million, above the national average of 1,370.Ganjam district collector Vijay Amruta Kulange said officials are taking all possible steps to stop the spread of the virus. “All positive cases so far have been from the quarantine centres, which have been declared containment zones. In case a person comes from outside without our notice, the sarpanches have been asked to send them to a mandatory 28-day quarantine,” he said.The fear of infections increasing with the arrival of migrant workers is not restricted to eastern India alone.In Rajasthan, where about 1.3 million of an estimated 1.9 million migrant workers have returned, fresh Covid-19 cases have been reported from areas such as Dungarpur, Jhalawar, Sirohi and Jalore districts, which didn’t have any cases previously. Similarly, Khargone, Morena and Sagar districts in Madhya Pradesh were Covid-19-free till people started returning from Maharashtra and Gujarat.Both Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have made 14-day quarantine mandatory for all those coming back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-district-turns-hot-spot-with-210-infections-in-12-days/story-UxUyBOIpkf94H1RWeTEqAN.html
14-05-2020||India||When you love, you don’t give up: Migrant workers refuse to part from their pets||A picture of migrant workers walking on foot on the Mumbai - Nashik Expressway to reach their home town recently went viral. The puppy and the duck that they were carrying with them were their beloved pets. They refused to abandon these animals even in the face of such adversity. Forced to walk for days to reach their home, holding their pets close to them, they were prepared to face whatever may come their way. Rajesh Natraj, a Mumbai-based animal rescuer, who posted about this incident on Facebook says this family turned down the offers of those who wanted to foster the animals. “They would never part from their pets, whatever may come their way. They said they leave their families back home and come here to work, and all they get in return is disrespect. They can’t trust anyone with their pets, they told us, and kept walking,” says Natraj.Natraj says that some migrants were also carrying cats and rabbits. They didn’t let anyone click their pictures. “They thought someone will snatch their pets and end up killing them as there are rumours that animals spread coronavirus,” says Natraj.The activists says that it’s tragic that educated and well-off people have been abandoning their pets after falling for silly rumours. The commitment of these migrants workers towards their pets is inspiring, and we need to learn from them.There has been a steep rise in the number of people who want to give away their pets in the wake of the pandemic. “We hope people learn from these migrants and stop trying to dump their pets. The shelters are already over burdened. The numbers of calls that they are getting daily is scary. This picture should serve as an eye opener. The migrant workers are better informed than so many of us,” he says.This image will always be a poignant reminder of how the ones we failed set a rare example of love and compassion despite all their handicaps. Only those with integrity have the power to acknowledge and honour commitments that are for life. Pets are one such commitment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-you-love-you-don-t-give-up-migrant-workers-refuse-to-abandon-their-pets/story-smIC1ggDnu6Fy1OL5jHtuI.html
14-05-2020||India||20 more: Delhi logs highest single-day jump in fatalities||With 20 more deaths from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported on Wednesday, Delhi registered the highest single-day increase of Covid-19 fatalities for the second consecutive day. The death toll from the pandemic in the national capital stands at 106.Of the 20 deaths that were recorded in the daily health bulletin, 15 took place in Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital, but none of these are from the previous 24 hours. “All the deaths in the health bulletin today are from before 24 hours. No fresh deaths have been recorded from RML today,” said Dr Minakshi Bhardwaj, medical superintendent of RML Hospital.With a total of 41 deaths, according to the Delhi government data, RML accounts for almost half of the 86 deaths that have been reported in the ten designated Covid-19 hospitals so far.Delhi reported 13 Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday. After a discrepancy in the deaths reported in the daily bulletin and those in hospitals were reported in the media, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev issued an order on Monday, asking all hospitals to report their deaths in a time-bound manner. This required all hospitals to send in their death reports, or ‘Nil’ (no deaths recorded) reports, by 5pm every day. Following this, a three-member death audit committee set up by the government would meet to review the numbers.“Most of the deaths that have been recorded today and yesterday are from the backlog that hadn’t been cleared. With the new standard operating procedures (SOP) in place, the earlier records of patients who had died have started coming from hospitals. The backlog should be cleared within the week, after which there won’t be such unusual spikes in numbers,” said a senior official from the Delhi government, on condition of anonymity.It is likely that the backlog will continue to be cleared over the next few days. Even with the sudden spike in deaths, Delhi’s mortality rate continues to be a just a little above 1%, against the national average of 3.1%Of the deaths recorded so far, almost 55% people were 60 or older and nearly 87% had comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 359 new cases of Covid-19, taking the city’s tally to just two short of 8,000. At the same time, 346 people across the city recovered from the viral infection, improving the city’s recovery rate.With 2,858 people having recovered from the infection since it was first detected in the city on March 2, the recovery rate of Delhi stands at almost 36%. The national recovery rate currently stands at about 33%.Of the 5,034 active cases in the city, 1,634 are admitted to the Covid-19 hospitals with severe symptoms. Of them, 114 are in the intensive care unit with 14 people on ventilator. Delhi has about 306 ventilators in government hospitals and another 800 in private sector ones.Another 1,055 people with mild to moderate symptoms are admitted to the Covid Care Centres or Covid Health Centres. And, 1,113 Covid-19 positive people who are pre-symptomatic or have mild symptoms have been placed in home isolation across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-more-delhi-logs-highest-single-day-jump-in-fatalities/story-WNXJjOk9eCP9SuhMqlL1wO.html
14-05-2020||India||India’s jute production records loss of Rs 1250 cr; mills may demand relief from Centre||Indian jute manufacturers have said the lockdown has so far resulted in loss of production of I.5 lakh metric tonnes worth Rs 1250 crore and it may appeal to the Centre for a financial package for survival of the industry.“We have watched the announcements made by the Centre. We will see what is announced over the next few days and take a decision on approaching the Centre for a relief package,” Raghavendra Gupta, Chairman, Indian Jute Mills Association (IJMA), told HT after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced several packages for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector on Wednesday afternoon. Set up in 1884, IJMA is the apex business chamber for India’s jute industry.In West Bengal, which is the highest jute producer in the country, permission has been given by the state government to operate 40 of the 60 mills that sent applications seeking resumption of operation, Gupta said. But the mills are operating with limited manpower owing to social distancing norms. “The nationwide loss stands at Rs 1250 crore,” Gupta said.“The jute industry is grappling for survival after being in lockdown for over one and a half months now. Already 1.5 lakh metric tonnes of production of jute goods has been lost estimated to be valued at Rs.1,250 crore. With the cash flow drying up, jute mill companies are finding it extremely difficult to make ends meet,” IJMA said in a statement on Tuesday.Gupta said the future of over three lakh jute mill workers and 40 lakh jute farmers hang in the balance and if the situation persists it may result in permanent sickness and closure of mills.“Jute industry’s loss has been plastic industry’s gain. Continuous dilutions under the provisions of the Jute Packaging Act have taken place over the lockdown period. Already about 3 lakh bales of orders for jute bags have been diverted to PP/ HDPE industry. If the lockdown situation continues any longer, further dilutions cannot be ruled out,” IJMA said.The carryover of raw jute at the end of the jute crop year 2019-20 is now expected to be over 22 lakh bales, IJMA has said. “With reports of normal sowing this year, across all jute growing areas, the prices of jute fibre has fallen below the Minimum Support Price of Rs. 4,225/- per quintal for TDN3 grade,” it said.To ensure safety of workers during production, the IJMA had deployed the global consultancy company Pricewaterhouse Coopers to work out standard operation procedures (SOP) for running jute mills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-jute-production-records-loss-of-rs-1250-cr-mills-may-demand-relief-from-centre/story-TNXgRwWVRdM43JNyZP0anJ.html
14-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: Delhi Metro starts maintenance work for resumption of services||Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on Wednesday stated that the date for the resumption of metro services has not been finalised yet but the metro network managing body said it will start undertaking cleaning and maintenance work to get ready for the resumption of services in the near future.The Delhi Metro services were suspended on March 22, even before the first phase of the nationwide lockdown was implemented from March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease.“The date for the resumption of services has still not been finalized and will be notified to the public in due course. All systems of the metro including the signalling, electrical, rolling stock, tracks etc will have to be tested in detail before services are ultimately started,” said a tweet from DMRC.The total length of metro network in Delhi is close to 400 kilometres and it caters to several lakh commuters daily.The DMRC had implemented social distancing measures at its network stations before it finally suspended its services and undertaken sanitization exercises to disinfect its premises including trains. The measures are likely to continue even after services resume. “DMRC is working out a detailed cleaning & maintenance procedure in view of the pandemic. The exercise will be extremely exhaustive as it involves 264 stations over 2200 coaches and over 1100 escalators and 1000 lifts. Protocol for social distancing etc. are also being worked on,” another tweet by DMRC said.India is going to enter the fourth phase of lockdown after May 17 and several states are pitching for the resumption of at least interstate public transport. However, the Delhi government has not made it clear how soon the metro services will resume in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-delhi-metro-starts-maintenance-work-for-resumption-of-services/story-kwt9XqKmAaLjEJDxKY9v4K.html
14-05-2020||India||Gujarat sets up panel to study reasons for high mortality rate||With Gujarat reporting the second-highest Covid-19 related deaths in the country after Maharashtra, the state government on Tuesday constituted a committee of medical experts to study the reasons for the high mortality rate, especially in Ahmedabad.Maharashtra has reported 23,401 cases and 868 deaths while Gujarat 8,904 cases and 537 deaths.A doctor, who is a member of the high power committee constituted by the deputy chief minister and health minister, Nitin Patel, said the decision for setting up the panel was taken at a meeting to prepare protocols for proper research on the reason for the high death rate.“The doctors and other experts who are part of the committee have been asked to prepare the protocols, standard operating procedures and resources required for the research,” the doctor said on condition of anonymity.He said so far no such study has been done by any state. “Not only experts from other states but guidance would be also taken from the Indian Council of Medical Research and doctors and pathologists from abroad too. This study is necessary to understand the progression of the disease,” the doctor said.Dr Parthiv Mehta, senior pulmonologist–intensivist, said the study will help to understand the pattern and reasons for the deaths. “Extensive autopsies will guide the medical experts to understand how the virus is affecting the human beings and what is leading to the mortality,” Mehta said.Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health), on Tuesday said 362 cases have been reported in the state since Monday taking the tally to 8,904. “... 267 cases were reported from Ahmedabad, 30 from Surat, 27 from Vadodra, and rest from other districts. ... 24 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours,” she said.The state government has decided to open factories and industries in the non-containment zones after no cases were reported from Rajkot over the last. Ashwani Kumar, the secretary to chief minister Vijay Rupani, said all businesses will be allowed to resume in Rajkot from May 14 provided they do not fall in the containment zones.“The approvals for the same will be provided by the district collector. Rajkot falls under the Orange Zone. Despite that, the state government did not allow shops and businesses to restart...”Kumar said of the 542 special trains for the stranded people till Monday, Gujarat operated the maximum--233-- in the country to ensure the safe return of over 2.80 lakh migrant workers to their homes.Gujarat police chief Shivanand Jha said only those with confirmed e-tickets will be allowed at railway stations as no tickets are available at the ticket counters. “It is mandatory to wear masks and maintain social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-sets-up-panel-to-study-reasons-for-high-mortality-rate/story-uRJgxoj2eignc1jjmmv6NJ.html
14-05-2020||India||Train services resume today after nearly two months; 54,000 bookings done, says Railways Ministry||The Indian Railways is resuming passenger train operations from Tuesday, nearly two months after services were stopped due to the nationwide lockdown imposed as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of Covid-19.The railways opened bookings for passenger services on Monday with 15 trains a day connecting Delhi to Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, Kolkata and other big cities.“Thereafter, Indian Railways shall start more special services on new routes,” the government said in a statement. The rail network, among the world’s largest, carries over 20 million people each day and is the lifeline for people living in far flung corners of the country.The Railways Ministry said that reservations were issued to more than 54,000 passengers, according to news agency ANI. Bookings for 15 passenger trains started from 6 pm on Monday, two hours behind the scheduled opening time.The Railways has made Aarogya Setu mobile application, which helps in tracking the spread of the virus, mandatory for passengers who want to board the trains.All first AC three-tier AC tickets for the Howrah-New Delhi train were sold within the first 10 minutes and all seats were reserved in 20 minutes, news agency PTI quoted IRCTC as saying. The Howrah-New Delhi train is scheduled to begin its journey from Howrah at 5:05 pm on Tuesday.All AC-1 and AC-3 tickets for the Bhubaneswar-New Delhi special trains were also sold by 6.30 pm.The restart of some train services was announced late on Sunday, when India’s coronavirus infections jumped by 4,214 - the highest ever - to 67,152. India’s rail, road and air services were suspended in March to stop Covid-19 infection to spread into the country’s interior, but the case numbers have risen daily. But officials say the spread of the disease was largely contained due to the stringent restrictions.Deaths from Covid-19, the respiratory disease caused by the coronavirus, has reached 2,206, the ministry of health said on Monday. A fifth of India’s cases come from the densely populated cities of Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad and Pune, which are also major centres of economic activity.At a meeting with the chief ministers on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that resumption of train services is needed to rev up the economic activity, but said that all the routes will not be resumed and only a limited number of trains would ply, according to ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-services-resume-today-after-nearly-two-months-54-000-bookings-done-says-railways-ministry/story-urUHbvdHhSLtWgXEIMLq9K.html
