15-05-2020||India||Rahul takes jibe at Niti Aayog over ‘zero cases’ graph||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday took a jibe at the Niti Aayog over one of its predictions that the nationwide lockdown would ensure that India sees no fresh coronavirus cases from May 16.“The geniuses at Niti Aayog have done it again. I’d like to remind you of their graph predicting the govt’s national lockdown strategy would ensure no fresh Covid cases from tomorrow, May the 16th,” Gandhi tweeted.The Congress leader also posted a graph projected by the government at the time. According to the graph, Covid-19 cases in India saw a sudden spike from April 2, and peaked on April 18. The graph was predicted to descend from April 24 and see a complete dip on May 16, suggesting zero cases.In a statement issued on Friday, the government think tank clarified, “Niti Aayog examines and analysis various epidemiological models. In a presentation, its member ( health) has presented various models as presented by outside experts. It is a theoretical model like several made by epidemiologists around the world. It should be read in that context and not literally. The said graph presents factual cases till date along with a trend line. No claim was made as to zero case by May 16, as is being incorrectly inferred.”Reacting to a comment on the tweet, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said, “Blatant falsehood and a lie. I have never tweeted this nor is this my slide. Please don’t attribute it to me.”In his press conferences on April 16 and May 8, Gandhi had insisted that the lockdown is not a solution to defeat Covid-19 but a pause button. He stressed the need for having a comprehensive exit strategy in place to ensure that the coronavirus does not come back once the restrictions are lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-takes-jibe-at-niti-aayog-over-zero-cases-graph/story-q1s3jGCXg1YDWLr9lJF7SL.html
15-05-2020||India||Covid 19 latest update: 14 of Uttarakhand’s 82, 834 returnees have turned positive so far||Fourteen people who have returned to Uttarakhand from other states have turned Covid-19 positive, including one 29-year-old man who came from Delhi with his mother and tested positive on Friday in Dehradun.According to the government officials, till Friday evening, over 2.12 lakh people had registered on the state website to return to Uttarakhand. Of these, the state government has so far brought back 82, 834 people through trains and buses, while over 6,000 people have returned to the state in their own vehicles. 33,990 people have registered with the government to return to their respective states from Uttarakhand. Of these, 16,229 have been sent to their respective states. On Friday one person tested positive in Dehradun, taking the total to 79 cases in Uttarakhand. 50 of these have recovered, leaving 28 active cases.Friday’s patient was Dehradun’s 40th in total and the 11th active case. The doubling rate in the past seven days in the district has come down to 29.86 from 167.38 days on Tuesday.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesJC Pandey, public relations officer (PRO), state health department, said, the 29-year-old man from Dehradun was tested at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh. “This man had come with his mother from Delhi. His mother had tested Covid-19 positive on May 13,” he said.After Dehradun’s 40, US Nagar has reported the most infections at 16, followed by 12 in Nainital, 7 in Haridwar, 2 in Almora and one each in Uttar Kashi and Pauri Garhwal.The state has nine containment zones including five in Dehradun, two in Haridwar and one each in Nainital and US Nagar.On Thursday, six people including a ten-year-old girl with travel history from New Delhi tested positive for Covid-19. Three cases were detected in Udham Singh Nagar, while other three were from Dehradun district, including a 36-year-old woman, who became the first positive case to be reported in the hill station of Mussoorie.Authorities in Uttarakhand are worried about the possibility of some among the huge mass returning to the state carrying the infection with them. Last week, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had acknowledged it as a big challenge. “The state is expecting at least 2-2.25 lakh migrants to return, of which about 25,000 are expected to be infected,” the chief minister had said during a Facebook live session.On May 13, Uttarakhand High Court had expressed concern over many returning migrants testing positive for Covid-19 and sought to know from the state and the Central government if it was possible to medically examine each person before they were allowed to return to the state since merely thermal screening was ‘not enough’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-update-14-of-uttarakhand-s-82-834-returnees-have-turned-positive-so-far/story-F7Zjk3JWJGx8aKVMzcB1FN.html
15-05-2020||India||Top court stays HC order asking TN to shut liquor shops||The Supreme Court paved the way on Friday for the resumption of liquor sale through state-run outlets in Tamil Nadu, staying the Madras high court (HC)’s orders that directed the closure of such stores operated by the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC).A bench headed by justice L Nageswara Rao, however, orally observed that the ultimate decision on whether liquor should be sold and how the sale should be made rests with the government.“Issue notice. In the meanwhile, there shall be ad interim stay of orders dated 6.5.2020 and 8.5.2020 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Madras,” the bench, which also comprised justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai, said. In a May 1 order, the central government allowed states to sell liquor in standalone shops and said social distancing should be followed in such outlets.Subsequently, the Tamil Nadu government issued a public notice on May 4, announcing that TASMAC outlets, which were shut since the lockdown was imposed on March 25, would reopen on May 7.But on a public interest litigation by one B Ramkumar Adityan, the high court passed an order on May 6, regulating the sale of liquor. It ordered that “not more than two bottles of 750 ml each (including wine, beer etc.) of any one type will be sold to one customer at a time”.Further, it directed that a customer cannot make purchase of liquor more than twice a week. Directions were also issued to encourage online payment instead of cash payment.The Tamil Nadu government and TASMAC, which approached the Supreme Court against the HC order, said when TASMAC outlets opened on May 7 after a 44-day shutdown, the high court directions led to overcrowding and worsened the queues.​Then, in another order on May 8, the high court directed that TASMAC can sell liquor only through online mode, after the reopening of liquor outlets on May 7 led to overcrowding and long queues outside the outlets.This direction was reiterated by the Madurai bench of the high court on May 11 in another ​case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-stays-hc-order-asking-tn-to-shut-liquor-shops/story-Sf9ECR4KNnkvm5Y3Kw5fTN.html
15-05-2020||India||SC judge, family in quarantine after cook tests positive||A Supreme Court judge and his family members have quarantined themselves after their cook tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday.The cook went on leave on May 7 and might have contracted the disease while he was away, according to people aware of the developments. But the judge, who till recently heard cases through video conferencing, quarantined himself along with his family as a precautionary step.On April 27, a 37-year old employee at the Supreme Court tested positive for Covid-19.Two registrars of the court, who had interacted with the employee, and various security personnel at the court were placed in quarantine.The Supreme Court, which is shut down due to the coronavirus outbreak, has been hearing only extremely urgent cases since March 23 via video conferencing without the personal presence of lawyers. The top court issued a circular on March 23, suspending entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only extremely urgent cases will be taken up for hearing through video conferencing during the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judge-family-in-quarantine-after-cook-tests-positive/story-E0hlJHT0794YoJHEBdpAlN.html
15-05-2020||India||Rajnath approves Rs 400-cr scheme for testing infrastructure||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh has approved a Rs 400-crore scheme for creating testing infrastructure in the defence sector, the ministry said in a statement on Friday. Called the Defence Testing Infrastructure Scheme, it will run for five years and envisages the setting up of six to eight modern testing facilities in partnership with the private sector.The majority of the testing facilities are expected to come up in the two defence industrial corridors (DICs) in Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, officials said. The scheme, however, will not be limited to setting up facilities in the DICs only.The scheme is aimed at giving a boost to domestic defence and aerospace manufacturing. “This will facilitate indigenous defence production and consequently reduce import of military equipment and help make the country self-reliant,” the statement said, adding that the projects under the scheme will be given up to 75% government funding.The remaining 25% of the cost will be borne by the special purpose vehicle (SPV) whose constituents will be Indian private entities and the state governments.The SPVs under the scheme will be registered under the Companies Act 2013 and operate and maintain assets “in a self-sustainable manner by collecting user charges,” the ministry said. The equipment tested will be certified as per appropriate accreditation, it added.The draft Defence Production Policy-2018 visualises India as one of the top five countries in the aerospace and defence sectors in the coming years, with defence goods and services accounting for a turnover of Rs 1.7 lakh crore by 2025. It also seeks to drastically reduce India’s dependence on imported military hardware over the next five years.Despite pursuing the Make in India programme vigorously to reduce military imports, the country was the second-largest arms importer in the world over the last five years, according to data published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-approves-rs-400-cr-scheme-for-testing-infrastructure/story-hTSBejn6TT7lhHlLn21UOM.html
15-05-2020||India||More lockdown relaxations in Telangana as active Covid-19 cases confined to 4 zones in Hyderabad||The Telangana government on Friday decided to further relax lockdown restrictions in the wake of the drop in active Covid-19 cases in the state, except in the four containment zones in Hyderabad.“Starting Saturday, shops selling air conditioners, automobile spare parts and automobile showrooms will be permitted to open all over the state, including Hyderabad. Stamps and Registration department and Road Transport Authority offices would also be open,” chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced after a high-level meeting on Friday night.He said the nationwide lockdown would come to an end on May 17 and there was a possibility of the Centre releasing some more guidelines in this regard. “The state will examine those guidelines, review the situation and finalise the future course of strategy and implement the same,” KCR said.The chief minister said Covid-19 in Telangana was confined to just four zones in Hyderabad – L B Nagar, Malakpet, Charminar and Karawan where there were active cases. “There are 1442 families in these areas. Some migrant labourers in Yadadri Bhongir, Jangaon and Mancherial have tested positive for the virus but not people from these districts. Hence it cannot be counted among the three districts having positive cases,” he pointed out.In the four containment zones where there are Covid-19 positive cases, lockdown restrictions should be implemented stringently. All those who had symptoms were identified and are being treated, he said.Stating that there was nothing to be scared of Covid-19 for now, as a majority of people were recovering from the virus, he said, “In the Telangana, the percentage of people who died due to Covid-19 was only 2.38%, compared to the national average of 3.5%. We don’t know how long this virus will be with us. Hence, we have to adopt a strategy to live with it and we have no option,” the chief minister said.He, however, instructed officials concerned to take precautionary measures to prevent seasonal diseases that may break out during the rainy season, while continuing the efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus in the Telangana.KCR also cautioned the officials about people coming from abroad and also from other states by trains and other routes. “We have to conduct tests on everybody, including migrant labourers. Those who show symptoms should be shifted to hospitals and others to quarantine centres,” he said.Telangana reported 40 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 1454. Of the new cases, 33 were from Greater Hyderabad and the remaining were those of migrants. No fresh deaths were reported for the third consecutive day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-lockdown-relaxations-in-telangana-as-active-covid-19-cases-confined-to-4-zones-in-hyderabad/story-D84Noe6NYY4gPEFblXZTeK.html
15-05-2020||India||Over 56,000 stranded J-K residents brought back home||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has brought back home over 56,000 people who were stranded in various parts of the country due to coronavirus lockdown, officials said on Friday. While 49,218 people were brought through Lakhanpur in buses, as many as 7,264 arrived on special trains in Jammu and Udhampur so far, they said. The Rajdhani Express from Delhi brought over 900 stranded J and K residents to Jammu in the morning while two trains -- one from Delhi and another from Aligarh -- reached Railway station Udhampur with 523 and 781 passengers respectively, an official spokesperson said. Udhampur Deputy Commissioner Piyush Singhla said the district administration has made elaborate arrangements for reception and departure of the passengers to their homes in different districts of the UT. “Corona warriors are facilitating the returnees to reach their homes,” he said. Singhla said authorities are ensuring strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the Ministries of Home Affairs and the Health and Family Welfare regarding the Covid-19 management during the boarding and de-boarding process.  As per an official communique, of 49,218 returnees coming via Lakhanpur till May 15, 11,513 came from Punjab, 18,286 from Himachal Pradesh, 3,905 from Delhi, 650 from Gujrat, 1,538 from Rajasthan, 2,401 from Haryana, 96 from Chhattisgarh, 2,666 from Uttarakhand, 326 from Maharashtra, 2,766 from Uttar Pradesh, 42 from Odhisa, 35 from Assam, 814 from Madhya Pradesh, 88 from Dehradun, 486 from Chandigarh, 316 from Telangana, 142 from Bihar and 3,148 from other states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-56-000-stranded-j-k-residents-brought-back-home/story-Z1lWBRoiwaPOQTpudVK4nK.html
15-05-2020||India||NIA files chargesheet against 6 in killing of J&K BJP leader, brother||The National Investigation Agency on Friday filed a chargesheet against six people, including three slain Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) terrorists and three arrested overground workers of the terror group for providing support to Pakistan-based terrorists to kill BJP leader Anil Parihar and his brother Ajeet Parihar in Jammu’s Kishtwar.The chargesheet has been filed in the special NIA Court, Jammu against the six accused under Sections 302, 120B, 109 and 34 of the Ranbir Penal Code, Sections 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 38, 39 and 40 of the UA(P) Act and Section 25(1A) and 25 of the Arms Act.The Parihar brothers were shot at point-blank range outside their house on November 1, 2018, when they were returning home after closing their shop.Initially, a case was registered by the Jammu Police at Kishtwar. The case was subsequently taken over by NIA.During the investigation, accused Nisar Ahmed Sheikh, Nishad Ahmed Butt and Azad Hussain Bagwan, all residents of Kishtwar were arrested in November 2019.These three accused had provided logistic support to the three terrorists—Osama-bin-Javid, Haroon Abbas Wani and Zahid Hussain, who had killed the Parihar brothers.The investigation unearthed the larger conspiracy of these terrorists and the overground workers of Hizb who were attempting to revive terrorism in the Doda region.These terrorists not only carried out the murder of Parihar brothers but also carried out three other terrorist acts in Kishtwar in 2019.In furtherance of the said conspiracy led by Jahangir Saroori, commander of the terror outfit in Kishtwar district, the accused persons devised ways and means to raise funds to sustain the activities of the banned terrorist organisation.It may be stated here that Osama-bin-Javid, Haroon Abbas Wani and Zahid Hussain were killed during different encounters that took place between the Hizbul Mujahideen cadres and security forces in Ramban and Doda districts in September 2019 and January this year.Further investigation continues against absconding accused Jahangir Saroori and others involved in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-files-chargesheet-against-6-in-killing-of-j-k-bjp-leader-brother/story-SrHCS4XafxYiTd3V2GzeGN.html
15-05-2020||India||3 migrant labourers dead, 14 hurt as truck hits two vehicles||Three migrant labourers going to Uttar Pradesh from Maharashtra were killed and 14 others injured after a truck rammed into two vehicles on Guna bypass on the Agra-Mumbai national highway on Friday evening, a senior police official said.The speeding truck first collided head-on with the pick-up van carrying 15 migrant labourers before hitting another truck that was behind the van, Guna district Superintendent of Police (SP) Tarun Nayak said.“Two labourers died on the spot, while the third one succumbed to his injuries on way to a hospital. Twelve others travelling in the van were left injured,” he said.“Besides them, two persons sitting in the truck that was behind the van, also suffered injuries in the accident.All of them were admitted to the district hospital,” the official said.Five of the injured are in a serious condition and were referred to Gwalior for treatment, he said.Two of the deceased labourers belong to Ghazipur town in Uttar Pradesh and the third one is of Azamgarh town from the same state. They were identified as Mahesh Prajapati (35), Pramod Pal (24) and Deepak Prajapati (34), he added.On Thursday, eight migrant labourers were killed when an empty bus hit a truck carrying them to Uttar Pradesh from Maharashtra. One more person had later succumbed to the injuries in the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-migrant-labourers-dead-14-hurt-as-truck-hits-two-vehicles/story-vS6stvXq58fPz12NRQp2fP.html
15-05-2020||India||Man held for bribing navy personnel for information: NIA||A 49-year-old resident of Mumbai, suspected to have links with spies in Pakistan, has been arrested for allegedly bribing navy personnel in exchange for classified information, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said on Friday.Mohammed Haroon Lakdawala used to travel to Karachi on the pretext of cloth trade, according to an NIA statement. During one such visit, he came in contact with two spies, Akbar and Rizwan, who asked him to make deposits into the bank accounts of 11 navy personnel, the statement said.The spy ring was busted on December 2019 by the Andhra Pradesh police in collaboration with central agencies such as the Intelligence Bureau and the Research and Analysis Wing. NIA took over the probe in late December.Security agencies dubbed it “Operation Dolphin Nose”, a reference to the hill next to the Eastern Naval Command in Visakhapatnam, where naval offices and a residential complex are located. In all, 14 people including 11 navy personnel — many from Vishakhapatnam — and a Pakistani-born Indian national, Shaista Qaiser, have been arrested in the case.According to NIA, Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India to collect sensitive and classified information on the movement of naval ships, submarines and location of other defence establishments. The navy personnel, who were compromised, came in contact with Pakistani nationals through various social media platforms. The payments were made via Lakdawala.Investigators earlier told HT that the navy personnel, mostly sailors, did not reveal any significant information and were paid between Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000.“Lakdawala was basically chosen to make payments to the sailors through different modes. For this, he received money from Pakistan. We are investigating if he was using hawala channels to receive funds from Pakistan and the number of visits he made to Karachi over the years,” said an NIA officer who didn’t wish to be named.NIA has found that the sailors who have been paid by Lakdawala didn’t have access to any sensitive or classified information, the officer added.After the spy ring was busted, the navy asked all its ranks on board warships, dockyards and naval bases to keep themselves away from social media and smartphones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-for-bribing-navy-personnel-for-information-nia/story-hZxh1QGthw8QfcvGgeTlUM.html
15-05-2020||India||40 new cases take Telangana’s tally to 1,454||Telangana reported 40 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 1,454.The surge continued in Greater Hyderabad where 33 persons tested positive. Seven migrants were also found infected.According to the director of public health and family welfare, no deaths were reported on Friday. The death toll remained unchanged at 34.The day saw 13 persons being discharged from hospital on their recovery. With this, the number of people cured/discharged rose to 959. The number of active cases now stands at 461.With seven new cases among migrants, the total number of migrants tested positive rose to 44. All the cases were those who returned to the state from various parts of the country.The officials pointed out that large number of migrants are entering the state from across the country. The evacuees from other countries who are arriving at Hyderabad by designated flights are being screened at the airport and the symptomatic persons are tested for Covid-19.All migrants arriving by road and rail are being screened for symptoms at railway stations and at road border check posts.The asymptomatic migrants arriving in Telangana through various points of entry are quarantined at home and in government quarantine facilities. The symptomatic migrants are isolated and tested and for further course of action.The health authorities have appealed to people to inform the local officials in case they identify any new persons, migrants who have newly arrived in the towns and villages.--IANSms/vd||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-new-cases-take-telangana-s-tally-to-1-454/story-XYvM4occOGwMA1yK8drbYI.html
15-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: UP favours easing more restrictions but migrants influx is causing worries||The Uttar Pradesh government appears to be in a dilemma over the extent of restrictions to be eased in lockdown version 4.0, following an influx of a large number of migrant labourers.For its part, the state government proposes to restart economic activity, including retail businesses, and open up industrial units in a phased manner but a senior state government officer admitted that the arrival of a large number of migrants posed a major challenge to the lifting of restrictions. About 13.5 lakh migrant labourers have arrived in the state by Friday.“The state government has forwarded its suggestions about lockdown-4 to the centre. The union government is likely to leave most of the decisions on easing restrictions to respective states. Only states know best about the prevailing situation,” said the officer on condition of anonymity.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesYogi, who held discussions with his ministers and officers in the past few days, asked senior officers to ensure that no one walked or used bike to travel back home and that migrants were instead provided with transport to reach respective destinations. He also asked senior officers to make an assessment about the availability of labourers in Noida and Greater Noida region.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19His observations have come a day after the state government forwarded its suggestions about lockdown-4 to the centre favouring opening up of the industrial units in a phased manner.“We understand the state government wants to restart industrial activity and retail businesses in a phased manner and this may be part of the preparatory exercise,” said an officer.The state government has also authorised district magistrates to allow industrial units to get skilled/unskilled workers from other districts.It may be mentioned that 119 sugar mills, 12,000 brick kilns and 2,500 cold storages etc were allowed to function through the lockdown. Most sugar mills have been involved in carrying out sanitisation of government buildings, public places and other areas while the distilleries have been manufacturing alcohol-based sanitisers.Meanwhile, the state government has issued fresh orders about changing the classification of containment zones/hotspots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-up-favours-easing-more-restrictions-but-migrants-influx-is-causing-worries/story-NPXqcii1wseOYnJXkUCvBL.html
15-05-2020||India||Will not allow combat readiness to be impacted by financial constraints: Army chief||Army Chief Gen M M Naravane on Friday said his force will not allow its combat readiness along the northern and western borders to be impacted by the financial constraints triggered by the coronavirus pandemic.In an interaction at a leading defence think-tank, Gen Naravane said a directive has been received from the government to cut expenditure by 20 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 and the Army is implementing it without compromising on its operational efficiency.He said several steps are being identified to cut expenditure which include deferment of holding of major exercises and restriction on movement of units from one peace-station to another.The Army Chief said the number of movement of units and battalions per year is between 250 to 300 and the Army is looking at suspending some of them.“Each movement costs us around Rs one crore. Units in high-altitude areas and units carrying out counter insurgency operations will have to move. However we can restrict movement of units from one peace station to another. We have identified 100 units who can stay in their current locations,” he said.“We will see what we can defer or scale down like exercise of troops,” Naravane said hinting that military exercises may not take place at least for a year.Gen Naravane at the same time said that there will be no cut in expenditure on account of purchase of arms and ammunition, asserting that operational efficiency along India’s active borders will not be compromised at all.Noting that defence expenditure contributes significantly to the country’s overall development, he said: “any investment on safety and security is actually an investment on growth”.To emphasise his point, Gen Naravane said the stock market had nosedived after the Pulwama terror attack but it surged significantly after India carried out the Balakot strikes.Talking about budgetary constraints, he said the ratio of revenue to capital budget continues to be a matter of concern for the Army.“We are a manpower-intensive Army. Requirement of manpower along the borders and for counter insurgency and counter terror operations are not going to go away any time soon. So we have to live with the situation of 80 per cent of our budget going into the revenue side,” he said.Asked about the possibility of India facing a two front war along the borders with China and Pakistan, Gen Naravane said it is a possibility and that the country will have to remain prepared to deal with such a scenario.“It is a possibility. It is not that it is going to happen every time. We have to be alive to all contingencies which can happen, various scenarios that can unfold. We have to remain alive to the possibility.“But to assume that in all cases both fronts would be 100 per cent active, I think that would be an incorrect assumption to make. In dealing with two front scenario, there will always be a priority front and a secondary front. That is how we look at dealing with this two front threat,” the Army chief said.He said the priority front would be addressed in a different manner while the secondary front will be kept as dormant as possible just to conserve resources to focus on the priority front.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-allow-combat-readiness-to-be-impacted-by-financial-constraints-army-chief/story-xFJjRqWuS0o2TsD7vqYJYJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Tripura to set up ‘corona jail’ for quarantine violators||The Tripura government on Friday declared to take stern action against persons who violate regulations of quarantine by accommodating them in ‘ corona jail.’“ We are taking random samples. The persons who are given home quarantine, should not go out. Their families should also stay under quarantine. If they don’t obey, the government will take action against them and will put them in police station. We will identify a corona jail for the quarantine regulations violators for the time being,” Law Minister Ratan Lal Nath told the media at Civil Secretariat on Friday late evening. He also informed that a three-member central team arrived here to probe into the source of outbreak of coronavirus in Border Security Force ( BSF) camps in Dhalai district where more than 150 positive cases were found this month. The team on Friday met additional chief secretary SK Rakesh, principal of Agartala Government Medical College ( AGMC) KK Kundu, BSF officials and also visited Covid-19 centres in Agartala. The team would visit Dhalai district on Saturday.The state government sought the National Centre for Disease Control ( NCDC), an expert body of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to investigate the source of spreading the virus. After that, a three-member team led by Professor GK Medhi from North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health & Medical Sciences ( NEIGRIHMS) reached the state on Thursday. “ Till now, steps taken by the state government are satisfactory,” Professor Medhi said.Tripura has got a total of 154 Covid-19 positive cases. Of them, 42 patients were recovered, as per latest Health Department’s report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-to-set-up-corona-jail-for-quarantine-violators/story-SRoLrI5AqhLYT9KlPLFjdO.html
15-05-2020||India||E-filing will bring court registry to lawyers’ chamber, make work simpler: CJI Bobde||E-filing of cases will effectively bring the court registry to the offices of lawyers and will make their work simpler and more efficient, Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said on Friday.He was speaking at an online demonstration of the new e-filing module which will be rolled out by the Supreme Court in the near future. “E-filing has virtually brought the court registry into the chamber of advocates and nothing can be simpler once the steps are understood. E-filing will make the work simpler and more efficient,” Justice Bobde said.E-filing, he said, received an impetus due to the Covid-19 lockdown which necessitated social distancing and there would be no looking back now.“We will have to accept the present situation and change our mindset towards the way we look at court proceedings. Half the battle is won with the change of mindset. It is easy to learn but difficult to unlearn.”The event was also attended by the chairperson of the e-committee, Justice DY Chandrachud who said that e-filing will enhance the rights of citizens to efficient justice delivery. “We are conscious of the fact that not every lawyer has access to technology. As we age, so we become a little more diffident about the use of technology. So our solutions must factor this in order to ensure that we continue to be an inclusive institution and reach out to those who do not have access to technology,” he said.Towards this end, the court registry will do “handholding” by engaging data entry operators who will take up the work of data entry and filing so that lawyers do not feel handicapped by the e-filing process, he said.The new e-filing module which will be introduced for filing cases in the Supreme Court will provide personalized information to every advocate-on-record of cases which have been filed by them, their own list of cases, details of pleadings filed by them and pleadings filed by others in cases in which they appear.The service will be available round the clock which would mean that a lawyer can file a case anytime of the day and any day irrespective of whether the registry is working or not.“The mission is to provide facilities for inexpensive and effective access to justice. Rule of law must survive very strongly and operate at all times irrespective of coronavirus,” CJI Bobde said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/e-filing-will-bring-court-registry-to-lawyers-chamber-make-work-simpler-cji-bobde/story-93l6LEVUCjEQp4gnOL5RrK.html
15-05-2020||India||Covid lockdown: Stopping migrants’ foot march is states’ responsibility, centre reminds||The central government on Friday reminded states and union territories that it was their responsibility to ensure that migrant workers were not left to walk on highways or along the railway tracks or cycle their way home when permission has been given to organize transport for their commute.The union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to the chief secretaries of states that they should follow up on Centre’s advise to counsel migrants and put them up in relief camps, if they are found walking on highways or along the railway tracks.“However, the movement of migrant workers, walking on roads, railway tracks and travelling in trucks, is still being noticed in different parts of the country,” the home secretary’s letter says.The letter says it is now up to the state governments to widely disseminate information about the travel arrangements being made to take migrant workers home and to persuade/counsel them not to walk home.“With the cooperation of States/UTs, Ministry of Railways is running more than 100 Shramik Special Trains per day and is ready to arrange additional trains as per their requirements,” the letter says.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19At least 16 migrant workers were crushed to death earlier this month while they were sleeping on the railway tracks near Aurangabad in Maharashtra while walking back to their village in Madhya Pradesh. In another incident, nine workers were killed and 50 others injured when their truck collided with a bus on a highway in Guna district on Thursday.Also Read: 56-year-old migrant dies on road to home, another dies after police lathichargeSix migrant workers were run over by a speeding bus on the Delhi-Saharanpur highway in Uttar Pradesh early on Thursday and another three migrant workers were crushed by a vehicle in Barabanki in the small hours of Friday.Several other tragic incidents involving migrant workers walking home have been reported in the past couple of weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-lockdown-stopping-migrants-foot-march-is-states-responsibility-centre-reminds/story-pH2PIgKO6l3WDZpADRwjoI.html
15-05-2020||India||India surpasses China tally with 85,000 confirmed coronavirus cases||The nationwide tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases crossed 85,000 on Friday with more people testing positive for the deadly virus infection from Kashmir to Kerala and from Karnataka to Bihar, even as indications emerged about greater relaxations in the fourth phase of the lockdown beginning Monday to contain economic costs of the pandemic.Going by the numbers declared by different states and union territories, India has now surpassed China’s official tally of 82,933 confirmed Covid-19 cases. Though some new cases have emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan -- the epicentre of the deadly virus -- less than 100 people are now undergoing treatment across China, which recorded 4,633 deaths due to Covid-19 but more than 78,000 have been discharged after recovery, as per their official data. Globally, more than 3 lakh people have died and nearly 45 lakh have tested positive for the deadly virus since its emergence in Wuhan last December. While China and several other countries have begun reopening their economies, fresh concerns have begun mounting about a possible re-emergence of the virus. India is now the 11th most affected nation in the world, but each one of the top-ten have one lakh or more cases. The US tops the charts with more than 14 lakh cases, followed by Russia, UK, Spain, Italy and Brazil with over 2 lakh cases each; and France, Germany, Turkey and Iran having over 1 lakh cases each. In its morning 8 AM update, the Union Health Ministry said the death toll due to Covid-19 across India has risen to 2,649 and the number of cases has climbed to 81,970, registering an increase of 100 deaths and 3,967 cases in the last 24 hours since Thursday morning. There are more than 51,000 active cases, while nearly 28,000 have recovered, giving a recovery rate of over 34 per cent. However, a PTI tally of numbers reported by states and UTs, as of 9 PM, put the total number of confirmed cases across the country much higher at 85,538. This also showed at least 2,679 deaths and nearly 30,000 recoveries. Jammu & Kashmir, Bihar and Karnataka breached the 1,000-mark in terms of the number of people having tested positive, while testing and containment measures were ramped up in places like, Kerala, Goa and Manipur that were being seen as being mostly virus-free till a few days back. Even a quarantine centre had to be sealed in Manipur. On the other hand, large numbers of cases continued to get detected in big urban clusters. Maharashtra, the most-affected state, reported 1,576 new cases to take its tally to 29,100, while its death toll rose to 1,068. Tamil Nadu crossed the 10,000 mark with 434 new cases, while Gujarat saw 340 more people testing positive to push its tally to 9,932. According to the Union Health Ministry, 30 municipal areas account for 79 per cent of India’s coronavirus infection caseload. At a meeting of a group of ministers chaired by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, it was stressed that the focus of Covid-19 management strategy needs to be on the states with the highest number of confirmed cases and fatalities. Also, focus is needed on treatment and case fatality management, for which timely detection and contact tracing were the best way forward. The Finance Ministry in the meantime unveiled the third booster dose, mainly consisting of measures aimed at helping farmers and for reforms in agriculture and allied sectors, of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Rs 20 lakh crore ‘special package’ for making India self-reliant in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Modi said the third tranche will help the rural economy and boost farmers’ income. India has been under a lockdown since March 25, which was initially scheduled to end on April 14 but has got extended twice -- first till May 3 and then till May 17 with some relaxations. A final decision on the fourth phase is expected soon, but officials said there could be greater relaxations and more flexibility for states and union territories while measures being explored include gradual reopening of the railways and domestic airlines. Schools, colleges, malls and cinema halls may not be allowed to open anywhere in the country, but salons, barber shops and optical shops may be allowed everywhere barring Covid-19 containment areas. E-retailers may be allowed to deliver non-essential items too. Final guidelines will be issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs after going through the suggestions of various state governments. During his last interaction with chief ministers, Modi had asked them to submit their suggestions by May 15. According to officials, Punjab, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Assam and Telangana want the lockdown to continue, while some states have sought powers to decide the zoning of districts -- green, orange and red -- as per the COVID-19 situation. This request of the state governments may be accepted so that they can restrict or allow movement of people or economic activities in a particular place depending on the ground situation, an official told PTI. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation on Tuesday, had said that the lockdown 4.0 will have a “completely different form”, with new rules. “No state wants complete withdrawal of lockdown but all want gradual resumption of economic activities,” the official said. Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka are among some states which are not in favour of complete resumption of train and air services, at least till May-end. The railways have already started special trains to 15 destinations from Delhi and have been running several hundred ‘Shramik Special’ trains from different parts of the country to various places for transportation of migrant workers stranded due to the lockdown. Air India is also engaged in evacuation of thousands of Indians stranded abroad during the lockdown under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’. However, there have been cases of people testing positive after reaching their native places using these trains and flights. Officials said local trains, buses and metro services may start running with limited capacity in non-containment areas of red zones. Autos and taxis are also expected to be allowed in all zones with restrictions on the number of passengers, barring areas identified as ‘containment zones’. Maharashtra has favoured strict lockdown measures in Mumbai, its suburbs and Pune, and a complete ban on inter-state and inter-district transport. However, Gujarat wants resumption of economic activities in major urban centres. Delhi, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala have also favoured opening up of economic activities. Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, which have seen a spike in the Covid-19 cases after arrival of migrant workers, want the lockdown to continue with strict curbs on movement of people. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has urged Modi not to open state boundaries for the next few months, except for migrants or essential services. Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said the state has written to the Centre urging extension of the lockdown by two more weeks. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said the Centre may announce many relaxations in the lockdown after May 17. The Arunachal Pradesh government has decided to resume state transport bus service to various destinations from May 18, while the Haryana Roadways has already resumed bus services on select routes within the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-surpasses-china-tally-with-85-000-confirmed-coronavirus-cases/story-F14JvH1oH9Ylr1X3gT6AXN.html
15-05-2020||India||Govt to amend decades-old EC law to deregulate food items, give farmer marketing choice||In a sweeping marketing reform in the agriculture sector, the Centre on Friday said it will amend the Essential Commodities Act to deregulate food items like cereals, pulses and onion besides bringing a new law to give marketing choice to farmers for enhancing their income. As a result of the amendment, the stock limit on food products like edible oils, oilseeds, potato and onion will not be imposed in normal cases but only in exceptional circumstances like natural calamities, famine with a surge in prices. “No such stock limit shall apply to processors or value chain participants, subject to their installed capacity or any exporter subject to the export demand,” the government said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government will amend the EC Act to make the agriculture sector more competitive and ensure better price realisation to farmers. This will also help in attracting investment in the farm sector. The government will also frame a new law to provide marketing choices to farmers. The central law will be formulated to provide adequate choices to farmers to sell their produce at an attractive price. It will enable interstate trade without restrictions and create a framework for electronic trading of farm products. “The aspect that we are talking about come under the Centre’s list because particularly when it refers to interstate related matter, it has to be governed by central legislation,” Sitharaman said. It is a concurrent subject and central law is overarching, Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj said. “In this case major reform is being done where a farmer is allowed to sell his produce to whom over and wherever he wants to. Interstate is also allowed. This will help in reducing prices and also help in creating infrastructure,” he said. Interstate trade is a central subject, he added. At present, farmers are bound to sell agriculture produce only through APMC (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee) mandies, which restrict the free flow of farm products. That apart, a legal framework will be created to enable farmers to engage with processors, aggregators, large retailers and exporters fairly and transparently. “Risk mitigation for farmers, assured returns and quality standardisation shall form an integral part of the framework,” the government said. At present, farmers lack an enforceable standard mechanism for predictable prices of crops at the time of sowing, it added. Earlier this year, the Economic Survey pitched for the scrapping of the Essential Commodities Act (ECA), saying the law is “anachronistic” that leads to harassment and is of no help in checking price volatility. The ECA, 1955, was enacted to control the production, supply and distribution of, and trade and commerce in, certain goods considered as essential commodities. The Act itself does not lay out rules and regulations but allows the states to issue control orders related to dealer licensing, regulate stock limits, restrict the movement of goods and requirements of compulsory purchases under a levy system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-amend-decades-old-ec-law-to-deregulate-food-items-give-farmer-marketing-choice/story-xjQ5aAEUAtvR0kLFDcbciK.html
15-05-2020||India||Defence minister Rajnath Singh commissions coast guard vessels via video conference||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday commissioned three coast guard vessels through video conferencing and said the locally-built ships symbolised the country’s self-reliance. The new vessels are Indian Coast Guard Ship (ICGS) Sachet and two interceptor boats (IBs) C-450 and C-451, the ministry said in a statement.“The commissioning of these ships is an important milestone in India’s coastal capability building process. Also, despite challenges like Covid-19, it is also a great example of our commitment and determination for the safety and security of the country,” Singh said.While Sachet is the first in a series of five offshore patrol vessels (OPVs) designed and being built by Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL), the IBs have been built by Larsen & Toubro’s Hazira shipyard.Singh praised GSL and L&T Shipyard for continuing to build and maintain ships under the present circumstances. “It also shows professionalism. It is noteworthy that Indian shipyards are making significant contribution to the vision of ‘Make in India’ and the ‘Self-reliant India campaign’,” Singh said.Coast Guard Director General Krishnaswamy Natarajan said the commissioning of the vessels proved that despite the hurdles posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the maritime organisation was moving ahead.With the commissioning of the new ships, the coast guard now has a total of 150 vessels and 62 aircraft. Also, 40 ships are under various stages of construction at different yards and 16 advanced light helicopters are being built at Bengaluru-based Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-commissions-coast-guard-vessels-via-video-conference/story-72VCrsEK5WCySLEgNlw2EO.html
15-05-2020||India||Six people including five migrants test positive for coronavirus in Chhattisgarh||Six people including five migrant workers tested positive for coronavirus in Chhattisgarh on Friday, taking the number of cases in the state to 66.Total number of active cases in Chhattisgarh is 10 and 56 people have been discharged after recovery.“Five migrants who came from Gujarat to Janjgir Champa district and one another from Koriya district tested positive on Friday,” said health minister TS Singhdeo talking to Hindustan Times.All six were tested at Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Medical College, Raipur,” the minister said.Notably, the count of Covid-19 cases in the state is now 66, though the number of active cases is 10 as 56 people have recovered so far.Four patients are undergoing treatment in AIIMS Raipur and they are in stable condition.Total 31,341 samples have been tested by the state government till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-people-including-five-migrants-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-chhattisgarh/story-3kXTBAq90D6cO6tgvBAaHI.html
15-05-2020||India||India faring better than other countries in combating Covid-19, no need to create panic: MoS for Health||Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey on Friday said that India is doing better in comparison to other countries in the fight against COVID-19.Speaking to ANI, Choubey said that maximum people, who have tested positive for COVID-19, do not have any symptoms.“Today, around 10 per cent people among COVID-19 positive cases are those who are showing symptoms of cough, cold or fever, and less than five per cent people are those, who are needed to be on the ventilator or given oxygen or be in the ICU,” said Choubey.He went on to highlight that roughly 0.37 per cent are on a ventilator, 2.37 in ICU and 1.89 per cent on oxygen support. These figures are for the last 48 hours.“We can say that we are in better condition and there is no need to create any kind of panic,” Choubey said.With an increase of 3,967 COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, India’s count of coronavirus cases reached 81,970 cases, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Friday.According to the latest figures, 51,401 patients are active coronavirus cases while 27,919 patients have been cured/discharged and one patient has been migrated. With 100 deaths due to COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the number of deaths now stands at 2,649.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-faring-better-than-other-countries-in-combating-covid-19-no-need-to-create-panic-mos-for-health/story-53o9UwFMDq5mSP9j4UnCAL.html
15-05-2020||India||15 people who returned to Uttarakhand from other states test Covid-19 positive||Fifteen people who have returned to Uttarakhand from other states during the ongoing evacuation process have turned Covid-19 positive in the state.According to government officials, till Friday evening, over 2.12 lakh registrations had been made on the state website for return to Uttarakhand. Of these, the state government under its evacuation process has so far brought back 82, 834 people through trains and buses. Over 6000 people have returned to the state in their own vehicles. In case of people from other states stranded in Uttarakhand, 33,990 have registered with the government for return to their respective states. Of these, 16,229 have been sent to their respective states. On Friday two persons person tested positive for Covid-19, one in Dehradun and other in Pauri Garhwal, taking the tally of total cases to 80 in Uttarakhand. Of 80 cases, 50 people have recovered so far, leaving 29 active cases in the state.With the fresh case, Dehradun now has a total of 40 cases and 11 active cases. With the latest case, the doubling rate in the past seven days in Dehradun district has reduced to 29.86 from 167.38 days on Tuesday.JC Pandey, public relations officer (PRO) state health department said 29 year old man from Dehradun tested positive at the testing lab in All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh. “This man had come with his mother from Delhi. His mother had tested COVID-19 positive on May 13”, he said.Pandey said another 25 year old man from Pauri Garhwal tested positive at AIIMS Rishikesh. He said the man had returned from Gurugram Haryana.Of 80 cases in the state so far, Dehradun has reported the maximum 40 Covid-19 positive cases followed by 16 in US Nagar, 12 in Nainital, 7 in Haridwar, 2 from Almora, 2 from Pauri Garhwal and one from Uttar KashiUttarakhand has nine containment zones including five in Dehradun followed by two in Haridwar and one each in Nainital and US Nagar.Authorities in Uttarakhand are worried over many people returning to the state testing positive for Covid-19. Last week, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had even acknowledged that the state was faced up with a big challenge because many of those returning to the state are likely to be infected. “The state is expecting at least 2-2.25 lakh migrants to return of which about 25,000 are expected to be infected,” the chief minister had said during a Facebook live session.On May 13, even Uttarakhand high court, while expressing concern over many migrants returning to the state testing Covid-19 positive, had sought reply from the state and Central government on whether each person returning to the state was also being medically examined as ‘thermal screening is not enough’ and whether antigen tests, or any other rapid tests, could be performed on people returning to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-people-who-returned-to-uttarakhand-from-other-states-test-covid-19-positive/story-nWO22d4ADmZwhwEMXMKKKP.html
15-05-2020||India||4-feet social distance, Aarogya Setu app must: AAI rules for air travel||Downloading the Aarogya Setu app on mobile phones will be mandatory for travelling by air, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said on Friday while issuing guidelines for resumption of flights in a “graded manner”. Passengers will have to wear a mask and other protective gear and maintain at least four-feet physical distance from co-passengers, the guidelines said. Passengers will also have to do a web check-in before the journey and carry a print-out of the boarding pass, AAI said.They will also be required to wash or sanitise their hands frequently, AAI said. On Thursday the bureau of civil aviation issued guidelines for enhancement of admissible limit of hand sanitisers to be carried in cabin baggage. ALSO READ | Air India staffer tests positive for Covid-19, office sealed for two days“Due to the spread of the coronavirus infection, passengers are being advised to use hand sanitisers frequently. Therefore it has been decided that the passengers boarding an aircraft will be allowed to carry in his/her hand baggage liquid hand sanitisers up to 350 ml,” the guidelines said. Restrictions on other liquid items will continue to be 100 ml. The stamping of boarding passes has also been suspended to reduce contact between passengers and security staff. India has suspended domestic passenger flights since the lockdown announced on March 25, while international flights were suspended before March 22. Civil Aviation minister Hardeep Puri has said domestic flights are expected to resume soon in a gradual manner. He said airports are likely to open in a graded manner with nearly 25-30% of its capacity initially. Once restrictions on passenger flights are lifted, airports will facilitate limited domestic and international scheduled flights in phases and may be at 30% capacity to facilitate social distancing, the Airport Authority of India had stated in a set of guidelines for resumption of service post-lockdown, Hindustan Times had reported on April 30. Flight operations to its original level are likely to be scaled up in a gradual manner, according to the government’s plan. Airline operations are likely to begin in tier-I cities first, it added.In a draft standard operating procedures (SOPs) proposed by the civil aviation ministry for passengers, airlines and airport operators it was suggested that cabin luggage will be barred and passengers aged above 80 years will not be allowed on flights when air travel services begin. The SOP had also suggested passenger ID checks will not be required so as to minimise the crowd at terminal gates.The Indian Railways has also made it mandatory for passengers to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones before commencing their train journey, the railway ministry said on Tuesday as services connecting 15 destinations with New Delhi resumed, reversing an earlier guideline.A similar instruction mandating the app may also be issued for passengers boarding flights when they resume, according to draft standard operating procedures sent by the civil aviation ministry to airlines and airport operators for feedback. The Centre has also mandated the app for Indians who are being evacuated from abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-feet-social-distance-aarogya-setu-app-must-aai-rules-for-air-travel/story-n0NcfScQPi0n9Is7kxJ5gN.html
15-05-2020||India||Covid lockdown impact: Andhra RTC dumps 7,600 outsourced workers||The continued nationwide lockdown to contain Covid-19 pandemic has now cast its shadow on the outsourced employees of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC).On Friday, the corporation put a question mark on 7,600 outsourced workers of the APSRTC with an instruction to all bus depot managers not to take them into work, employees’ union leaders said.“We may use permanent employees for all duties due to Covid situation and related financial crisis. Only after the full utilisation of permanent employees, we may call any outsourcing/contract personnel for duties,” a WhatsApp message from APSRTC managing director Madireddy Pratap to the depot managers on Friday said.According to transport corporation employees’ union general secretary P Damodar Rao, the outsourced employees mostly work as mechanics in garages, cleaners, sweepers, typists, data entry operators, peons and helpers in RTC hospitals. “Their salary bill is around Rs 9 crore a month. The management is sacking them to save this money,” Rao told Hindustan Times.While Pratap could not be reached for a comment, an internal office memo issued by him to vigilance and security officers of the RTC regional depots on May 13 revealed that since the corporation was planning to operate all buses without conductors hereafter, it would result in surplus conductors and they could be redeployed in place of outsourced employees whose services would be withdrawn.Similarly, there are outsourced drivers in the RTC, who were running some buses and light vehicles, apart from doing parking duties. These outsourced drivers would also be withdrawn and in their places, surplus regular drivers could be deployed, the office memo said.“This is ridiculous. Regular employees cannot replace these outsourced or contracted employees. How can a conductor or a driver do the job of a sweeper or a peon?” the union general secretary asked.According to Rao, APSRTC has close to 52,000 regular employees and 7,800 regular vacancies. “If the RTC management thinks there are excess conductors and drivers, they could be utilised in the existing vacancies,” he said.The sacked outsourced employees have not got their salaries for the month of April since the busses didn’t operate in April, the union leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-lockdown-impact-andhra-rtc-dumps-7-600-outsourced-workers/story-PgdFmcdWkcTwrhe24UBdpJ.html
15-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Supreme Court stays Madras HC order, paves way for opening liquor shops in TN and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court stays Madras HC order, paves way for opening liquor shops in TNThe Supreme Court on Friday paved the way for reopening of state-owned liquor vends in Tamil Nadu by staying a Madras High Court order which had ordered their closure on the grounds that there was violation of guidelines, such as social distancing, meant to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreDelhi’s Covid-19 death toll rises to123, city reports 425 fresh cases taking tally to 8,895Delhi reported 425 new Covid-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital to 8,895 including 5,254 active cases and 3,518 patients who have recovered, according to data from the Delhi health department. Read more‘Ensure migrants don’t travel on foot’: CM Yogi Adityanath to officialsChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked state officials to set up teams in every police station area to ensure that no migrant worker travels on foot or bike or in any unsafe mode in Uttar Pradesh. Read moreElephant uses a stick to scare away angry rhino. Watch incredible videoThey’re two huge animals and it would be hard to pick which would win in a battle between them. This video shows just that - an interesting fight between an elephant and a rhinoceros. It’s not just the fight that makes the clip interesting. Read moreThis is Diljit Dosanjh’s yummy and easy cheat day pancake recipeWith government mandated lockdowns in place on account of the coronavirus pandemic, we are seeing the domestic side of our beloved Bollywood celebrities. Read moreMigrants’ walk of despair continues despite Shramik trains: Who’s to blame?Migrant labourers in the country continue to walk back to their native villages. This despite the government arranging special Shramik trains for transporting stranded migrant labourers. So are why migrant labourers still on the road desperately trying to reach their native villages? Who is to blame for the plight of the migrant labourers? Watch Congress’ Gourav Vallabh & BJP’s Charu Pragya discuss the issue with Hindustan Times’ Chetan Chauhan & Aditi Prasad. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-supreme-court-stays-madras-hc-order-paves-way-for-opening-liquor-shops-in-tn-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dztZS2abJvr51AP0YWB4sL.html
15-05-2020||India||56-year-old migrant dies on road to home, another dies after police lathi charge||The nationwide lockdown continued to take its toll on migrant workers with a 56-year-old dying on the road to Puri after travelling around 200 km from Kolkata and a 28-year-old worker injured in police lathi charge dying in a Surat hospital.In another incident, a 38-year-old migrant worker staying in a quarantine centre in Mayurbhanj hanged himself from a tree following a minor tiff with his wife, who also stayed in the same centre.On Friday morning, Dhubei Charan Mohanty, a 56-year-old man from Puri district slumped to death at Laxmannath tollgate on Odisha-Bengal border after travelling about 200 km from Kolkata. Mohanty, who worked in a private company in Kolkata for a salary of Rs 13,000 a month, was stranded there after the nationwide lockdown was clamped. He had also run out of money as his company was shut.On Friday morning, he had hopped onto a bus from Kolkata to travel to his home in Tikarpada village under Kakatpur police station area of Puri district, around 500 km away. He got down from the bus at Laxmannath toll gate at 11.30 am and had started walking across the border when he fell down. He was taken to the GK Bhattar Hospital where doctor Dilip Patra declared him dead. “Though we are yet to conduct a post-mortem, he might have suffered acute dehydration due to high temperature leading to cardiac arrest. Today it was a little hot during daytime,” said Patra.Meanwhile, Odisha police today announced that no migrant from other states passing by Odisha will have to walk. Following reports of migrants walking under hot Sun, Odisha DGP Abhay said they can walk into the nearest police station and police will make their travel arrangements. The cost of travel would be reimbursed from chief minister’s relief fund. So far, 1,349 buses and 4,372 four-wheelers have passed through 12 border check points in Odisha.In Surat town of Gujarat, Satyaban Swain, a 28-year-old migrant worker from Ganjam, working in a private factory there died late Thursday night soon after he was allegedly beaten up by the police.On Thursday evening, several migrant workers had gone to local Amroli police seeking registration of their names for booking of train tickets to Odisha.“Seeing so many migrant workers, the cops chased them away to their factory at Anjani Industries area. Swain, who was sitting inside the factory premises, was rounded up by police along with others and thrashed badly. An injured Swain was put up in an autorickshaw along with others and taken to Amroli police station. Fearful of more police torture at the police station, Swain jumped off the auto-rickshaw and suffered critical injuries.He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead,” said Raghunath Panda, a leading member of Odia community in Surat.The migrant worker is survived by his wife and a five-year-old mentally-challenged son.In another incident, a 38-year-old migrant working in a marble factory of Vijaywada, who was admitted to a quarantine centre in Mayurbhanj district, hanged himself from a Mahul tree following a tiff with his wife. His wife, too, was quarantined there. Police said Surendra Nayak of Raikama village under Baisinga block was quarantined 6 days ago after returning from Vijaywada. His wife, who had travelled to Prashanti Nilayam in Andhra Pradesh with a group of Sai devotees, too, was quarantined there.His younger brother said late last evening the couple had a tiff over Surendra’s suspicion that his wife had an affair with one of the Sai devotees with whom she had travelled. This morning, Surendra’s body was found hanging from a Mahul tree. He was wearing just underwear when the body was recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/56-year-old-migrant-worker-on-his-way-to-home-dies-on-road-28-year-old-migrant-dies-in-police-lathicharge-in-surat/story-O1NI1kDAWYRAAQOg4dkT6M.html
15-05-2020||India||Karnataka sees another record rise of Covid-19 cases as tally crosses 1000-mark||With 69 new Covid-19 positive cases reported in Karnataka, the southern state saw the single biggest day rise in cases, even as the cumulative number of those who have tested positive for the virus crossed the 1000-mark. The state till now has recorded 1,056 total Covid-19 positive cases which include 35 deaths and 480 discharges. The total number of active cases in Karnataka stands at 539.State health department officials said that they were concerned over the fact that nearly a third of the new cases have come from those who have returned from the Gulf region after they were evacuated and brought to Dakshin Kannada and Udupi districts. On Thursday, Karnataka had sent back about 19 people from Delhi who had refused to quarantine themselves mandatorily for the two-week period as prescribed. The 19 were a part of 1000 passengers who came in the first train from Delhi to Bangalore in nearly two months.Meanwhile, the state administration received criticism from several quarters after belated visuals appeared on social media of an annual temple fair to Goddess Maramma at Kollagondahalli village in Ramnagar district in which hundreds of devotees participated without any social distancing or masks being worn. Apparently, villagers prayed to the goddess for elimination of coronavirus but the assembly of several hundred devotees congregating without any precautions being taken has attracted flak.While the panchayat development officer has been suspended for allowing the temple fair to happen, priest Bore Gowda was arrested on Friday and charged under various sections of the IPC, including disobeying orders of public servant and acts leading to spread of an infectious disease.Deputy CM C N Ashwath Narayan who is also the district-in-charge minister, however, claimed that the administration was not aware of the festival being held and that strict action would be taken against anybody who had been negligent in their duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-sees-another-record-rise-of-covid-19-cases-as-tally-crosses-1000-mark/story-TizBXIdQE8eS3USoAY3m4J.html
15-05-2020||India||22 insurgents brought from Myanmar will be held in strict quarantine: Assam cop||The Myanmar government on Friday handed over 22 rebels belonging to six different outfits in Manipur and Assam to the Indian authorities, in a first move of its kind.This is the first time that the Myanmar government has acted on the Indian government’s request and handed over Indian rebels who were based in their country.The rebels, who were apprehended by the Myanmar Army in the Sagaing region of the neighbouring country in separate operations during the past months, are being brought back to India by a special plane.“The information about the handing over of rebels is true. But I can’t give details of who these insurgents are and other descriptions of the operation,” a senior Assam Police official said.“As per the standing orders of the government and the current Covid-19 pandemic, they will be kept under strict quarantine. I won’t be able to disclose where they are being kept,” he added.According to reports, those deported include 12 rebels from four insurgent groups in Manipur—United National Liberation Front (UNLF), Kanglei Yawol Kunna Lup (KYKL), Peoples’ Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak-Progressive (PREPAK-PRO) and Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA-Manipur).The 10 other rebels are from Assam’s National Democratic Front of Bodoland-Saoraigwra (NDFB-S) and Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO).The special plane is expected to first land in Manipur’s capital Imphal where the rebels from that state will de-board before it flies to Guwahati.The rebels include self-styled home secretary of NDFB-S Rajen Daimary, Sanatouba Ningthoujam of UNLF and Pashuram Laishram of PREPAK-PRO.Most of the active insurgent outfits in the Northeast including the United Liberation Front of Assam-Independent (ULFA-I) have their bases in Myanmar where they conduct training of their cadres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-insurgents-brought-from-myanmar-will-be-held-in-strict-quarantine-assam-cop/story-T46FItQttwqyEdgTKcQbtN.html
15-05-2020||India||Supreme Court stays Madras HC order, paves way for opening liquor shops in TN||The Supreme Court on Friday paved the way for reopening of state-owned liquor vends in Tamil Nadu by staying a Madras High Court order which had ordered their closure on the grounds that there was violation of guidelines, such as social distancing, meant to contain the Covid-19 pandemic.A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao orally observed that the ultimate decision on whether liquor should be sold and how the sale should be made rests with the government.“Issue notice. In the meanwhile there shall be ad interim stay of orders dated May 6 and May 8, passed by the High Court of Madras,” the bench which also comprised justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai said. The court also stayed the May 11 order passed by the Madurai bench of the Madras high court. The high court had directed on May 8 that Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC) can sell liquor only through online mode after the re-opening of liquor outlets on May 7 had led to overcrowding and long queues outside its outlets.The central government had, on May 1, allowed states to sell liquor subject to certain conditions which were issued to ensure social distancing in the shops.In line with the Centre’s directions, the Tamil Nadu government had issued a public notice on May 4 announcing that TASMAC outlets which were shut since lockdown would reopen on May 7 for sale of liquor.However, on a PIL by one B Ramkumar Adityan, the high court on May 6 passed an order regulating the sale of liquor. It mandated adherence to certain conditions subject to which the sales could be carried out.It was ordered that “not more than two bottles of 750 ml each (including wine, beer etc.) of any one type will be sold to one customer at a time.”Further, it directed that customers cannot purchase liquor more than twice a week and with a minimum gap of three days. Directions were also issued to encourage online payment instead of cash payment.The state of Tamil Nadu and TASMAC, which approached the Supreme Court challenging the high court order, pointed out that when the outlets opened on May 7 after a 44-day shutdown, the high court directions, in fact, led to overcrowding and worsened the queues.This caused the High Court to serve up a double whammy by passing another order on May 8 directing complete closure of TASMAC outlets leaving it with the option of online delivery alone.This direction was reiterated by the Madurai Bench of the High Court on May 11 in another case.The orders passed by the high court are “counter-productive” and are “an overreach of its powers”, TASMAC had submitted before the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-rests-with-state-govt-sc-on-opening-liquor-shops-in-tamil-nadu/story-jKHWEQOpJ9Rs8JNjGUERwM.html
15-05-2020||India||Odisha bracing for possible cyclone, 12 districts on alert||Odisha government on Friday asked collectors of four coastal districts, which are likely to be affected by a looming cyclonic storm, to arrange more number of alternative shelter homes for a possible evacuation of residents, as the state stares at another natural disaster amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.India Meteorological Department (IMD) director-general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said the well-marked low pressure would likely to concentrate into depression over central parts of south Bay of Bengal on Friday and further intensify into a cyclonic storm by the evening and likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm over south & adjoining central parts of the Bay of Bengal by Saturday evening. Initially, it is likely to move northwestwards and then re-curve north-northeastwards towards the north of Bay of Bengal on Monday and Tuesday.Odisha government took note of IMD’s forecast and alerted 12 districts, including in southern and northern regions, for the imminent cyclonic storm. “We’ve discussed with the collectors of Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore districts to closely monitor the situation. District collectors in north coastal Odisha have been asked to look for alternative cyclone shelters as existing ones have been turned into Covid-19 quarantine centres,” said Pradeep Jena, special relief commissioner, Odisha.The cyclonic storm is likely to lash Odisha at a time when 21 of the state’s 30 districts are grappling with the pandemic, as 672 people have tested Covid-19 positive to date.Another disaster in the form of a looming cyclonic storm is likely to pose a massive challenge for the state administration, which is on the precipice due to the viral outbreak.State chief secretary Asit Tripathy said the leaves of all government employees in four districts, which are staring at the cyclonic fury, have been cancelled. “The cyclonic storms in previous years such as Titli and Fani had caused massive devastation in Odisha. However, the state government has been lauded for its disaster management strategy,” Tripathy said.IMD has predicted that the southern districts, including Ganjam, Gajapati, and the coastal districts of Puri and Kendrapara are likely to experience heavy rainfall with 40-45 kilometres per hour (kmph) wind speed gusting up to 60-65 kmph on Monday because of the cyclonic storm. On Tuesday, rainfall is likely to occur in northern districts with 60-65 kmph wind speed gusting up to 85-90 kmph.The fishermen have been asked not to venture into the deep sea from Friday because of the possible cyclonic storm. Those, who have already sailed into the sea, have been asked to return to the shores by Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-bracing-for-possible-cyclone-12-districts-on-alert/story-BLW4ir3Gc38e8k1QhrO1WK.html
15-05-2020||India||‘Ensure migrants don’t travel on foot’: CM Yogi Adityanath to officials||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked state officials to set up teams in every police station area to ensure that no migrant worker travels on foot or bike or in any unsafe mode in Uttar Pradesh.The directive came amid rising cases of migrants losing their lives in road accidents while marching back home.The CM said food and water should be provided to the migrants as soon as they enter the state and added that they should be medically screened. Arrangements for a vehicle to send them to their respective destinations should be made if they are found fit, the CM told officials.Reviewing the lockdown situation, the CM said the state government was sensitive towards the problems of migrant labourers and all efforts must be made to ensure that workers reach their destination. He said no laxity in this regard would be tolerated.He said DGPs of all states should be contacted and a request made to them to ensure that no migrant labourer travels by trucks or any other unsafe vehicle, failing which strict action would be taken against those ferrying them in unsafe vehicles.CM Yogi said buses should be arranged to carry those reaching the state by train from different states to carry them home. In case the state buses are not available, private buses should be deployed, said the CM. He further directed that the drivers of the buses should also be given protective equipment.The quarantine centres, the CM added, should be kept clean and use of liquor should not be allowed there. He added that lockdown rules should be strictly enforced and police patrolling should be intensified in the state.The chief minister urged the hospitals to carry out emergency services and other medical operations, both in government and private hospitals, except the OPD services.Masks, gloves, sanitisers and PPE kits should be made available to drivers, assistants in ambulances and those transporting Covid-19 positive patients, underlined the CM.On restarting industries, Yogi said availability of labourers should be assessed for the same.Loan melas should be organised to provide loan to the street vendors on the pattern of loan mela organized for MSMEs in accordance with the economic package announced by the Centre, said the CM.The women self-help groups (SHGs) manufacturing masks were encouraged to sell masks. He said arrangements should be made to sell masks through street vendors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-migrants-don-t-travel-on-foot-cm-yogi-adityanath-to-officials/story-FFg2Ta5KO3pMj1boF0qjIJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Rajnath Singh approves setting up of testing facilities for domestic defence industry||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday approved a scheme under which infrastructure would be developed at a cost of Rs 400 crore to help domestic military firms carry out testing of indigenously developed military hardware.The Defence Testing Infrastructure Scheme (DTIS) is aimed at boosting domestic defence and aerospace manufacturing, officials said.“The defence minister approved the launch of DTIS with an outlay of Rs 400 crore for creating state-of-the-art testing infrastructure for defence sector,” the defence ministry said in a statement.It said the scheme would run for a duration of five years and envisages to set up six to eight new testing facilities in partnership with private industry.It said projects under the scheme will be provided up to 75 per cent government funding in the form of ‘grant-in-aid’. The remaining 25 per cent of the project cost will have to be borne by private entities and state governments. The special purpose vehicles to be set up to implement the scheme will have to be registered under the Companies Act, 2013, and shall also operate and maintain all assets under the scheme in a self-sustainable manner by collecting user charges. The equipment/systems tested will be certified as per appropriate accreditation, officials said.At present, India is one of the top importers of military hardware globally. The government has been focusing on making India a hub of defence production.According to the latest report by Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), a leading think-tank on military spending, India’s defence expenditure stood at USD 71.1 billion in 2019, which is third highest after the US and China.In 2017, the government came up with an ambitious policy under which select private firms were to be roped in to build key military platforms like submarines and fighter jets in India in partnership with global defence majors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-approves-setting-up-of-testing-facilities-for-domestic-defence-industry/story-7IYTvx6jGJ0NWumqhMVNJN.html
15-05-2020||India||‘Allow us to board empty planes’: Stranded NRIs in India urge Centre||The stranded non-resident Indians (NRIs) in the country have urged the Centre to help them get back to countries of their residency citing the threat of losing their jobs and livelihoods due to the delay among other reasons. They say they could be put on empty Air India flights engaged in the world’s biggest evacuation named ‘Operation Vande Bharat’.Some of them say they are separated from their minor children, who are now in dire straits as more than two months have passed. Some others stuck in India are facing innumerable problems and have no idea when they can join their ailing kin.The NRIs HT spoke to said they are more than 4,000 in numbers and have approached many without results. Around 2000 of these are from the middle-eastern countries, around 1000 from Europe and approximately 800 from the US. They have created WhatsApp and Telegram groups to stay in touch with each other and air their grievances.“I came to my daughter in Bengaluru in March and was planning to leave after two weeks, but by that time the lockdown was announced. My husband, mother and other family members are in Dubai. Dubai has opened up and all offices have started working there,” said Kamini Kannan who is settled in Dubai for more than two and a half decades. “What really worries me is that my mother and husband both have health problems. I am totally in the dark,” she said. “I came here for my mother’s cancer operation. I have a one- and- a-half-year breastfeeding child left with my husband in Qatar. I knocked on many doors to help me get back. My husband’s job is also in danger now,” said another woman from Kochi who did not wish to be named.Habeeba Mohammad (31) had left her five children with her husband in Abu Dhabi to attend to her mother’s medical emergency in Hyderabad on March 18. What was supposed to be a five-day trip, has stretched to two months.At least 50 per cent of the stranded NRIs had come to see their ailing relatives like Habeeba. They want the government to hear their woes before it’s too late.Meenakshi Chakraborty flew down to Kolkotta for some urgent family work with her 10th grader daughter and got stuck. “I am really worried, as my husband, who has underlying medical condition, is staying alone in Dubai. My daughter who has her 10th exams has no books or study material,” she said.Another woman came to Kolkotta to attend her father’s funeral service after leaving her two minor kids with her husband. “Initially I thought it will be there for a few weeks. But there is no sign of any resumption of flights. I am really worried,” she said.Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said the government was aware of their plight. “Many such cases came to our attention. We don’t have any problem in sending them back but the host country will have to allow flight services. Most of these countries have suspended international flights and are allowing only special ones. Once they begin service, they can go on the first flight. If their visas expire, we will help them in getting extension,” he said adding they will have to wait for some more time.The government specified rules allow Indian nationals with at least a one-year-long visa to book flights for foreign destinations being serviced by Operation Vande Bharat Mission. It also allows Green Card and OCI (Overseas Citizen of India) cardholders to travel. In case of deaths and medical emergencies, Indian nationals holding six months visa can also be allowed to travel provided the conditions imposed for entry of people by the destination countries are met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-us-to-board-empty-planes-stranded-nris-in-india-urge-centre-citing-threat-to-jobs-families/story-SNYE1j2BWYll5teeaIu6YO.html
15-05-2020||India||Suspense over resumption of Delhi Metro remains, will inform after decision, says DMRC||As the country gets ready for lockdown 4.0 which is likely to see a further easing of restrictions including interstate public transport in some cases, residents in Delhi are awaiting news on the resumption of Delhi Metro that connects around 400 km network and has fast developed as the backbone of the capital’s public transport infrastructure.While the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, responsible for running and management of the metro rail network in the capital, has begun the preparation for an eventual reopening with maintenance work, there is no telling if it will come after May 17, when the third phase of lockdown ends. The DMRC on Friday said that a decision in this matter will be taken by the government.“The decision to resume Metro rail services in Delhi NCR will be taken by the Government after which the detailed protocol to be followed by passengers for travelling in the Metro will be shared with the media and public,” news agency ANI quoted Anuj Dayal, executive director, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation as saying. Two days ago, DMRC had said it will start undertaking cleaning and maintenance work to get ready for the resumption of services in the near future.The Delhi Metro services were suspended on March 22, before the first phase of the nationwide lockdown was implemented from March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus infection.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“The date for the resumption of services has still not been finalized and will be notified to the public in due course. All systems of the metro including the signalling, electrical, rolling stock, tracks etc will have to be tested in detail before services are ultimately started,” a tweet from DMRC had said.The total length of the metro network in Delhi is close to 400 kilometres and it caters to several lakh commuters daily.The DMRC is expected to resume social distancing measures on the network which were initiated before it suspended its services.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has submitted his government’s suggestions on the fourth phase of lockdown to be implemented in Delhi to the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspense-over-resumption-of-delhi-metro-remains-will-inform-after-decision-says-dmrc/story-CVuHVgIjJVagwx0aEmcXJJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 death toll rises to123, city reports 425 fresh cases taking tally to 8,895||Delhi reported 425 new Covid-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital to 8,895 including 5,254 active cases and 3,518 patients who have recovered, according to data from the Delhi health department. On Thursday, the city had recorded 472 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi so far.In a health bulletin issued on Friday, the Delhi health department said, the death toll from the coronavirus infection in the national capital has risen to 123. The national capital, however, did not report any deaths due to coronavirus in the last twenty-four hours, the data revealed.ALSO READ | Biggest single-day spike as Delhi Covid-19 cases cross 8,000It said cumulative death figures refer to fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be Covid-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals.On Thursday, the total number of coronavirus cases stood at 8,470, including 115 deaths. India’s Covid-19 tally has climbed to 81,970, with an increase of 3,967 coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Friday.According to the Health Ministry, Maharashtra is the worst-hit state with the maximum number of Covid-19 cases with 27,524 patients of whom, 6,059 patients have been cured and discharged and 1,019 have died of the disease.Tamil Nadu has a tally of 9,674 Covid-19 cases inclusive of 2,240 patients cured and discharged and 66 fatalities.Gujarat has a total of 9,591 cases which include 3,753 patients cured and discharged while 586 have lost their lives due to coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to123-city-reports-425-fresh-cases-taking-tally-to-8-895/story-7KhV4ewplevU1Tp0n92ZaM.html
15-05-2020||India||UK repatriates over 16,500 citizens from India||The UK has repatriated more than 16,500 citizens from India on 64 special charter flights since last month, the British high commission said on Friday.The flights were operated from 32 locations across India in the past 38 days, and almost half of the Britons repatriated globally so far on UK charter flights have been from India.This was done through a large and complex operation that involved more than 500 members of staff in India, working around the clock to ensure flights operated smoothly and passengers could reach airports.The nationwide lockdown required close coordination between British authorities and the Indian government and local authorities to transport passengers over large distances.One British national stranded in a remote village in Manipur had to travel more than 2,700 km for the flight home from New Delhi, the high commission said.Jan Thompson, the acting high commissioner to India, said:“The last currently scheduled charter flight left for London Heathrow from Amritsar today [Friday] with over 300 passengers on board.“This unprecedented repatriation effort would not have been possible without the excellent support of the Indian government. Continued cooperation between our nations will be essential in the fight against this pandemic.”Since the coronavirus outbreak, the UK government has helped 1.3 million Britons around the world to return on commercial flights and organised special charter flights from 27 countries and territories.The UK government currently has no plans for further charter flights but the situation will be kept under review, the high commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-repatriates-over-16-500-citizens-from-india/story-VRUGBRaqVVrCUuGRF7BCVO.html
15-05-2020||India||In Nirmala Sitharaman’s Covid-19 package, 10 interventions for farm sector||The third tranche of Rs 20 lakh crore economic relief package announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman was concentrated on funding big-ticket reforms in the agricultural sector to not just revive the economic growth but unleash its latent potential through opening up of production and marketing avenues. The move is likely to result in long-term gains for farmers, marketers and consumers. Here is the list of all key measures announced by the finance ministry as part of Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Special Package:1. Government to amend Essential Commodities Act to enable better price realisation for farmers which will result in the deregulation of prices for foodstuffs including cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onions and potato. The minister said the amendment would help in attracting investments and making agriculture sector competitive. Stock limits- a feature of the old act-- to be imposed under very exceptional circumstances like during national calamities like famine that see a surge in prices.Also Read: Nirmala Sitharaman special Covid-19 package: Prices of essential commodities to be deregulated2. A Central law will be formulated to provide adequate choices to farmer to sell produce at an attractive price and for barrier-free interstate trade. It will also set up the framework for e-trading of agriculture produce. The move is aim to end fragmentation of markets available to farmers who are currently forced to sell only to licensed APMC marketers.3. Rs 1 lakh crore Agri Infrastructure Fund for farm-gate infrastructure for farmers for projects at farm-gate & aggregation points-- primary agricultural cooperative societies, farmers producer organisations, agriculture entrepreneurs, startups, etc.4. Rs 10,000 crore scheme for the formalisation of Micro Food Enterprises (MFE) under ‘Vocal for Local with Global outreach’ vision shown by the prime minister. This will help 2 lakh MFEs attain technical up-gradation, FSSAI food standards, build brands and marketing5. Rs 20,000 crore for fishermen through Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) for integrated, sustainable, inclusive development of marine and inland fisheries and to fill critical gaps in the fisheries value chain. Out of this, Rs 11,000 crore will be allocated for activities in marine, inland fisheries and aquaculture and Rs. 9000 Cr for infrastructure including fishing harbours, cold chain, markets etc. It is expected to lead to additional fish production of 70 lakh tonnes over 5 years and employment to over 55 lakh persons apart from double exports to Rs 1,00,000 crore. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-196. Rs. 13,343 crore for National Animal Disease Control Programme for foot and mouth disease (FMD) and brucellosis launched. It will help in 100% vaccination of cattle, buffalo, sheep, goat and pig population (total 53 crore animals)7. Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund worth Rs 15,000 crore will be set up with the aim to support private investment in dairy processing, value addition and cattle feed infrastructure. Incentives to be given for establishing plants for export of niche dairy products.8. Promotion of herbal cultivation with a fund of Rs 4,000 crore to cover 10,00,000 hectare land under herbal cultivation in the next two years. It is expected to lead to Rs. 5,000 crore income generation for farmers. The programme hopes to create a network of regional market places for medicinal plants. National Medicinal Plants Board (NMPB) will bring 800-hectare area by developing a corridor of medicinal plants along the banks of Ganga.9. Rs 500 crore for beekeeping initiatives –- Infrastructure development related to integrated beekeeping development centres, collection, marketing and storage centres, post harvest & value addition facilities etc. This will lead to a likely increase in income for 2 lakh beekeepers and quality honey to consumers.10. Rs 500 crore for Operation Green to prevent distress sale leading to a reduction in the price of perishable fruits and vegetables at the farm level. All fruits and vegetables will be covered under this initiative for the next 6 months. It includes 50 % subsidy on transportation from surplus to deficient markets and 50 % subsidy on storage, including cold storages. This is likely to result in better price realisation to farmers, reduced wastages and affordability of products for consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmala-sitharaman-s-3rd-installment-of-special-covid-economic-pkg-has-10-interventions-for-the-farm-sector/story-Ike4F5zEetdEyS8M4kbmmN.html
15-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: UK repatriates over 16,500 citizens from India||The UK has repatriated more than 16,500 citizens from India on 64 special charter flights since last month, the British high commission said on Friday.The flights were operated from 32 locations across India in the past 38 days, and almost half of the Britons repatriated globally so far on UK charter flights have been from India.This was done through a large and complex operation that involved more than 500 members of staff in India, working around the clock to ensure flights operated smoothly and passengers could reach airports.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe nationwide lockdown required close coordination between British authorities and the Indian government and local authorities to transport passengers over large distances.One British national stranded in a remote village in Manipur had to travel more than 2,700 km for the flight home from New Delhi, the high commission said.Jan Thompson, the acting high commissioner to India, said:“The last currently scheduled charter flight left for London Heathrow from Amritsar today [Friday] with over 300 passengers on board.“This unprecedented repatriation effort would not have been possible without the excellent support of the Indian government. Continued cooperation between our nations will be essential in the fight against this pandemic.”Since the Coronavirus outbreak, the UK government has helped 1.3 million Britons around the world to return on commercial flights and organised special charter flights from 27 countries and territories.The UK government currently has no plans for further charter flights but the situation will be kept under review, the high commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-uk-repatriates-over-16-500-citizens-from-india/story-5NrIdnuCzrX5qGpOxG3mXI.html
15-05-2020||India||Mumbai man paid naval sailors honey trapped by Pak spies on Facebook, arrested||A 49-year-old Mumbai man, suspected to be key conduit in touch with Pakistan spies in the Visakhapatnam espionage case, has been arrested for paying off navy personnel, the National Investigation Agency said on Friday.Mohammed Haroon Lakdawala used to travel to Karachi in Pakistan for cross-border trade. During one of these visits, he came in contact with two spies Akbar and Rizwan who arranged with him to make deposits into the bank account of navy personnel at regular intervals, an NIA statement said.The NIA had taken over the probe in late December.The spy ring was busted much earlier by the Andhra Pradesh police that had been working along with central intelligence agencies. The security agencies dubbed it “Operation Dolphin Nose”, a reference to the hill next to the Eastern Naval Command in Visakhapatnam where naval offices and a residential complex are located.In all, 14 people including 11 navy personnel and a Pakistani-born Indian national Shaista Qaiser have been arrested in this case.According to the NIA, Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India to collect sensitive and classified information regarding movements of naval ships, submarines and location of other defence establishments.The navy personnel had mostly come in contact with Pakistani nationals through various social media platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp etc. The payments were made via Lakdawala.Investigators had earlier told Hindustan Times that the navy personnel, mostly sailors, had not revealed any significant information and were paid between Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-man-paid-naval-sailors-honey-trapped-by-pak-spies-on-facebook-arrested/story-WlJbzNKkLSL5aoXMODB08O.html
15-05-2020||India||NIA arrests key conspirator in Visakhapatnam espionage case||In a major success, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday arrested the key conspirator in the Visakhapatnam espionage case related to alleged leaking of sensitive information to Pakistani intelligence agency ISI. Mohammed Haroon Haji Abdul Rehman Lakdawala (49), a resident of Mumbai, is one of the key conspirators in the case which was taken over by the NIA in December last year, an official of the agency said. On December 20, Indian intelligence agencies busted the espionage racket linked to Pakistan with the arrest of seven Indian Navy personnel and a hawala operator. With the arrest of Lakdawala, a total of 14 accused have so far been arrested, including 11 Navy personnel and one Pakistani-born Indian national Shaista Qaiser. “Investigation revealed that Lakdawala had visited Karachi (Pakistan) on many occasions to meet his handlers under the guise of conducting cross-border trade. During these visits, he came in contact with two Pakistani spies namely Akbar alias Ali and Rizwan, who directed him to deposit money into the bank accounts of Navy personnel at regular intervals. The same was done through different means,” the official said. During searches at the house of Lakdawala, a number of digital devices and incriminating documents were seized by NIA, he said, adding further investigation in the case was underway. “The NIA has arrested the key conspirator in the Visakhapatnam espionage case related to an international espionage racket involving individuals based in Pakistan and at different locations in India,” the official said. Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India for collecting sensitive and classified information regarding locations and movements of Indian naval ships and submarines, and other defence establishments. “Investigation revealed that a few Navy personnel came in contact with Pakistani nationals through various social media platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp and were involved in sharing classified information in lieu of monetary gains. The money was deposited into the bank accounts of the Navy personnel through Indian associates having business interests in Pakistan,” he said. PTI SKL AAR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-key-conspirator-in-visakhapatnam-espionage-case/story-lbDoCzyLgV0I9IHDTs7Q4J.html
15-05-2020||India||Leh-Manali highway set to open next week as BRO clears winter snow||The strategic 490-kilometre-long Leh-Manali highway, which connects Ladakh with Himachal Pradesh, is expected to be open for traffic from the next week, as Border Roads Organisation (BRO) personnel have cleared the winter snow off the highway, a month earlier than the last year, amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the country.Senior BRO officials said that the road, connecting Leh with the rest of the country, is likely to be opened on Monday.Projects Himank and Deepak cleared the snow from the challenging and treacherous 16,050-feet high Baralacha pass and 17,480-feet high Tanglangla Pass, they added.“The snow accumulation in these sectors recorded over 35 feet at places and has an average height of 15 feet,” a senior BRO official said. Ladakh, which remains cut off from the mainland for over five months during winter, has two primary access roads — the national highway from Srinagar over the 11,570-feet high Zojila pass between Sonmarg and Kargil and the Manali-Leh road.Gurez passengers:Passengers, who were stranded in Bandipora due to the Covid-19 pandemic, were allowed to return to the picturesque Gurez Valley.“The passengers were screened by a team of doctors at Lal Quila Morh at Pethkoot village. The vehicles were thoroughly fumigated before allowing them to proceed towards their destination,” said Reyaz Ahmad Beigh, assistant commissioner, (revenue), Bandipora.“The civil administration and doctors will decide whether to keep these passengers under institutional or home quarantine,” he added.Though Gurez-Bandipora road was opened for traffic in early May, there was a ban on the entry into the valley as a precautionary measure because of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leh-manali-highway-set-to-open-next-week-as-bro-clears-winter-snow/story-z0UzIMxusekqv1J47BhpeL.html
15-05-2020||India||Trade unions to go on strike on May 22 to protest against labour laws suspension||Ten central trade unions on Friday gave a call for a nationwide strike on May 22 to protest against the suspension of labour laws by some states during the lockdown period, and also decided to take the matter to International Labour Organization (ILO). “The joint platform of Central Trade Unions (CTUs) in their meeting held on May 14 , 2020 took note of the critical situation for the working people in the country during the lockdown period and decided to enhance united actions to meet the challenge,” a joint statement by 10 CTUs said. “The joint platform...has decided to observe nationwide protest day against the anti-worker and anti-people onslaughts of the government on May 22, 2020,” it added. While Uttar Pradesh has suspended major labour laws, Madhya Pradesh has tweaked some rules amid the lockdown to spur economic activities. As per media reports, Gujarat, Tripura and many other states are following suit. The CTUs have also decided to send joint representation to ILO in this regard. They said that suspension of labour laws violates international commitments on labour standards and human rights. “Uttar Pradesh government has brought a draconian ordinance titled “Uttar Pradesh Temporary Exemption for certain labour laws ordinance 2020” under the guise of facilitating economic activities,” it said. With one stroke, 38 laws were made defunct in UP for 1,000 days, and only section 5 of Payment of Wages Act 1934, Construction Workers Act 1996, Compensation Act 1993 and Bonded Labour Act 1976 remain functional, it added. The laws that have been suspended include Trade Union Act, Industrial Disputes Act, Act on Occupational Safety and Health, Contract Labour Act, Interstate Migrant Labour Act, Equal Remuneration Act, Maternity Benefit Act etc, it said. According to the statement, Madhya Pradesh government has tweaked labour laws while Gujarat government has decided to increase working hours to 12 from 8 hours. Assam, Tripura and several other states have been actively preparing to take the same route, they added. The move came after 8 states-- Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar and Punjab -- increased the daily working hours to 12 from 8 earlier through executive order in violation of the Factories Act, taking advantage of the lockdown situation, they said. These draconian measures have thrown vulnerable sections into conditions of slavery, the statement said. The national-level leaders of the ten trade unions would organize a day-long hunger strike on May 22 at Gandhi Samadhi, Rajghat, New Delhi. Simultaneous protests would be jointly organized in all states. Their demands include, immediate relief to stranded workers for safe reaching to their homes, food to be made available to all, universal coverage of ration distribution, cash transfer to all unorganized labour force (registered or unregistered or self employed), among others. The ten central trade unions that issued the joint statement are INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC. There are 12 CTUs in the country. RSS-backed Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh has also given a call for nationwide protest against labour laws suspension on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trade-unions-to-go-on-strike-on-may-22-to-protest-against-labour-laws-suspension/story-nwTLgMYycBlBBUSZYJ1vKP.html
15-05-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh, Telangana Covid-19 positive cases rise as migrants return||The return of migrant Telugu-speaking labourers from other states, particularly Maharashtra, has led to in a rise of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh (AP) over the last 10 days, officials said.Out of 440 Covid-19 positive cases registered in AP since May 5, 150 were that of Telugu-speaking migrants from various states such as Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Odisha, West Bengal and Karnataka, said an official bulletin released by the state nodal officer for Covid-19, Arja Sreekanth, on Friday.In the last 24 hours alone, 45 out of 102 Covid-19 positive cases reported in AP were that of migrant Telugu-speaking labourers, including 34 and 11 from Maharashtra and Rajasthan, respectively.Official figures showed that over 8,000 migrant Telugu-speaking labourers returned to their native places. Most of them belong to Anantapur, Chittoor, Nellore, Kurnool and Kadapa districts in AP and they came from different states by special Shramik Express trains arranged by the Centre.Andhra Pradesh special chief secretary K S Jawahar Reddy told media persons that all those who had tested Covid-19 positive have been referred to dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and others sent to a mandatory 14-day quarantine.The AP government has been putting out a separate tally for Covid-19 positive migrant labourers for the last two days to make a distinction that these fresh infections are not homegrown.“The segregation exercise will help us determine that these migrant labourers contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, in those states from where they’ve come back home,” said an official in the Covid-19 control room said.Several vegetable vendors from AP, who visited Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai -- a Covid-19 superspreader – have tested positive, raising a cause for concern for the AP authorities.“So far, 84 Covid-19 positive cases, including 28 in the last 24 hours, have been reported. All of them are related to those people, who had visited Chennai’s Koyambedu vegetable market. All the patients belong to Chittoor, Kurnool, Kadapa, Anantapur and Nellore,” said the state nodal officer.In neighbouring Telangana, migrant workers, who started returning to their native places from other states, particularly from Maharashtra, have been found infected.According to the health bulletin released by the state director of public health and family welfare, G Srinivasa Rao, on Thursday night, 42 Covid-19 positive cases were that of migrant labourers. A majority of the cases were identified among those coming from Mumbai.State health minister Eatala Rajender said migrant workers from Telangana, who had been stuck in various states, have started returning to their native places.“Some of them have tested Covid-19 positive. The authorities concerned should ensure that all the migrant returnees are tested and those who test positive are referred to dedicated Covid-19 hospitals without any delay,” he said.The minister urged that accredited social health (ASHA) workers should be entrusted with the responsibility to conduct door-to-door surveys.“All symptomatic patients should be immediately referred to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital,” he added.Many of these migrant workers are returning to their villages on their own. “Most of these returnees are from north Telangana districts, who had gone to neighbouring Maharashtra in search of work. They may pose risk to others,” said a health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-telangana-covid-19-positive-cases-rise-as-migrants-return/story-bWHLvjsginLvFW5dfYXv6I.html
15-05-2020||India||My struggle has been a prep phase for me||‘Mukkabaaz’ actor Viineet Kumar chose to stay back in Mumbai and not to rush to his hometown Varanasi. “Before the lockdown was announced I was in Mumbai and had to attend several events and functions here. At such events, we get to meet a large number of people and you never know who is infected or has a travel history. So, I thought to stay back as I didn’t wanted to put my parents and family at risk, ” he said while talking over phone.Viineet regrets missing the opportunity to go Tribeca Festival where his film ‘Tryst with Destiny’ was nominated. “Legendary Robert De Niro is the founder of the fest and I missed the chance to meet the actor in person who happens to be my most favourite actor. ‘TwD ‘is based on Pt Nehru’s Independence Day speech. It has three stories beautifully woven together. Eventually, the event was held on a digital platform.”He has five releases ahead out of which four projects are ready for release. “Films ‘Aadhaar’, ‘Tryst with Destiny’ and ‘Gunjan Saxena’ biopic, shot in Lucknow, are all complete. Tamil film ‘Thiruttu Payale 2’ a remake that was shot in Varanasi and Lucknow has two days of shoot left. But, first to come will be his digital horror-thriller ‘Betaal’ (with Aahana Kumra),” he shares. This is his second OTT series after ‘Bard of Blood’ which is also expected to have a second season.Vineet calls his 16 years of struggle as a learning experience all through, “I never call it a period of struggle in fact it was a preparation phase for me. Once ‘Mukkabaaz’ happened then things were on a roll for me. Films like ‘Gold’, ‘Saand Ki Aankh’, OTT release ‘Bard of Blood’ gave me a foothold. Now all my focus is on my upcoming projects. Slowly and steadily I’m moving in a right direction and wish to work on good projects. Hope the ongoing crisis gets over and shoot resume. Till then it’s OTT that will be in forefront,” says the ‘Gangs of Wasseypur’ actor.The versatile actor is writing a new script with his sister Mukti Singh Srinetra. “She also co-wrote ‘Mukkabaaz’. Together we are creating a fresh content hopefully it will be completed soon. Besides, I am doing all household tasks and taking out time o workout at least 1.5-2 hours every day,” he says.Talking about his days in lockdown, he said, “Jab struggle chalta hai to aap saalo-saal quarantine main hote ho (the days of struggle are similar to lockdown days). You get to introspect and heal yourself and it’s not that disturbing. I am used to be alone. But, this phase has troubled us all. Plight of migrants and poor is very distressing and sad. In my capacity, whatever is possible I am trying to do for them. I advise all to take precautions and follow norms then only we will be able to overcome this situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/my-struggle-has-been-a-prep-phase-for-me/story-7EEiPBJtgLu7nw0H9QjfoK.html
15-05-2020||India||Nirmala Sitharaman Live: 8 point agricultural reform announced in 3rd tranche of Aatma Nirbhar Bharat pkg||The finance ministry on Friday announced several reforms in the agriculture sector in keeping with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision to transform the farm sector. Nirmala Sitharaman announced that government was looking to amend the Essential Commodities Act to deregulate prices of food items including cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onions, and potatoes among others. In addition, the minister also unveiled an eight-point-reform programme aligned with the self-sufficient India vision.“Our focus is that India stands up on its own, so there is a lot in terms of empowering people and sectors. Entitlement will be given where it is required but it is about making India self-reliant,” Sitharaman said while announcing the package for the agricultural sector.Also Read: Nirmala Sitharaman special Covid-19 package: Prices of essential commodities to be deregulatedHere are the details of the eight-point farm reforms announced in the third tranche of the Rs 20,000 crore Atma Nirbhar Bharat special economic package to combat the crisis triggered by cronavirus epidemic.1. One lakh crore Agri Infrastructure Fund for creating farm-gate infrastructure for farmers including cold chain and post harvest management structure in the vicinity of farm gate. Financing facility of Rs 1,00,000 core will be provided for funding agriculture infrastructure projects and aggregation points. This fund is to be created immediately.2. Rs 10,000 crore scheme for formalization of Micro Food Enterprises. This scheme promotes ‘Vocal for Local with Global Outreach’ vision outlined by PM Narendra Modi in his last address to the nation, where he stressed on self-reliance as the mantra for India’s economic growth in the post coronavirus world. The scheme, government said, will help 2 lakh MFEs, farmer producer organization, self help groups and cooperatives in technical upgradation, improved incomes, better health and safety standards and integration with retail markets.3. Rs 20,000 crore for fisherman through Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) to fulfill critical gaps in fisheries value chain and for integrated sustainable inclusive development of marine and inland fisheries. Out of this, Rs 11,000 crore is meant for marine, inland fisheries and acquaculture and Rs 9,000 crore is meant for infrastructure like fishing harbours, cold chain, markets etc. This fund infusion is likely to help in additional fish production of 70 lakh tones over 5 years and gain in employment to over 55 lakh persons.4. A total outlay of Rs 13,343 crores for Naitonal Animal Disease Control programme was announced.5. Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund of Rs 15,000 crore was being created for supporting private investments in Dairy processing and value addition and cattle feed infrastructure.6. Rs 4,000 crore was earmarked for the promotion of herbal cultivation which will bring in an additional 10,00,000 hectare of land under cultivation in the next two years. Such a corridor could be developed on both sides of river Ganga, said Sitharaman.7. Rs 500 crore for beekeeping initiatives in the rural areas.8. Rs 500 crore for Operation Green to prevent the wastage of agricultural produce due to disruption of supply chains during the lockdown. This will be extended for the next six months from crops like tomatoes, potatoes and onions to all fruits and vegetables. This involves subsidy for transportation and storage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmala-sitharaman-live-8-point-agricultural-reform-announced-in-3rd-tranche-of-aatma-nirbhar-bharat-pkg/story-cOEHn5XEy4aIkL4kmyJGzH.html
15-05-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi jabs NITI Aayog over Covid-19 ‘prediction’; gets a prompt rebuttal||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday took a swipe at Niti Aayog, a government think tank for predicting that there would be no Covid-19 cases after May 16. According to the think tank, government’s lockdown strategy to control the virus will enable that. “The geniuses at Niti Aayog have done it again. I’d like to remind you of their graph predicting the Govt’s national lockdown strategy would ensure no fresh Covid cases from tomorrow, May the 16th,” tweeted the Congress leader. The geniuses at Niti Aayog have done it again. I’d like to remind you of their graph predicting the Govt's national lockdown strategy would ensure no fresh Covid cases from tomorrow, May the 16th. pic.twitter.com/zFDJtI9IXPThe graph, as seen in Gandhi’s tweet, shows the curve predicting new cases peaking around last week of April and then sloping downwards to zero on May 16.NITI Aayog chief executive officer Amitabh Kant later tweeted his rebuttal to Rahul Gandhi. Blatant falsehood & lie. I have never tweeted this nor is this my slide. Please don’t attribute it to me & kindly withdraw your tweet. https://t.co/oqkUklgZGwIn a statement to HT later, the government think-tank said: “NITI Aayog examines & analysis various epidemiological models. In a presentation Member (Health) has presented various models presented by outside experts. It is a theoretical model like several made by epidemiologists around the world at such a time. It should be read in that context and not literally. The said graph presents factual cases till date along with a trend line. No claim was made as to zero case by 16th May, as is being incorrectly inferred.”However, there has been no let up in the cases even as the third phase of nationwide lockdown ends this Sunday.Earlier today, the death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 2,649 in the country while cases touched 81,970, said the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-shreds-niti-aayog-over-no-covid-19-cases-after-may-16-prediction/story-nIznL58C2I4kaSoVqqIuYI.html
15-05-2020||India||Migrant couple loses 10-month-old child in bike accident while returning home||A 10-month-old girl was killed and her parents, both migrant labourers from Andhra Pradesh, were injured when the motorbike on which they were travelling met with an accident in Telangana’s Yadadri Bhongir district late on Thursday night, the police said.The incident happened at Borrollagudem village of Choutuppal block on Hyderabad-Vijayawada national highway (NH-65).According to Chouttuppal inspector of police P Venkateshwarlu, Kadali Peddi Raju and his wife Lakshmi, from Metlavarithota village of Ramavaram block in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district, had migrated to Hyderabad a few months ago to work as daily wage labourers.Because of the nationwide lockdown on account of Covid-19 pandemic, the couple had not been getting any work in Hyderabad. On Thursday night, Raju left for his native village with his wife and infant daughter on a bike.“As they reached Borrollagudem near Choutuppal, about 45 km from Hyderabad at around midnight, Raju lost control over the bike and collided with a road divider. While the girl child died on the spot, Raju and Lakshmi were seriously injured,” the inspector said.The locals who noticed the accident immediately shifted the couple and the child to the government hospital at Choutuppal. “We have registered a case and are investigating,” Venkateshwarlu said.Meanwhile, migrant labourers travelling from Telangana leaving for other states continue to face troubles at the inter-state borders.On Friday morning, more than 60 vehicles carrying over 2,000 migrant labourers were stopped at the inter-state check post near Ashwaraopet of Telangana’s Bhadradri Kothagudem district on the borders of Andhra Pradesh, as the police authorities from the neighbouring state did not allow them to enter their state.These migrant labourers from West Bengal left Hyderabad on Thursday evening after taking travel permission from the Telangana government authorities. As they reached the Andhra borders at Ashwaraopet at around 3 am, they were stopped by the AP police.However, after prolonged discussions with the Telangana authorities, the AP police allowed them to travel, only after they underwent medical tests at the check post.The police also imposed a condition that the migrant labourers from West Bengal should continue their travel till they crossed the Andhra borders without stopping anywhere in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-couple-s-10-month-old-child-killed-as-they-travel-back-home-on-bike/story-byvNNf9d5zVc0M31XglvpI.html
15-05-2020||India||Recovery rate 34.06%, doubling rate improved: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said that the total recovery rate of COVID-19 patients in the country has been recorded at 34.06% and the Doubling Rate improved from 3.4 days in the pre-lockdown week to 12.9 days in the last week.During the 15th meeting of high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 held here, the Minister said that 1,685 corona patients were cured in the last 24 hours, which denoted the recovery rate of 34.06%. Reading the COVID-19 situation globally and in the country, the Minister said: “The total coronavirus positive cases worldwide stand at 42,48,389 with 2,94,046 deaths and the fatality rate is pegged at 6.92%. In India, the total positive cases are 81,970, with 2,649 deaths and a fatality rate of 3.23%. So far, a total of 27,920 people have been cured.”The GoM held in-depth deliberations on containment strategy and management aspects of COVID-19, as well as measures taken by the Centre and various states. The GoM was informed by the officials that there are 30 municipal areas that account for 79% of India’s COVID-19 case load. The GoM also discussed that the focus of COVID-19 management strategy needs to be on the states with the highest numbers of confirmed cases and the fatalities, and on treatment and case fatality management, for which timely detection of infection and contact tracing were the best way forward. The GOM also discussed the challenges before various states/UTs arising due to migrant labourers returning home and the returnees from abroad.The Minister told the GoM that a total of 8,694 facilities comprising 919 dedicated COVID hospitals, 2,036 COVID Health Centres and 5,739 COVID Care Centres with a total of 2,77,429 beds for severe and critical cases, 29,701 ICU beds and 5,15,250 isolation beds in care centres are available. Also, as on date, 18,855 ventilators are now available to combat COVID-19 in the country. The Centre has also provided 84.22 lakh N95 masks and 47.98 lakh Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to the states, UTs and central institutions. He said that the domestic manufacturers have the capacity to produce nearly 3 lakh PPE and N-95 masks each per day.Dr Balram Bhargava, Director General of ICMR, said about COBAS 6800, a fully automated, high-end machine has been installed at the NCDC for performing real-time PCR testing for COVID-19 to test 1,200 samples in 24 hours. He also said that the corona testing capacity has increased in the country to 1,00,000 tests per day through 509 government and private laboratories.Nearly 20 lakh cumulative tests have been conducted in the country. The GoM attendees included Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep S. Puri, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, and MoS Home Nityananda Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recovery-rate-34-06-doubling-rate-improved-harsh-vardhan/story-p5DjJ4Lih5UPizSuBpiXZP.html
15-05-2020||India||Rs 500 cr for beekeeping initiatives, will help 2 lakh beekeepers: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||The government will implement a Rs 500 crore scheme of infrastructure development for the country’s beekeepers, with special thrust on capacity building of women, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharamam said on Wednesday.The government will implement the scheme for infrastructure development related to integrated beekeeping development centres, collection marketing and storage centres, post-harvest and value addition facilities among other things,It will also include implementation of standards, developing a traceability system, development of quality nucleus stock and bee breeders.“This will lead to an increase in income of 2 lakh bee-keepers,” Nirmala Sitharaman said in her press conference.Nirmala Sitharaman was announcing the details of the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, vowing to make the country ‘atmanirbhar’ or self-reliant. She said that agriculture and allied activities will be the focus of the third tranche of the economic package to combat the damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic in the country.Sitharaman will be holding daily press conferences till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-500-cr-for-beekeeping-initiatives-will-help-2-lakh-beekeepers-fm-nirmala-sitharaman/story-4wazwe81ubFNu7mRbhCWMI.html
15-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi doctor wins global funding to deal with Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi doctor wins global funding to deal with Covid-19Radhika Batra, a Delhi-based doctor engaged in manufacturing personal protection equipment to deal with coronavirus in India, Kenya and Nigeria, is one of five recipients of funding by a global forum of young leaders called One Young World. Read moreGovt to create Rs 1 lakh crore Agri-Infrastructure Fund for marginalized farmers: FMFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday announced the third tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package focussing on agriculture, dairy, animal husbandry and allied activities. The Centre will immediately create a Rs 1 lakh crore Agri-Infrastructure Fund for farm- gate infrastructure for small and medium farmers, most of whom are marginalized. Read moreHT Exclusive: Nudged by Ajit Doval, Myanmar army hands over 22 northeast insurgentsThe Myanmar military handed over a group of 22 northeast insurgents to the Indian government on Friday afternoon. The insurgents, wanted in Manipur and Assam, are being brought back by a special plane, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times. Read more‘No loudspeakers for azaan, only human voice allowed’: UP top court ordersThe Allahabad High Court has held that azaan, or the Islamic call to ritual prayer, can be recited by a muezzin from minarets of the mosques by human voice only without using any amplifying device or loudspeakers. It also said that one can’t use a loudspeaker for azaan without prior permission of district administration in accordance with the law. Read moreWorld Bank to fund $1bn for mobile safety nets for Covid-19 hit migrants in IndiaThe World Bank on Friday announced a $1-billion programme aiming to integrate India’s 400-plus fragmented social-security programmes for migrant workers hit by the coronavirus pandemic, part of an initiative that seeks to rebalance access to safety nets between rural and urban India. Read moreCoronavirus will put 4 million girls at risk of child marriage in next 2 yrs: Global CharityFour million girls are at risk of child marriage in the next two years because of the new coronavirus pandemic, a global charity said on Friday, as campaigners warned that the crisis could undo decades of work to end the practice. Deepening poverty caused by the loss of livelihoods is likely to drive many families to marry off their daughters early, World Vision said. Read moreBangladesh opener reveals why Virat Kohli doesn’t sledge him anymoreBangladesh opening batsman Imrul Kayes has revealed why Indian captain Virat Kohli stopped sledging him on the cricket field. Kayes, who spent some time with Kohli in an Australian cricket academy in 2007 when the two were budding cricketers, said that he was taken aback when Kohli sledged him when the two met on a cricket field in 2011. Read moreUP Board answersheet evaluation in red zone districts from next weekAfter resuming evaluation of high school and intermediate answer-sheets in 56 districts in the green and orange zones, the UP Board has announced to extend the exercise in 19 red zone districts from next week. The evaluation in these districts, however, will be held only at centres which are present in localities outside the Covid-19 hotspots earmarked by the district administration, said officials. Read moreDid this cat just say ‘I love you’? Watch the video to find outIt’s no lie that the Internet is crazy about cats. But honestly, why wouldn’t netizens be? The furry little creatures are mischievous, independent, and usually as cute as a button. Well, this pet parent who is losing all his cool over his cat potentially saying ‘I love you’ illustrates just how truly admired these four-legged beasts are. Read moreHappy Birthday Madhuri Dixit: From girl-next-door to Bollywood fashionista in the 90s, Madhuri Dixit stunned in allMadhuri Dixit’s body of work in the Hindi film industry is known by her exceptional dancing prowess through her collaborations with ace choreographer Saroj Khan in the 90s or Shiamak Davar in a film dedicated to the performing arts, Dil Toh Pagal Hai, her emotive face, million dollar smile and the fashion she made a home affair for most women in that period. Read more‘My child has been crying, please let me go home’: Migrant worker breaks downMigrant workers continue to face a tough time as they try to return to their native villages amid lockdown. A group of migrant labourers were stopped by policemen while they were trying to enter UP and head to their native villages. A woman broke down while narrating her ordeal. She said she has been away from her child for around 2 month and he has been crying and asking her to return home. Watch the full video for all the details. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sitharaman-unveils-third-tranche-of-economic-package-all-the-latest-news/story-bIAtCOp9PQbwPDsR2n2MmM.html
15-05-2020||India||Allahabad HC nod to ‘azaan’ sans loudspeakers||The Allahabad high court on Friday allowed ‘azaan’ (call to prayer) from mosques but didn’t permit the use of loudspeakers without permission from the district administration. The court said ‘azaan’ is an integral part of Islam but loudspeakers weren’t part of the religion. With this observation, the bench of justices Shashi Kant Gupta and Ajit Kumar disposed of a public interest litigation filed by the BSP MP from Ghazipur, Afzal Ansari, seeking the lifting of a ban on ‘azaan’ at mosques in Ghazipur. “We are of the considered opinion that azaan may be an essential and integral part of Islam but recitation of azaan through loud­speakers or other sound amplifying devices cannot be said to be an integral part of the religion warranting protection of the fundamental rights enshrined under Article 25 of the Constitution of India, which is even otherwise subject to public order, morality or health and to other provisions of part III of the Constitution of India,” the bench said.“It cannot be said that a citizen should be coerced to hear anything which he does not like or which he does not require since it amounts to taking away the fundamental right of other persons,” the bench observed.Ansari had said in his petition there was no specific order in the Central or state government’s guidelines to prohibit ‘azaan’ from mosques, and the arbitrary decision by Ghazipur’s district administration to ban the call to prayer was illegal. The state government contended that religious activity by any group using loudspeakers had been restricted across Uttar Pradesh in view of the guidelines for the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.The government also said that since Ghazipur district has been declared a0 Coronavirus hot spot, restrictions were imposed in the area in line with guidelines issued by Union home ministry on March 24. The state government, in its affidavit, submitted a list of instances of people assembling at mosques in Ghazipur following ‘azaan’, and how the administration faced difficulties in controlling the situation.In the petition filed on April 28, Ansari had alleged that ‘azaan’ was suddenly prohibited at mosques by the administration of Ghazipur and police. He further said that if anyone recited the ‘azaan’, the person would be booked under the National Security Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-hc-nod-to-azaan-sans-loudspeakers/story-p76n8PXMofvjBnU3WvegoN.html
15-05-2020||India||Govt supported farmers, fishery owners during Covid-19 lockdown: Nirmala Sitharaman||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said a number of steps were taken during the lockdown period to help farmers and fishery owners among others as she announced the third tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package.She said during the lockdown period the minimum support price (MSP) purchases of amount more than Rs 74,300 crore were made as part of additional steps for agriculture during the period.Funds transfer worth Rs 18,700 crore has been done under PM KISAN and PM Fasal Bima Yojana claims worth Rs 6,400 crore released in the past two months, she said.A new scheme has been launched for interest subvention at the rate of 2% per annum to dairy cooperatives for 2020-21 aimed at unlocking Rs 5,000 crore additional liquidity, benefitting two crore farmers, she said.To help the fisheries sector, operations of marine capture fisheries and aquaculture has been relaxed to cover inland fisheries.She said that agriculture and allied activities will be the focus of the third tranche of the economic package to combat the damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic in the country.“I will announce 11 measures and eight of them relate to strengthening infrastructure, strengthening capacity, building better logistics…. The rest three of the 11 will pertain to governance and administrative reforms,” she said in her third press briefing in as many days.Sitharaman has been announcing the details of the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, vowing to make the country ‘atmanirbhar’ or self-reliant. Sitharaman will be holding daily press conferences till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-supported-farmers-fishery-owners-during-covid-19-lockdown-nirmala-sitharaman/story-30jGXnW6kWsWSr9BImsknK.html
15-05-2020||India||3rd tranche of economic package to focus on agriculture, allied activities: FM Sitharaman||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday announced that agriculture and allied activities will be the focus of the third tranche of the economic package to combat the damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic in the country.“I will announce 11 measures and eight of them relate to strengthening infrastructure, strengthening capacity, building better logistics…. The rest three of the 11 will pertain to governance and administrative reforms,” she said in her third press briefing in as many days.Sitharaman has been announcing the details of the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, vowing to make the country ‘atmanirbhar’ or self-reliant. In the first tranche, totalling about Rs 5.9 lakh crore, announced by Sitharaman on Wednesday, loan guarantees for small businesses, shadow banks and power companies.She had also said the government will set up two debt and equity funds amounting to Rs 700 billion to support stressed businesses, and will contribute to the social security funds of workers for three months.Sitharaman announced the second tranche of the package on Thursday, which focussed on free food for migrants, more jobs for tribals and those in rural areas, and credit to small enterprises, street vendors and small farmers.Sitharaman will be holding daily press conferences till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-tranche-of-economic-package-to-focus-on-agriculture-allied-activities-nirmala-sitharaman/story-hP0Ft0UVRjV09upZj3DHUK.html
15-05-2020||India||Highlights: FM Nirmala Sitharaman announces 3rd tranche of Rs 20 lakh crore economic package||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman held a press conference in New Delhi today on Rs 20 lakh crore economic package. This is her third press briefing in as many days.Sitharaman has been announcing the tranches of the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. PM Modi had announced the package during his address to the nation on Tuesday, vowing to make the country ‘atmanirbhar’ or self-reliant. He said that this will be 10 per cent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product or GDP.Sitharaman will be holding daily press conferences till Sunday.Follow the highlights below:- A facilitative legal framework will be created to enable farmers for engaging with processors, aggregators, large retailers,exporters in a fair and transparent manner: FM Nirmala Sitharaman- A central law will be formulated to provide adequate choices to the farmers to sell produce at an attractive price, barrier-free interstate trade and framework for e-trading of agricultural produce: FM Sitharaman- Govt to implement a Rs 500 crore scheme of infrastructure development related to integrated beekeeping development centres, collection,marketing & storage centres, post-harvest and value addition facilities; this will lead to an increase in income of 2 lakh bee-keepers: FM Sitharaman- National Medicinal Plants Board will bring 800-hectare area by developing a corridor of medicinal plants along the banks of river Ganga: FM Nirmala Sitharaman- Rs 4000 crore allocated for promotion of herbal cultivation; 10,00,000 hectare will be covered in the next 2 years: FM Sitharaman- Government to amend Essential Commodities Act to enable better price realisation for farmers and by attracting investments this will lead to deregulation of prices for cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onions, and potatoes. This will now be regulated by market forces and government intervention will only apply in emergency situation like dramatic price hike or any crisis, FM Sitharaman said.- FM announces Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund of Rs 15,000 crore to support investment in dairy processing.- FM Nirmala Sitharaman announces Rs 4,000 crore for promotion of herbal cultivation to bring 10 lakh hectares of land under herbal growing in next 2 years.- National Animal Disease Control Programme for Foot and Mouth Disease and Brucellosis launched with a total outlay of Rs 13,343 crore: FM Nirmala Sitharaman- Govt to launch the Rs 20,000 crore Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana for development of marine and inland fisheries. 55 lakh people expected to get employment from this program: FM Sitharaman- All Covid-19 related deadline extensions relating to fisheries activities, many of them involving overseas contracts, have been honoured. Very many measures which will help marine and coastal farmers have been undertaken as promised. - FM Nirmala Sitharaman- Government introduces a Rs 10,000 crores scheme for the formalisation of Micro Food Enterprises (MFE); the scheme promotes PM’s vision of ‘Vocal for Local with global outreach’: FM Nirmala Sitharaman- Government to immediately create a Rs 1 lakh crore Agri-Infrastructure Fund for farm gate infrastructure for farmers: FM Nirmala Sitharaman- During Covid lockdown period, the demand for milk reduced by 20-25%. A new scheme to provide interest subvention at 2% per annum to dairy cooperatives for 2020-21. The scheme will unlock Rs 5,000 crore additional liquidity, benefit to 2 crore farmers: FM Sitharaman- During lockdown period Minimum Support Price purchases of amount more than Rs 74,300 crores; PM Kisan fund transfer of Rs 18700 cr: FM Nirmala Sitharaman on additional steps for agriculture during Covid-19- I will be announcing 11 measures today, of which 8 of them relate to strengthening infrastructure, capacities and building better logistics, while the rest 3 will pertain to governance and administrative reforms: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman - Today’s announcements will focus on agriculture and allied activities: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-updates-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-announces-3rd-tranche-of-rs-20-lakh-crore-economic-relief-package-for-covid-19-india-crisis/story-bSr7zKcAphdoRZ4ObJ6upO.html
15-05-2020||India||Arunachal Pradesh to resume state transport bus service from May 18||The Arunachal Pradesh government has decided to resume state transport bus service to various destinations from May 18 next, an official said here on Friday.The decision was taken in view of the huge demand for public transport to ferry stranded people and other passengers from one district to another, State Transport Services general manager Abu Tayeng informed.Tayeng in an official order on Thursday said that daily bus service would be available from Itanagar to Bomdila, Seppa, Ziro, Daporijo, Aalo, Pasighat and Roing, while service between Itanagar and Tawang would be available only on Monday and Thursday.The general manager further informed that bus services from Itanagar to Tezu, Namsai, Miao, Changlang, Khonsa, Longding, Likabali, Kamle, Tirbin, Basar, Pake-Kessang, Kaying and Liromoba would be on alternate days.Moreover, Tayeng in the order said that bus service to Koloriang from Itanagar would be available on Tuesday and Friday, Itanagar to Nyapin (Sunday and Thursday) and Itanagar to Kra-Daadi would be available on Monday and Thursday.State Transport secretary Dani Sulu in another official order on Thursday directed that all inter-district routes, especially connecting Itanagar would be operated from respective stations as per earlier normal schedules.Sulu further directed that each bus station should deploy minimum of three vehicles for quarantine duties in their respective designated entry points while station superintendent of state transport services Itanagar and ISBT Naharlagun would deploy 15 buses at Police Training Centre (PTC) Banderdewa, designated as quarantine facility centre. The secretary in his order further stated that all senior station superintendents and station superintendents should send additional buses to Itanagar, if available for lifting stranded persons from the state capital. “Ticket bookings for all inter-district routes from Itanagar will be done online only and intra-district services operated on rural routes will book manually,” the order said adding, all bus services would be operated under strict observance of social distancing and other standard operating procedures (SOPs) as per guidelines of the Union Home Ministry and the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-pradesh-to-resume-state-transport-bus-service-from-may-18/story-jockea6Z5lfN8yEmh5gIfK.html
15-05-2020||India||‘No loudspeakers for azaan, only human voice allowed’: UP top court orders||The Allahabad High Court has held that azaan, or the Islamic call to ritual prayer, can be recited by a muezzin from minarets of the mosques by human voice only without using any amplifying device or loudspeakers. The court added that such recitation by human voice cannot be hindered under the pretext of violation of the guidelines issued by the state government to contain the spread of coronavirus.It also said that one can’t use a loudspeaker for azaan without prior permission of district administration in accordance with the law. “We are of the opinion that azaan may be an essential and integral part of Islam but its recitation through loud­speakers or other sound amplifying devices cannot be said to be an integral part of the religion warranting protection of the fundamental right enshrined under Article 25, which is even otherwise subject to public order, morality or health and to other provisions in part III of the Constitution,” the bench ruled.Also Watch | COVID-19 l ‘Muslims to observe Ramzan at home’: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi “It cannot be said that a citizen should be coerced to hear anything which he does not like or which he does not require since it amounts to taking away the fundamental right of other persons,” the bench added. However, the court shot down the state government’s contention that its recitation by human voice was violative of any provision of law. “The government had not been able to explain as to how the recitation of azaan merely through human voice can be violative of any provision of law or any guidelines issued in view of Covid-19 pandemic,” it said.The Bench, however, kept it open for petitioner to approach the district administration for permission to use loudspeaker for azaan. It added that one can’t use loudspeakers for azaan or for any other purpose without prior permission of district administration.The bench of Justices Shashi Kant Gupta and Ajit Kumar thus disposed of a PIL filed by BSP MP from Ghazipur, Afzal Ansari, seeking lifting of ban on azaan from mosques in Ghazipur. The petitioner’s plea was that there is no specific order in the central or state government guidelines to prohibit the recitation of azaan from the mosques. Therefore, the arbitrary decision taken by the district administration of Ghazipur to ban the prayer is illegal. The state government’s contention, the petitioner argued, was that religious activity of any religious group through loudspeaker has been restricted in the entire Uttar Pradesh in view of the guidelines of lockdown.Further, according to the state government , the Ghazipur district has been declared as hotspot area. Since azaan is a call for prayer on loudspeaker, hence it has been restricted in Ghazipur.The state government, in its affidavit, has also submitted a list of instances which have been filed disclosing how people assembled in mosques in Ghazipur following a call through azaan and administration had a tough time to control the situation.Azaan is recited by a ‘muezzin’, a man who calls Muslims to prayer from the minaret of a mosque at prescribed times of the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-loudspeakers-for-azaan-only-human-voice-allowed-up-top-court-orders/story-lXBhvVdLQUycTPjjSAEUjI.html
15-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt to decide on allowing Kanwar Yatra after Centre’s guidelines on lockdown 4.0||The Uttarakhand government will take a decision on whether to allow the Kanwar Yatra that attracts over 3 crore devotees to Haridwar, after lockdown 4.0 guidelines are issued by the Centre.Cabinet minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said the matter will be discussed after guidelines for lockdown 4.0 are announced by the Central government. Kanwar Yatra is an annual pilgrimage of Shiva devotees, known as Kanvarias to Haridwar, Gaumukh and Gangotri in Uttarakhand to fetch the holy water of the Ganga River. The devotees gather Ganga water (Gangajal) and carry it across hundreds of miles to offer the same in their local Shaiva shrines. In Kanwar Yatra which starts after monsoons, the devotees come from the states of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh to UttarakhandDue to their arrival in huge numbers, the Uttarakhand government has to make special arrangements for their safety and to facilitate the smooth conduct of the yatra.Mahamandaleshwar Harichetnanand Maharaj of Shri Panchayati Bada Udasin Akhada said whether Kanwar Yatra should be allowed this year or not, depends on the containment of the coronavirus epidemic. “The portals of the Badrinath shrine were opened on Friday but only 28 people were allowed at the shrine. No pilgrims were allowed. The government is yet to take a decision on whether to allow the Char Dham yatra this year or not,” he said.“So, if Covid-19 cases increase further we have to abide by the Union government guidelines as currently only ritualistic religious events are being allowed. As other pilgrimages are not being allowed in the state at present, we will have to wait for some time, nearly two months when the Kanwar Yatra starts. We hope till then the situation will normalize and the government can take the right decision based on the situation then,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-to-decide-on-allowing-kanwar-yatra-after-centre-s-guidelines-on-lockdown-4-0/story-RBV0IEPQBbMVQf3Qh6WDsJ.html
15-05-2020||India||SC decides to keep working during summer vacation, at least till June 19||The Supreme Court has decided keep its summer vacation in abeyance till June 19 to make up for the loss in working hours due to Covid-19 lockdown.The court will hear cases through video conferencing from May 18 till June 19.The decision was taken after the Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde after considering the views of all the Supreme Court judges.Official communication in this regard is likely to be issued by the court soon. Supreme Court’s summer vacation was scheduled to commence on May 18 and Friday was expected to be the last working day of the top court. The court was to reopen on July 6. With the court now deciding to function till June 19, the CJI will take a call on the summer vacation later. While many high courts have already cancelled their summer vacation to make up for the loss of working hours due to Covid-19 lockdown, the Supreme Court had not made any announcement in this regard till now.The Supreme Court Bar Association led by President Dushyant Dave had passed resolutions expressing their willingness to work through the summer vacation and requested the CJI cancel the summer vacation.The Supreme Court, which is under complete shutdown due to the Coronavirus threat, has been hearing only extremely urgent cases since March 23 via video conferencing without the personal presence of lawyers. The top court had issued a circular on March 23 suspending entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only extremely urgent cases will be taken up for hearing through video conferencing during the lockdown period.The video conferencing is conducted by the court through ‘Vidyo app’ which can be downloaded on mobile phones and desktop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-decides-to-keep-working-during-summer-vacation-at-least-till-june-19/story-R3cg9tfwQVFiHbSpJPVwxL.html
15-05-2020||India||Health minister Harsh Vardhan seeks ban on spitting in public, sale of tobacco products to check coronavirus||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday appealed to all states and union territories to ban the sale of tobacco products and spitting in public to check the spread of the coronavirus disease.The appeal comes after the Rajasthan and Jharkhand governments issued orders in this regard to prevent the spread of the coronavirus infection.In a letter to all state health ministers, Vardhan said smokeless tobacco users have a tendency to spit in public places, increasing health risks especially those of spreading contagious diseases like Covid-19, tuberculosis, swine flu, encephalitis and others.“Use of smokeless tobacco also creates an unhygienic environment which further spreads the diseases. Large gatherings at the retail outlets where smokeless tobacco products are sold, also pose the risk of spread of Covid,” PTI quoted him as saying.In the letter dated May 11, the Union minister underlined that tobacco use is a major threat to public health globally. He also mentioned the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) appeal to the public not to consume and spit smokeless tobacco products in public places.Chewing tobacco products and areca nut increases production of saliva followed by a very strong urge to spit. Spitting in public places could enhance the spread of the Covid-19, Vardhan said.“By banning spitting in public places, states and UTs can help in achieving not only Swachh Bharat but also Swasth Bharat (Clean India and Healthy India),” he said.Vardhan also mentioned the May 1 guidelines issued by the Union Home Ministry under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, which stipulate that “spitting in public places shall be punishable with fine as may be prescribed by the state/UT local authority and consumption of liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco etc in public places is not allowed”. Appreciating the efforts taken by Rajasthan and Jharkhand in this direction, the health minister urged all states to take similar measures and create widespread awareness regarding the harm of spitting in public places.The Rajasthan government had by an ordinance banned spinning in public places and sale of paan, gutka and tobacco in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The Jharkhand too has imposed a complete ban on all types of tobacco products to prevent spitting in public places that could increase the spread of coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-harsh-vardhan-seeks-ban-on-spitting-in-public-sale-of-tobacco-products-to-check-coronavirus/story-LiHSD41pOV0EnBvODtVxQK.html
15-05-2020||India||24-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient commits suicide in Pune||A 24-year-old man, who was admitted to a private hospital in Maharashtra’s Pune for breathing issues, jumped from the third floor of the building late on Thursday, police said.Shafil Pathan, inspector (Crime), said the man stepped out of the ward on the pretext of going to the toilet and instead jumped down from the terrace of the building at 9pm. He was under stress and feared that he had contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), he added.“His throat swab sample was collected on Thursday afternoon and after hours he committed suicide. He was facing psychological issues and seems to have committed the act in a fit of psychosis,” Pathan said.Pankaj Deshmukh, the deputy commissioner of police, said the test report of the deceased was awaited. He was a resident of Mula Road and unemployed while his brother works with Ammunition Factory in Khadki. An autopsy was performed on his body late in the night and it was handed over to his relatives for last rites.The man, a school drop, is survived by his parents and two brothers and a sister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-year-old-suspected-covid-19-patient-commits-suicide-in-pune/story-Jb0Hb1ICTHw3m48k5V8fqK.html
15-05-2020||India||Monsoon likely to hit Kerala on June 5, says IMD||The southwest monsoon is likely to hit Kerala on June 5, a delay of four days as compared to its normal onset date, the India Meteorological Department said on Friday. The onset of monsoon over Kerala marks the commencement of the four-month long rainfall season from June to September. According to the normal onset date, monsoon makes an arrival in Kerala on June 1. “The onset of southwest monsoon over Kerala this year is likely to be slightly delayed as compared to normal date of onset. The monsoon onset over Kerala this year is likely to be on June 5 with a model error of plus or minus 4 days,” the IMD said. The monsoon is likely to arrive over the Andaman and Nicobar islands by May 16, six days before its new onset date of May 22 due to a cyclonic storm in the Bay of Bengal. Even last year, the monsoon had reached the Andaman and Nicobar archipelago on May 18, two days ahead of its then normal onset date of May 20. But due to its sluggish pace, it reached Kerala on June 8. It covered the entire country by July 19. According to the IMD forecast, monsoon is likely to be normal this year. The country receives 75 per cent of its rainfall from the southwest monsoon during June to September. It is not only crucial for farming in the country, but also for replenishing reservoirs, and more importantly to the economy which is still largely dependent on agriculture.    Northeast monsoon is another phenomenon that brings rainfall to Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, parts of Kerala and Andhra Pradesh from October to December.   From this year, the IMD has also revised the dates of onset and withdrawal dates of the monsoon for several parts of the country based on the data from 1960 to 2019. The previous dates were based on the data from 1901 to 1940.    However, the onset date for monsoon over Kerala, which is June 1, remains unchanged In states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar and parts of Uttar Pradesh, monsoon will be delayed by 3-7 days compared to the existing normal dates.For the national capital, the new normal onset date for monsoon has been revised from June 23 to June 27 -- a delay of four days. Similarly, dates have been revised for Mumbai and Kolkata from June 10 to 11, and for Chennai from June 1 to 4.   However, over extreme northwest India, the  monsoon will arrive a little earlier, on July 8, as compared to the existing date of July 15. The new date for monsoon withdrawal from south India is October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-hit-kerala-on-june-5-says-imd/story-MmGsBF2fcHTwUNfK7G0MWM.html
15-05-2020||India||Lockdown: Air India to operate 5 flights from Canada to fly back stranded Indians||When a young Indian tourist arrived in Canada on March 7, among the objectives of the planned 12-day vacation was to fulfil a dream of visiting the Niagara Falls. Instead, nearly two months after she was originally scheduled to return to India, 32-year-old Smitha B from Bangalore remains stranded in the Greater Toronto Area.Now staying at a hotel in Brampton courtesy the community organization Canada India Foundation (CIF), next door to a family of four in a similar quandary, Smitha said, “My dream place was Niagara, but I didn’t get to go anywhere. People like me ended up like this.” That is, stuck in Canada, as her return flight to India on March 19 was cancelled and she has struggled to survive in a foreign country and has been relying on the meals and the free hotel room provided by the CIF.However, now Smitha is hopeful of finally returning to Bangalore and ease the anxiety of her worried parents, who live in Mysore. She has registered with the India’s High Commission in Ottawa for one of the first lot of repatriation flights from Canada that will be operated by Air India, beginning May 20.Like her, there are many who desperately want to return to India but weren’t able to because of the lockdown and the absence of air connectivity. India’s High Commissioner to Canada Ajay Bisaria said nearly 5,000 people had registered on the mission’s website for the flights.Initially, there will be five flights from Canada: three from Toronto and two from Vancouver; and these will fly over 1400 Indians back home. Each ticket will cost over Rs 1.25 lakh. The flights will connect the travellers to a number of destinations in India: Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Amritsar and Jaipur. Bisaria said the flight arrangement was based on domicile of the passengers since travel between states in India was still problematic. The first list of passengers will have those with “compelling” reasons to return to India.Depending on demand, the Indian government will commission more such flights and Bisaria has advised Indians stranded in Canada to keep registering with the High Commission, if they hadn’t so far, since there may be more “beyond” the five that will leave, beginning on May 20.Canada’s High Commission in India has also informed its citizens in India that they can also buy tickets on these commercial flights to return to Canada, as Air India is accepting reservations for the outward destination.Meanwhile, Smitha, waiting to return home, understands that on arrival she will have to undergo mandatory quarantine for 14 days. But, for her, only the journey matters at this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-air-india-to-operate-5-flights-from-canada-to-fly-back-stranded-indians/story-juB12ExUqBmpwyCpde7kIN.html
15-05-2020||India||Odisha man waives off rent of all his 12 tenants, distributes 25 kg rice to each of them||A landlord in Odisha’s coastal Ganjam district, which has emerged as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) epicentre in the state, has waived off May’s rent for all his 12 tenants.Murli Mohan Acharya, a landlord from Berhampur’s Somnath Nagar neighbourhood, has overnight become a symbol of generosity and benevolence amid the socio-economic disruptions caused by the raging Covid-19 outbreak.He not only waived off his 12 tenants’ rents for May, but also distributed 25 kilograms (kg) of rice to each of them. The tenants earn their livelihood either as roadside snack vendors or run small-scale businesses.“All my 12 tenants are facing a lot of economic hardship because their businesses are shut since end-March when nationwide lockdown restrictions were imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak. Of the 12, three have left for their native villages along with families. I acceded to my tenants’ request and waived off their rent for May. I also gave each family 25 kg of rice to tide over the crisis, as the state government’s help has been few and far between,” Acharya said. Berhampur sub-collector Shinde Dattatreya Bhausaheb felicitated Acharya for his noble deed, and urged other landlords to take a leaf out of his book. “We can change our society in a big way, even if 1% of landlords are willing to help out their tenants like what Acharya did,” Bhausaheb said.Earlier in March, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik had appealed to the landlords to either waive off or defer the collection of their rents by at least three months due to the Covid-19 outbreak.“Let each one of us rise and be there for one another amid these hard times. Let’s show the world that Odisha cares,” the CM had said. Patnaik had also urged to landlords that tenants should not be asked to vacate their accommodation for non-payment of rents during the healthcare emergency.In April, two landlords in Bhubaneswar had waived off rent for their tenants.Prashant Kumar Shreechandan, a landlord from Bhubaneswar’s Rasulgarh, had waived off the rent of his 26 tenants, which amounted to Rs 62,000, and promised the same for May if lockdown persisted.Similarly, Jitu Jena, a landlord from Bhubaneswar’s Palasuni locality, wrote off the April’s rent for his 10 tenants.“We’re united in trying to prevent the spread of Covid-19. We need to fight each other amid this unprecedented crisis,” said Jena.However, not all landlords are as benevolent as Jena, Acharya, and Shreechandan.For instance, Manmohan Pradhan, a landlord from Bhubaneswar’s Unit-1 area, almost doubled the rent of his tenant Mangaraj Sahoo, a driver, and gave him an ultimatum: either pay the increased rent or vacate the house.Sahoo, who had taken up the accommodation on a monthly rent of Rs 3,000 seven months ago, lodged a complaint against Pradhan at Capital police station on May 10 after his rent was hiked to Rs 5,500.While in April, a 60-year-old cancer patient in the coastal Balasore district had to spend over eight hours outside his rented house at Sahadevkhunta after the landlord refused to let him and his family members in as they had visited Bhubaneswar, another Covid-19 hotspot in the state. Later, he was allowed to enter his rented premise after police intervened. However, his two sons, who had accompanied him to Bhubaneswar, were asked to stay away for 14 days.A landlord also prevented a woman from entering her rented accommodation after her husband, a retired BSNL employee, died recently as he was denied admission to a few hospitals. The panic-stricken landlord suspected that the man’s death is related to Covid-19 and his widow could be a carrier of SARS-CoV-2 that causes the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-waives-off-rent-of-all-his-12-tenants-distributes-25-kg-rice-to-each-of-them/story-lfnUO0LcXlDiVxU30GnSeJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Assam CM asks Centre to extend lockdown by 2 more weeks||The Assam government has written to the Centre to extend the Covid-19 lockdown by two more weeks, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said on Friday.During his last video conference with chief ministers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had sought suggestions regarding the lockdown and the states were asked to submit written proposals by May 15.“We have prepared our proposals and submitted them. We made one thing clear – that we want the lockdown extended by another two weeks beyond May 17 and requested the same,” Sonowal told a news conference here.Without elaborating on details, Sonowal said besides taking up the issue of extending the lockdown and how it should be implemented, the state government had sought a financial package from the Centre to tide over the economic crisis triggered by the pandemic.“During the video conference, we apprised the PM about steps taken to fight the pandemic and revive the economy. We also sought financial support from the Centre,” he said.According to a study by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), industries and the government in Assam suffered losses of Rs 1,000 crore a day during the lockdown. Sonowal said his government hasn’t carried out a separate study of losses incurred by individual sectors.The state government will try to provide jobs to the thousands of workers who had returned to Assam from across the country, he said. There is no estimate as yet on how many workers are expected to return to the state.“These youth are Assam’s skill force. They are our assets and not liabilities. Based on recommendations of the economic task force constituted by the government, we will try to boost our industries and agro-economy and try to rehabilitate them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-asks-centre-to-extend-lockdown-by-2-more-weeks/story-f4JkvFHsnSysPDpGUkqGEL.html
15-05-2020||India||Badrinath shrine opens amid lockdown, first prayers performed on PM Modi’s behalf||The Badrinath shrine in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, which is one of Char Dhams or the four main pilgrimage centres of the Hindus, opened on early Friday without the usual throng of pilgrims amid the coronavirus pandemic. A state government official privy to the development said the portals were opened at 4.30am amid rituals performed by the head priest Rawal Ishwari Prasad Nambudiri and 10 others priests of the shrine. “The preparations for the portal opening ritual had started at 3am while following the precautions in the pandemic. As it as an important occasion every year at the shrine, the whole temple was decorated with about 10 quintals of flowers,” said the official. “However, for the first time there was no traditional military band to mark the occasion nor any pilgrims at the temple to witness the holy rituals of portal opening due to Covid-19 pandemic,” the official added.The first puja was performed by the priests on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 9am after the Badrinath Temple opened.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat congratulated pilgrims across the world on the opening of Badrinath’s portals. “With Badrinath, all the Char Dham shrines are now open but the Char Dham Yatra is yet to be started due to the ongoing pandemic,” Rawat said. “We are in talks with the Centre to start the Char Dham Yatra but at the right time considering the pandemic and lockdown. Hope the pandemic will soon end with the blessings of Lord Badrinath and the Yatra will start,” he added. Badrinath was scheduled to open on April 30 as per rituals. However, the date was shifted to May 15 due to the coronavirus pandemic in an unprecedented move in the history of the shrine.Manujendra Shah, the king of the Tehri royal family who is considered the ‘Bolanda Badri’ or talking Lord Badri, had on April 20 changed the date of opening of the portals of Badrinath shrine as the chief priest was under the quarantine after returning from Kerala. Around 10,000 pilgrims had visited the shrine last year on the first day of its opening as per an estimated figure.The portals of Kedarnath temple were also opened on April 29 after a six-month-long winter break. Pilgrims were prohibited from visiting the shrine because of the lockdown.The Badrinath Temple is located along the banks of the Alaknanda River in Chamoli district at a height of more than 10,000 feet.Photo caption: The Badrinath shrine is seen decorated with flowers during the opening of its portals on Friday. The first puja was performed by the priests on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badrinath-shrine-opens-amid-lockdown-first-prayers-performed-on-pm-modi-s-behalf/story-TEKr0TsPSqwjVoOAs7SQcL.html
15-05-2020||India||World Bank to fund $1bn for mobile safety nets for Covid-19 hit migrants in India||The World Bank on Friday announced a $1-billion programme aiming to integrate India’s 400-plus fragmented social-security programmes for migrant workers hit by the coronavirus pandemic, part of an initiative that seeks to rebalance access to safety nets between rural and urban India. The “Accelerating India’s COVID-19 Social Protection Response Programme” will focus especially on making social benefits such as subsidised food under the National Food Security Act, cash transfers and pensions etc, portable so that beneficiaries could access them from anywhere in the country, not just from their home districts, the World Bank said. Portability simply refers to a digitised, universal and always-on platform, which ensures benefits move along with migrants.“Very clearly, everybody recognises the shock (from the pandemic). The choice is being said to be between lives and livelihoods. This is not a choice the government of India is making,” Junaid Ahmad, the World Bank’s country director, said. Ahmad said this was a “watershed moment” in social security of the country because the government had for the first time opened up an “important window” in the form of the state disaster response fund, which is now linked to social safety. The Union government had, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, allowed states to use the fund freely without usual approvals to provide social protection. A widespread lockdown announced on March 24 shuttered shops, factories and construction sites, pushing millions of migrant workers out of jobs. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced free food assistance to 80 million migrant workers that is worth Rs 3,500 core, part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Rs 20 lakh crore economic package to pull the economy out of a slump. The first phase of the World Bank operation will be implemented countrywide through the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). It will immediately help scale-up cash transfers and food benefits, using a core set of pre-existing national platforms and programs such as the Public Distribution System (PDS) and Direct Benefit Transfers (DBT), the bank said.Jobless migrant workers, hit by the lockdown, have fallen through the cracks because static social safety nets did not reach them in the absence of portability. Economist Abhijit Sen, however, cautioned against over-centralising India’s safety net. “If the World Bank wants to streamline our social safety nets, first off, they are getting into very complicated things. The issue sometimes is not so much about how to reach the people as it is about how to get two wings of the government talking,” Sen, a former member of the erstwhile Planning Commission, said. The arguments are on two things, he said.“One, don’t over-centralise things. Where the World Bank can intervene and should is portability. Two, if I had to give out a billion dollars, then, I would give very little of that to the federal government and most of it to the states, in fact, more to the municipalities,” he said.More than 90% of India’s workforce is employed in the informal sector, without access to basic savings or pensions, or paid leave from work.“There are large transfers to the rural poor. Look at the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. The idea is to make social benefits such as food and cash transfers just as easily accessible for urban informal workers and migrants,” Shrayana Bhattacharya, the World Bank lead of the project, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-bank-to-fund-1bn-for-mobile-safety-nets-for-covid-19-hit-migrants-in-india/story-zkurNHI2rqyZ8aVElOSQIP.html
15-05-2020||India||Chinese-origin frog species found in Arunachal Pradesh||A team of zoologists from Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) have found a frog species, with origins in the Tibet region of China, in Tawang area of Arunachal Pradesh.Details of the find and the rare species ‘Nanorana conaensis’ found at an elevation of 2844 metres above sea level was published in ZSI’s latest journal on Thursday. “The species was first sighted in Tibet in 1981. There was a report of a sighting in Arunachal Pradesh in 2018 by some researchers, however, no details regarding the sighting was reported,” said Bhaskar Saikia a senior zoological assistant with ZSI’s Shillong based North Eastern Regional Centre. “We were able to collect a specimen of the frog from Tawang in March the same year and conducted molecular studies on it. This is the first documentary confirmation of the presence of the species, which has origins in China, in India,” Saikia, one of the four zoologists involved in the study, added.The species was found in a domestic water tank at Khremteng village on the outskirts of Tawang town. Since the first sighting in Tibet, only one specimen of the frog was collected in 2013 in Haa district of Bhutan at a height of 4066m.“The species measuring around 5cm when fully grown is a rare one and is sighted very occasionally. One reason is that they exist at very high altitudes of above 2,500m to nearly 4,000m. Hence there is less chance of encountering them,” said Saikia.The zoologists collected two specimens of the frog from Tawang and carried out molecular studies on them to verify their morphological structures and ascertain that it was the same species that was found in Tibet and Bhutan.Studies have revealed that the species dwell in small streams, springs, puddles, but mostly hidden under rocks or fallen trees in shallow water. When they are scared, they immediately jump into the water.With the find, Arunachal Pradesh now represents the eastern limit of the species habitat while western Bhutan being the western limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-origin-frog-species-found-in-arunachal-pradesh/story-xVRHrSYEDMtVWJYSKXfNzN.html
15-05-2020||India||Assam writes to Centre favouring extension of Covid-19 lockdown by 2 more weeks||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said on Friday that he has written to the Centre about extending lockdown by two more weeks beyond May 17.Sonowal addressed a press conference on Friday where he gave details about the Covid-19 situation in Assam and what his government is doing to tackle the crisis.Sonowal said at the press conference that all states were supposed to give their feedback on the extension of the lockdown by Friday, and the Assam government has already conveyed its stand to the Centre.“Let the Government of India take a view on that. I don’t want to say much about this now. All the states have written to the Centre, which will take a decision on the extension,” he added.With 22 fresh cases detected in Guwahati in 24 hours, the authorities in Assam are on alert and there’s anxiety among residents of the state and North-East’s biggest city.While 15 people were detected positive on Wednesday, another 7 new cases were reported on Thursday taking the total number of patients in the state to 87. While two patients have died, 41 others have recovered, 43 are undergoing treatment and one patient has migrated to Bihar.In view of the spurt in cases, nine areas in Guwahati have been turned into containment zones.Assam on Thursday released a fresh set of standard operating procedures to be followed while dealing with passengers returning to the state from other parts of the country by trains.The procedures list out how passengers will be dealt with once they enter Assam and get down at various stations. Officials have been asked to follow the rules on transportation, screening, testing and quarantine for the passengers.Since resumption of inter-state movement on May 4, over 11,000 people have returned by road from across the country and other states in the northeast back to Assam. Eighteen of them have been found positive for Covid-19 till date.Nearly 500 passengers reached various locations in Assam on Wednesday and Thursday by the first train bringing back residents from Delhi. Two more trains, one from Delhi and another from Chennai, carrying over 800 passengers will reach the state on Thursday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-writes-to-centre-favouring-extension-of-covid-19-lockdown-by-2-more-weeks/story-Zj6UaYBzp20ikFm7cm5I8L.html
15-05-2020||India||Part of Sena Bhawan in Delhi shut after soldier tests Covid-19 +ve||A part of a floor at the Sena Bhawan in New Delhi was closed on Friday after a soldier tested positive for Covid-19. Sena Bhavan is the headquarters of the Indian ArmyThe affected area of the Bhawan has been shut for sanitation and disinfection. Actions as per protocol, such as contact tracing and quarantine are in progress.In April, the ministry of civil aviation, headquartered at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan in the capital’s Jor Bagh area, was sealed after an employee tested positive for the coronavirus disease. A week after the aviation ministry incident, government think-tank Niti Aayog sealed its office in Delhi after its staffer tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/part-of-a-floor-at-army-s-sena-bhawan-in-delhi-shut-after-soldier-tests-covid-19-positive/story-rEgLNLCoRDuPbo3LxjyAVO.html
15-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid cases in Maharashtra more than double in 2 weeks & all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra: Overall Covid-19 positive cases more than double in 2 weeksMaharashtra has reported 17,026, or over 60%, of the total coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in the state between May 1 and 14, the state health and family welfare department data showed. The trend is likely to lead to the imposition of lockdown 4.0, as the state government is in its favour after the ongoing restrictions lapse on Sunday. Read moreWorld Bank lauds PM Modi’s Atmanirbhar Mission in fight against Covid-19Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Mission came for praise by the World Bank as it approved a $1 billion social protection package for India amid the coronavirus pandemic that has affected people and its economy. Read moreActivists, locals oppose Kinnaur’s Kashang Hydro Power ProjectActivists and locals in Kinnaur have asked the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) to not extend environment clearance to the integrated Kashang Hydro Project. Read moreLow-intensity earthquake hits Pitampura in Delhi, fourth in more than a monthA 2.2-magnitude earthquake hit Pitampura in North-West Delhi, news agency PTI reported quoting officials from National Centre for Seismology. This comes nearly a week after an earthquake of 3.4 magnitude struck near Sonia Vihar in North-East Delhi. Read moreTaiwan rejects China’s main condition for WHO participationTaiwan’s health minister rejected on Friday China’s main condition for the island to be able to take part in the World Health Organization (WHO) - that it accepts it is part of China - ahead of a key meeting of the body during a pandemic. Read moreKuldeep’s refresher course, by the GangaAs a chinaman bowler, Kuldeep Yadav belongs to a rare breed of spinners. His shock value was evident as he grabbed four quick wickets on Test debut to help India seal the 2017 home series against Australia. Read moreHrithik Roshan, Ranveer Singh, Akshay Kumar share favourite 90s movies, Andaz Apna Apna and Govinda films are clear winnersAs all films and shoots stand cancelled amid lockdown, Bollywood celebs are now reminiscing about the films they worked in or loved watching in the 90s. Read moreKareena Kapoor reveals the secret behind her flawless skinWhen it comes to flawless skin in the Bollywood industry, Kareena Kapoor Khan with her peaches and cream complexion is the first to come to mind. Read moreDerpy cat falls into an empty cardboard box while playing detective. WatchWe all probably know the feeling of doing something risky. There is always that one moment when we know it can all go south. It is usually how one reacts in that particular moment which defines the outcome of the entire circumstance. Read moreWatch: India to overtake China in covid cases today and why we still lag in testing||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-more-than-double-in-2-weeks-all-the-latest-news/story-5nqItvrK6sPRuDfK4sdPkI.html
15-05-2020||India||Supreme Court stays Gujarat HC order setting aside election of BJP leader Bhupendrasinh Chudasama||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed an order by the Gujarat High Court, setting aside BJP leader Bhupendrasinh Chudasama’s 2017 election.A bench headed by Justice MM Shantanagouder issued notice to the Election Commission and Chudasama’s rival Congress candidate Ashwin Rathod on the appeal filed by the BJP leader against the high court order of May 12.Senior advocates Harish Salve and NK Kaul represented Chudasama while the rival Congress candidate was represented by senior advocate Kapil Sibal.Chudasama won from Dholka assembly constituency in the election held on December 14, 2017. Rathod had challenged Chudasama’s victory by a margin of mere 327 votes.In his election petition, Rathod alleged that Chudasama indulged in “corrupt practice and breach of many of the mandatory instructions of the Election Commission, at various stages of the election process, more particularly at the time of counting of votes”.The high court had on May 12, nullified 2017 election of Chudasama on the ground of malpractice and manipulation and also refused to stay of the operation of the order till the disposal of his appeal. The high court had held that Returning Officer “illegally rejected” 429 postal ballots during the counting of votes, while the victory margin was only 327. Chudasama currently holds charge of the education, law and justice, legislative and parliamentary affairs, and some other departments in the Vijay Rupani government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-gujarat-hc-order-setting-aside-election-of-bjp-leader-bhupendrasinh-chudasama/story-9vTCWIKpQa1ghkTaNxvtRI.html
15-05-2020||India||Settle your accounts first: Chidambaram to FM, Gadkari||Former finance minister P Chidambaram on Friday took a jibe at successor Nirmala Sitharaman and her ministerial colleague Nitin Gadkari for solutions they have proposed for the problems of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).“Minister Gadkari says that governments and PSUs owe Rs 5 lakh crore as unpaid dues to MSMEs” he tweeted. Will the two ministers ‘settle their accounts’ first and let MSMEs save themselves without government’s ‘help’?Gadkari, the Union minister for MSMEs and road transport and highways, had said government agencies are yet to clear dues to such enterprises amounting to more than Rs 5 lakh crore.Noting that the MSME sector is on the verge of collapse, Gadkari also urged major industries to release outstanding dues to such firms within a month. “The position of MSMEs is worst as they are now engaged in a battle for their survival,” he added.He also said pendency of dues owed to MSMEs by the Centre, state governments, public sector undertakings and major industries is very high.Chidambaram said in another tweet: “Minister Sitharaman says she will offer collateral free loan of Rs 3 lakh crore to MSMEs (numbering 45 lakhs).”In the first tranche of a stimulus package on Wednesday, Sitharaman had announced that Rs 3 lakh crore in collateral-free automatic loans for businesses, including MSMEs, will be provided to meet operational liabilities, buy raw materials and restart operations.Chidambaram asked, “So, who is the lender and who is the borrower? Will the two ministers ‘settle their accounts’ first and let MSMEs save themselves without government’s ‘help’?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/settle-your-accounts-first-chidambaram-to-fm-gadkari/story-BDUVA3PBDzflcPoF8s6sHJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Maharashtra: Overall Covid-19 positive cases more than double in 2 weeks||Maharashtra has reported 17,026, or over 60%, of the total coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in the state between May 1 and 14, the state health and family welfare department data showed.The trend is likely to lead to the imposition of lockdown 4.0, as the state government is in its favour after the ongoing restrictions lapse on Sunday. However, it waiting for the Union Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) guidelines.The Covid-19 positive cases in the state, which has topped the country, have increased from 10,498 on April 30 to 27,524 on May 14, or a 61.85% spike. While the number of Covid-19 related death rose from 459 to 1,019 during the same period, the data showed.On Thursday, Maharashtra recorded the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 positive cases at 1,602 new cases, as compared to 10,201 reported in all of April.Mumbai, the epicentre of Covid-19 positive cases in the country, has recorded 57.81% (9,677 cases) of the total cases in the state between May 1 and 14. The Covid-19 related deaths in the city have gone up from 290 to 621 during this corresponding period.However, state government officials have ruled out community transmission and allayed apprehensions about an exponential rise in new infections.“The number of Covid-19 positive cases are rising, but they cannot be called exponential growth. If the number of fresh cases doubles on a daily basis, then it can be called exponential growth. Besides, it hasn’t reached the community transmission stage as that happens only when exponential growth occurs,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).On Friday, the state government is likely to send a report to the Centre, urging an extension of the lockdown restrictions till May 31.On Thursday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with his cabinet ministers to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state and the measures that need to be implemented to contain the spread of the viral outbreak. A consensus was arrived at that the lockdown 4:0 needs to be clamped from May 18, especially in red zones such as the Mumbai and Pune Metropolitan Regions, Malegaon and Solapur, according to a state minister, who was present at the meeting.“The CM has spoken to all the district and divisional collectors. The government expects the Centre to relax some restrictions even in red zones,” said an official.The Centre is expected to ease the restrictions for industrial and commercial activities, but the state government has the power to enforce stricter norms in urban areas that have emerged as hotspots, the official added.The state health department authorities have conducted 2,40,145 tests at various public and private facilities. Of them, 2,12,621 people tested negative.At present, Maharashtra has 1,512 active containment zones. A total of 14,253 survey teams, comprising doctors and paramedical staff, have screened over 59.04 lakh people.The state’s mortality rate has come down to 3.76% (975 deaths) on Wednesday, from 7.41% (148 cases) on April 13. However, it continues to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.27% (2,549 deaths) till Wednesday, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-overall-covid-19-positive-cases-more-than-double-in-2-weeks/story-HaUsi10Mh8ipdYoMH0OioM.html
15-05-2020||India||Sharp-shooters in Kerala on the trail of a ‘man-eater’ tiger during lockdown||The residents of a Kerala village have hardly stepped out of their houses for a week now, and not just because of the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The 13,000-odd residents of Thannithode village in central Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district have been forced to stay put in their homes because of a tiger which killed one person last week. Three sharp-shooters, 50 forest and district officials and some villagers have since then been on the trail of the big cat which strayed into human habitat and killed a rubber tapper. Though the officials and the villagers put up a cage with a goat in it to catch the big cat, but it attacked a cow instead.It all began with the attack on the 38-year-old rubber tapper Bineesh Mathew on May 6. When his colleagues heard cries for help and rushed to him, they found a tiger dragging him to a nearby bush. After they pelted stones and tried to distract the tiger by making noises, the animal left a dead Mathew and went back in to the forest.“It is a big tiger. It is either aged or injured. This happened around 12 noon,” said T Mathew, another tapper, who witnessed the attack.Following the death of the tapper, Pathanamthitta district collector PB Nooh declared prohibitory orders in the village.After the incident, the animal was sighted at many places and attacked several cows, goats and dogs in the area. Though the forest officials have spotted the tiger through night vision cameras and drones, it is yet to be caught.“We have faced threats of elephants, wild boars and other animals. But this is the first time we are facing the tiger threat. It was spotted at many places before the attack. We dread to even allow our children outside our house,” said MS Indira, a panchyat member of the area.The village is situated on the fringes of a deep forest. Indira said that the tiger has evoked more fear in the villagers than the Covid-19 pandemic.Wildlife experts say tiger attacks are very rare in Kerala which houses two tiger reserves and five wildlife sanctuaries,.“We are trying our best to tranquillise it and shift it to deep forests. Many top forest and vet officials are camping in the area and will try their best to capture it alive. If they do not succeed, we will shoot it,” said state forest minister K Raju who announced a relief of Rs 10 lakh to the family members of the victim. However, conservationists have asked authorities to relocate the animal instead of shooting it.In November 2018, a female tiger Avani was shot dead in Maharashtra’s Yavatmal by a hunter hired by the forest department. The tigress had Avni had allegedly killed 13 people since June 2016, forcing the forest department to initiate a hunt for her. Her killing had led to widespread protests by the animal rights activists leading to the state government initiating a probe into the animal’s killing which was closed in February 2019.However, the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government reopened investigations into the killing of tigress T1 or Avni in January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharp-shooters-in-kerala-on-the-trail-of-a-man-eater-tiger-during-lockdown/story-JjqxojWXuFFfPCF0etnCYL.html
15-05-2020||India||‘How can we stop it?’: Supreme Court on plea to halt migrant workers’ movement on roads||‘How can we stop it?’: Supreme Court on plea to halt migrant workers’ movement on roads||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-can-we-stop-it-supreme-court-on-plea-to-halt-migrant-workers-movement-on-roads/story-1rVSQfvtfwTcYHtywL2sLN.html
15-05-2020||India||World Bank lauds PM Modi’s Atmanirbhar Mission in fight against Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Mission came for praise by the World Bank as it approved a $1 billion social protection package for India amid the coronavirus pandemic that has affected people and its economy. Junaid Ahmad, World Bank’s India director, made the comments while announcing the aid to support India’s efforts for providing social assistance to poor and vulnerable households. “I think PM’s Atmanirbhar Mission is very important in terms of directions and India is not making a distinction between life and livelihoods in the aftermath of Covid-19,” Ahmad said.The social protection package for India is linked to the central government’s programmes. Ahmad said.World Bank said that the billion-dollar social protection package was in addition to the previous package of $1 billion allocated to India for Covid-19 emergency response and health systems.“The World Bank’s billion-dollar support for social protection will help India leverage its PM Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY),” Ahmad added.Last month, the bank had approved a plan to roll out $160 billion in emergency aid over 15 months to help countries deal with the impact of the global coronavirus pandemic.The board of the development lender had announced the first set of fast-track crisis funding, with an initial $1.9 billion going to projects in 25 countries and operations moving forward in another 40 nations.India was the largest beneficiary of the first wave of programmes with a facility for $1 billion.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a Rs 20 lakh crore or $266 billion support package for the economy on Tuesday to help mitigate the damage caused by the coronavirus and the lockdown it has triggered.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has been announcing the details on the package, equivalent to around 10% of India’s GDP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-atmanirbhar-mission-very-important-in-covid-19-aftermath-world-bank-official/story-TQeXjhEaWlE6oyClF0Ic3J.html
15-05-2020||India||SC judge, family in self-quarantine after cook tests positive for Covid-19||A sitting judge of the Supreme Court (SC) and his family members have quarantined themselves after their cook tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Thursday.The cook had gone on leave on May 7 and could have contracted the disease while he was away, sources said.But the judge, who till recently heard cases via video-conferencing, quarantined himself along with his family members as a precautionary measure.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Earlier on April 27, a 37-year-old SC employee had tested Covid-19 positive. Two registrars of the apex court, who had interacted with the infected employee, and other security personnel at the SC were placed under quarantine to contain the spread of SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19.SC, which is closed because of the pandemic, has been hearing only urgent cases since March 23 via video-conferencing.On March 23, the SC had issued a circular, suspending the entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only urgent cases would be taken up for hearing via video-conferencing during the lockdown period, which was enforced on March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.The SC is conducting video-conferencing through ‘Vidyo app’, which can be downloaded on both mobile phones and desktop.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Friday is the last working day for the apex court before it closes for summer vacation. While many high courts have cancelled their summer vacation to make up for the loss of working hours due to the lockdown, the SC is yet to make any official announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judge-family-in-self-quarantine-after-cook-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-TsW47GqoYODjEjWS7KRwKK.html
15-05-2020||India||Bombay HC asks CIDCO to pay 42 gardeners left without salary during Covid-19||The Bombay high court (HC) has come to the rescue of the families of 42 gardeners, who has been working as temporary workers for City & Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) of Maharashtra in New Panvel for long but have not been paid their monthly salaries since January.The court took note of their deplorable plight and directed CIDCO on Wednesday to pay them their unpaid salaries till April and treat their employment as regular and not temporary.The court has also asked CIDCO to issue identity cards to the gardeners by Monday and also regularly provide personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to them to carry out their work amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Maharashtra Kamgar Sanghatana, a union of temporary workers, had filed a plea in the HC on behalf of the gardeners, pleading to pay their pending monthly salaries at the earliest.Senior advocate Sanjay Singhvi and advocate Karishma Rao, who appeared on behalf of the Sanghatana, pointed out to the gross injustice that has been meted out to the gardeners, who have been working for CIDCO for long, but have been living off handouts from the non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and social workers amid the pandemic.They cited that on January 13, 2017, the Industrial Court at Thane had directed CIDCO to absorb the gardeners as permanent staff with immediate effect.On January 31, 2020, the HC, too, upheld the Thane court’s order and dismissed the plea filed by CIDCO.Advocate GS Hegde, who appeared on behalf of CIDCO, said that the corporation had instructed the contractor, who has hired these gardeners, to pay their monthly salaries on time.However, advocate Hegde’s argument failed to convince Justice Kathawalla. “None of the submissions made by advocate Hegde, on behalf of CIDCO, justify the inhuman and callous conduct of non-payment of the earned wages since January 2020 to these workers and deserve severe condemnation,” the judge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-asks-cidco-to-pay-42-gardeners-left-without-salary-during-covid-19/story-Rlpp26lIffCX2e8sxrwPjP.html
15-05-2020||India||World Bank approves $1 bn for India as social security fund for urban poor, migrants||The World Bank has approved US $1 billion for India as social security technology fund for country’s urban poor and migrant workers during the coronavirus crisis.This takes the total commitment from the World Bank towards emergency Covid-19 response in India to US $2 billion. A US $1 billion support was announced last month to support India’s health sector.The focus will be to enable India to integrate all of its 400-plus social security schemes at a technology level, the bank said.“The project will be crucial to rebalance social security towards urban poor, as much as rural,” said Junaid Ahmad, country director, World Bank.“I think PMs ‘Atmanirbhar mission’ is very important in terms of directions and India is not making distinction between life and livelihoods in the aftermath of Covid-19,” he added.Of the US $1 billion commitment, US $550 million will be financed by a credit from the International Development Association (IDA) - the World Bank’s concessionary lending arm and US $200 million will be a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), with a final maturity of 18.5 years including a grace period of five years.The remaining US $250 million will be made available after June 30, 2020.“The World Bank said the support in collaboration with the government is aimed at integrating platforms so that people should not have to run around from one place to another to access a myriad of social schemes,” said Shrayana Bhattacharya, senior World Bank official.Last month, the bank had approved a plan to roll out US $160 billion in emergency aid over 15 months to help countries deal with the impact of the global coronavirus pandemic.The board of the Washington-based development lender announced the first set of fast-track crisis funding, with an initial $1.9 billion going to projects in 25 countries, and operations moving forward in another 40 nations.India was the largest beneficiary of the first wave of programmes with a facility for US $1 billion.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a Rs 20 lakh crore or $266 billion support package for the economy on Tuesday to help mitigate the damage caused by the coronavirus and the lockdown it has triggered.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has been announcing the details on the package, equivalent to around 10% of India’s GDP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-bank-approves-1-billion-for-india-as-social-security-technology-fund-for-urban-poor-migrant-workers/story-hxziIkgLYwsDQkEY6U5agK.html
15-05-2020||India||Amit Shah, BJP leaders discuss Covid-19 at Nadda’s home, first meet since lockdown||Senior ministers and BJP leaders met at party chief JP Nadda’s residence on Thursday to discuss the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country.Union home minister Amit Shah was among those present at the meeting which is understood to have discussed strategy to reach out to the poor and underprivileged sections in the country.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Tuesday announced a comprehensive Rs 20 lakh crore special economic package for the country to become “self-reliant” and deal with Covid-19 crisis. Suggestions were also sought from the leaders on what more needs to be done to alleviate the distress during the trying times.Sources said this was the first such meeting held at the residence of Nadda with majority of union ministers present along with party leaders since lockdown started.The issues discussed at length in the meeting related to migrants including Centre’s financial help to run shelter homes and aid provided to states to keep migrants, problems faced by them and “reluctance” of some states to allow trains bringing migrants.The financial package to boost economy was also discussed and ministers and party leaders were asked to get their doubts clarified on the package details announced by Sitharaman.“Government has given money to keep shelter homes running. Also, they have permitted states to use SDRF funds for providing food and water,” a source said.Another source said that reluctance to allow trains bringing migrants too was discussed.”It is a federal structure and states have say in many matters. Many like West Bengal and Maharashtra are not too forthcoming with allowing trains. For them bringing migrants is a problem despite the aid provided by the Centre,” the source said.Another party leader said it was a meeting to give an insight into Centre’s schemes and implementation of the policies.Those present at the meeting also included Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, MA Naqvi, Jitendra Singh, Prakash Javadekar, Thawar Chand Gehlot, Santosh Gangwar, Smriti Irani, Rattan Lal Kataria, Mansukh Mandavia besides party leaders GVL Narasimha Rao, Sudhanshu Trivedi, Meenakshi Lekhi, Gopal Krishna Agarwal and Shahnawaz Hussain.Sources said finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and commerce and industry and railways minister Piyush Goyal were present at the meeting.The government has announced a series of steps for the poor, migrants and other sections impacted by COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-bjp-leaders-discuss-covid-19-at-jp-nadda-s-home-first-meet-since-lockdown/story-Zxj5OxXqHwRCGFELsv04XL.html
15-05-2020||India||Two soldiers dead in avalanche at Sikkim’s Lugnak La||Two soldiers, including a Lieutenant Colonel, died in an avalanche near Sikkim’s Lugnak La on Thursday, an army official said.The incident happened near Lugnak La, which is at a height of more than 5,000 metre, in north Sikkim when eighteen soldiers, including three officers, were struck by a snow slide. An army spokesman said: “A patrolling-cum-snow clearance party came under avalanche in North Sikkim on May 14. Inspite of the best efforts of the rescue team and local formation an officer Lieutenant Colonel Robert TA and Sapper Sapala Shanmukha Rao who were trapped under the ice lost their lives. All other members of the team are safe.”North Sikkim was the site of a confrontation between Indian and Chinese troops on May 9. The face-off was at Naku La. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured in the confrontation that involved around 150 soldiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-soldiers-dead-in-avalanche-at-sikkim-s-lugnak-la/story-neYTXF55CsJy4rJEGdrrLL.html
15-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Tamil Nadu replaces Gujarat as second worst-hit state from Covid and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 state tally: Tamil Nadu replaces Gujarat as second worst-hit state, Maharashtra on topThe number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 80,000-mark on Friday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 81,970. There are 51,401 active coronavirus cases in the country, 27,919 patients have been cured or discharged while 2,649 people have died from the deadly contagion. Read moreOdisha official mocks women migrant workers as they request change in quarantine centreA Block Development Officer (BDO) in Odisha allegedly abused the migrant workers arriving in the state from Surat in Gujarat. Some women migrant labourers of Banarpal block in Angul district had reached Bhubaneswar by train from Surat on Wednesday morning. Read moreUttar Pradesh Covid-19 tally inches towards 4,000-mark after 147 new cases surfaceThe number of Covid-19 cases inches towards the 4,000-mark in Uttar Pradesh after 147 new cases surfaced on Thursday, Hindustan Times’s Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. Read moreBadrinath shrine’s portals opened for summers, devotees not allowed due to Covid-19The portals of Badrinath Temple were opened early on Friday in the presence of only 28 people, including the chief priest, due to the lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported. Read moreUS health authorities issue alert over Covid-19 linked childhood illnessUS health authorities issued an alert Thursday over a rare but sometimes deadly autoimmune condition among children that is believed to be linked to Covid-19. Read moreWhy Maruti Suzuki is banking on demand for small cars to dictate profit marginsMaruti Suzuki India Ltd., the nation’s biggest carmaker, is likely to emerge from the coronavirus crisis stronger as the economic crunch will lead to buyers favoring cheaper hatchbacks and shifting to personal cars from shared transportation, analysts said. Read morePaatal Lok review: Black-hearted but brave, Anushka Sharma’s show is Amazon’s answer to Sacred GamesIn its attempt to produce a show on par with Netflix’s Sacred Games, Amazon Prime might have unwittingly outdone itself. Paatal Lok is a stunning achievement on virtually every level, and despite all its similarities to the path-breaking Netflix series. Read moreReturn of football will signal progression to new normal: LaLiga president Tebas | Exclusive“Our human compassion binds us the one to the other – not in pity or patronizingly, but as human beings who have learnt how to turn our common suffering into hope for the future.” These words of the great humanitarian Nelson Mandela are quite apt for the times that we live in today. Read moreFacebook starts rolling out Messenger Rooms globallyFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg last month announced the launch of Messenger Rooms, a 50-member video calling feature that would allow users to video call and share content with each other across other apps such as WhatsApp, Instagram and Portals without leaving those platforms. Read moreInternational Day of Families 2020: Best Wishes, images, quotes, Facebook messages & WhatsApp statusEvery year, May 15 is celebrated as the International Day of Families. The day was proclaimed by the UN General Assembly in 1993 with the aim to highlight the importance attached to families by the international community. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-45-of-rajasthan-s-covid-patients-in-21-40-age-group-and-all-the-latest-news/story-48eoTuGpPHmKuGe3LbQ6GP.html
15-05-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Tamil Nadu replaces Gujarat as second worst-hit state, Maharashtra on top||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 80,000-mark on Friday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 81,970. There are 51,401 active coronavirus cases in the country, 27,919 patients have been cured or discharged while 2,649 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have breached the 27,000-mark while in Gujarat, the Covid-19 cases have crossed 9,500.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraWith 27,524 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 1,019 deaths so far while 6,059 patients have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. Tamil Nadu has 9,674 coronavirus cases. It has seen 2,240 recoveries and 66 Covid-19 deaths.GujaratThe tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 9,591. While 586 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 3,753 recoveries so far.DelhiAs many as 8,470 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. One hundred fifteen people have died from the infection while 3,045 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 4,534 on Friday. The state has reported 125 fatalities, and 2,580 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 4,426 positive cases of coronavirus. Two hundred thirty seven people have died from Covid-19 here while 2,171 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 3,902 in Uttar Pradesh. While 2,072 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 88 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 2,205 positive Covid-19 patients and 1,192 cases of recovery. Forty eight people have died.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 2,377 on Friday. There have been 215 deaths and 768 recoveries in the state.TelanganaThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 1,414 in state so far. Nine hundred fifty people people have made a recovery from the virus while 34 people have died from Covid-19.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 983. Eleven people have died from the infection while 485 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 987 Covid-19 cases and 35 deaths. As many as 460 people have been cured and discharged.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 818 and 1,935 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 32 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen 11 deaths. Four hundred thirty nine people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 223 in Punjab.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 560 coronavirus cases on Thursday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 491 people have successfully recovered.In Bihar, 994 people have tested positive for Covid-19, seven people have died while 411 patients have recovered. Odisha has 611 Covid-19 positive patients, 158 have recovered while three people have died. Jharkhand has 197 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 87 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 78 coronavirus patients, 50 patients have recovered from the infection, one patient has died. Himachal Pradesh has 74 cases, two patients have died and 39 have recovered. Assam has reported 87 Covid-19 cases, two people have died while 39 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 60 cases of coronavirus and 56 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 191 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 37 have recovered, three people have died. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, all patients have recovered.Ladakh has 43 patients, 22 people have recovered. Goa reported 14 cases of Covid-19 disease, seven have recovered. Puducherry has reported 13 cases, nine have recovered and one person has died. Meghalaya has reported 13 cases and one death, 11 patients have recovered. One patient has died. Manipur had three coronavirus cases, and two of them have recovered. Tripura, meanwhile, has 156 cases, 29 patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Dadra Nagar Haveli, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. All patients in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-tamil-nadu-replaces-gujarat-as-second-worst-hit-state-maharashtra-on-top/story-z231KtXCTPcILEq5LihlII.html
15-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally nears 82,000-mark with over 3,900 new cases in 24 hrs||The number of coronavirus disease cases (Covid-19) in India neared the 82,000-mark on Friday as 3,967 new patients and 100 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed. There were 81,970 Covid-19 patients with 51,401 active cases and 27,919 recoveries, according to the health ministry’s dashboard. The number of deaths across the country stood at 2,649, it showed. More than 4.4 million people have contracted Covid-19 and 302,418 have died across the world, according to John Hopkins University’s tracker.In India, Maharastra has more than 27,000 Covid-19 patients, followed by Tamil Nadu at 9,647, Gujarat 9,591 and Delhi 8,470 cases of the coronavirus disease.The 14 states and Union territories that have not reported any Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours till Thursday are Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Goa, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Puducherry, and Telangana. Daman and Diu, Sikkim, Nagaland and Lakshadweep have not reported any Covid-19 case to date.Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday that the number of Covid-19 tests carried out in India crossed two million on Thursday, doubling in 12 days.“Our target was to cross 2 million tests by the end of May, but we have done it two weeks ahead of our goal. With 504 laboratories, including 359 government laboratories and 145 private ones, doing Covid-19 tests, we have also crossed the daily capacity of 100,000 tests,” Harsh Vardhan said.At this level, India has tested around 1,540 people per million of its population, much higher than the 94.5 per million population it was testing in late March but still far lower than the tests per million in other countries.In the US, Spain, Russia, the UK, and Italy, the corresponding numbers are 31,080; 52,781; 42,403; 32,691; and 45,246 respectively.The doubling rate of infections has slowed to 13.9 days, from 11.1 days over the past 14 days, the minister said.“The fatality rate is 3.2%, and the recovery rate has further improved to 33.6%, up from 32.83% on Wednesday. There are 3% of active cases in ICUs, of which 0.39% are on ventilators and 2.7% on oxygen support,” he added.Covid-19 is diagnosed using Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) assay, which is the only diagnostic test for Covid-19 approved by the WHO.RT-PCR is used for the qualitative detection of genetic material called Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) from Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and is the most accurate diagnostic test. Other tests such as rapid antibody and Elisa tests are surveillance tools that cannot test for current infection.The numbers come ahead of the scheduled end of the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown on May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-nears-82-000-mark-with-3-900-new-cases-in-24-hrs/story-TmHNGDNiQHd0mkzR6Muq8O.html
15-05-2020||India||NCW talks focus on women-friendly labour legislations||An integrated portal for women migrant workers, the implementation of the workplace sexual harassment law, and the inclusion of women domestic helps are some of the key suggestions that were made during deliberations for a legal review of the Interstate Migrant Workmen Act, 1979.The National Commission for Women (NCW) has initiated the talks to make the law more women-friendly. Zonal consultations have begun – one each from the east and the south -- and three more are likely to take place. Later, the review findings will be submitted to the Union Ministry of Women and Child Development and the Union Ministry of Labour and Employment.It was suggested that the law’s name be revised and the wage gap must be bridged to restore gender parity.NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said that in most cases women migrant workers do not get the same benefits as men. “Women, who migrate for work and are not accompanied by men, are more vulnerable. The role of the middleman or a contractor, who controls wages, must be reviewed. In almost all cases, the women get paid lesser wages,” Sharma said. A key suggestion that emerged during Thursday’s meeting was that employers of migrant labourers must implement the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. “Any employer with more than 10 workers must address sexual harassment at the workplace,” said a person, who attended the meeting.It was recommended that an integrated portal, where the details of these workers are readily available to government officials, need to be launched at the earliest.States also urged the Centre to ensure that employers maintain a list of the women and children employed and the facilities provided to them, and make the data available to their respective labour and women’s departments. It was suggested that the portal should include the details of domestic workers, including their individual traits.Andhra Pradesh’s State Women’s Commission director R Suez said that such a list would help in monitoring the welfare measures; the system of licences must exist in both home and destination state, where a migrant works. The role of labour inspectors, responsible for checking the parametres of workplaces, must also be taken into account, Sharma said.She cited that an NCW team found a nexus between contractors and builders in Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Firozabad district in April. “There’re several such cases that we’ve come across. Direct payments to women migrants’ bank accounts should be made mandatory,” she added.Suez said that most states have pointed out that existing labour laws are seldom implemented. “Most of these laws are in the process of codification as The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code 2019 is pending before Parliament. We’ve asked the Centre to urgently enact this code, if necessary by the promulgation of an ordinance,” she said. The move to review the legislation comes at a time when several states, including UP and Madhya Pradesh, have suspended several labour laws during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.In UP, 35 labour laws have been suspended, including the Factories Act 1948 and the Shops and Commercial Establishments Act 1961. Labour activist Sujata Gothaskar said that registration of workers is not followed in several states. “Most women workers didn’t even have job cards to apply for benefits offered by governments because of the lockdown restrictions,” she said.“Women workers must undergo an orientation programme, which will make them aware of their rights on wages, housing and other benefits,” she added.The Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN) has compiled a report till April 26 on the impact of lockdown restrictions enforced to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, where it surveyed 16,863 stranded workers, of whom 4,024 were women. Around 72% of the workers said their ration exhausted in two days, four out of five workers did not have any access to government rations and 68% did not have access to cooked food, the study found.In another study, conducted by the Aajeevika Bureau of workers in Surat and Ahmedabad in Gujarat, found that women migrants were forced to pay a tenth of their monthly income on pay-and-use toilets. “The condition of women, especially during menstruation or pregnancy, is difficult. Access to water varies between 39 and 60 litres per capita daily,” the study said.Besides, most women could not apply for benefits such as conditional cash transfers, maternity, nutrition and immunisation benefits because they require domicile documents. NCW has found out that in Andhra Pradesh there are no special provisions for workers in situations like the prevailing lockdown restrictions and no data are available about how many migrant workers are there in the state.Soma KP of Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch (MAAKAM) said that the lack of recognition and control over wages of women labourers have led to a growing disparity in their earnings, as compared to men.“Women are the backbone of the agricultural labour force, but they are often seen as supplementary and that reflects in their poor wages, as compared to men. Women are the largest production force in the formal or unorganised sector, and a review of the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1979, must be carried out at the earliest, especially in light of the pandemic. A review of the Labour Code is another long-standing demand of the informal sector,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncw-talks-focus-on-women-friendly-labour-legislations/story-gCVd0T2uw2eHum4x6l9NSJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Focus on migrants in govt package, India tops 2 million tests: Covid-19 news today||The government announced a Rs 3.16 lakh crore package on Thursday with focus on migrant workers, urban poor, street vendors and small farmers as part of its self-reliant India campaign. Meanwhile, Covid-19 tests in India crossed two million even as the doubling rate of the infection slowed to 13.9 days.Ration for migrants, farm relief in 2nd tranche of govt stimulusFree food grains and pulses for migrants, more jobs for tribals and those in rural areas, and credit to small enterprises, street vendors and small farmers — these were some of the highlights of the second phase of the government’s Rs 20 lakh crore Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Scheme) announced on Thursday. Read moreIndia tops 2 million Covid-19 testsThe number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests carried out in India crossed 2 million on Thursday, doubling in 12 days. “Our target was to cross 2 million tests by the end of May, but we have done it two weeks ahead of our goal. Read morePresident hits brakes on plan to buy new limousine, trims banquets to save moneyPresident Ram Nath Kovind will not ride the brand new Rs 10 crore limousine that was to be procured for his use at the next Republic Day parade. And the text time Rashtrapati Bhavan hosts a state banquet, the usually lavish spread will pruned to avoid any semblance of opulence. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayIndia will overtake China in terms of the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases sometime Friday. China was at 82,929 cases on Thursday afternoon and India 78,810, according to worldometers.info. HT’s dashboard shows that India ended the day with 81,859 cases. Read moreIndian Covid-19 vaccine development to be backed by PM-CARESThe government has allocated R 100 crores from the PM-CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations) Fund to support the initiative to develop a vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreRegular train tickets scrapped till June 30; spl trains to runBookings made for regular trains before and during the lockdown for journeys till June 30 stand cancelled and affected passengers will receive full refund, Indian Railways said on Thursday. However, bookings for 15 pairs of special premium trains and those carrying migrant workers to their destinations during the lockdown will continue. Read more15 migrants on way home killed in 24 hrsFifteen migrant workers on their way back to their homes were killed in three accidents, one each in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar in the past 24 hours, police officials said. Read morePlea in SC against labour law dilutionA petition was filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday to challenge the decisions of Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh to freeze major labour laws, a move the state governments deemed necessary to revive the economy amid the challenges presented by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Read moreMP, UP and Guj end state monopoly on agri marketsThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh have ended decades-old monopolies of state-run agricultural produce market committees (APMCs), often blamed for exploitative trading, by permitting privatisation of seller-buyer platforms for farmers, in what analysts say is a far-reaching reform. Read moreCovid-19: 32k to return in Phase 2 of Vande BharatThe second phase of India’s massive programme to repatriate citizens stranded abroad because of the Covid-19 pandemic will bring home about 32,000 people, more than double the figure for the first phase, people familiar with developments said on Thursday. Read moreHealth ministry issues pool testing rulesMigrant workers and international passengers in institutional quarantine, people under isolation in hotels, and random samples of those living in green zone districts will be pool tested for prevalence of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to new Union health ministry guidelines released on Thursday. Read moreGlobal Covid-19 deaths top 300k amid mental health warningA mental illness crisis is looming as millions of people worldwide are surrounded by death and disease and forced into isolation, poverty and anxiety by the Covid-19 pandemic, United Nations health experts said on Thursday. Read moreCovid-19 may spread via speech: StudyMicrodroplets generated by speech can remain suspended in the air in an enclosed space for more than 10 minutes, a study published on Wednesday showed, underscoring their likely role in spreading Covid-19. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-migrants-in-govt-package-india-tops-2-million-tests-covid-19-news-today/story-iNKJEK3F9xADK5doukfKeI.html
15-05-2020||India||‘MSME package is in favour of large enterprises, not the smaller ones’: Manish Tewari||Congress parliamentarian and former Union minister Manish Tewari talks to Saubhadra Chatterji about the economic package announced by the government for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). It is a clear case of skewed priorities of the government. Today, India faces the single biggest humanitarian crisis after the Partition in 1947 and the displacement of people from East Pakistan. There are millions of migrant labourers left without jobs and shelter. But for the Centre it seems they don’t exist.Yes. And we would be closely watching the future announcements too. But the MSME package doesn’t overshadow the fact that the government’s top priority should have been those millions of workers. Why is the government silent? The second priority of the government should have been should have been to pump up the MGNREGS to provide work to these jobless workers.Do you know the problems farmers are facing today? Yes, the government has given Rs 2000 under PM Kisan to farmers but many of them are not getting the MSP for their produce. Farmers need to be paid their dues but it is not happening.We welcome the subordinate debt scheme of ₹20,000 crore and equity corpus fund of ₹10,000 crore. But if you see the MSME package, it is in favour of the large MSME enterprises not the smaller ones. Where is the fiscal stimulus? This is just a liquidity plus package.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msme-package-is-in-favour-of-large-enterprises-not-the-smaller-ones-manish-tewari/story-NLb6DW6LqwYSjh5wvcCUEO.html
15-05-2020||India||India link in 18-point US plan to hold China accountable for Covid-19 ‘cover-up’||A top US senator has unveiled an 18-point plan, including enhancing military ties with India, to hold the Chinese government accountable for its “lies, deception, and cover-ups” that ultimately led to the global Covid-19 pandemic. The prominent suggestions are moving manufacturing chain from China and deepening military-strategic ties India, Vietnam and Taiwan.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Also Watch | Covid update: Automated test machine; USA vs China again; Germany €100 bn loss  “The Chinese government maliciously covered up and enabled a global pandemic that has caused misery for so many Americans. This is the same regime that locks up its own citizens in labour camps, steals America’s technology and jobs, and threatens the sovereignty of our allies,” said Senator Thom Tillis, presenting his detailed, 18-point plan on Thursday. “This is a major wake-up call to the United States and the rest of the free world. My plan of action will hold the Chinese government accountable for lying about COVID-19; sanctioning the Chinese government while protecting America’s economy, public health, and national security,” he said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe plan seeking to create a Pacific Deterrence Initiative and immediately approve the military’s request for USD 20 billion in funding. It also calls for deepening military ties with regional allies and expand equipment sales to India, Taiwan and Vietnam.Also Watch l India to overtake China in covid cases today and why we still lag in testing  Encourage Japan to rebuild its military and offer Japan and South Korea sales of offensive military equipment, it said. “Move manufacturing back to the US from China and gradually eliminate our supply chain dependency on China. Stop China from stealing our technology and provide incentives to American companies to regain our technological advantage. Strengthen cybersecurity against Chinese hacks and sabotage,” the plan stated. “Prevent American taxpayer money from being used by the Chinese government to pay off their debt. Implement the US ban on (Chinese technology company) Huawei and coordinate with our allies to implement similar bans,” it added. The plan seeks restitution from the Chinese government and imposition of sanctions for lying about the virus. It further said China should be sanctioned for their atrocious human rights record. Senator Tillis’ plan urges the Trump Administration to formally request the International Olympic Committee to withdraw the 2022 Winter Olympics from Beijing. “Stop China’s propaganda campaign inside the United States. Treat Chinese government-run media outlets as the propaganda proxies that they are,” the plan stated.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  Urging the government to investigate the Chinese government’s cover-up of the spread of Covid-19, the plan also seeks to investigate America’s reliance on China’s supply chains and threats to public safety and national security. “Ensure the independence of the WHO through investigations and reform. Expose and counter China’s predatory debt-trap diplomacy targeting developing countries. Increase intelligence sharing on potential pandemics and lead the creation of a watchdog organization to monitor foreign governments’ handling of deadly viruses,” Tillis said in his suggestions. The coronavirus, which first emerged in China’s Wuhan city in December last, has killed over 3,00,000 people with 4.3 million confirmed cases across the world. More than a quarter of all confirmed Covid-19 cases are from the US. There has been increasing pressure on the President Trump, in the last several weeks, to take action against China as lawmakers and opinion-makers feel that the Covid-19 spread across the world from Wuhan because of Chinese inaction.Also read| ‘Billions of dollars’: Trump withdraws US pension fund from China investments Meanwhile, Senator John Barrasso, in a speech on the Senate floor on Thursday, highlighted the need to update the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) legislation that was put on hold by the coronavirus pandemic. “The virus could have been contained had it not been for the Chinese Government’s unscrupulous cover-up. China knew the risk months before the rest of the world; yet Chinese communist leaders destroyed key evidence, they under-reported the number of coronavirus cases, and they misled the world about its deadly, rapid spread,” he said. Asserting that the virus should have been contained in Wuhan, he said tens and tens of thousands of Americans and hundreds of thousands of people worldwide have died as a result of China’s failure. Barrasso said the US should encourage its companies to create American and western supply chains. “That way our frontline workers have what they need in the time of crisis,” he said.Also read| ‘Not happy right now’: Trump rules out US renegotiating trade deal with China “Not again, not ever will we be exclusively sourced for critical drugs from China. We should diversify supply and bring home as much of our supply chain as possible,” he added. Congressman Troy Balderson introduced bicameral legislation with Congressman Doug Collins and Senator Lindsey Graham that will hold China accountable for deceptive actions taken by its leaders that led to the spread and subsequent global pandemic. The Covid-19 Accountability Act authorises President Donald Trump to impose sanctions on China if it fails to cooperate with a full investigation led by the US or its allies into the events that lead to the Covid-19 outbreak. “The number of Ohioan lives needlessly claimed by this pandemic could have been significantly reduced had China taken appropriate measures to control the virus’ spread and disclose its severity,” said Balderson. “The United States can’t look the other way when China so recklessly compromised worldwide health and the global economy. China and its Communist Party leadership must be held accountable,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-link-in-18-point-us-plan-to-hold-china-accountable-for-covid-19-cover-up/story-7QwYgvYwru1XuXdWWVVbtK.html
15-05-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh Covid-19 tally inches towards 4,000-mark after 147 new cases surface||The number of Covid-19 cases inches towards the 4,000-mark in Uttar Pradesh after 147 new cases surfaced on Thursday, Hindustan Times’s Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state has now reached 3,902.Out of these new cases, 49 were reported in Ghaziabad, Meerut and Moradabad, Hindustan said.While 2072 people have been cured of the disease, 1,742 are still in hospitals across the state. Two fresh deaths were reported from Meerut and Pratapgarh, raising the toll to 88 in the state.Of the total fatalities, Agra has reported the maximum number of deaths in the state at 24. It is followed by 15 from Meerut, nine from Moradabad, six from Kanpur Nagar and four each from Firozabad and Mathura.Three deaths each have been reported from Aligarh and Gautam Buddh Nagar, two each from Ghaziabad and Jhansi and one each from Pratapgarh, Sant Kabir Nagar, Hapur, Lalitpur, Allahabad, Etah, Mainpuri, Bijnore, Kanpur Dehat, Amroha, Bareilly, Basti, Bulandshahr, Lucknow, Varanasi and Shravasti.Earlier, Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters that the testing capacity in Uttar Pradesh has been increased. As many as 5,833 Covid-19 tests were conducted across the state on Wednesday, which is a record, he said.“We are emphasising on surveillance and over three crore people have been surveyed by 73,131 teams in UP. Those having symptoms (of Covid-19) have been given required treatment,” Prasad said.He also asked the village and mohalla surveillance committees to keep an eye on the migrant labourers coming to the states from other parts of the country. He has also asked people to use face mask outside their home and follow social distancing norms.The state authorities have asked people to show sympathy to those affected by the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-covid-19-tally-inches-towards-4-000-mark-after-147-new-cases-surface/story-rCrryjULJaWMrwnCxRj0NN.html
15-05-2020||India||45% of Rajasthan’s coronavirus patients in 21-40 age group: Govt||As much as 45% of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in Rajasthan belong to the 21-40 years age group and the majority are men, the state’s health department data shows.According to the data, 62.7% of patients are men and 37.3% are women out of the total Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan.Of the 4,418 Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, “21% patients belong to 0-20 year age group; 45.5% are from 21-40 years age; 24.1% are from 41-50 age group, and 9.1% have crossed 60 years”, the department said. Rajasthan on Thursday reported 206 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till 9pm, as the desert state’s tally rose to 4,534, including 267 positive cases of migrants. Of the 206 new cases, 59 were from Udaipur, 36 from Jodhpur, 20 and 22 cases respectively from Jaipur and Jalore. Whereas Nagaur recorded 17 cases, eight each in Barmer and Sirohi, seven each in Sikar and Ajmer, five each in Pali and Jhunjhunu, four each in Rajsamand and Churu and one each in Kota, Alwar and Dungarpur.Among the cases in migrant workers, the maximum at 40 was from Jalore, followed by Pali at 34, Rajsamand at 28, Sirohi at 22, Ajmer at 19, Churu at 15, Nagaur at 14 and 10 each from Dungarpur, Jhunjhnu, Sikar and Udaipur.Rajasthan’s Covid-19 related death toll stands at 125, including 63 fatalities in the state capital of Jaipur. Till date, 2,397 people have been discharged and there are 1,771 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-of-rajasthan-s-coronavirus-patients-in-21-40-age-group-govt/story-VP5M2PWcjtmpBJgAnsJ07M.html
15-05-2020||India||‘Basic reading of Constitution must for Guv applicant’: TMC MP’s dig at Dhankhar||Taking a dig at West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, TMC MP Mahua Moitra on Thursday said in a situation where the post of governor falls vacant, a person applying for it must have the basic reading of the Constitution. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in West Bengal and the Raj Bhawan have been engaged in a bitter war of words for the last few months over state’s Covid-19 response and its various policies. “Situation Vacant- 1 post of Governor for State of WB. Qualifications required- 1. BASIC reading of Constitution 2. Ability to respect dignity of office & not shoot mouth off indiscriminately 3. Modicum of self respect in daily life w/o fawning over political masters shamelessly,” Moitra tweeted. There was no immediate reaction from the Raj Bhawan or the governor regarding the tweet. The West Bengal BJP unit, however, slammed the TMC for repeatedly disrespecting the post of governor and showing disregard for constitutional norms. “Just because the governor is saying legitimate things, the TMC is unable to tolerate and has been repeatedly insulting him and trying to demean his post. We condemn such statements against the post of the office of governor,” West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said.Over the past two months, the state government and the Raj Bhawan have been engaged in a war of words over state’s preparedness in handling the Covid-19 situation.The face-off escalated earlier this month, with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee accusing Dhankhar of repeatedly interfering in the functioning of the state administration, and the governor contending that the state cannot be governed as a personal fiefdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/basic-reading-of-constitution-must-for-guv-applicant-tmc-mp-s-dig-at-dhankhar/story-nisR9rLdvuR6uw94PMeHjO.html
15-05-2020||India||Odisha official mocks women migrant workers as they request change in quarantine centre||A Block Development Officer (BDO) in Odisha allegedly abused the migrant workers arriving in the state from Surat in Gujarat.Some women migrant labourers of Banarpal block in Angul district had reached Bhubaneswar by train from Surat on Wednesday morning. They were taken to a government quarantine centre at Barapada Primary School in Chhendipada block of the district in the afternoon.As the women migrant workers belonged to Banarpal block, they requested Chhendipada BDO Sunil Kumar Kerketa over phone to make arrangements for their stay at a quarantine centre in their own block. But Kerketa told them to either stay put there or leave for their village on foot.“I did not bring you to the quarantine centre. If you want to stay in the centre you can, or you can walk to your home,” the BDO is heard saying in the audio clip that has now gone viral.This comes a day after another BDO in Odisha was seen misbehaving and insulting a group of migrant workers who had returned from Gujarat.Baliapal BDO Chhabirani Sahoo hurled abuses at the migrant workers and even flaunted her position when the migrant workers asked for water. A video of the incident was widely shared on social media.Odisha’s Panchayati Raj Minister Pratap Jena said on Thursday that he has ordered an inquiry into Sahoos’s alleged misbehaviour towards the migrant workers. Jena said he has asked the Balasore district collector to probe the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-official-mocks-women-migrant-workers-as-they-request-change-in-quarantine-centre/story-zOdqWtZdGS6f5OQdWPdrKK.html
15-05-2020||India||3 dead, 2 detained after failed theft attempt in Karnataka’s Kolar Gold Fields||Three men fell to their death while trying to look for gold at the Kolar Gold Fields (KGF) in Karnataka’s Kolar district, police said on Thursday.Ramdas, a sub-inspector of Marikuppam police station, said two others have been detained.Ramdas said five men from the Bishop Doddi locality of Andersonpet—Padiyappa, Joseph, Kanda, Victor and Karthik—had gone to an abandoned shaft to steal gold ore on Wednesday night. But since it was dark and some of the planks near the shaft had become weak due to lack of maintenance and exposure to weather, Joseph, Kanda and Padiyappa plunged to their death after falling around 1,000 feet. Ramdas said they might have become weak due to inhalation also of some of the poisonous gases which could have accumulated in these abandoned shafts.Victor and Karthik managed to escape and alerted some of the nearby residents who in turn informed the police. Police along with the fire department recovered the bodies of Joseph and Kanda on Thursday while that of Santhosh alias Padiyappa is yet to be found. Both the bodies have been sent to the district government hospital for post-mortem examination. Victor and Karthik have been detained for further investigation.Once one of India’s richest gold mines, all mining activity has been abandoned in KGF since 2001 due to the low gold content which meant the price of extracting it from the ground was not profitable.However, every now and then when gold prices shoot up, some thieves try to extract some of the ore which they believe contains “trace gold.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-dead-2-detained-after-failed-theft-attempt-in-karnataka-s-kolar-gold-fields/story-VFsQeFotbozzWtj0sLTP5H.html
15-05-2020||India||Badrinath shrine’s portals opened for summers, devotees not allowed due to Covid-19||The portals of Badrinath Temple were opened early on Friday in the presence of only 28 people, including the chief priest, due to the lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported.The doors of the famous shrine in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, which was decorated with strings of marigold flowers, was opened at 4:30am after a long winter break.“Devotees will not be allowed entry into the temple during that time. The decision has been taken in view of the guidelines issued by the Centre amid Covid-19 pandemic,” Anil Chanyal, Joshimath’s sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), had said in a statement earlier.Religious ceremonies were also held on Wednesday at the Narsingh temple in Joshimath ahead of the scheduled date for the opening of the portals of the Badrinath temple dedicated to Lord Vishnu.Around 10,000 pilgrims had visited the shrine last year on the first day of its opening as per an estimated figure.Manujendra Shah, the king of the Tehri royal family who is considered the ‘Bolanda Badri’ or talking Lord Badri, had on April 20 changed the date of opening of the portals of Badrinath shrine as the chief priest was under the quarantine after returning from Kerala. This is the first time in history that the dates for the opening of portals of the shrines have been changed.The portals of Kedarnath temple were also opened on April 29 after a six-month-long winter break. Pilgrims were prohibited from visiting the shrine because of the lockdown.One of the most visited pilgrimage centres of India, Badrinath is one of the Char Dhams or the four main pilgrimage centres of the Hindus located in Garhwal hills. The Badrinath Temple is along the banks of the Alaknanda River in Chamoli district at a height of over 10,000 feet.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badrinath-shrine-s-portals-opened-for-summers-devotees-not-allowed-due-to-covid-19/story-HUjq85ARA7x5jbelsFWgxK.html
15-05-2020||India||Tonk gang rape: Chargesheet filed in 10 days||The Tonk district police filed chargesheet in the Pachewar gang rape case on Thursday, within 10 days of registration of the first investigation report (FIR), officials said.Tonk Superintendent of Police (SP) Adarsh Siddhu said that the FIR in the case was registered on May 6 and all the four accused were detained on the same day. On May 11, the statements of the victim were recorded in the court and the chargesheet was presented in the court on Thursday.“The charges against the accused were found to be true under sections 363 (kidnapping), 366 (inducing girl for illicit inter course), 376DA (gang rape) of India Penal Code and Section 5 (kidnapping) and Section 6 (gang rape of child) under POCSO Act,” said Siddhu.The SP added that the case has been taken in the case officer scheme to ensure maximum punishment.A minor in Tonk district was allegedly gang raped by four persons on May 5 when she had went to relieve herself in open, the police said.According to complaint given by the family members of the 16-year-old, she was kidnapped by four people around 8 pm who have been named in the FIR. They allegedly took her to isolated place in Islampur and took turns to rape her. The men later dropped her near a pond in Bacheda village in an unconscious condition.The girl gradually regained consciousness and managed to reach her home. She shared the ordeal with her parents after which they went to the police station to register an FIR.The accused were identified as Nesar Khan (22), Salman alias Khobra (20) and Zakir alias Raju Rada (22). The fourth accused is a minor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tonk-gang-rape-chargesheet-filed-in-10-days/story-dR8kdLtrdbMdlDxzYjjP2N.html
15-05-2020||India||7 special trains from Karnataka ferry over 10,000 migrant workers home||Seven South Western Railway (SWR) zone special trains ferried 10,063 migrant workers back home to six Indian states amid Covid-19 pandemic, an official said on Thursday.“The first Shramik Special train from Hubballi left at 12.20 pm with 1,361 passengers bound for Jodhpur,” said a SWR zone official.Thursday’s second special train with 1,550 migrants departed Chikka Bannavara station from the outskirts of Bengaluru at 3.30 pm to Muzaffarpur in Bihar.Two trains, third and fourth special ones on Thursday, left Chikka Bannavara station for Gorakhpur with 1,520 and 1440 migrants at 4.50 p.m. and 6.35 p.m. respectively.Similarly, Thursday’s fifth special train departed Malur station for Katihar in Bihar at 6.15 pm with 1,462 migrants.Likewise, the sixth train from Chikka Bannavara station to Jiribam in Manipur departed at 7.28 pm with 1,450 passengers at 8.30 pm.Seventh special train from Chikka Bannavara to Udhampur in Jammu and Kashmir left at 10.39 pm with 1,280 migrants.SWR is yet to share the departure details of eighth special train on Thursday, scheduled to leave for Jasidih in Jharkhand from Malur.The special trains are being organised following the Union ministry of home affairs granting permission for the movement of stranded migrant labourers, workers, students, tourists and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-trains-from-k-taka-ferry-more-than-10k-migrants-home/story-lJs7l43wOsa0kZvo9HJaQJ.html
15-05-2020||India||19 passengers sent back to Delhi after they protest quarantine in Bengaluru||Nineteen passengers who had arrived at the Bengaluru railway station on Thursday from New Delhi on a passenger train were sent back to the national capital after they created a ruckus protesting institutional quarantine.“Delhi-KSR Bengaluru train that arrived Bengaluru on Thursday morning had 543 passengers, as confirmed from Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). Out of these 543 persons, about 20 were on transit to other states and left by road to Kerala and Tamil Nadu” the Indian Railways said in a statement.The special train from New Delhi to Bengaluru, (Train No. 02492) had arrived on Thursday morning at the KSR Bengaluru City railway station.“A section of passengers ranging about 140 were reluctant for institutionalised quarantine and were protesting against the same. After persuasion and discussion by senior officers of State Government, Police and Railways, majority of them have proceeded to said quarantine,” it said.The Railways said “19 of them preferred to go back to Delhi which was facilitated by Railways at very short notice by attaching extra coach in a train to Delhi on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-passengers-sent-back-to-delhi-after-they-protest-quarantine-in-bengaluru/story-3ArlgcOdCqwfOQXa2CgBiI.html
15-05-2020||India||Migrants ‘waiting’ for food, transport pelt stones at cops on MP-Maharashtra border||Migrants from Maharashtra headed towards Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have become a law and order and coronavirus issue for the Madhya Pradesh government.Thousands of migrant workers went on a rampage after traffic was jammed on the National Highway 3 on Thursday. They pelted stones at the police after waiting for nine hours for food.Violence erupted in Sendhwa on Madhya Pradesh-Maharashtra border as the promised arrangement for food and transportation for them did not materialise.Cellphone videos from the spot showed hundreds of people, screaming and running on the shoulder beside the highway.“People here are travelling with month-old babies. The Maharashtra government sent us here, but our own government is holding us up. We have been here since last night, hungry and thirsty,” said Sunit Mishra, who works in Pune. The hapless people are stranded in a jungle with no security. “No one cares about us,” said Mishra who wants to go to Satna.District Collector Amit Tomar said, “The stone-pelting took place as some migrants felt after the buses left, there would not be any more vehicles for those left behind, but we reassured them and calmed them down.”The migrants were sent to transit points in different districts in 135 buses from the border, he said.“The administration is providing facilities like food, water, shelter to labourers who are coming in their own vehicles or through other conveyances and providing facility of buses to others who are entering Madhya Pradesh walking from Maharashtra’s border,” said Tomar. The restive migrants had resorted to violence last week too. On May 3 over a thousand workers staged a protest in Barwani after the district was sealed. More than 300 people were booked for last week’s violence. The cases were not pursued though.Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has appealed to the labourers to have patience, saying they will be transported free of cost by buses after medical checkups and a meal.The Madhya Pradesh government, he said, will ensure that every labourer reaches home. ItA is not just about transporting the labourers to their destinations. It is also about ensuring that the other states allow them to cross into home states. Both Uttar Pradesh and Bihar take a long time to let the people in. say the state government officials.Sendhwa is a crucial stop for the migrant labourers from Maharashtra taking the road to go to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Every day, thousands of migrants pour into town, from where they take buses and trucks for the onward journey.The maximum pressure is at Bijasan Ghat on the border of Sendhwa, where 5,000 to 6,000 labourers reach every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-waiting-for-food-transport-pelt-stones-at-cops-on-mp-maharashtra-border/story-lFAqlJCfXVHd5idAZOLEVP.html
15-05-2020||India||Army’s only cavalry unit to replace horses with tanks||One of the world’s last remaining horse-mounted cavalry regiments may be riding into the sunset. The Indian Army’s only mounted cavalry regiment is set to say goodbye to its horses, with the government approving a proposal to equip the 61st Cavalry with tanks, two senior officers said on condition of anonymity.The famous 61st Cavalry is being converted into a regular armoured regiment on the basis of a recommendation made by the Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd) committee in a report on sharpening the army’s combat edge and trimming its revenue expenditure, said one of the officers cited above. The Jaipur-based 61st Cavalry is likely to be equipped with T-72 tanks, said the second officer cited above. “Three independent squadrons of other regiments are being amalgamated under the headquarters of the 61st Cavalry to form the new tank unit,” the officer added.The regiment’s 300-odd horses (200 in Jaipur and around 100 with a squadron of 61st Cavalry in Delhi) will become part of a new equestrian node, he said.Lieutenant General Shekatkar, who headed the 11-member expert committee named after him, said the recommendation to mechanise the 61st Cavalry was taken after scrutinising the track record of the unit.“It has not taken part in any operation during the last 25 years. Nowhere in the world is playing polo or taking part in equestrian sports the main occupation of any army unit. It’s in the army’s best interests that it (the unit) operates tanks instead of horses,” Shekatkar said. He said the President’s Bodyguard, also a mounted unit, has the well-defined role of performing ceremonial duties for the country’s President. The decision to mechanise the mounted regiment, steeped in tradition and sporting history, has evoked mixed reactions. While some in the army argue that the regiment’s military heritage should have been preserved, others counter that it makes more sense to assign the 61st Cavalry an operational role rather than limiting it to ceremonial functions and sporting events.“The 61st Cavalry has a rich and storied history that should have been preserved. There can be no 61st Cavalry without horses. It’s heartbreaking to see the unit being disbanded,” said an armoured corps officer who asked not to be named. Another officer, however, said mechanisation of the regiment was the way forward and mounted units were a thing of the past.The 61st Cavalry was raised in Jaipur in October 1953 by putting together mounted elements of cavalry regiments of the erstwhile princely states of India.Rich in sporting history, the regiment accounts for one Padma Shri, 10 Arjuna Awards, 11 Asian Games medals and a raft of representations at the Polo World Cup and international equestrian competitions. It has been a part of the annual Republic Day parade for several decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-s-only-cavalry-unit-to-replace-horses-with-tanks/story-ruLeP4r4t3zBLnXFFxLhPP.html
15-05-2020||India||Centre, West Bengal spar over repatriation flights under Vande Bharat Mission||The Central and West Bengal governments were involved in another spat on repatriation of residents on Thursday, with the external affairs ministry saying the state hadn’t confirmed if it has arranged quarantine facilities to receive people who want to return from abroad.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava tweeted that flights to repatriate residents of West Bengal from abroad as part of Vande Bharat Mission could be arranged if the state government confirmed that it has organised quarantine facilities for them.Srivastava was responding to a tweet from West Bengal’s higher education minister Partha Chatterjee, who posted a schedule of the flights being organised during the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission and questioned why there were no flights to the state.The government is arranging 149 flights from more than 30 countries in the second phase of the massive repatriation programme to bring back some 32,000 people to more than a dozen states. West Bengal isn’t among the states.“Is the MEA asking us to believe that there are enough people to come from Georgia to Gujarat but none want to come to Kolkata? Also, there are enough people to come back to Bihar from Kyrgyzstan but not enough to bring back to Bengal?? Stop this injustice !!!” Chatterjee tweeted.Is the MEA asking us to believe that there are enough people to come from Georgia to Gujrat but none want to come to Kolkata ?Also, there are enough people to come back to Bihar from Kyrgyzstan but not enough to bring back to Bengal?? Stop this injustice !!!#MithyebadiBJP pic.twitter.com/NbpEFWw646Srivastava responded by tweeting: “MEA does not discriminate between states. GOI’s Vande Bharat Mission is for all stranded Indians, including those from West Bengal. Over 3700 of them have registered for repatriation from different parts of the world.”He added in another tweet, “Will gladly facilitate flights to Kolkata if state government will confirm arrangements to receive and quarantine. Will also help in return of WB residents through land borders with neighbours. We hope to receive an early response on the matter.” MEA does not discriminate between states. GOI’s Vande Bharat Mission is for all stranded Indians, including those from West Bengal. Over 3700 of them have registered for repatriation from different parts of the world. (1/2)@MoCA_GoI @HomeSecretaryWB https://t.co/CEzU0rCAnMThere was no immediate response from West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress party or its leaders.In the past few days, the Central and West Bengal governments have sparred over the arrangement of special trains to bring back migrant workers of the state from other parts of the country. The Union home ministry contended it wasn’t getting support from the West Bengal government to help the migrant workers return home, and the allegation was dismissed by Trinamool Congress leaders.An Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT), which visited West Bengal to assess the Covid-19 situation, said there were discrepancies in the reporting of cases in the state. In its final report submitted to the West Bengal government, IMCT also raised questions about the state’s contention that it had surveyed 50 lakh people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-west-bengal-spar-over-repatriation-flights-under-vande-bharat-mission/story-ddC5AlM6LbpVqSjVd1Y3OJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Health ministry issues pool testing rules||Migrant workers and international passengers in institutional quarantine, people under isolation in hotels, and random samples of those living in green zone districts will be pool tested for prevalence of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to new Union health ministry guidelines released on Thursday.A pool of 25 samples from the target population will be tested using the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to detect the presence of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. In pool testing, throat or nasal swabs from two to five people are mixed and tested as a single unit. All individual samples in a negative pool are deemed as having tested negative; if a pooled sample tests positive, each person in the pool is tested individually to find out who is infected.“Guideline for RT-PCR based pooled sampling for migrants/returnees from abroad/green zones… A decision has been taken to use one time RT-PCR based pooled sampling for surveillance purposes for migrant workers in institutional quarantine facilities, international passengers in institutional quarantine facilities/hotels ear-marked for quarantine and for surveillance purposes in green zones…” reads a health ministry directive.The green zone districts from where samples will be collected are those from where no case has been reported to date, or districts which had reported cases earlier but have been clean for the past 21 days or more.“It is one time only testing to check whether there is infection prevalent in a particular group or not. If a pool sample returns positive, then all the samples will be individually tested for the presence of virus,” said a health ministry official, who did not wish to be identified.The responsibility of conducting the test will lie on respective state governments.As per the protocol, a cohort of 25 people will be identified, and throat or nasal swabs will be collected by trained laboratory personnel using appropriate protective gear. The sample will be packed in triple layer packaging, and transported to the identified laboratory under cold-chain as per the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research for Covid-19 sample collection and testing.“The samples will be aliquoted and thereafter pooled samples from 25 specimens shall be tested in the laboratory by RT-PCR method. The report will be conveyed to the quarantine/concerned facility within 24 hours. If any of the pooled samples tests positive, individual samples would be tested from the aliquoted samples preserved in the laboratory,” say the health ministry guidelines.ICMR issued an advisory on the feasibility of pool testing of samples using RT-PCR last month. It was done after a feasibility study was conducted at ICMR’s Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow.“The samples are pool tested for the purpose of surveillance. It is not advisable for diagnosis in areas where case load or its suspicion is high because if every other pooled sample tests positive, then you will end up individually testing a large number of samples, which will defeat the purpose,” Dr Amita Jain, head, ICMR-VRDL, KGMU, had earlier said about pool testing as she headed the feasibility study.Dr Ekta Gupta, senior virologist at Delhi government-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which is one of the ICMR-approved labs for Covid-19 testing, said, “In areas where the suspicion of finding a positive case is low, it helps to go for pooled testing as it will save a lot of precious resources. RT-PCR is an expensive test, and you need a proper laboratory setting to conduct the test. Pooling is feasible and if a batch comes positive, you can always go back and test individual samples. You will still end up saving a lot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-issues-pool-testing-rules/story-EyaEm9fHUe0AjzRPbh1aFI.html
15-05-2020||India||Mamata approves 105 trains for 1 month for migrants; Piyush Goyal says state needs 105 daily||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has been facing flak from the opposition for going slow on bringing back migrant workers, on Thursday announced that the state had arranged for 105 trains to bring these workers home over the next one month, following which railway minister Puyish Goyal said the state actually needed 105 trains every day. “I am pleased to announce that we have arranged 105 additional special trains,” CM Banerjee announced on Thursday and shared on social media details of the schedule.In the evening, Goyal responded to Banerjee’s tweet and wrote, “I feel sad that while there is a need for 105 trains per day to bring back migrants to WB, the state is accepting only 105 trains over 30 days. I once again hope for the sake of Bengal’s brothers and sisters in different parts of the country, that WB will accept them back with open arms.” In another reply to CM Banerjee’s tweet, the railway minister said, “Many migrants want to return to WB and if the state does not accept them then we may find more cases of migrants and even children walking for hundreds of km and resorting to other dangerous means. WB should speed up setting up of adequate arrangements to receive their own migrants.”This controversy took place when migrants from Bengal stranded in other states started taking the long road back home. On Thursday, Tamil Nadu-based writer and social activist Nityanand Jayaraman posted on Twitter a short video of a batch of migrant workers from Bengal starting for their home on bicycles, embarking on a nearly 1,700 km journey.“#MigrantsOnTheRoad Chennai-Kolkata Highway. This batch of 20 left Chennai this morning for Murshidabad, WB. 1700 km. No help from govts. Public public partnership only. Courtesy Lorry drivers, dhaba balas, people of India,” Jayaraman wrote on Twitter.In Bengal, right to food activist Anuradha Talwar, who has been working with stranded migrant workers in different states over the past few weeks, said that migrants from Bengal were initially against taking the walking or cycling route for home and preferred to wait but are of late running out of patience.“We are in touch with these workers stranded in other states and most of those from Bengal were in favour of waiting for train services to resume. Too few from Bengal actually took the road to walk or to cycle hundreds of km. But they are running out of patience due to lack of clarity over the state government’s initiatives and have recently started making their own arrangements,” said Talwar.The number of workers from Bengal who migrate to other states is estimated at around 12 lakh. They mostly go to India’s southern states of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka and the western states of Maharashtra and Gujarat. They mostly work in construction, zari work, restaurants, sugar mills, jewellery and garment sector.Bengal has so far seen fewer numbers of people coming back from distant states on their own and they were mostly stray cases. People returned in groups were mostly from the neighbouring states of Jharkhand and Odisha. Among the migrant labourers who came back from several hundred kilometers away was a group of construction workers from Chhattisgarh who walked and hitchhiked to reach Bengal, a middle-aged man from Tamil Nadu and a septuagenarian from Bihar who cycled the distance.“I exchanged my mobile phone with a security guard at the construction site where I worked. I took his bicycle and a few hundred rupees. Every day I peddled throughout the day and sometimes at night too. I took rest only when I could not take the pain anymore,” said Atiul Shah, a 23-year-old resident of South 24 Parganas district in Bengal, who came back from Salem in Tamil Nadu on April 29. As of Thursday, 7 trains have brought back stranded migrant workers and pilgrims and several buses brought back students stranded in Kota, Rajasthan.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, however, blamed other states for the plight of the migrant workers. “No one stranded in our state is going mad to go back because we have kept them well and truly treated them as our guests. But those from here got stranded in other states did not receive this gesture. We appeal to those who are returning not to go back to those states that did not take care of them amidst this crisis. We’ll find some arrangements for them,” CM Banerjee said.The CM also said that more than one lakh people have already returned to the state. This includes migrant labourers, tourists, patients and students. “Out of this the maximum - around 90,000 - came on buses, while some arranged their own vehicles to reach the state borders. Some came on foot,” said Banerjee. Opposition parties, however, accused Banerjee of being apathetic towards the migrants. “The railway minister is right. He personally told me that the railways were ready to allot 100 trains for Bengal every day,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Congress’ leader in the Lok Sabha.Bharatiya Janata Party state unit president Dilip Ghosh said the same. “We have given the government a list of more than 4 lakh migrant workers stranded in different states,” Ghosh said.Some workers who were fortunate to get trains for their journey back home too were unhappy with the arrangements by the railways. On Thursday, a section of the passengers coming from Bengaluru on a New Jalpaiguri-bound Shramik Special train alleged that they faced acute shortage of drinking water, food and no social distancing on the train. More than 50 passengers got down at Durgapur where the train stopped briefly to change engines and staged a protest.Later, the railway authorities had to coordinate with the state government to arrange buses for the passengers. The train was sanitized and drinking water was supplied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-approves-105-trains-for-1-month-for-migrants-piyush-goyal-says-state-needs-105-daily/story-hNp9QGygAS1qDrsuT35RvN.html
15-05-2020||India||‘Govt left migrants to mercy of God’: Congress||The Congress on Thursday criticised the government for the second tranche of its stimulus package to boost the Covid-19 hit economy, saying it had provided just Rs 3500 crore for the millions of migrant workers walking thousands of kilometres to reach their homes.Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari said the entire press conference of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman was a “classic display of arrogance, ignorance and insensitivity” and claimed that except for Rs 1500 crore interest subvention for Shishu Mudra loans and Rs 3500 crore for migrant workers, there was nothing else out of the Rs 20 lakh crore package.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“For the millions of migrants that you claim are the builders of this nation, all you have for them is Rs 3500 crore in terms of atta and chana. It is pathetic. They are left to the mercy of God. This is your empathy for the poor of this country. That’s why we say you are a suit boot ki sarkaar,” he told reporters through a video conference.“This is the entire quantum of the package that the BJP ostensibly put together for the greatest humanitarian tragedy since the 1947 Partition exodus and the East Pakistan refugee crisis,” Tewari added.He said the government does not even have the figures of how many people were housed in relief camps. The government said there are 8 crore migrants but the reality is that 11 crore migrants are in the country, as per the 2011 census, and the numbers have increased since then, he added.“We expected the finance minister to specify what the government is doing to ferry migrants who are walking on the roads back to their homes. But nothing like that happened,” Tewari said.Also Read: Ration for migrants, farm relief in 2nd tranche of govt stimulusHis colleague Supriya Shrinate termed the stimulus package as a “loan mela” and said the government should give direct cash transfer to the poor to enhance the demand and this would cost just Rs 65,000 crore.“Look at the insensitivity of the government that is doing nothing for the workers walking on foot right now but talking about measures ahead… The indignity with which Prime Minister Narendra Modi talked about MNREGA, the same MNREGA is a life saver in rural areas today,” she added.Earlier, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said the party will ensure that the screams of migrant workers reach the government and described them as the ones carrying the country’s flag.“There is a dense darkness and these are difficult times, have courage, all of us are standing for the safety of all of them. We will ensure that their screams reach the government and they get the help they deserve. They are not the ordinary public of the country, they are the flag bearers of the country’s self-respect. We will never let them bow down,” he tweeted in Hindi. अंधकार घना है कठिन घड़ी है, हिम्मत रखिए-हम इन सभी की सुरक्षा में खड़े हैं। सरकार तक इनकी चीखें पहुँचा के रहेंगे, इनके हक़ की हर मदद दिला के रहेंगे। देश की साधारण जनता नहीं, ये तो देश के स्वाभिमान का ध्वज हैं... इसे कभी भी झुकने नहीं देंगे। pic.twitter.com/bBf48DiluYBut BJP president JP Nadda said the announcements showed the Prime Minister’s sensitivity towards the poor and the marginal people.I welcome announcements by FM @nsitharaman Ji for the benefit of migrant workers. Free food for two months to 8 Crore migrants, nationwide implementation of "One Nation One Ration Card" Scheme are major initiatives to ensure food security for migrant workers.“I welcome announcements by FM @nsitharaman Ji for the benefit of migrant workers. Free food for two months to 8 Crore migrants, nationwide implementation of One Nation One Ration Card Scheme are major initiatives to ensure food security for migrant workers,” he tweeted.“Rs 2 lakh crore concessional credit to 2.5 Cr PM Kisan beneficiary farmers & fishermen; and the Rs 30,00O crore additional funding from NABARD etc. will boost the farm sector,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-left-migrants-to-mercy-of-god-cong/story-3yUsU2g6sIC1p5mmyoonQP.html
15-05-2020||India||Have adopted conscious approach to fight Covid-19: PM Modi to Bill Gates||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday underlined the “conscious approach that India has adopted in its fight against Covid-19” during a video conference with Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation co-chair, Bill Gates, the PMO said in a statement.“He explained how this people-centric bottom-up approach has helped win acceptability for physical distancing, respect for front-line workers, wearing of masks, maintaining proper hygiene, and respecting lockdown provisions,” the PMO statement said. Modi and Gates also discussed the global response to Covid-19 and the importance of global coordination on scientific innovation and R&D to combat the pandemic.The Prime Minister also highlighted how some of the previous developmental initiatives taken by Government - expanding financial inclusion, strengthening last mile delivery of health services, popularising cleanliness and hygiene through the Swachh Bharat Mission, drawing upon India’s Ayurvedic wisdom to enhance people’s immunity, etc - had helped increase the effectiveness of India’s response to the present pandemic.The Prime Minister appreciated the health related work being done by the Gates Foundation not only in India but also in many other parts of the world, including for coordinating global response to Covid-19. “He sought suggestions from Mr. Gates on how India’s capacities and capabilities could be better leveraged for the general benefit of the world,” the statement said.Modi and Gates also discussed drawing upon India’s unique model of last-mile health service delivery in rural areas, dissemination of the effective contact-tracing mobile app developed by Government of India, and leveraging India’s massive pharmaceutical capacity to scale-up the production of vaccines and therapeutics upon their discovery. “They agreed that given India’s willingness and capacity to contribute to global efforts, particularly for benefit of fellow developing countries, it was important for India to be included in the ongoing global discussions for coordinating responses to the pandemic,” the statement said.The Prime Minister also suggested that the Gates Foundation could take the lead in analysing the necessary changes in lifestyles, economic organisation, social behaviour, modes of disseminating education and healthcare that would emerge in the post-Covid world, and the associated technological challenges that would need to be addressed. “India would be happy to contribute to such an analytical exercise, based on its own experiences,” the Prime Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-adopted-conscious-approach-to-fight-covid-19-pm-modi-to-bill-gates/story-7av0Az2InUjpMUZx0o9lkL.html
15-05-2020||India||India tops 2 million Covid-19 tests||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests carried out in India crossed 2 million on Thursday, doubling in 12 days.“Our target was to cross 2 million tests by the end of May, but we have done it two weeks ahead of our goal. With 504 laboratories, including 359 Government laboratories and 145 private ones, doing Covid-19 tests, we have also crossed the daily capacity of 100,000 tests,” Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said.At this level, India has tested around 1,540 people per million of its population, much higher than the 94.5 per million population it was testing in late March but still far lower than the tests per million in other countries. In the US, Spain, Russia, the UK, and Italy, the corresponding numbers are 31,080; 52,781; 42,403; 32,691; and 45,246 respectively. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe doubling rate of infections has slowed to 13.9 days, from 11.1 days over the past 14 days, the minister said. “The fatality rate is 3.2%, and the recovery rate has further improved to 33.6%, up from 32.83% on Wednesday. There are 3% of active cases in ICUs, of which 0.39% are on ventilators and 2.7% on oxygen support,” he added.Testing for Covid-19 has increased fivefold since April 1, when the cumulative number of people tested was 38,914, and daily testing is expected to cross 100,000 tests a day, from 5,580 a day on April 1. Covid-19 is diagnosed using Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) assay, which is the only diagnostic test for Covid-19 approved by the World Health Organization.Also Read: Sanofi CEO pledges virus vaccine for all after French backlash“India now has enough back-up resources to sustain and scale up testing comfortably at the present growth rate, if needed. We have reduced our dependence on imports substantially and with local manufacturing rising, there are no shortages. We have enough testing kits, RNA extraction kits, VTMs (viral transport medium) and other components to last us till July,” said CK Mishra, secretary, environment, and co-chair of the PM’s high-level committee on preparedness for a medical emergency.RT-PCR is used for qualitative detection of genetic material called Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) from Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and is the most accurate diagnostic test for infection, while other tests, such as rapid antibody and Elisa tests, are surveillance tools that cannot test for current infection.“All our efforts, including our partnership with Serum Institute of India, have had a clear focus on making indigenous kits available at scale. Our scale-up of production capacity to 2 lakh kits a day is a testament to the prime minister’s vision of an Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). We are at a stage where we should be able to take care of India’s domestic demand, if needed,” said Hasmukh Rawal, managing director, Mylab Discovery Solutions, which was the first lab in India to receive approval to manufacture RT-PCR testing kits.Also Read: Ration for migrants, farm relief in 2nd tranche of govt stimulusThe National Centre for Disease Control in Delhi now has a COBAS-6800 high-volume testing platform with a high throughput of testing around 1,200 samples in 24 hours. “The focus now is on strengthening the testing capability of states with low capacity by identifying regional labs to establish high-throughput PCR platforms for quality testing, getting private labs running, and if needed, getting an overflow of samples tested picked up for testing at other centres,” said Mishra.To build capacity in underserved regions, the Union government has sent 15 TrueNAT (RT-Micro PCR) machines to Bihar, where they can be set up in medical colleges to ramp up diagnosis. This is a small battery-operated micro-PCR platform that can run 32 to 48 samples in a day and produces results in one hour; it can be used in low-resource rural settings.Till Thursday, the total number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country stood at 81,859 and deaths at 2,578. Nearly 28,000 patients had recovered from the highly infectious disease. The 14 states/UTs that have not reported any Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours are Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Goa, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Puducherry, and Telangana. Daman & Diu, Sikkim, Nagaland and Lakshadweep have not reported any case to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tops-2-million-covid-19-tests/story-0wVEATp5FNvBbrGlLd8WyK.html
15-05-2020||India||Assam asks Centre not to classify districts into Covid-19 zones; state tally now at 87||Instead of classifying entire districts into red, orange or green zones based on number of Covid-19 positive patients, the Assam government wants only those specific areas where cases have been detected to be turned into containment zones while allowing relaxations in other parts.“The Assam government has officially given its view to Delhi that we don’t want to follow this concept of zones as these are misnomers. Suppose we get a positive case in Fancy Bazaar, how are people in Noonmati (both areas located in Guwahati) affected by it?” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Thursday evening.At present three of the 33 districts in the state—Dhubri, Goalpara and Marigaon have been placed in the orange zone while all others are in green zone.“We have recommended that we should be allowed to follow the policy of containment and buffer zones because classification of zones becomes subject to speculation and it concerns livelihoods of people,” Sarma said while addressing a press conference.“We will have to keep fighting with coronavirus, but at the same time economic activity should not suffer. Therefore, instead of classifying districts into zones, we should contain the particular area where infection has been detected, leaving the other areas free to pursue normal business activities while maintaining social distance and ensuring use of masks,” he added.Alert in Guwahati after 22 positive cases detected in 24 hoursWith 22 fresh cases detected in Guwahati in 24 hours, the authorities in Assam are on alert and there’s anxiety among residents of the state and northeast’s biggest city.While 15 people were detected positive on Wednesday, another 7 new cases were reported on Thursday taking the total number of patients in the state to 87. While two patients have died, 41 others have recovered, 43 are undergoing treatment and one patient has migrated to Bihar.A total of 137 people including 63 cancer patients and their attendants had arrived in Guwahati on Tuesday night after travelling over 2,500 km by road from Mumbai in six buses.All these people were kept in quarantine in a five-star hotel in Guwahati while their samples were taken and tested. On Thursday, seven of them including 3 cancer patients, one 13-year-old heart patient and 3 attendants were found positive for Covid-19. “It is expected people in Guwahati will be anxious after 22 cases have been detected within the past 24 hrs. But we are not surprised about the 7 cases detected on Thursday,” Sarma said.“Firstly they came from Mumbai and secondly even before these people came back, we had detected positive cases among some residents of Assam Bhawan in Mumbai where the patients and their attendants were staying,” he added.In view of the spurt in cases, nine areas in Guwahati have been turned into containment zones.Assam prepares SOP for passengers returning by trainAssam on Thursday released a fresh set of standard operating procedures to be followed while dealing with passengers returning to the state from other parts of the country by trains.The procedures list out how passengers will be dealt with once they enter Assam and get down at various stations. Officials have been asked to follow the rules on transportation, screening, testing and quarantine for the passengers.“Anyone found symptomatic will be segregated and taken to hospitals for tests. Others will be allowed to go to their home districts where they will be placed in institutional quarantine for at least 14 days,” Sarma said.Passengers over 75 years, children below 10 years and their families, pregnant women and persons with disabilities will be allowed to go to their homes where they as well as their family members will have to keep themselves quarantined for 14 days.Abandoning its earlier plan to turn schools and colleges into quarantine facilities, the government has now decided to requisition hotels, lodges etc. and keep passengers there. The cost of rent and food will be borne by the state government, Sarma said.Since resumption of inter-state movement on May 4, over 11,000 people have returned by road from across the country and other states in the northeast back to Assam. Eighteen of them have been found positive for Covid-19 till date.Nearly 500 passengers reached various locations in Assam on Wednesday and Thursday by the first train bringing back residents from Delhi. Two more trains, one from Delhi and another from Chennai, carrying over 800 passengers will reach the state on Thursday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-asks-centre-not-to-classify-districts-into-covid-19-zones-state-tally-now-at-87/story-BHyE6kz49u40OKh2hjb2PL.html
15-05-2020||India||Soldier missing, 1 reportedly dead in Sikkim avalanche||Eighteen soldiers, including three officers, were struck by a snow slide in Sikkim on Thursday of whom 17 were rescued by the army and the search for the sole missing man is on, an army official said. The missing soldier is a middle-rung army officer. The incident occurred near Lugnak La, which is at a height of more than 5,000 metre, in north Sikkim.“A snow clearance party came under sudden snow slide in north Sikkim. All soldiers have been evacuated safely but for one soldier who is still missing,” Intense search is underway to locate the missing soldier,” a spokesperson said. One of rescued soldiers, who was in a critical condition, succumbed to his injuries at the hospital, said a person familiar with the development late on Thursday.North Sikkim was the site of a confrontation between Indian and Chinese troops on May 9. The face-off was at Naku La. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured in the confrontation that involved around 150 soldiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldier-missing-1-reportedly-dead-in-sikkim-avalanche/story-RxXcvLvZCj7RWFelxC9kQM.html
15-05-2020||India||PM, Bill Gates talk global cooperation to beat pandemic||Weeks after Microsoft founder Bill Gates praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his measures to contain Covid-19, the two had an interaction via video conference on Thursday evening. A statement by the Prime Minister’s Office said Gates, who is the co-founder of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, discussed the “the importance of global coordination on scientific innovation and R&D to combat the pandemic’’.The statement said Gates discussed the Aarogya Setu app and its role in tackling Covid 19.“India’s unique model of last-mile health service delivery in rural areas, dissemination of the effective contact-tracing mobile app developed by government of India, and above all by leveraging India’s massive pharmaceutical capacity to scale-up the production of vaccines and therapeutics upon their discovery. They agreed that given India’s willingness and capacity to contribute to global efforts, particularly for benefit of fellow developing countries, it was important for India to be included in the ongoing global discussions for coordinating responses to the pandemic,’’ said the statement.PM Modi is reported to have suggested that the Gates Foundation could take the lead in analyzing the changes in the post pandemic world – in lifestyle, economic organisation, social behaviour, modes of disseminating education and healthcare --and the associated technological challenges.In his letter last month, Bill Gates had told the Prime Minister, ``Grateful to see that you’re seeking to balance public health imperatives with the need to ensure adequate social protection for all Indians.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-bill-gates-talk-global-cooperation-to-beat-pandemic/story-4IMsNH8zfkCHcVwdIjAMlJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Political barbs fly over Nirav’s case||The Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) said on Thursday that a deposition by a former high court judge, Abhay Thipsay ,in the Nirav Modi extradition trial in London showed the Congress was trying to shield the fugitive diamond merchant, wanted in India in connection with a financial fraud at Punjab National Bank (PNB).On Wednesday, Thipsay made a statement on the legal nuances under Indian law around the inadmissibility of some police statements in the case against Modi as well as the definition of deception under Indian law.Reacting to Thipsay’s comments, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said his statement was legally untenable. “A retired judge is giving a judicial certificate; his opinion is legally unsound. This is an attempt to give a misleading defence of a questionable legal variety and we are confident that the legal process will not be affected,” he told reporters through a web conference.Prasad also alleged that the former judge was a member of the Congress party, and it was during the tenure of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA)’s two terms in office that loans to Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi’s companies had been sanctioned.“Who is this judge, Abhay Thipsay?. He’s a retired judge from the Mumbai high court, 10 months prior to his retirement, he was transferred by the SC collegium on administrative grounds to the Allahabad high court.”“After retirement he joined the Congress party in the presence of Rahul Gandhi, Ashok Gehlot and Ashok Chauhan,” Prasad said. He added that the Congress did not deny its former president Rahul Gandhi’s presence at an event where Modi was present. (The event was held in September 2013).“His uncle’s company (Choksi) was given benefit when [P] Chidambaram was the finance minister. Geetanjali Exports was given benefits after results of 2014 general elections were announced; a caretaker government took a decision that was questionable,” Prasad said.The minister said the Indian government was making all efforts to ensure that Modi is extradited.“When the country is trying to bring him back, and the process is underway, a Congress judge is taking a legally unsustainable stand. The BJP condemns this sinister attempt of the Congress to bail out this criminal,” he said. When contacted, Justice Thipsay denied that the Congress party has anything to do with his legal opinion. “I was asked by a legal firm for my opinion as many judges are asked and I was asked if there was a case of deception made out in the first extradition report. It is my opinion that it was not made out and my opinion was shared with Government of India. They also agreed with parts of my opinion so why should there be controversy,’’ he said. He said that while he was a primary member of the Congress, he wasn’t a part of any of the party’s propaganda machinery. “It’s my job as a legal expert and I get paid for it. I don’t see what it has to do with the party,’’ he said.The Congress, too, rubbished the allegations, saying advocates had a right to appear for their clients. “#lawministers know right of advocates 2appear 4clients which cnot b trifled with. #Thipsay gave evidence in UK court which he has right 2do wo dictation by BJP,” party spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-barbs-fly-over-nirav-s-case/story-BjcgDxxi2pDgoETEugIjzH.html
15-05-2020||India||UGC may relax norms, Distance learning may be promoted||New Delhi: The University Grants Commission (UGC) is likely to relax norms to allow more institutes to offer open and distance learning courses to make up for the learning loss due to the lockdown imposed in late March to check the Covid-19 spread, officials aware of the matter said.The issue of setting a new benchmark for these institutions to commence the courses was discussed at a meeting of UGC, the higher education regulator, on Thursday.“Last year, it had been stipulated that institutions, which have an accreditation score of 3.26 or above, will be allowed to offer ODL [open and distance learning] courses. Several institutions, especially state universities and private ones, have scored less than one. If this norm is followed, these would be unable to offer ODL courses. At the meeting, it was discussed that the criteria should be relaxed and brought to an accreditation score of 3 for universities to offer ODL, or correspondence courses, as they are popularly known,” said an official on condition of anonymity.The National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) grades universities and those scoring above 3 on a scale of 4 are counted as A-grade institutions.UGC come out with norms recently to ensure only the best institutions offer open and distance learning courses.Officials said that many UGC members at the Thursday’s meeting cited the situation in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and said it will be better to allow institutions with lesser scores to offer these courses at least for a year. It was felt the benchmark of a NAAC score of 3 should be allowed. “...once a final call is taken, UGC will officially announce it,” said the official cited above.Among other decisions taken at the meeting related to the signing of MoUs with some universities chosen as Institutes of Eminence (IoE) for greater autonomy. The official said Tamil Nadu’s Anna University and Jadavpur University (Kolkata) were likely to be granted the status as well.“In the case of these two universities, the state governments had not shown eagerness to contribute their share of Rs 1,000 crore grant... It is likely they will be conferred the status with the Centre paying its share of Rs 500 crore. However, after looking at all aspects UGC and [union] HRD [human resource development ministry] will make the declaration,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-may-relax-norms-distance-learning-may-be-promoted/story-5PK0WA8qBWcUc6TmA8X8oM.html
15-05-2020||India||Nirav Modi won’t have problem in Arthur Road jail, India tells UK court||London: India has provided sovereign assurances and details of the Barrack number 12 of Arthur Road jail in Mumbai, where diamantaire Nirav Modi, who is facing extradition proceedings, is to be lodged, even as a British valuer of gems and jewellery deposed in his favour on the fourth day of his trial on Thursday.Conditions in Indian jails have been one of the major objections highlighted in extradition cases in the UK. The issue was dealt with in exhaustive detail in the Vijay Mallya case, in which the Westminster Magistrates Court upheld India’s assurances and details submitted.Similar objections have been raised by Modi’s defence team – including alleged presence of rats, insects, uncovered drains and noise from slums near the jail – as part of its contention that there is risk to his human rights in the Arthur Road jail.UK courts are obliged to refuse extradition if there is a risk of the requested person’s human rights in the country that makes the extradition request.As in the Mallya case, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) opposed Modi’s claims in its ‘skeleton argument’, stating that his submissions “fail to acknowledge the recent consideration of this issue in the Mallya proceedings” by judge Emma Arbuthnot of the magistrates court in her December 2018 judgement.The CPS documents states: “In Mallya, the Senior District Judge was required to consider assurances offered by the GOI (government of India) in the same terms as those offered in this case. She conducted an exhaustive consideration of whether those assurance could be accepted…She concluded that they could be accepted”.The assurances provided by the ministry of home affairs, the CPS told the court, are plainly sufficient to meet the concerns raised by Modi’s team. The document goes on to specifically address points raised and cited video footage of the jail and other submissions as evidence:Overcrowding: Barrack No. 12 has two cells, with a maximum capacity of six inmates (per cell). The RP (requested person) would be provided a minimum of 3 square meters of personal space throughout the course of his detention. The video of the cell amply demonstrates availability of sufficient space.Heat, noise and lack of privacy: This is not accepted. Barrack No. 12 has adequate space, which ensures privacy. The cell is well ventilated and provides adequate air circulation and the concern about heat is unfounded. There is no noise in the cell which is separated from its surroundings by at least 20 feet by way of thick high stone walls.Metal casing causing excessive heat in the cell: The metal casing starts after clearing a ground level of 20 feet and provides a security cover to the cell. The ground clearance of 20 feet ensures adequate air circulation and actually helps in regulating temperatures. Further the ceiling is about 20 feet high and hence naturally cool in summers. Mumbai has a moderate climate and does not experience extreme temperature.Insufficient/natural light: The video amply shows adequate natural light enough to allow reading during day time. In addition, there are ‘06 tube lights’ to afford adequate artificial light at night. The lights are shown in the video.Dust and noise pollution from the adjoining slum areas: The concern is unfounded as the cell is separated from the outside area by way of a thick 20 feet high stone wall.Uncovered drains and presence of rats and insects: The video clearly shows that there are no uncovered drains in and around Barrack No.12. There are no rats or insects in the cell, another fact demonstrated by the video. The assurance further provides that the Municipal Corporation visits Barrack No. 12 once a week and fumigates the barrack.Absence of pharmacy/medicines: Round-the-clock medicare facilities assured by the government of India naturally include medicines as prescribed by doctors and specialists and the same would be provided to the RP as and when so prescribed.Access to hospitals: A 24-hour ambulance service is available to carry inmates to the nearby hospitals if required.Emergency access to hospitals: The ambulance service is available 24 hours a day.The CPS said India has provided “comprehensive rebuttals” to the evidence served on Modi’s behalf, adding that “no evidence has been served that justifies a departure from the approach taken in Mallya”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-won-t-have-problem-in-arthur-road-jail-india-tells-uk-court/story-rQc8KGZTSest6yt6acSMGL.html
15-05-2020||India||Covid-19: 32k to return in Phase 2 of Vande Bharat Mission||The second phase of India’s massive programme to repatriate citizens stranded abroad because of the Covid-19 pandemic will bring home about 32,000 people, more than double the figure for the first phase, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.State-run Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express will operate 149 flights to 31 countries, including the US, Australia and France, during the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission beginning on May 16. The first phase, which mostly focused on West Asian countries, has 64 flights.“There will be more flights and more destinations in the second phase. We are looking to bring back about 32,000 people,” said one of the people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity.About 15,000 citizens are expected to be repatriated from 12 countries during the first phase of Vande Bharat Mission, which will end on May 15, and 56 flights have already been brought back more than 12,000 Indian nationals.An additional 904 Indians were repatriated from the Maldives by two Indian Navy warships on May 10 and 12, and some more nationals arrived in the country on deportation flights from various countries.The people said requests from OCI card holders can be considered after the government meets the minimum expectations of its Indian nationals seeking to return home. Embassies in West Asian countries are also in touch with stakeholders following offers from private firms to repatriate Indian workers who had been laid off, they said.So far, 188,646 Indian nationals have registered with the external affairs ministry to return, and priority will be given to those with compelling reasons for repatriation, such as workers who have been laid off due to the pandemic, pregnant women, and people with medical emergencies.“An additional 18 countries are covered under the second phase, including Indonesia, Thailand, Australia, Italy, France, Germany, Ireland, Canada, Japan, Nigeria, Kazakhstan and Ukraine. We are broadening the ambit of Vande Bharat Mission every week in a phased manner, in line with our quarantine capacity and health protocols,” said external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava.He described Vande Bharat Mission as the largest and most complex exercise undertaken by the government for repatriating citizens stranded abroad, for which the external affairs ministry is working closely with the ministries of civil aviation, home and health and state governments.Referring to the deployment of the warship INS Kesari for Mission Sagar, an operation to provide medical aid and supplies to the Maldives, Mauritius, Madagascar, Comoros and Seychelles, Srivastava said the vessel is currently docked at Male to offload 550 tonnes of food supplies. The warship is carrying two medical assistance teams, a consignment of Covid-19-related essential medicines and food supplies. “This is inspired by the prime minister’s vision of Sagar – security and growth for all in the region. This is also in keeping with India’s role as a first responder in the region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32k-to-return-in-phase-2-of-vande-bharat/story-PSKkVKTHwP9xqQCfF6MvtL.html
15-05-2020||India||‘Verdict on Vijay Mallya big win for us’: CBI||Former liquor baron Vijay Mallya tried every trick up his sleeve to beat Indian attempts to have him extradited home to face prosecution for financial malfeasance, but his battery of lawyers couldn’t quite weaken the tight case the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) built against the fugitive businessman.The businessman, who fled to London on March 2, 2016 as bankers closed in on him to recover an estimated Rs. 9,000 crore owed by his grounded airline Kingfisher Airlines, is likely to be India in four to five weeks after exhausting his legal options in the UK. For the agencies, winning the extradition case had become a matter of national pride, one that would set an example for other fugitives.CBI termed the UK high court’s decision to reject his plea for permission to appeal against extradition in the UK Supreme Court as a “big victory” for the agency and a “big jolt” for Mallya, 64, a former Rajya Sabha member.“The decision of the UK high court to order extradition of Vijay Mallya is a milestone in CBI’s quest for excellence and a reminder that economic offenders, facing probes in large-value frauds, cannot consider themselves as above the process merely because they have changed jurisdictions. The judgement also vindicates the painstaking investigation by CBI, especially since Mr Mallya had raised various issues with regard to the admissibility of evidence, the fairness of investigation itself and extraneous considerations, with a view to divert attention from his own acts,” said CBI spokesperson RK Gaur.During the extradition proceedings held in the court of chief magistrate Emma Arbuthnot between December 4, 2017 and December 10, 2018, Mallya engaged experts from banking and aviation sectors, prisons conditions/human rights, political economics and law, apart from erstwhile executives of United Breweries Group and Force India Formula One Team Limited to defend himself.“He tried to defend himself by making submissions claiming about business failure and that the trial against him was motivated by extraneous factors including media frenzy, political motivations, etc. He also mentioned that the prison conditions in India did not conform to the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) regulations and that the Indian prisons were incapable of providing {him} with the stipulated lodging facilities with adequate healthcare, food, exercise in conformity with European Convention on Human Rights norms (ECHR),” said a CBI official who didn’t want to be named.Those claims were successfully refuted by the joint teams of ED and CBI.Mallya questioned then CBI special director Rakesh Asthana’s professional integrity during the trial, but judge Emma Arbuthnot rejected the allegations saying: “I find that there is no evidence that Mr Asthana has acted corruptly.”CBI, under Asthana and his team members -- ex-joint director Sai Manohar and investigating officer Suman Kumar -- made a video of barrack number 12 at Byculla jail in Mumbai, where Mallya would be lodged if he returned, to show that prison conditions in India were up to European standards. They collected elaborate evidence of a conspiracy with bank officials and forgery. They even pursued every hearing in the UK courts by one of them being physically present there to assist the crown prosecution service (CPS), which represented the Indian government.Suman Kumar, who has won the outstanding investigator award in CBI twice, has been associated with the Mallya probe from the beginning. Asthana is currently director general of the bureau of civil aviation security (BCAS) and Manohar has gone back to his parent cadre, Madhya Pradesh.In ED, much of the credit goes to Satyabrata Kumar, joint director of the agency’s Mumbai’s Zone, who has been In-charge of the probe from day one and was often present at the UK court. Kumar and his team traced all bank transactions of Mallya and his associates in a dozen countries to prove that public money was laundered in a systematic manner. The ED team also attached properties worth around Rs 13,000 crore, more than what he owed to the banks (Rs 9,000 crore).Mallya seemed to have accepted defeat. “Congratulations to the Government for a Covid 19 relief package. They can print as much currency as they want BUT should a small contributor like me who offers 100% payback of State owned Bank loans be constantly ignored ? Please take my money unconditionally and close,” he wrote in a Tweet.Rakesh Asthana and Satyabrata Kumar couldn’t be reached for comment on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/verdict-on-mallya-big-win-for-us-cbi/story-JXAmbFprN04IWhsS6mrdMO.html
15-05-2020||India||Hottest across globe, this April wasn’t harsh in India||Globally, this April was the second hottest on record in 141 years of record keeping by National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). But India was among the few spots in the world which recorded below average temperature in April. Parts of North America also recorded an unusually cold April.April 2016 was the hottest April on record.Scientists in India are trying to ascertain what could be causing such mild weather through the summer months -- and even in mid-May. Kota in Rajasthan and Khajuraho in Madhya Pradesh recorded the highest temperature on Wednesday at 41.6 degrees C, which is 3 to 4 degrees C lower than normal, according to the India Meteorogical department (IMD) scientists.April 2020 marked the 44th consecutive April and the 424th consecutive month with temperatures above the 20th-century average, but the average April temperature in north and central India was 1 to 2 degrees below average, according to NOAA .The warmest April temperatures were recorded across northern Asia or the Siberian region where temperatures were 4 degrees C above average or higher. Other very warm areas include western Australia, central Europe, the Gulf of Mexico, the Labrador and Bering seas, parts of the northern and southern Pacific Ocean, and Antarctica. Temperatures of 2 degrees C below average were recorded across Canada and contiguous parts of US. The average temperatures in the January to April period in India was also average to lower than average, according to NOAA.“The atmospheric dynamics are not conducive in India for temperatures to pick up. Local factors are not enough for temperatures to rise. Large scale atmospheric dynamics also affect [temperatures]. We have had a very high western disturbance activity this year, which has caused clouding on many days and has reduced solar radiation. There has been cold air incursion from the north. There could be many reasons for this, including North Atlantic Oscillation or Arctic Oscillation or sea ice melting in the Arctic. We have to analyse these factors,” said M Rajeevan Nair, secretary, ministry of earth sciences. North Atlantic Oscillation is a fluctuation of atmospheric pressure over the North Atlantic Ocean that has a strong effect on winter weather in Europe, Greenland, northeastern North America, North Africa, and northern Asia.Between March 1 and May 13, the pre-monsoon season, central India received 157% excess rains; northwest India received 39% excess rains; and the country as whole received 19% excess rains.“Yes we had relatively cold January and February and then mild weather in March and April but this could also be linked to climate variability. Only if it is unusually cool or if mild weather continues for a few years can we probably link it to climate change,” said Krishna Achuta Rao, Professor, Centre for Atmospheric Sciences at IIT Delhi.In April, the global land and ocean surface temperature was 1.06 degree C above the 20th-century average of 13.7 degree C. This was the second highest April temperature, only April 2016 was warmer by 1.13°C degree C. Sea ice coverage for April 2020 was 6.5% below the 1981–2010 average and the fourth-smallest April extent on record for the Arctic.Meanwhile, a low pressure area over southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining south Andaman Sea has become well marked. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over central parts of south Bay of Bengal on May 15 and further intensify into a cyclonic storm, Amphan, over the same region by May 16, IMD said. The cyclone may make landfall on West Bengal coast or in the northeast, according to private weather forecasters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hottest-across-globe-this-april-wasn-t-harsh-in-india/story-eLomDQ8mJVD8RAjKw2yB3J.html
15-05-2020||India||15 migrants on way home killed in 24 hrs||Fifteen migrant workers on their way back to their homes were killed in three accidents, one each in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar in the past 24 hours, police officials said.They added that close to 100 were also injured in road accidents across states on Thursday, as migrant workers continue to seek rides on trucks, cycle, or just walk on the country’s highways in a struggle to return home. The government , starting May 1, announced special trains for migrant workers, but there are still far too few of them and far too many workers wanting to return home. Some of the workers do not have documentation required to travel; others have not registered for the trains or buses being run. Millions of workers were left without work across cities and towns in India when the lockdown was announced on March 24, resulting in the first wave of workers going back to their villages. Every phase of the extension has seen a new wave -- the lockdown was extended twice, from April 14 to May 3 and then May 3 to May 17. On May 8, 16 workers sleeping on the tracks were run over by a goods train in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad district. On May 9, five workers were killed in Madhya Pradesh’s Narsinghpur district when the truck in which they were travelling hit the central verge of the road. Late on Wednesday night, six labourers, who were walking from Punjab to their village in Gopalganj, Bihar, were killed and four others were seriously injured when a Uttar Pradesh Road Transport  bus ran over them on the Saharanpur-Muzaffarnagar highway.Dr Vineet Kaushik of Muzaffarnagar district hospital confirmed that 10 people were brought in and six of them were declared dead. In Madhya Pradesh’s Guna, eight migrant labourers, travelling in a truck from Mumbai to Unnao in Uttar Pradesh, were killed and 55 others injured when a bus rammed into their truck early on Thursday, police said.Guna district Superintendent of police Tarun Nayak said, “Eight of the labourers were killed on the spot and the injured have been hospitalised. Once discharged, they will be sent to their homes in buses.” Mahendra Pal , one of the injured workers said” “The truck driver demanded Rs 3,000 per person. However, the amount was to be paid after reaching our destinations.” Another traveler, Mohd Sibu, said, “I asked for money from my family as I had no money left with me. We got the truck at Thane (Maharashtra).”Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said, “The state has issued instructions to the authorities to make all arrangements for the treatment of labourers.”In Bihar, a migrant worker was killed and 27 others were injured in an accident in Samastipur district. Police said a bus carrying 44 migrants collided with a truck on Thursday. All the injured were taken to Sadar hospital were two of them are said to be in serious condition .In Odisha, at least 15 migrant workers were injured, four of them seriously after the minibus in which they were travelling, crashed into a tree in Angul district on Wednesday night, hours after authorities arranged the bus for them. Police officials said they stopped 15 migrants walking towards Purinakote area of Keonjhar district from Palasa in Andhra Pradesh and arranged the bus for them.In all, the government officials in states have confirmed death of 109 migrant workers on roads during the 50 day lockdown period.(With inputs from states)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-migrants-on-way-home-killed-in-24-hrs/story-xj6eUxQY77wG8sq9JfwJwM.html
15-05-2020||India||Plea in SC against labour law dilution||A petition was filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday to challenge the decisions of Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh to freeze major labour laws, a move the state governments deemed necessary to revive the economy amid the challenges presented by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The changes give industries more flexibility in hiring and firing employees, determining their wages, and reduce their liabilities in terms of providing employee benefits.The petitioner, Jharkhand-based journalist Pankaj Kumar Yadav, submitted that diluting labour laws will lead to exploitation of labourers, many of whom have already lost their livelihood due to the national lockdown necessitated by the Covid-19 outbreak.“A welfare state cannot be expected to force its least fortunate and most oppressed citizens into further miseries on the pretext of facilitating economic activities/development by taking away their existing rights,” the petition said.Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat recently froze major labour laws by exempting industrial units from the purview of the laws. While UP suspended key labour laws for three years through an ordinance, MP said it was taking a similar course to put most labour laws on hold for 1,000 days. Similar decisions were taken by the MP and Gujarat governments.Yadav pointed out that the labour laws in India are legislations intended to protect the “oppressed class”. He said that freezing the labour laws will lead to an increase in daily and weekly working hours and deprivation of basic human facilities at the workplace, the right to approach courts of law and routine inspection of industrial units by the factory inspectors, etc.The petition highlighted the exemption granted from the Factories Act. The same was granted under Section 5 of the Factories Act, which allows government to exempt industrial units from the purview of the Act during “public emergency”. The Act defines “public emergency” as a grave emergency threatening the security of India caused by a war, external aggression or internal disturbance.The petitioner argued that the Covid-19 pandemic does not fall under the category of “public emergency”. Yadav said that many of the labour laws were enacted after 1947 but before the Constitution of India came into force in 1950, which highlights the significance which the founding fathers of the country attached to those laws.The plea said that the states, through the measures, were depriving labourers from welfare in order to facilitate the “oppressor class” at a time when the workmen have been worst affected by the global pandemic. “It is (a) well known fact today that lakhs of workers have lost their livelihood during the lockdown imposed for controlling the pandemic situation and they are forced to lead a life of misery. Under such circumstances, the withdrawal of welfare measures from the labourers/workmen as a whole would lead to their further miseries and exploitation at the hands of their employers, who are being exempted from the statutory liabilities to look after the welfare of their employees,” the petition said.While some economists have welcomed the states’ move for clearing structural bottlenecks, possibly leading to greater investment, the Opposition, particularly Left parties, said the measures would undermine worker rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-against-labour-law-dilution/story-DwyPdSZ8COi7VFBlO3k5MM.html
15-05-2020||India||Regular train tickets scrapped till June 30; special trains to run||Bookings made for regular trains before and during the lockdown for journeys till June 30 stand cancelled and affected passengers will receive full refund, Indian Railways said on Thursday.However, bookings for 15 pairs of special premium trains and those carrying migrant workers to their destinations during the lockdown will continue. “Regular passenger service including Mail/Express, Passenger and Suburban services have been cancelled until further advice. Competent authority has desired that all tickets booked for the above trains for the period up to 30th June 2020 may be cancelled and full refund generated as per provisions,” a railway ministry order said.Advance booking of tickets was allowed up to 120 days from the date of journey before lockdown, which came into effect on March 25. “Tickets booked for May and June must have been booked before lockdown from January to March. We have issued a refund for all,” a railway ministry spokesperson said Railways said online cancellation and refund facility is available for e-tickets. Those who bought tickets at the counter for journeys will get a six-month window, as against the usual three days, to cancel and get refunds.The ministry also made it mandatory for passengers boarding premium air-conditioned trains that began plying from May 12, to provide their destination address while booking tickets on the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) website or on its app. This means a person returning to his residence in Mumbai from New Delhi will have to provide his house address.“With effect from May 13, IRCTC has started taking the destination address of all passengers booking tickets. This will help us in contact tracing, if required later,” a ministry spokesperson said. Till Thursday, railways said a total of 800 “Shramik Special” trains, which are ferrying migrant labourers home, have been operated with over one million passengers. The trains started running on May 1.These trains have terminated in states such as Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Mizoram, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal.Separately, the railways reported 234,411 passenger bookings worth Rs 45.30 crore till Wednesday for all 30 premium trains (15 pairs) the government has been running since May 12.For now, officials are accepting bookings up to seven days in advance. Before the lockdown prompted by the coronavirus disease came into effect, the corresponding period was 120 days.The government also allowed state authorities to arrange buses while maintaining social distancing in order to ferry passengers arriving on trains. The ministry also pointed out it has already allowed such passengers’ journeys to and from stations despite lockdown curbs if they have their e-tickets with them.For the special passenger trains that have been running, refund rules issued by the ministry will apply. Online cancellation will be permitted up to 24 hours before scheduled departure, and the cancellation charge shall be 50% of the fare.Railways has also said passengers who will not be allowed to travel for symptoms of the Covid-19 will receive full refund for their tickets. The federal guidelines make it mandatory for all passengers to undergo health screening.In an order issued late on Wednesday night, the Centre also allowed wait-listed tickets to be issued for the special passenger trains from May 22. This will be applicable for the bookings beginning May 15. Wait-listed tickets are not allowed at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/regular-train-tickets-scrapped-till-june-30-spl-trains-to-run/story-pxPunsS1gmPEjKgTTMNmVJ.html
15-05-2020||India||Dental Council of India against dentists in Covid-19 wards||The Dental Council of India (DCI) has issued an advisory to all state governments, dean of dental colleges and state dental councils, asking them not to post dentists in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wards. The Union health ministry has asked states to make use of dental doctors in managing Covid-19 in the field, if required.The DCI advisory said dentists should only be used for non-medical work, such as pre-screening, recording case history and identification of vulnerable age groups, community engagement, contact tracing and patient tracking, and health facility infection control management.“…the DCI noticed that the dentists are being posted in isolation wards to discharge their duties under COVID-19. The executive committee of the DCI, in its online meeting held on 13th May, 2020, has unanimously decided to issue an advisory to the effect that no dentist/dental professional should be posted in isolation wards to treat the COVID-19 patients, which may put the patient at risk,” wrote secretary, DCI, Dr Sabyasachi Saha, in his advisory released on Wednesday.“A dentist, however, can perform the following duties: 1. pre-screening. 2. recording case history and identification of vulnerable age groups 3. community engagement, contact tracing and patient tracking. 4. health facility infection control management 5. administrative work related to COVID-19 from purchases, record management etc. 6. health dashboard maintenance and Information, education and communication (IEC) related activities 7. post discharge counselling and management of patients. 8. review supply chains and stocks of essential medicines 9. organising capacity building and training for healthcare professionals. Accordingly, the DCI hereby advise all the concerned authorities of the respective States/UTs/District Authorities etc. to follow the aforesaid guidelines/advisory,” it further reads.“MBBS doctors will always be given first preference, but in case of any emergency situation then dentists can also be utilized as they have a medical background. We even have Ayush doctors in managing Covid-19 patients, dentists should be any day better equipped to handle patients who are not severely ill in an ICU,” says Dr KK Talwar, former director, PGI-Chandigarh.A senior dental expert in the government, however, said that dentists should be deployed in Covid-19 wards only after training.“When it comes to clinical skills, practice matters a great deal. For example, an ICU nurse might be able to put an intravenous line quicker than a doctor. They should be trained because dentists don’t do these things on a regular basis, which is crucial in how well a patient is handled,” he said, requesting not to be identified. Dr Talwar agrees. “That is always an option to provide dentists some short training and utilise them.”Meanwhile, the All India Ophthalmological Society (AIOS) also recently asked the Union health ministry to cancel all eye camps that are held across the country for at least two months because of the risk of patients getting infected with viral infection in these mass camps.Such camps are organised in areas that are too far from specialist institutes. An affliction that is commonly treated here is that of cataract, a major cause of blindness. According to the union ministry of health and family welfare, over 6 million cataract surgeries were done every year since 2014. “We have spoken to the government and asked them to shut all active camps to avoid congregation of patients. The chance of infection is very high among ophthalmologists since we are in close proximity to the patient and if the patient is infected, the blindness could be compounded,” said Dr Mahipal Sachdeva, president, AIOS. With migrant workers returning home, the infection risk has gone up.Under guidelines for ophthalmologists that the AIOS released on May 11, it allows elective procedures, including cataract surgeries, in all areas except in containment zones. It requires patients to acknowledge risking infection at the treatment centre and declare whether they came in contact with a Covid-19 patient and whether they have activated the Aarogya Setu mobile digital tracking application.The guidelines also ask whether they or anyone they were living with had a “red eye”, a reference to conjunctivitis, an extremely contagious disease that shows up as a result of bacterial or viral infection.“Since conjunctivitis is reported as part of the disease spectrum of Covid-19 in China, all patients with conjunctivitis should be Covid-19 suspects and should be examined in isolation, using N95 mask and disposable gloves, face shield & gown,” it read.It also sought that the Covid-19 test be administered on those donating their corneas that can be preserved for 48 hours till the test results are available. The RT-PCR test process (from collecting samples to providing results) can take as long as five days. “There is risk of transmission at the time of donation. Tears have been shown to have the coronavirus,” said Sachdeva.“That [consent form] addresses the apprehensions of the community of doctors because anyone on Covid-19 duty is protected under the Epidemic Act. But otherwise there is no protection for anybody in the medical profession. Even organ donors have to be tested. We have written to the government to increase testing,” said Dr Rajan Sharma, president, Indian Medical Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/council-against-dentists-in-covid-wards/story-vYPn65JuUdz5vaSJ9ou2LI.html
15-05-2020||India||Indian Covid-19 vaccine development to be backed by PM-CARES Fund||The government has allocated R 100 crores from the PM-CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations) Fund to support the initiative to develop a vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). There are as many as 25 vaccine development initiatives underway in India, across academic institutions, industry, and start-ups, according to the Department of Biotechnology.The allocation will be utilised under the supervision of the Principal Scientific Advisor, K VijayRaghavan.“The allocation of Rs 100 crores from the PM-CARES fund was announced just yesterday; we will take a stand on how to utilise it within the next couple of days. But definitely the support will be for a completely indigenous vaccine candidate,” said Dr Renu Swarup, secretary, department of biotechnology, which is the nodal agency for Covid-19 vaccine development effort in the Prime Minister’s Task Force.Also Read: India tops 2 million Covid-19 testsAt least 10 vaccine projects are getting support -- both monetary and regulatory – under the DBT-BIRAC (Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council) consortium. It is unclear whether these projects will also be eligible for money from PM-CARES. “These projects are already receiving support from BIRAC, besides it is too early to say whether this funding will go to any of them. Most of them have international partnerships. Apart from these10 candidates, there are about fifteen others from different research groups. These are in different stages of development and are currently being evaluated by the committee to see which has come further along and make more sense,” said Dr Swarup.Thus far, DBT-BIRAC has backed 70 proposals; it accepts applications of a rolling basis. Of these 70 proposals, 10 are vaccine candidates, 34, diagnostics for development or scale-up,10, are therapeutic options, two are drug repurposing proposals, and 14 are preventive interventions.Also Read: Ration for migrants, farm relief in 2nd tranche of govt stimulusSome of the vaccine candidates being supported by the consortium include a next-generation mRNA vaccine candidate by Gennova and another by Christian Medical College, Vellore. These vaccines use genetic material of the virus to create immune response. Work on an intra-nasal vaccine by Indian Institute of Chemical Technology is also being supported by it. Another vaccine candidate selected for funding has been developed by Bharat Biotech, which uses an inactivated rabies virus as the vector or transport of some genetic sequence of Sars-Cov-2 and produce an immune response.“All the proposals under the consortium are being funded by the National Biopharma Mission. However, these activities were not pre-budgeted, so some of the existing projects are being shelved to fund those that are high-priority. A budgetary supplementation request has been submitted to continue the non-Covid commitments,” said Dr Manish Diwan, head, strategic partnerships and entrepreneurship development at BIRAC.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe Department of Biotechnology has also constituted the National Biomedical Resource Indigenisation Consortium N-BRIC as a Public Private Partnership to drive indigenous innovation focused on developing reagents, diagnostics, vaccines and therapeutics for Covid-19. The consortium will be based out of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms (C-CAMP) in Bangalore and will aim to provide a platform for building indigenous biomedical resources, a C-CAMP statement said.Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Chairperson of N-BRIC said: “This consortium is of immense national importance at a time of an unprecedented global health emergency. This will enable us to synergise and optimise the latent capabilities we possess across the pyramid of academic research labs, start-ups, MSMEs and large enterprise to deliver innovative solutions at scale for India and the world.”Also Read: Have adopted conscious approach to fight Covid-19: PM Modi to Bill Gates “To meet our biotech and biomedical needs, the country needs to be self-reliant for product manufacturing and also the components, reagents, resources across the product development chain, N-BRIC brings together academia, industry, start-ups and MSME to serve not just the country but the world,” said Swarup.C-CAMP is a life sciences incubator supported by DBT. Its mandate is to enable cutting-edge life science research and innovation, and promote entrepreneurship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-vaccine-development-to-be-backed-by-pm-cares/story-RLUxmlAlPnheClpTLbaSEK.html
15-05-2020||India||Aatma Nirbhar Bharat will mean from Made in India to Made by India: SJM||Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), has identified six specific areas for indigenisation, or a swadeshi movement, to gain ground after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a Rs 20-lakh crore package on Tuesday for an Aatma Nirbhar, or a self-reliant India, in a bid to tide over the all-round economic disruption caused by the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak across the country.Aatma Nirbhar Bharat resonates well with the Sangh’s core philosophy of Swadeshi, or being indigenous, and the PM’s announcement was perceived as the first steps for reshaping this policy in keeping with their long-pending demand.“This has been a bold step by the government, but there’s a need to do more, as Aatma Nirbhar will mean moving from just ‘Made in India’ to ‘Made by India’,” said Kashmiri Lal, all-India organiser, SJM.He said India would need to focus on six areas such as decentralising its policymaking; taking rural-centric decisions; keeping the poor at the core of its policies; moving away from jobless growth; formulating environment-friendly policies and also taking decisions that are rooted in swadeshi traditions.He said for India to become truly self-reliant efforts must be made to not replicate the global work patterns that don’t sit well with the traditional way of life and focus should be on ensuring that from raw material to the final production, the country relies only on its own resources.‘Make by India’ would mean that global companies in India do not make the product, but from scratch to the finish will be locally made and delivered, he added.On Tuesday, PM Modi in a bid to push local production said to be vocal about local, and this was followed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs instructing canteens run by the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) to sell only indigenous products from June 1.Cutting dependence on imports, especially from China, has been on the Sangh’s wish list for a while; and its other affiliates such as the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, the Laghu Udyog Bharati, and the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh have periodically raised the issue to garner government’s support for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to ensure more jobs and a leaner import bill.“We’re not against modern technology, but we’ve reservations about whole scale automation. India has a surplus of manpower and it makes no sense to opt for complete automation such as countries with a low population,” Lal said.The SJM has been at the forefront of a campaign to boycott Chinese-made goods, impose anti-dumping duties on products and give financial aid to the MSME sector to compete with global brands.The SJM urged the government to come up with a strategic plan to build its economy and become less reliant on China shortly after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aatma-nirbhar-bharat-will-mean-from-made-in-india-to-made-by-india-sjm/story-xPoDoP1YG0ltjDMZ1e8f2I.html
15-05-2020||India||‘One nation, one ration card’ in Centre’s relief package for migrants||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, announcing the second tranche of the economic stimulus package, said ration cards will be made portable to allow migrant workers to access food grains across states. The ‘one nation, one ration card’ scheme will be fully operational by March 2021.Around 67 crore beneficiaries in 23 states covering 83% of PDS population will be covered by national portability by August, while complete portability will be achieved by March next year.The FM also said that eight crore migrant workers who do not have either a central or state PDS card, will get 5 kilogram of grains per person and 1 kilogram of ‘chana’ for the next two months.Earlier, the Supreme Court had asked the Centre to consider the feasibility of ‘temporarily’ adopting the one nation one ration card scheme during the ongoing coronavirus lockdown period to enable the migrant workers and economically weaker sections (EWS) get subsidised foodgrain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-nation-one-ration-card-in-centre-s-relief-package-for-migrants/story-t9QKgx4SRvKvfJGnUuHYZP.html
15-05-2020||India||Al-Qaeda statement against India over minorities reflects synergy with Pak pitch||Global terrorist group Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) has asked Indian muslims and scholars to join hands and wage jihad against India to defend against what it described as discrimination and genocide. Indian security agencies say the statement by Al-Qaeda’s Middle East wing reveals an unusual synergy between the global jihadist group and Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence in building a narrative that accuses New Delhi of discrimination against minorities.The statement by the terror group spotlights the Citizenship Amendment Act that fast-tracks grant of Indian nationality for undocumented migrants from six minority religious communities in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. The law was passed five months back, in December 2019.A senior official in the security establishment said the reference to the citizenship law was only the entry point for the global terror group to lend support to the Pakistan deep state’s shrill social media campaign to adversely influence India’s relations with the muslim-majority Gulf countries and provoke Indian muslims.“We have been tracking the social media campaign right from the start and have identified the 2,794 Twitter handles that have played the most active role to carry out this information warfare. We have been able to trace every hashtag that has been created to target India or the government over the rights of muslims and every one of them took us to an account in Pakistan,” the official said.Also Watch l Pakistan’s terror tactic amid Covid-19 crisis explained Some well-meaning people in India also get taken in by this campaign, quite like some people in the Gulf without realising the big picture,” the official said.An intelligence official said the involvement of the Al-Qaeda in Arabian Peninsula in the ISI effort could indicate an effort to build global jihad into the narrative that Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan repeatedly tried to build all of last year before the Pak ISI took charge of this project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/al-qaeda-statement-against-india-over-minorities-reflects-synergy-with-pak-pitch/story-RUlJIkXxHtqcgSeSiZ8UIL.html
