17-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0 update: TN’s doubling rate reduced in lockdown 3.0, Punjab and Andhra’s more than doubled||Moments after the centre announced a two-week extension to the nationwide lockdown with additional permissions to resume some activity on Sunday evening, Cabinet Secretary Rajeev Gauba held a meeting with the chief secretaries of states and union territories to underscore some key points in India’s progress in the fight against Covid-19, including an increase in the doubling rate of cases in 9 worst affected states during the period of the third lockdown.According to an official privy to the discussions during the video conference, Gauba pointed out that Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Punjab had registered a significant increase in the doubling rate since April 30, just before the beginning of the third phase of lockdown. Punjab had made the most remarkable progress by increasing its doubling rate of the virus from 7.3 days to 29.8 days on May 14, followed by Andhra Pradesh, which had more than doubled its doubling rate of 24.4 days on May 14 compared to 11.7 days on April 30. Uttar Pradesh, too, had made encouraging progress on this front with the doubling rate jumping from 14.6 days to 21.8 days in the same period; the state was closely followed by Gujarat that increased its doubling rate from 9.4 to 15.5 days.Among the worst-hit states, Maharashtra had made marginal improvement on that count by reaching a doubling rate of 11.6 days from 10 days on April 30, similarly, Delhi and Rajasthan, too, had barely managed to improve their doubling rates by a margin of 1.3 days and 1.7 days from 13.6 and 18 days respectively in the corresponding period.Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal had fared little better with increased doubling rates of 15.2 and 12.6 days respectively on May 14 as against 11.5 and 9.4 days on April 30.Tamil Nadu the third-worst affected state in the country was the only one among the top 10 to have reduced its doubling rate in the period. Tamil Nadu’s doubling rate had slipped to 8.4 days as on May 14 from 15.1 on April 30.The data assumes significance as the categorization of areas into red, orange or green zones in the states are dependent on parameters like active Covid-19 cases, cases per lakh population, doubling and fatality rates. The categorization, in turn will impact how much freedom for economic activity is granted in those zones.The movement of migrant labourers also came up for discussion between the centre and the states as it has played its part in spreading the infection to far-flung rural areas of the country.Rajiv Gauba is reported to have requested the state officials to cooperate in the running of more Shramik special trains to facilitate the movement of migrant workers, which has not only led to a political blame game between states but also to tragedies and law and order situations across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-update-tn-s-doubling-rate-reduced-in-lockdown-3-0-punjab-and-andhra-s-more-than-doubled/story-0KIpfowsYh9eYVPxccPoOP.html
17-05-2020||India||Maha sees record 2,347 new cases in a day, tally at 33,053||In a first, Maharashtra on Sunday recorded over 2,000 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 33,053. The worst affected Indian city, Mumbai, too registered its highest single-day jump in cases with 1,595 new patients, bringing its count to 20,150.On the day, the state suffered 63 deaths (38 in Mumbai, nine in Pune, six in Aurangabad, three each in Solapur city and Raigad, and one each in Thane rural, Panvel, Latur and Amravati). The total death count in the state as of Sunday was 1198.Hours before the Centre announced it on Sunday evening, the Maharashtra government extended the ongoing lockdown till May 31. The state government is expected to soon issue its own notification, extending relaxations for commercial and industrial activities and bringing clarity on the delineation of the infection zones (red, orange and green).“Although the state government cannot dilute the restrictions imposed by the Centre, it has been given powers to prepare buffer/micro zones. This may increase the number of containment zones, but actual area will decrease, leaving room for activities in the remaining area. Also, the state had not relaxed some restrictions, even though the Centre had allowed it, in the last notification. For instance, the relaxations to allow more employees in government and private offices, or operating non-essential shops in a staggered manner even in red zones, were not implemented in cities like Mumbai, Thane, Pune and Nashik. The state can now go ahead with the opening of few more shops and increasing attendance in offices,” said a senior government official.In the last two days the state government had allowed manufacturers of umbrellas, raincoats and plastic sheets to operate their units and retailers to sell them. Similarly, the government has allowed employees of regional transport offices and sub-registrars to be at their workplaces, so at to ensure registration of vehicles and flats.“The notification issued on Sunday by the Centre will help us restructure containment zones by shrinking them. Commercial and other activities outside containment zones would thus be allowed. At the same time, lockdown restrictions in containment zones will have to be followed strictly,” said public works department minister and former chief minister Ashok Chavan. He said that the nod for public transport between states may come as a respite for migrant workers.The state has 1,688 containment zones. In Mumbai, the municipal corporation has broken the zones into smaller ones for better monitoring.The number of tests conducted in the state touched 273,239 on Sunday, with a 20.48% positivity. The state’s mortality rate has dropped to 3.70% against national rate of 3.16%, while the doubling rate in Maharashtra is little more than 10 days.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that owing to the change in discharge policy by the Centre, the recovery rate among the patients in the state has improved. “Of the 7,688 patients who have been discharged after recovery so far, 50% or 3,700 are in the past one week,” he said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had demanded that the Centre allows operations of suburban trains in Mumbai, but only for essential services. The Central notification is, however, silent on the demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-sees-record-2-347-new-cases-in-a-day-tally-at-33-053/story-B78uF1hx8yXpT6i3T6efQJ.html
17-05-2020||India||Vande Bharat flight to bring 169 Indians from Dhaka to Kolkata||New Delhi A total of 169 Indian nationals will be repatriated from Dhaka to Kolkata on May 18 on a special Air India flight under the Vande Bharat Mission, days after the Central and West Bengal governments had sparred on the lack of flights to the state.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that special efforts have been made by the Indian high commission in Dhaka to identify and accord priority to citizens with compelling reasons to return because a large number of residents of West Bengal are currently in Bangladesh.The passengers on the first flight from Dhaka to Kolkata on Monday include 73 students, 16 senior citizens, 45 stranded tourists, 16 people with medical emergencies and a pregnant woman.“Not only in Dhaka, but Indian nationals stranded across Bangladesh were facilitated and the passengers for this flight have come from 18 different districts,” said one of the people cited above.Once the passengers reach Kolkata, they will be placed in quarantine for 14 days, following which they will travel to their homes spread across more than 20 districts, including Pashim Bardhaman, North 24 Parganas, Purba Medinipur and Jalpaiguri.Kolkata was not among the destinations in the initial list of 149 repatriation flights from more than 30 countries in the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission that will bring back some 32,000 people. The second phase began on May 16, after some 15,000 people were repatriated on 64 flights in the first phase.“Vande Bharat Mission is a very dynamic operation and flights are being added almost every day,” said another person.The Central and West Bengal governments were involved in a spat on the repatriation flights on May 14, with the external affairs ministry saying the state hadn’t confirmed if it has arranged quarantine facilities to receive people wishing to return from abroad.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava tweeted that flights to repatriate residents of West Bengal from abroad could be arranged if the state government confirmed it has organised quarantine facilities for them.Srivastava was responding to a tweet from West Bengal’s higher education minister Partha Chatterjee, who posted a schedule of the flights being organised during the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission and questioned why there were no flights to the state.According to the external affairs ministry, more than 3,700 people from West Bengal have registered for repatriation from different parts of the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vande-bharat-flight-to-bring-169-indians-from-dhaka-to-kolkata/story-5PGzoRS4ruRrzibSV5sFgI.html
17-05-2020||India||Rashtrapati Bhavan staffer tests Covid +ve||New Delhi: An assistant commissioner of police (ACP), posted at Rashtrapati Bhavan, has tested positive for the Covid-19 following which six of his colleagues have been quarantined, a senior official at the President’s house said on Sunday.The ACP has been hospitalised, while his office and nearby areas are being sanitised, the official added. So far, the authorities have been able to identify six contacts of the patient and their samples have been sent for testing.According to an official, the ACP lives in a government housing colony in East Delhi’s Karkardooma and used to commute daily to Rashtrapati Bhavan.While the ACP’s office is in the main building of the Rashtrapati Bhavan, it was away from President’s secretariat which houses the office of the President of India and his top officials.Even as the police officer had access to the main building, his duty, however, was not in the main building, the official added.Last month, authorities sealed at least 125 staff quarters inside the Rashtrapati Bhavan complex and ordered the inhabitants to strictly maintain self-isolation after a relative of a staff tested positive for Covid-19.The daughter-in-law of a sanitation worker of Rashtrapati Bhavan tested positive after she came in contact with her mother who died of Covid-19 complications at a private hospital near Karol Bagh.President Ram Nath Kovind has minimized his public interactions in this pandemic and holds most of his meetings online. The President has also launched an austerity drive to reduce about 20% of the estate’s expenses and divert the money for welfare of the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rashtrapati-bhavan-staffer-tests-covid-ve/story-HewcZEulsQLBveBwArN3OM.html
17-05-2020||India||Centre announces 12 DTH channels for schoolchildren||Twelve Direct to Home (DTH) channels, one for every class till 12th, will start beaming lessons right into students’ homes while the country’s top 100 higher education institutes will start new online courses as the Centre unveiled a Pradhan Mantri e-Vidya plan to ensure quality education continues to be imparted in an academic year hit by the Covid-19.Among other areas, the government is set to launch Manodarpan, a portal for emotional well-being of students, while a National Foundational Literacy and Numeracy Mission is in the pipeline.Sharing these details, an official, who asked not to be named, said that each of the 12 new DTH channels will have six hours of content daily. However, with three repeat telecasts, they will run 24x7 hours on all week days.Like some morning assemblies in schools, the telecasts will begin with patriotic songs and end with the national song or the national anthem, according to the plan. In between, public service announcements on Covid-19, health, hygiene, Yoga and promos for music, dance forms will be used.During the lockdown period, provisions have also been made for telecast of live interactive sessions on these channels with subject and counselling experts from home through Skype.To enhance the reach of these channels, the HRD ministry has tied up with private DTH operators like Tata Sky and Airtel as well. States will develop content according to their needs, which will be offered on these platforms.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman spoke about these new channels and the online courses by the top 100 institutions from May 30 as part of the government’s plan to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 and the nationwide shutdown of schools and colleges it has led to. “All universities which have an accreditation A+, that is a score of 3.26 and above, or all universities which are in top 100 in NIRF, can automatically offer Full Online Degree courses without prior approval of UGC during this academic year 2020-21,” said higher education secretary Amit Khare.Among other initiatives, the HRD ministry will launch a unified education portal to meet all needs of school students, use of radio to disseminate education, a portal Manodarpan, to meet the psychological needs and ensure well being of students.Special e-content for those with visual or hearing impairments developed on Digitally Accessible Information System (DAISY) and in sign language on NIOS website and YouTube has also been brought in to ensure equity, an official added.A New National Curriculum and Pedagogical Framework, use of radio including podcasts and increased weightage to online modules in regular courses for school as well as colleges is also envisaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-announces-12-dth-channels-for-schoolchildren/story-8kfx8ecvCIFStNZ4CRSLVO.html
17-05-2020||India||13 migrant workers injured in bus accident in north Bengal||Thirteen migrant workers from West Bengal’s Cooch Behar district and Assam were injured when the bus in which they were travelling from Bihar overturned in the wee hours of Sunday. There were 30 migrant workers in the bus. The migrants left from Bihar on Saturday. The bus overturned near Moranga Choupati on National Highway 27 at Dhupguri in Jalpaiguri district. The 13 injured people were first taken to Dhupguri community block hospital. Four among them were later referred to the state-run Jalpaiguri super specialty hospital.Ranjit Mahali, an injured worker from Cooch Behar, said, “We were working in a brick factory in Bihar and hired the bus on our own to return home.”Mahali said none of the 30 migrant workers got any help from the state government when they were trying to return home.Dendup Sherpa, additional superintendent of police (rural) Jalpaiguri said, “None of the passengers sustained any major injury.”The Jalpaiguri district administration made arrangements to send the migrant workers home. Those from Cooch Behar were taken to the Cooch Behar while those from Assam were dropped at Barobisha at the Bengal-Assam border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-migrant-workers-injured-in-bus-accident-in-north-bengal/story-D2zS1hrpBbIxItVNm2DBYP.html
17-05-2020||India||Odisha police station staff sent on quarantine after accused tests positive||The entire staff of a police station in Puri district went into quarantine after an accused who was brought to the police station, tested positive for Covid-19.In Puri town, 30-odd policemen including the inspector of Kumbharpada police station were sent into 28 day institutional quarantine after an arrested accused brought to the police station tested positive for coronavirus. Puri SP Umashankar Dash said swabs of all police personnel will be sent for tests tomorrow.New staff has been sent to the police station to take over after proper sanitisation.In coastal Balasore district that now lies in the danger zone of cyclone Amphan, a 42-year-old woman sarpanch of Simulia block tested positive while another person working in a quarantine centre running in a government college tested positive, too. Officials said the sarpanch most likely was infected while going around the quarantine centres.In Odisha, sarpanch have been declared pointsmen in the government’s fight against the pandemic with the government empowering them with the power of collectors while dealing with Covid-19.Ganjam district continued to be the epicentre of Covid-19 cases as the number of infected rose to 292 followed by Jajpur with 121 and Balasore with 119 cases. The virus has now spread in 22 of the 30 districts in Odisha.Barring 3, all the 91 who tested positive on Sunday had returned from Gujarat, Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. So far, 1.15 lakh people, who were stranded in other states amid lockdown, have returned to Odisha.In Ganjam district, a 38-year-old Surat returnee who had tested positive, succumbed to diarrhoea. With this, Odisha reported four deaths due to Covid-19.The Odisha government meanwhile said that over 7,200 under-trial prisoners and convicts have been released from prison on bail and parole in last 40 days to decongest the jails. “As many as 7,255 prisoners, including 389 convicts, have been released as a temporary measure to decongest the jails by following a thorough judicial process since the third week of March,” said a senior jail official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-police-station-staff-sent-on-quarantine-after-accused-tests-positive/story-HsvjdbuZXK7k4zi9YOUjvK.html
17-05-2020||India||500 buses hired by Congress to transport migrants await permission from UP||Five hundred buses hired by the Congress to ferry migrants to their home towns were stopped at Bahaj village in Bharatpur at the border of Mathura district on Sunday pending permission from the Uttar Pradesh government.All India Congress Committee secretary in charge of UP, Zubair Khan, and Rajasthan’s minister of state for health Subhash Garg tried to contact the UP government for permission but in vain.Khan said the party wanted to help the migrant workers in transit. “The buses are ready. We will start transporting the workers when we get permission,” he said.He said party general secretary in charge of UP Priyanka Gandhi has offered buses at the expenses of the Congress party to UP government for taking migrants to their houses.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered his officials on Thursday to ensure that no migrant labourer enters the state walking. A statement from his office said the state government was actively engaged in bringing them back safely.Meanwhile, on Saturday, hundreds of migrants were seen travelling on trucks on the Jaipur-Agra national highway in Bharatpur. They were going to Bihar and Jharkhand.Munsi Lal of Bihar said he was walking from Bhilwara in Rajasthan to his village in Bihar when the police ordered him to hop on to a truck at Kamalpura border in Bharatpur. Truck driver Raj Kishor said he was transporting goods from Rajgarh in Gujarat to Kolkata. “At Kherli Mod, police ordered me to also take migrants on the truck,” he said.Congress general secretary and in charge of the party’s eastern UP affairs, Priyanka Gandhi urged the UP government to allow the buses to ferry migrants in the state, however, state minister Siddharth Nath Singh accused Priyanka of attempting to make political capital without understanding logistics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-buses-hired-by-congress-to-transport-migrants-await-permission-from-up/story-Pcdo9BGEfd6WESOVJN0gKM.html
17-05-2020||India||Centre lifts restrictions on Ola, Uber cabs, lets states decide on running buses||The Centre on Sunday evening lifted the restrictions on inter-state movement of people in private vehicles and public transport imposed nearly two-month ago. In its guidelines for lockdown 4.0, the home ministry said state governments were free to resume intra-state and inter-state movement of people.“Inter-State movement of vehicles and buses has also been allowed with mutual consent of the concerned States/ UTs. Intra-State movement of vehicles and buses can be decided by the States and UTs, the guidelines said. Inter-state movement, apart from that for essential services and goods transport, was suspended on March 25. Sunday evening’s guidelines of the home ministry also end the restrictions on movement of cycle rickshaws, auto rickshaws, taxis and cab aggregators such as Ola and Uber.On May 1, the home ministry had allowed limited use of cabs during the third round of the lockdown in green and orange zones. Besides, it had barred more than two passengers from travelling in these cabs.The Centre’s new guidelines, however, empowers the states to impose restrictions according to the prevailing situation. This implies that some states might extend the restrictions. To be clear, all domestic and international passenger flights, regular passenger trains and metro rail will remain suspended till May 31, the order noted. Air transport will be exempted only for domestic medical services, domestic air ambulance and security purposes.On May 11, the Centre, which has been running special trains to take migrants home, had allowed 15 selected trains to resume operations. Officials said the new lockdown guidelines did not impact railway services and the two categories of passenger trains - Shramik Special trains and special passenger trains - will continue to run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-lifts-restrictions-on-ola-uber-cabs-lets-states-decide-on-running-buses/story-NFk3QpN6KQxFxdvj3KcTpI.html
17-05-2020||India||Gujarat cops and labourers clash in Rajkot, it was about three Shramik trains||Gujarat police arrested 25 labourers in Rajkot and also booked around 200 of them for allegedly damaging vehicles and hurling stones on police and a local journalist on Sunday.Deputy inspector general (DIG), Rajkot range, Sandeep Singh said the incident took place around 7.30 am in Shapar industrial area which falls on the highway between Rajkot city and Gondal.Some cops and a local journalist got injured in the incident. However, the injuries were minor in nature, police said.“Three Shramik trains scheduled for today were supposed to leave for Bihar and Uttar Pradesh but they were postponed yesterday night and a message was delivered to the migrants. But many of them feared the trains may leave without them and gathered at the Shapar area. As the crowd swelled, some anti-social elements took advantage of the situation and instigated the crowd after which a journalist, who was recording the incident, was attacked with stones and his camera was snatched,” said DIG Singh.He said the policemen were pelted with stones when they tried to control the situation. The crowd also damaged a bus parked nearby.For Coronavirus Live Updates“In order to control the situation, police had to use mild force. Within 20 minutes the situation was brought under control. The migrants were assured that very soon the trains will be arranged,” said Rajkot range DIG.The accused were booked under section 307 (attempt to murder), 332 (voluntarily hurting public servant), 143 (unlawful assembly) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code.The investigation of this case has been handed over to a deputy superintendent of police rank officer.Singh said that hours before the departure of a Shramik train, the migrants are called at one place for screening and recording of details before they are taken to the railway station in busses following social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cops-and-labourers-clash-in-rajkot-it-was-about-three-shramik-trains/story-82wBOk4SjUdD1S2jXS1uAN.html
17-05-2020||India||1,400 stranded Manipuris arrive from Bengaluru in special train||A ‘Shramik Special’ train carrying 1,400 stranded Manipuris reached the Jiribam Railway station on Sunday, officials said.The train from Bengaluru reached the Jiribam station at 3.52 pm and the passengers after alighting from the train were medically screened, they said.With the arrival of the third ‘Shramik Special’ train, the number of Manipuris being evacuated through train arranged by the state government has reached more than 3,400 in the last four days, the officials said.“They (passengers) were later taken to their respective districts in 50 different buses,” they said.The state government, which had arranged 50 buses to transport the returnees to their respective assembly constituencies, have made it compulsory for all of them to undergo 14 days quarantine at designated institutional and community quarantine centres set up across the state, the officials said.Meanwhile, the Health Department in a press release said the “state government will bear Rs 200 per head per day towards food for returnees accommodated in community quarantine centres and meeting or inter-mingling with families/others should be completely banned”.It also said that “any symptomatic passenger, if any, would be immediately separated and taken to hospital/isolation ward”. PTI COR RG KJ KJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-400-stranded-manipuris-arrive-from-bengaluru-in-special-train/story-FxUecq0syrzYPYRhAB0tgM.html
17-05-2020||India||Man with drug addiction kills 5-year-old son in a fit of rage in Uttarakhand||A 30-year-old man was booked for allegedly killing his 5-year-old son after his mother lodged a complaint against him in Kashipur area of Udham Singh Nagar district of Uttarakhand on Sunday, said police. The incident had happened on Thursday night when the accused Mohammed Saleem escaped from his house after informing his neighbours that his son Adil is unconscious and not talking. After knowing about the incident, Saleem’s mother Zaida Begum lodged a complaint against him on Sunday following which a case was registered by police. Begum while lodging the complaint said, “My son Saleem used to work as an e-rickshaw driver and was a drug addict. He had separated with his wife a few years ago and was living separately with their son Adil in Kashipur. He often used to beat Adil and on Thursday also had badly thrashed him causing his death.”She said, “I was informed about the incident by their neighbours on which I went to the spot only to find my grandson lying dead. Later in the post-mortem examination also doctors said that he had one broken bone in one of his ears and died of blood clotting in his brain.”Begum said that she decided to lodge a complaint against Saleem because she was assured that “Adil died of his thrashing due to which he is on the run fearing arrest.”Chandra Mohan Singh, station house officer, Kashipur police station said, “We have registered a case against Saleem for killing his son on his mother’s complaint. The post mortem examination report also suggests that he might have died due to internal injuries.”“Efforts are on to nab Saleem and a probe is on,” said Chandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-with-drug-addiction-kills-5-year-old-son-in-a-fit-of-rage-in-uttarakhand/story-3a2xnQOwMhZAGu3DDVGb2J.html
17-05-2020||India||States to chalk out zones, allow activities barring few prohibited nationwide: Centre||Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba will hold a video conference with states late on Sunday evening for further elaboration of state-specific issues regarding lockdown 4.0 under which states have to decide various zones and activities to be allowed in these zones based on the parameters shared by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare..A limited number of activities will remain prohibited throughout the country in the fourth phase of the lockdown now extended till May 31, a senior government official said.All states will have to decide on containment zones and classify areas into red, orange and green zones based on the concentration of Covid-19 positive cases in those areas.ALSO READ | Suspended since March 24, inter-state travel to be allowed in Lockdown 4.0The zones can be a district, or a municipal corporation or municipality or even smaller administrative units such as sub-divisions as decided by states and UTs. Within the Red and Orange Zones, containment and buffer zones will need to be demarcated by the local authorities, after taking into consideration the Health Ministry’s guidelines. Within the containment zones, only essential activities shall be allowed. Strict perimeter control will have to be maintained, and no movement of people will be allowed across the zones, except for medical emergencies and for maintaining supply of essential goods and services. Buffer zones are areas adjoining the containment zones, where new Covid-19 cases are more likely to appear. In the buffer zones, more caution needs to be exercised, the government notification announcing the lockdown extension read.National directives like night curfew and wearing face masks and maintaining social distance are to be made mandatory by all states.As part of lockdown 4.0, states can permit all other activities outside containment zones that are other than the limited number of activities prohibited nationally, according to the senior government official.The Centre’s guidelines to states shall apply to public places and work places. Under these guidelines, wearing of face masks is compulsory; spitting will be punishable with a fine as may be prescribed in accordance with the rules or regulations by the state/ UT or local authority.Social distancing is to be followed by people in public places and in transport. Any gathering related to a marriage shall not have more than 50 guests. For funerals/ last rites, the maximum number of people allowed has been kept at 20.Consumption of liquor, paan, gutkha and tobacco will also not be allowed in public places. Earlier on Sunday evening, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) directed states to continue lockdown measures till May 31, the fourth extension of the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the infectious Covid-19 disease. The Centre issued the new guidelines for the fourth phase of the lockdown with considerable relaxations being given for those states and cities which have lesser number of Covid-19 positive cases.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Punjab had already extended the lockdown before the Prime Minister Modi-led National Disaster Management Authority issued the order for lockdown 4.0 on Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-to-chalk-out-zones-allow-activities-barring-few-prohibited-nationwide-centre/story-viejXs8jrHDaBbvUPppkhL.html
17-05-2020||India||Jaipur jail emerges as hotspot, majority of cases linked to two inmates||Jaipur jail emerges as the new Covid-19 hotspot with 142 cases in five days out of which 119 alone were reported on Saturday. On May 11, two cases were reported, and within days, the number has risen to 142 out of which 127 cases has been reported form Jaipur district and 14 cases from the Jaipur central jail including two staff members. One case was reported from Jaipur district jailThe sudden spike in number can be linked to a 29-year-old man who was lodged in the district jail in a case of excise act by Jamwaramgarh police station and 20-year-old booked by Bajaj Nagar police station for theft.The Jaipur district jail is located in the campus of Jaipur Central jail with different entrance gate. Generally, cases from Jaipur rural are lodged in the district jail while the cases from city are lodged in central jail.On Sunday, Director General (DG), prisons, NRK Reddy said that so far 10 cases have been found positive from Jaipur district jail while seven cases have been found positive from the Jaipur central jail.“The 29-year-old was arrested on April 13 by the Jamwaramgarh police in an excise case after which he was kept in quarantine for 21 days. During quarantine, he didn’t show any symptoms. Later, he was shifted to ward number 2 of the jail. Last Sunday, the inmate suffered from diarrhoea after which he was admitted to SMS hospital. His samples were taken for coronavirus test and he was found positive, “Reddy said.“The inmate had history of tuberculosis. He had come in contact with 36 inmates out of whom 16 have been released on parole. We have taken the addresses and asked the local administration to keep them in quarantine as soon as possible. The inmate is undergoing treatment,” he added.The DG jail added that the 20-year-old inmate booked by the Bajaj Nagar police station under IPC section 379 (theft), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) was arrested on May 9 and kept in one-day police remand by the Bajaj Nagar police station.“On May 10 he was sent in judicial custody. The 20-year-old was kept in isolation ward; he came in contact with five inmates including two jail staff assistants. These jail assistants came in contact with ten more inmates of ward and led to creation of a chain. All of them have quarantined themselves and their Covid test would be done,” the DG of the prison said.The jail administration has made a Covid care centre inside the jail for asymptomatic people. Those with symptoms or other morbidities have been taken to hospitals.“Two wards of district jail have been converted into dedicated Covid centres. At present, the medical staff of jail are taking care of the asymptomatic patients. On our request to the health department, four special doctors, eight medical nurses and other staff would be deployed soon in these Covid wards. 10 inmates from Jaipur district and six from the central jail, who have comorbidities have been sent to SMS hospital for treatment,” added Reddy.The DG prisons further informed that instructions have been issued for not admitting any fresh prisoners in the jails where inmates are already lodged and for new prisoners, separate space has been allocated at different places and they are lodged there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaipur-jail-emerges-as-hotspot-majority-of-cases-linked-to-two-inmates/story-tjhfNikcLBcQOeHfnY5LLL.html
17-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan latest update: Odisha plans to evacuate 11 lakh people if needed||12 coastal districts of Odisha have been put on alert on Sunday as cyclone Amphan develops into a severe cyclonic storm over the Bay of Bengal with the potential of becoming ‘very severe’ in the next 24 hours.Odisha special relief commissioner P K Jena has said that 567 cyclone and flood shelters apart from 7,092 buildings are available to house people in the state in case evacuation is required reported PTI.The agency also reported that NDRF personnel were deployed in the state of West Bengal and Odisha on Sunday. Odisha, which has a history of braving cyclones, announced that it was ready to evacuate 11 lakh people that could get affected by cyclone Amphan.The cyclone is likely to bring heavy rain and high-velocity winds in coastal Odisha and West Bengal. Its trajectory, according to an IMD report released on Sunday, is towards West Bengal, Sagar Islands and possibly towards Bangladesh.“The trajectory is mostly towards West Bengal, Sagar Islands and probably towards Bangladesh.... But we have to watch the trajectory very closely. NDRF has deployed the teams well in advance. They are either deployed or moving towards the destination,” said S N Pradhan, the chief of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF).G K Das, the regional MeT director in Kolkata said Amphan is likely to cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Sagar Islands and Hatiya islands—the former in West Bengal and the latter in Bangladesh—on May 20 afternoon. The cyclone is likely to make a landfall in West Bengal on the same day.Odisha was ravaged by cyclone Fani last year and the state is not leaving anything to chance this time as well. It has put twelve coastal districts--Ganjam, Gajapti, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Balasore, Mayurbhanj, Jajpur, Cuttack, Khurda and Nayagarh-- on high alert.The infrastructure developed for management of cyclones is being used for fighting coronavirus in the state. Odisha special relief commissioner P K Jena said 242 of the 809 cyclone shelters in the 12 coastal districts were being used as temporary medical camps for the returnees from different states.“Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), NDRF and fire service personnel have already been sent to the districts. We are also in constant touch with the Indian Coast Guard, IMD and NDRF for any requirement,” Jena was quoted as saying by PTI.According to the regional met office in Kolkata, the cyclone is also likely to bring light to moderate rains to North and South 24 Parganas, Kolkata, East and West Midnapore, Howrah and Hooghly on May 19.Seven teams of the NDRF, comprising of 45 personnel per team, have been deployed in six districts in West Bengal, namely South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Howrah and Hooghly.10 teams have been deployed in seven districts in Odisha, namely Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore and Mayurbhanj.Cyclone Amphan intensifies into severe cyclonic storm: Latest UpdatesThe Odisha government has also decided to keep in abeyance the transfer of two senior IAS officers including health and family welfare secretary N B Dhal and the principal secretary of revenue and disaster management department B P Sethi keeping in mind the cyclonic storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-latest-update-12-odisha-districts-on-high-alert-plan-to-evacuate-11-lakh-people-if-needed/story-LWhgqOqLRZBsTMGbblKgKI.html
17-05-2020||India||Goa CM pulls chain on special train after spike in Covid-19 cases||The New Delhi-Goa special train will be stopped from the next week onwards, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday after the state saw a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases largely fueled by train passengers. Sawant said that those coming by train needed to be ‘controlled’ after more than 650 people passengers alighted in Goa on Saturday and Sunday of whom 12 tested positive for Covid-19.“From next week, the Rajdhani express will be stopped due to our request. We have to control those coming in by train,” Sawant told reporters.The Goa government has also quarantined those persons who travelled in the same coach as those who have been found positive and announced that they will be tested again in 14 days before being allowed to proceed for home quarantine. Six persons were confirmed positive by Sunday evening, while the confirmatory tests of an additional 10 people -- mainly train passengers -- who tested positive in preliminary rapid tests were awaited. “I have spoken to Amit Shah and the state will have to decide on a detailed strategy. The current positive cases which have come into Goa are imported or migrated cases,” Sawant said. He said that there will also be increased surveillance along the borders including those of truckers who were arriving in the state from red zones. Two among the second wave of cases that have come into the state are of truckers -- one from Gujarat and another from Himachal Pradesh. Sawant, however, sought to reassure the state that all the new cases were from outside the state and were being detected because Goa -- unlike any other state -- was screening all entrants, except for truckers who were only screened for symptoms in order to avoid hold ups at the border check posts. “The current positive cases which have come into Goa are imported or migrated cases. There is no need to fear in Goa. There is no community transmission. The issue is of people returning to Goa,” Sawant said. He said that the 10th and 12th standard examinations in the state scheduled this week onwards will go ahead with all proper measures. Goa’s tally of Covid-19 cases has risen to 26 of which 19 are active cases. The number is expected to go up significantly when the results of those whose reports are pending come in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cm-pulls-chain-on-special-train-after-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-30xzsQO8F7vTMZeHWjM0EM.html
17-05-2020||India||Shops and markets, except those in containment zones, to open from Monday||All shops and markets except those located in containment zones will open from Monday, more than 50 days after the countrywide lockdown was announced to combat the coronavirus pandemic.Barber shops, salons and spas will also start functioning in non-prohibited localities while e-commerce websites will be allowed to commence the delivery of non-essential items, as per the Home Ministry.Issuing fresh guidelines for the extended period of the lockdown till May 31, the Union Home Ministry on Sunday announced that all shops, except those in containment zones and malls, will be allowed to open from Monday with staggered timings during lockdown 4.0.Local authorities will have to ensure that shops and markets open with staggered timings and follow social distancing norms, the home ministry said all shops shall have to ensure six feet distance (‘2 gaz ki doori’) between customers and will not allow more than five persons at a time in their premises.Barber shops, parlours and spas will be allowed to open, except in containment zones, while take-away and food delivery services by restaurants will also function.However, hotels, restaurants, cinema halls, malls, swimming pools and gyms will remain shut. Any social, political or religious functions will not be allowed to take place and places of worship will be closed till May 31, it said.Shops providing essential commodities have been allowed to open since the beginning of the lockdown while neighbourhood shops and stand-alone shops of non-essential items were allowed to open from May 4.Delivery of essential goods by e-commerce companies was allowed earlier too.The lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. It was first extended till May 3 and again till May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shops-and-markets-except-those-in-containment-zones-to-open-from-monday/story-DE6fjhvFq4LIP0ZOlNP6bJ.html
17-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown 4.0 guidelines: Read full text of government statement here||On Sunday, Centre extended ongoing lockdown till May 31 and said that prohibition on all public gatherings, closure of schools, malls and restaurants, and suspension of flight and Metro services will remain in force till the last end of this month.Read full text of government statement on fourth lockdown in the country here:- Lockdown extended upto May 31, 2020- States to decide various zones and activities to be allowed in these zones- Certain activities to remain prohibited through out the country- National Directives for COVID 19 Management continue to be in force through out the country- Night Curfew to continue to remain in forceMinistry of Home Affairs (MHA), Government of India (GoI) issued an order, today, under the Disaster Management (DM) Act, 2005,along with new guidelines that are in supersession of earlier guidelines and orders of MHA. 2.The Lockdown measures in place since March 24, 2020 have helped considerably in containing the spread of COVID-19. It has therefore been decided to further extend the Lockdown till May 31, 2020. States to decide various zones 3.Under the new guidelines, States and Union Territories (UTs) will now delineate Red, Green and Orange zones taking into consideration the parameters shared by the Health Ministry. 4.The zones can be a district, or a municipal corporation/ municipality or even smaller administrative units such as sub-divisions, etc, as decided by States and UTs. 5.Within the Red and Orange Zones, containment and buffer zones will be as demarcated by the local authorities, after taking into consideration the Health Ministry guidelines. Within the containment zones, only essential activities shall be allowed. Strict perimeter control shall be maintained, and no movement of persons would be allowed across the zones, except for medical emergencies and for maintaining supply of essential goods and services. Buffer zones are areas adjoining the containment zones, where new cases are more likely to appear. In the buffer zones, more caution needs to be exercised.Activities prohibited throughout the country6.A limited number of activities will continue to remain prohibited throughout the country. These include all domestic and international air travel of passengers, except for domestic medical services, domestic air ambulance and for security purposes or purposes as permitted by MHA; metro rail services; running of schools, colleges, educational and training/coaching institutions; hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services, except for the running of canteens in bus depots, railway stations and airports; places of large public gatherings such as cinemas, shopping malls, gymnasiums entertainment parks, etc.; social, political, cultural and similar gatherings and other large congregations; and, access to religious places/places of worship for public. However, online/ distance learning shall be permitted and encouraged; and, restaurants will be allowed to operate kitchens for home delivery of food items. Opening up of sports activities7.Sports complexes and stadia will be permitted to open only for sports activities. However, spectators will not be allowed in these complexes.Activities permitted with restrictions 8.In order to facilitate the movement of persons, various modes of transport have already been opened up. Movement of individuals by trains has been permitted earlier by MHA through an order dated 11.5.2020. Further, evacuation of foreign nationals from India, return of stranded Indian nationals from abroad, sign-on and sign-off of Indian seafarers, and intra-State and inter-State movement of stranded persons by bus and train, will continue to be allowed.9.Inter-State movement of vehicles and buses has also been allowed with mutual consent of the concerned States/ UTs. Intra-State movement of vehicles and buses can be decided by the States and UTs. National Directives for COVID-19 management10.The guidelines specify the National Directives for COVID-19 management, which shall apply to public places and work places. Under these guidelines, wearing of face covers is compulsory; spitting will be punishable with fine as may be prescribed in accordance with its laws, rules or regulations by the State/ UT local authority; and social distancing is to be followed by all persons in public places and in transport. Marriage related gathering shall not have more than 50 guests. For funerals/ last rites, the maximum number of persons allowed has been kept at 20. Consumption of liquor, paan, gutkha and tobacco etc., is not allowed in public places. 11.The National Directives also stipulate additional requirements for work places. The practice of work from home (WfH) should be followed to the extent possible; and staggering of work hours should be adopted in respect of all offices and other establishments. There should be provision for thermal scanning, hand wash and sanitizers at all entry and exit points and common areas; and all work places and other sensitive locations are to be sanitized regularly. In work places, social distancing would also need to be ensured through adequate distance between workers, adequate gaps between shifts, staggering the lunch break of staff and so on. Stipulations regarding shops and markets12.Local authorities should ensure that shops and markets open with staggered timings, so as to ensure social distancing. All shops shall also have to ensure six feet distance (2 gaz ki doori) among customers and also not allow more than 5 persons at one time. Night curfew 13.Night Curfew shall continue to remain in force on the movement of individuals, for all non-essential activities, between 7 pm and 7 am.Protection for vulnerable persons14.Vulnerable persons, i.e., persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years, shall stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes.All activities to be permitted other than the limited number of those that are prohibited or restricted 15.All other activities will be permitted except those which are specifically prohibited under these guidelines.However, in containment zones, only essential activities shall be allowed, as mentioned earlier.States to decide on activities within various zones16.States/ UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain other activities in the various zones, or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary.Use of Aarogya Setu17.The Aarogya Setu mobile application is a powerful tool built by Government of India to facilitate quick identification of persons infected by COVID-19, or at risk of being infected, thus acting as a shield for individuals and the community. With a view to ensure safety in offices and work places, employers on best effort basis should ensure that the application is installed by all employees having compatible mobile phones. 18.District authorities have been asked to advise individuals to install theAarogya Setuapplication on compatible mobile phones andregularly update their health status on the app. This will facilitate timely provision of medical attention to those individuals who are at risk.Strict enforcement19.State/ UT Governments shall continue to strictly enforce the lockdown guidelines and they shall not dilute these guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in any manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-4-0-guidelines-read-full-text-of-government-statement-here/story-fGUNudusQka8dxIo4t1NgJ.html
17-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: List of guidelines to follow whether out shopping or working||Centre announced the extension of Lockdown 4.0 by another two weeks and permitted the resumption of most commercial and industrial activity except for those that encourage mass gatherings like cinemas, malls, education institutes, metro train commute, religious, political and entertainment and sporting events. However, the centre issued guidelines to be adhered while carrying out permitted activities in public spaces. It is important to be aware of those as you step out of home either to work or to shop.Here’s the list of guidelines to follow and offences to avoid in Lockdown 4.0 1. Wearing face cover is mandatory in all public places.2. Spitting in public and work places will be punishable with fine as per the rules and regulations of local authorities, states or UTs.3. Social distancing in public places including markets, workplaces, public transport and ceremonies like marriages etc.4. Not more than 50 guests allowed for marriage functions.5. Funerals and last rites shall not be attended by more than 20 people.6. Consumption of liquor, gutka, pan masala, tobacco not allowed in public places.7. Shops to ensure minimum 6 feet distance among customers and not allow more than 5 people at a time inside the shop.8. Provision for thermal scanning, hand wash and sanitisers to be made at all entry and exit points and common areas.9. Making or circulating a false alarm or warning to as to disaster or its severity or magnitude, leading to panic, shall on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment up to one year or with fine.10. Obstruction to any officer or employee of the central government or the state government or any authorized personnel is punishable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-list-of-guidelines-to-follow-whether-out-shopping-or-working/story-x1NPuJ7fJHeCoEbhgX1ttM.html
17-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9PM: India hopes Afghan political deal will end externally sponsored terrorism and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India hopes Afghan political deal will end externally sponsored terrorismIndia on Sunday said it hoped the deal between Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and his rival Abdullah Abdullah will lead to fresh efforts for peace in the war-torn country and an end to externally sponsored terror. Read more. Arvind Kejriwal hints at relaxations in Delhi, endorses Centre’s lockdown guidelinesDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday endorsed the Centre’s decision to extend the lockdown till May 31 to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic in the country and hinted that his government would relax restrictions. Read more. Police officer at Rashtrapati Bhavan tests positive for Covid-19An assistant commissioner of police (ACP) posted at Rashtrapati Bhavan has tested positive for Covid-19, a senior official at the President’s house said Sunday. Read more. Lockdown 4.0 guidelines: List of top 10 activities allowed till May 31The centre has allowed intrastate transport in public and private vehicles in the fourth phase of lockdown through a notification issued on Sunday. Read more. If someone can emulate even 30 percent of him, it’s enough: Yuzvendra Chahal on Virat KohliYuzvendra Chahal has lauded Virat Kohli for his tremendous work ethic, saying the standard the India captain has set form himself and the team is second to none. Read more. Amitabh Bachchan wrote notes to Jaya Bachchan for water, couldn’t speak due to tracheostomy after Coolie accidentActor Amitabh Bachchan took a trip down memory lane of Sunday, thinking about the days when he suffered a horrible accident on the sets of his film Coolie in 1982. Amitabh had to undergo tracheostomy and was unable to speak for days. Read more. Home Decor Trends: In times like these, make your home your sanctuaryIn the best of times, life can be a challenge. These days, that challenge feels somewhat larger but so does the value of what we build for ourselves. Read more. Elsa and Olaf to Rapunzel and Pascal, dad-daughter duo dresses up daily while taking out trash. Videos are absolutely adorableWith schools closed and no way of meeting their friends, most kids are feeling bored. The story was the same for this little girl until her dad found a way to keep her entertained. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-india-hopes-afghan-political-deal-will-end-externally-sponsored-terrorism-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9PnAAYXMBpHlEvSOPqgSUL.html
17-05-2020||India||Vande Bharat flight to bring 169 Indians from Dhaka to Kolkata days after spat between West Bengal and Centre||A total of 169 Indian nationals will be repatriated from Dhaka to Kolkata on May 18 on a special Air India flight under the Vande Bharat Mission, days after the Central and West Bengal governments had sparred on the lack of flights to the state.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that special efforts have been made by the Indian high commission in Dhaka to identify and accord priority to citizens with compelling reasons to return because a large number of residents of West Bengal are currently in Bangladesh.The passengers on the first flight from Dhaka to Kolkata on Monday include 73 students, 16 senior citizens, 45 stranded tourists, 16 people with medical emergencies and a pregnant woman.“Not only in Dhaka, but Indian nationals stranded across Bangladesh were facilitated and the passengers for this flight have come from 18 different districts,” said one of the people cited above.Once the passengers reach Kolkata, they will be placed in quarantine for 14 days, following which they will travel to their homes spread across more than 20 districts, including Pashim Bardhaman, North 24 Parganas, Purba Medinipur and Jalpaiguri.Kolkata was not among the destinations in the initial list of 149 repatriation flights from more than 30 countries in the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission that will bring back some 32,000 people. The second phase began on May 16, after some 15,000 people were repatriated on 64 flights in the first phase.“Vande Bharat Mission is a very dynamic operation and flights are being added almost every day,” said another person.The Central and West Bengal governments were involved in a spat on the repatriation flights on May 14, with the external affairs ministry saying the state hadn’t confirmed if it has arranged quarantine facilities to receive people wishing to return from abroad.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava tweeted that flights to repatriate residents of West Bengal from abroad could be arranged if the state government confirmed it has organised quarantine facilities for them.Srivastava was responding to a tweet from West Bengal’s higher education minister Partha Chatterjee, who posted a schedule of the flights being organised during the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission and questioned why there were no flights to the state.According to the external affairs ministry, more than 3,700 people from West Bengal have registered for repatriation from different parts of the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vande-bharat-flight-to-bring-169-indians-from-dhaka-to-kolkata-days-after-spat-between-west-bengal-and-centre/story-RhjoYNiBTFvcbzqoNJJcGO.html
17-05-2020||India||Suspended since March 24, inter-state travel to be allowed in Lockdown 4.0||The Centre on Sunday extended the lockdown for the fourth time till May 31, but with considerable relaxations in place. People across the country will now be allowed to travel inter-state — a move that was not permitted since the lockdown was first imposed on March 24.The latest lockdown guidelines issued by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla indicate that inter-state bus services will be allowed with the provision that states on both ends give their consent. It also means that people can now drive down to other cities in different states, again depending on what those particular states have allowed. Air travel and metro services in cities will still remain suspended however. All domestic and international air travel  of passengers, except for domestic medical services, domestic air ambulance and for security purposes or purposes as permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) will remain prohibited throughout the country.ALSO READ | Lockdown 4.0 guidelines: List of top 10 activities allowed till May 31The Railway Ministry has said there will be no change in train services. It will continue to be the same as in Lockdown 3. Only Shramik Special trains and those special passenger trains which have already been permitted will continue to run. Regular passenger trains plying between states will continue to remain suspended.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), while issuing the new guidelines for Lockdown 4.0, met most of the demands of the states, allowing them to decide Red, Green and Orange zones on their own. The classification of red, green, and orange zones will be decided by respective states and Union Territories after taking into consideration the parameters shared by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare based on the concentration of Covid-19 positive cases in those areas.Movement of individuals for all non-essential activities between 7 pm and 7 am will not be permitted, a guideline similar to lockdown 3.0.All schools, colleges, hotels, restaurants and shopping malls will continue to remain shut. However, the government has allowed the opening of stadiums and sports complexes but without any spectators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspended-since-march-24-inter-state-travel-to-be-allowed-in-lockdown-4-0/story-pXUs7zffXEcwz9p99F0YkM.html
17-05-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal hints at relaxations in Delhi, endorses Centre’s lockdown guidelines||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday endorsed the Centre’s decision to extend the lockdown till May 31 to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic in the country and hinted that his government would relax restrictions.“Centre’s guidelines are largely in line with the proposal sent by Delhi govt based on suggestions of lakhs of Delhiites. We have used the lockdown period to prepare our healthcare system if Corona cases increase, but it is now time to relax the restrictions to some extent,” Kejriwal tweeted.In another tweet he said the Delhi government will announce a detailed plan for the national capital on Monday.“Delhi govt will prepare the detailed plan for Delhi based on the Centre’s guidelines and announce them tomorrow,” he wrote.The Centre announced the extension of the lockdown shortly after the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) directed states to maintain the restrictions till May 31. Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra had already decided to extend the lockdown till May 31 while Meghalaya and Nagaland said current restrictions would continue till further orders.Kejriwal has been an advocate of lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 that has affected almost 10,000 people in Delhi and claimed 148 lives.The Delhi government’s data shows that the number of patients recovering from Covid-19 in the capital during the third phase of the lockdown has tripled compared to the first two phases.According to the data released by the Delhi government, 1,362 people in Delhi had recovered from Covid-19 till May 3 before the third phase of the lockdown. The number of people recovering has increased almost three times in the first 13 days of Lockdown 3.0 from May 4 to May 16. As of May 16, 3,926 people in Delhi have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-arvind-kejriwal-hints-at-relaxations-in-delhi-endorses-centre-s-lockdown-guidelines/story-B9Rsps0VNk0sI8Sq77TUrK.html
17-05-2020||India||India hopes Afghan political deal will end externally sponsored terrorism||India on Sunday said it hoped the deal between Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and his rival Abdullah Abdullah will lead to fresh efforts for peace in the war-torn country and an end to externally sponsored terror. While calling for an immediate ceasefire to bolster the Afghan peace process, a statement issued by the external affairs ministry expressed deep concern at the enhanced violence and terrorism in Afghanistan. Ghani and Abdullah signed a power-sharing deal on Sunday after months of political discord triggered by last year’s disputed presidential election. The final result of the election was announced only in February and both leaders had claimed victory. A statement issued by the external affairs ministry welcomed the political agreement concluded in Kabul and said: “India hopes the Political Agreement and creation of the High Council of National Reconciliation will result in renewed efforts for establishing enduring peace and stability and putting an end to externally sponsored terrorism and violence.”India, the statement added, has “consistently supported inclusive governance, national unity, strong institutions, constitutional order, rights of all sections of society and the territorial integrity of Afghanistan”.It added, “The continuing and enhanced violence and terror in Afghanistan is a matter of deep concern. India calls for an immediate ceasefire and assistance to the people of Afghanistan to deal with the humanitarian situation arising from Covid-19.”The Indian government has been watching with growing concern both a spike in violence in Afghanistan and the role being given to Pakistan in the US efforts to implement a deal with the Taliban. These concerns were conveyed to the US special envoy for Afghanistan reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, when he recently visited New Delhi. Khalilzad called on India to engage with the Taliban, though people familiar with developments said the government is yet to decide on this issue. According to the final result of the Afghan election announced in February. Ghani was declared president by the Election Commission after securing a slightly higher percentage of votes than Abdullah.Abdullah will now lead the High Council of National Reconciliation with executive authority and his team will have a 50% share in the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hopes-afghan-political-deal-will-end-externally-sponsored-terrorism/story-RpFJP2rLEhVdeqppiDKgPO.html
17-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: What you can do and cannot||India will enter the fourth phase of the lockdown on Monday. Lockdown 4.0 will last till May 31. Here are 10 points about the latest lockdown extension:1 All domestic and international air travel of passengers except for domestic medical services, domestic air ambulance and for security purposes for purposes as permitted by the MHA.2 All metro rail services, schools, colleges, hotels, restaurants will continue to remain shut.3 Marketplaces can open but cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, swimming pools will remain closed. But sport complexes and stadiums will be permitted to open. Spectators will not be allowed.4 Inter-state travel of people will be allowed in Lockdown 4.0,5 The zones - red, green, orange, containment zones and buffer zones will be decided by the states on the basis of parameters of ministry of health.6 In containment zones, only essential activities shall be allowed.7 Clause for private companies to make it mandatory for employees to use ‘Aarogya Setu’ app has been removed8 Large gatherings including religious, cultural, sports, political, will not be permitted.9 All religious places/places of worship will remain closed to the public. Religious congregations are strictly prohibited.10. People over 65 years of age, people with co-morbidity, pregnant women and children below 10 years of age to stay at home, except for essential and health purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-what-you-can-do-and-cannot/story-p5fJH9fvgjXRCOTWYlJBYL.html
17-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0 guidelines: List of top 10 activities allowed till May 31||The centre has allowed intrastate transport in public and private vehicles in the fourth phase of lockdown through a notification issued on Sunday. However, most restrictions like on domestic and international air travel, metro rail services, educational institutions, hospitality services like restaurants and hotels, cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, mass gatherings of social, sports, religious, entertainment, academic, cultural and political nature won’t be allowed. States have been given the freedom to designate areas into Red, Green and Orange Zones after taking into consideration the parameters issued by the centre.Here’s a list of top 10 activities that will be allowed in the lockdown 4.0 in all three zones- Red, Orange and Green, between May 18 and May 31.1. Interstate movement of passenger vehicles and buses with mutual consent of states and union territories involved.Intrastate movement of passenger vehicles and buses as decided by the states and union territories.2. Apart from standalone shops, market places have now been allowed to open, however, the operation of malls and cinemas continues to be banned.3. Barber shops, spas and salons can also be opened 4. Interstate and Intrastate movement of medical professionals, nurses, paramedical staff, sanitation personnel, ambulances allowed without any restriction.5. Movement of all types of goods cargo including empty cargo vehicles6. E-Commerce activities for non-essential goods are now permitted even in Red Zones.7. Cycle rickshaws and auto-rickshaws, taxis and cab aggregators like Ola, Uber have been allowed.8. Restriction limiting staff strength in offices to 33% has also been lifted.9.Sports complexes and stadias will be permitted to open, however, spectators will not be allowed.10. Restaurants are now permitted to operate kitchens for home delivery of food items. Apart from this, installing Aarogya Setup application is no longer mandatory for employees who attend office, employers have been instructed to ask employees to install the app for their own safety on ‘best efforts basis’.States and union territories have been given a free hand in adding more activities to the restricted list.It is important to note that all activities that were permitted during the third phase of lockdown will continue to be allowed in the fourth phase as well, however, states have been given a lot of freedom as stated above to add restrictions in any area. It is also important to note that the above activities will not be allowed in containment zones. In containment zones, the central government guidelines only permit essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-guidelines-list-of-top-10-activities-allowed-till-may-31/story-F37uL8ZleB4Z0SkYkalorO.html
17-05-2020||India||Meghalaya, Nagaland to continue with current restrictions in lockdown 4.0||Meghalaya and Nagaland announced on Sunday that the existing restrictions would continue for the next round of lockdown beginning from Monday in the fight against Covid-19.The announcements by the two states came shortly before the national Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) directed all states to continue the lockdown measures till May 31.The third phase of lockdown ends Sunday midnight.“In Meghalaya, keeping in mind the inflow of Meghalaya citizens from different parts of the country, we have decided to maintain the current restrictions and no further relaxation are planned as of now. If (there are) any changes, it will be notified accordingly,” Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma tweeted.Meghalaya has recorded 13 Covid-19 cases till date - all of them linked to one family in Shillong. While the first patient in the state has died, 11 others have recovered and 1 person is under treatment.The lone active case tested negative on Sunday. As per protocol, the patient’s sample will be tested again on Monday, tweeted Sangma.Like Meghalaya, Nagaland too issued an order on Sunday deciding to continue with the existing restrictions and relaxations.“It is hereby ordered that all the existing guidelines with regard to the lockdown in all parts of the state issued vide order dated May 4, 2020, will continue to remain operative till the issuance of fresh guidelines,” Nagaland chief secretary Temjen Toy said in the order.Nagaland has not recorded any positive Covid-19 case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-nagaland-to-continue-with-current-restrictions-in-lockdown-4-0/story-xv0Tb602a9yF17N4R5wxuM.html
17-05-2020||India||Two weeks after inter-state travel resumes, Covid cases spike in Assam||Two weeks after inter-state travel resumed, Assam has seen a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases with the tally nearing a hundred.Since Saturday, seven people including a nine-year-old boy who returned from New Delhi few days ago have tested positive taking Assam’s total to 98 cases (including one from Nagaland tested and treated in Guwahati).While 42 people have recovered, two patients have died and 51 are under treatment. Two patients have migrated to West Bengal and Bihar.According to official figures, till Sunday afternoon 23 people who had returned to Assam by road and rail, since inter-state movement of people resumed on May 4, have tested positive for Covid-19.Assam recorded its first positive case on March 31 when a 52-year-old cancer patient was found infected with coronavirus. It took another 37 days for the figure to reach 50 on May 7 and just 10 more days to double and near the three-figure mark.Till Sunday, 20 of the state’s 33 districts had recorded Covid-19 cases. Of them 14 have active cases at present with Kamrup (Metro), where the state’s biggest city Guwahati is located, topping the tally with 23 cases.Significantly, till April 30 - a month since the first infection was detected-Assam had 43 positive cases. After that there was a lull five days when the next case was recorded on May 5, a day after inter-state movement was allowed. Since then, the state has recorded new cases almost daily.While the inter-state movement of people is believed to be a reason for the spike, one person who used to work in a potato warehouse in Guwahati has been linked to many positive cases in recent days.The man was tested positive on May 7, turned out to be a super spreader, infecting 17 people he came in contact with. It is not yet known where and how he contracted the virus.Assam on Thursday released a fresh set of standard operating procedures to be followed while dealing with persons returning to the state from other parts of the country.The procedures list out how passengers will be dealt with once they enter Assam and get down at various stations. Officials have been asked to follow the rules on transportation, screening, testing and quarantine for the passengers.“Anyone found symptomatic will be segregated and taken to hospitals for tests. Others will be allowed to go to their home districts where they will be placed in institutional quarantine for at least 14 days,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had said on Thursday.Passengers over 75 years, children below 10 years and their families, pregnant women and persons with disabilities will be allowed to go to their homes where they as well as their family members will have to keep themselves quarantined for 14 days.Abandoning its earlier plan to turn schools and colleges into quarantine facilities, the government has now decided to requisition hotels, lodges etc. and keep passengers there. The cost of rent and food will be borne by the state government, Sarma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-weeks-after-inter-state-travel-resumes-covid-cases-spike-in-assam/story-BZF14ALvEi63plvcCPie2I.html
17-05-2020||India||Rajasthan govt to provide free ration to labourers, daily wage workers, rickshaw pullers||The Rajasthan government will be providing free ration to labourers and daily wagers, and for the same a special assistance scheme is being made for their families. The government has made 26 categories that includes beggars, barbers, washer men, rickshaw pullers, domestic helps and others for special assistance. The district collectors have been asked to conduct survey to assess numbers.Food and Civil Supply Minister, Ramesh Meena said “The lockdown has badly affected the daily wagers and in order to assist them, the government is identifying them. So far, 26 categories have been listed and more could be added. The identified categories are being surveyed to assess their numbers. The survey work will be completed by May 20 in rural areas and May 24 in urban areas.”“There are many who aren’t getting benefit of schemes and are daily wagers. After the reports are received, the government would provide them free dry ration,” he added.Chief Secretary DB Gupta has directed all collectors to conduct survey in their respective districts. “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, there is nationwide lockdown since last 50 days, because of which all industries, trades, business and other economic activities are stalled. This has resulted in unemployment of labourer and daily wagers, and in coming time, they would face difficulty for two meals a day,” said Gupta. He added that the way the pandemic is spreading, it seems that situation will take time to normalise. In the orders issued to the collectors, the government has issued the guidelines for identification during survey of this special category such as only Jan-Aadhar data should be used. For non NFSA families, survey through village level core committees and booth level officer; and in urban areas through municipalities and BLOs. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot have many times urged GoI for additional allocation of wheat as other than beneficiaries of NFSA and BPL families, there are many families who need free ration as due to lockdown they aren’t able to earn their daily bread. Majority among are those which are daily wagers but today are helpless due to lockdown.The state government had requested GoI to allot additional wheat to the state to fulfill requirement. There are 4.46 crore families covered under the NFSA in the state as per the census of 2011 which, should be 5.04 crore as per the current population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-govt-to-provide-free-ration-to-labourers-daily-wage-workers-rickshaw-pullers/story-t1E8J2prxDgM29nC7n95zI.html
17-05-2020||India||NDMA directs states to continue lockdown measures till May 31||The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has directed states to continue lockdown measures till May 31, the fourth extension of the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the infectious Covid-19 disease. The guidelines for this phase of lockdown will be announced later this evening.The Centre will issue the new guidelines for the fourth phase of the lockdown with considerable relaxations being in the offing for those states and cities which have lesser number of Covid-19 positive cases.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Punjab had already extended the lockdown before the Prime Minister Modi-led National Disaster Management Authority issued the order for lockdown 4.0 on Sunday evening.ALSO READ | Lockdown 4.0: Tamil Nadu extends statewide curbs till May 31, resumes public transport in areasThe guidelines will be issued later in the evening after Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba completes briefing state governments on the guidelines first. Several state governments had complained in the past that the Centre’s guidelines had taken them by surprise and weren’t clear enough. Gauba’s meeting would reduce the possibility of such misinterpretation. It is also an occasion for the Centre to stress on encouraging resumption of economic activity “while containing the spread of Covid-19”.Prime Minister Narendra Modi,in his televised address earlier this week, had said the fourth phase of the lockdown will be very different in nature and will have “new rules”.“The fourth phase of lockdown…lockdown 4.0 will be completely redesigned, with new rules. Based on the suggestions we are getting from the states, information related to Lockdown 4 will also be given to you before May 18,” PM Modi had said during his address to the nation on May 12.ALSO READ: Maharashtra extends lockdown till May 31, new relaxations only after Central notificationThe third phase of the lockdown will end tonight. Lockdown 3.0 saw significant relaxations with standalone shops lifting shutters, liquor shops opening up in orange and green zones and at least 15 special passenger trains resuming service for the first time since the Indian Railways suspended commercial operations on March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndma-directs-states-to-continue-lockdown-measures-till-may-31/story-wQgvDjwVQAwh6hZcSdYBsI.html
17-05-2020||India||Police officer at Rashtrapati Bhavan tests positive for Covid-19||An assistant commissioner of police (ACP) posted at Rashtrapati Bhavan has tested positive for Covid-19, a senior official at the President’s house said Sunday.The officer has been shifted to a hospital and his office and nearby areas are being sanitised.The ACP lives in a government housing colony in Karkardooma in east Delhi.Six people who had come in contact with the ACP have been identified and their samples have been sent for testing.While the ACP’s office is in the main building of the Rashtrapati Bhavan, it was away from President’s secretariat.His duty was not in the main building but outside, the official said.Last month, authorities sealed at least 125 staff quarters inside the Rashtrapati Bhavan complex and ordered the inhabitants to strictly maintain self-isolation after a relative of a staff tested positive for Covid-19.The daughter-in-law of a sanitation worker of Rashtrapati Bhavan tested positive after she came in contact with her mother who died of Covid-19 complications at a private hospital near Karol Bagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-officer-at-rashtrapati-bhavan-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-h3kxWV23PftHYb2SicsYpN.html
17-05-2020||India||After internal email goes viral, Air India says flight bookings are closed for now||National carrier Air India on Sunday reiterated that flight bookings for domestic travel are currently closed and will resume only after proper instructions from the Union government.“Keeping in mind the prevailing situation due to Covid-19, it is informed that all domestic scheduled flights stand cancelled till 31st May 2020 excepting the flights operating as Charter and Evacuation Flights. The date of commencement of operation would be advised to all concerned in due course,” an internal Air India email read.The e-mail had somehow found its way to social media and was widely circulated on WhatsApp groups. The airline immediately issued a clarification on Sunday afternoon.“An internal Air India email is circulating on WhatsApp. This is to clarify it is an internal communiqué. Commencement of commercial domestic or international flights will be announced by the Government of India. Passengers are requested to follow the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Air India Twitter handle and respective websites for official announcement regarding resumption of operations,” an Air India spokesperson said.Earlier this month, the airline had opened bookings for those passengers who met eligibility criteria and wished to travel from India to London, Singapore and select destinations in the United States on flights operating between May 8 to May 14.ALSO READ | Vande Bharat-II: Air India to operate flights to 31 countries from May 16The flights scheduled to ply were part of the ‘Vande Bharat’ mission from Kochi to Abu Dhabi, Delhi to Singapore and Calicut to Dubai and other nations where Indians were stranded due to lockdowns imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.The first scheduled flight under India’s massive ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ to bring back stranded Indians from abroad flew from New Delhi to Singapore on May 7.With lockdown 3.0 scheduled to draw to a close by Sunday night, the nation and several industrial sectors are gearing up to enter lockdown 4.0, albeit with minimal restrictions in those cities or areas which have reported no new Covid-19 positive cases in the last 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-internal-email-goes-viral-air-india-says-flight-bookings-are-closed-for-now/story-VvbuF2fMU0bfImxL8XUzYJ.html
17-05-2020||India||Auraiya road accident: Two more migrant workers die, toll rises to 26||Two more migrant workers died on Sunday following injuries sustained in the road accident a day earlier at Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh, raising the death toll in the incident to 26, said local police. Twenty-four migrant workers had died and 36 injured on Saturday early morning when a trailer truck carrying sacks of lime along with 43 people rammed into the back of a stationary truck with many other migrant workers sitting in it near a roadside eatery on the national highway in Auraiya. In a statement issued here, the Auraiya police said the accident took place near Shivji Dhaba in Tikauli village involving a trailer truck and a mini-truck with both the vehicles falling into a ditch by the roadside. “In the accident, 26 migrant labourers died, while 34 others sustained injuries,” the statement said while updating the casualty figures. A case has been registered against the drivers, owners and transporters of both the vehicles under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Motor Vehicles Act at Kotwali police station in Auraiya. Investigations are going on in this regard, police said, adding that efforts are being made to arrest the drivers, owners and transporters of both the vehicles. Meanwhile, as many as 32 injured migrant labourers were admitted to the Uttar Pradesh University of Medical Sciences at Saifai in Etawah district. The varsity’s Vice-Chancellor, Dr Raj Kumar said, “The condition of four migrant labourers is extremely serious, while seven others are in serious condition. Apart from this, 20 other injured labourers are also undergoing treatment. Some of these labourers could be discharged in the next couple of days.” Shiv Kumar, an injured labourer who was going from Rajasthan to West Bengal, while recalling the accident said, “There were around 40-50 persons travelling in the trailer truck. As the trailer hit the stationary mini-truck near a ‘dhaba’ (roadside eatery), both the vehicles overturned and people fell down. Some came under the truck.” The accident in Auraiya is the latest one in a string of mishaps involving migrant workers returning to their native states amid the coronavirus lockdown. Most of the victims were sitting on sacks of lime powder loaded on the trailer and were crushed when the vehicles overturned and fell into a ditch following the crash near an eatery between 3 am and 3.30 am on the Auraiya-Kanpur Dehat stretch of the national highway, police said. While many of the workers were from Jharkhand and West Bengal, some were from Kushinagar in eastern Uttar Pradesh, they pointed out. “In the accident, most of the labourers were crushed under these bags, which were on the trailer truck, and died. Some of them succumbed to injuries on the way to hospital,” District Magistrate Abhishek Singh said, adding that all the deceased were men. The mini-truck, which was going from Delhi to Madhya Pradesh, had stopped at the eatery as some workers wanted to have tea. It was carrying around 22 people, including five women and seven children, officials said. The trailer truck with 43 migrants was coming from Rajasthan, they said. Both the vehicles were ferrying people who found themselves without jobs, money or food during the lockdown and were desperate to get back home. Local villagers assisted the police and the administration in the rescue operation as earthmovers were used to pull out the people from under the lime sacks. The badly mangled vehicles showed the intensity of the crash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/auraiya-road-accident-two-more-migrant-workers-die-toll-rises-to-26/story-UclLZQfU1mIjSEEn74d3bP.html
17-05-2020||India||Jagan Reddy orders free food, transport for migrants returning home||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday ordered officials to ensure that hundreds of migrant labourers returning to their native place on foot in the scorching sun be given food and free transport.The chief minister, who reviewed the plight of migrant labourers at an official meeting on Sunday, directed that no migrant labourers should be seen walking their way to their native places.He asked the officials to arrange buses for the migrant labourers from Odisha walking through the state till their state borders, apart from providing them food.The officials told the chief minister that as many as 902 migrant labourers from Srikakulam, Ongole and other regions had been provided with transport and food arrangements on Saturday.“In all, 470 migrant labourers from Prakasam were sent in 10 state-run RTC buses, 410 migrants from Krishna in 16 buses and 22 from Srikakulam in one bus to their native places in Odisha,” an official spokesman from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said.On Sunday, another 450 migrant labourers from Guntur and 52 from Krishna districts had been sent to their native places.“State chief secretary Nilam Sawhney had detailed discussion with her counterpart in Odisha to ensure that the migrant labourers were received at Ganjam district border,” the spokesman said.Principal Secretary (Transport, Roads and Buildings) M T Krishna Babu said as per the directions of the chief minister, buses were arranged on various highways to pick up migrant labourers walking through the state and take them to the nearest relief centres.“All the police check posts are provided with staff from the revenue department to counsel the migrant labour to come to relief centres with a promise to send them to their native states,” he said.As many as 79 food counters have been organized along the national highways nearer to the inter-state check posts to give them food and water. “Similarly, district collectors were asked to put up banners on highways in Oriya and Hindi explaining the arrangements done for the migrant labour going by walk,” Krishna Babu said.If the migrant labourers are from various parts of Andhra Pradesh, they would be sent to their native places by buses free of cost. Similarly, those belonging to Odisha also would be ferried up to the state’s borders by buses.“For those migrant labourers who are from far off states like West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, the government will make arrangements to send them by Shramik Express trains duly transporting them to the embarkation points free of cost,” the principal secretary said.In the last three days, around 4,661 migrant labourers walking home were stopped at various check posts and sent to 62 relief centres. Of them, 485 people were walking to various districts of Andhra Pradesh and the remaining migrant workers belonged to other states, including Odisha (966), Bihar (815), UP (1012), Jharkhand (576) and Chattisgarh (331).“We have already arranged 31 Shramik Express trains from AP transporting 39,000 people to different destinations in the last till date. Another five trains would be run for 7,500 people on Sunday. We have planned to run another 22 special trains during this week for 33,000 people,” Krishna Babu said.Over the last few weeks, images of migrant workers walking across different parts of India have highlighted the desperation of the marginalised people hit hard by the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-reddy-orders-free-food-transport-for-migrants-returning-home/story-6hwCehJVlAtHf5ijON6fkK.html
17-05-2020||India||Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally goes past 5,000, infections rise in jails||The number of Covid -19 cases in Rajasthan crossed the 5,000-mark on Sunday with 123 new cases till 2pm. Two deaths were also reported, taking the casualties to 128, the health department said.Rajasthan has been reporting more than 200 cases every day for last three days. Its tally now stands at 5,083, including 61 of Iran evacuees and 49 of Border Security Force (BSF) personnel. However, only 1,963 of them are active; 2,992 have recovered and 2,577 of them have been discharged.Apart from Jaipur, Dungarpur with 18 cases, Udaipur with 16, Jodhpur with 11 and Rajsamand with 10 cases were other districts that added to the tally on Sunday.Two deaths were also reported from the state, both from Jaipur.Over the last two days, most of the cases were reported from jails in Jaipur district. On Sunday out of 37 cases reported from Jaipur, 14 are from jails – 12 from Central Jail and two from district jail. On Saturday, out of 131 cases reported from the state capital, 119 were from jails.Rajasthan, meanwhile, has tested 231,946 samples, out of which 221,760 have tested negative and results of 5,103 are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-s-covid-19-tally-goes-past-5-000-infections-rise-in-jails/story-wguMgroHepg2WRznRJ0pAI.html
17-05-2020||India||Covid 19 update: People with metabolic syndrome take longer to recover, say experts||People with “metabolic syndrome” take longer in recovering from coronavirus infection as it causes further health complications, experts have said and suggested a healthy lifestyle and diet to keep the pandemic at bay.Metabolic syndrome is characterised by hypertension and high levels of blood sugar and cholesterol.Dr Ravi Dosi, who heads chest department of Indore- based Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences(SAIMS), said that at least 150 of 1,100 COVID-19 patients he came across so far in Indore district had metabolic syndrome.Indore, worst-hit by coronavirus pandemic, has so far reported 2,470 cases and 100 deaths.“Of the 1,100 COVID-19 patients, about 150 men had metabolic syndrome (co-morbidities),” he said.According to Dr Doshi, patients with metabolic syndrome need a longer time to recover as their underlying health conditions further exacerbate the complications caused by coronavirus.Dr Doshi suggested a health lifestyle and proper diet to keep the coronavirus at bay.In a related development, the Indian Institute of Management, Indore (IIM-I) has undertaken a detailed study with international collaboration on the relationship between COVID-19 and metabolic syndrome.Their six-member research team comprises an assistant professor at IIM-I and fellows from the University of Michigan and the Columbia University of America.A member of the team, Assistant Professor and Biostatistics expert Sayantan Banerjee said that people with metabolic syndrome are vulnerable to coronavirus pandemic.“After analysing the data of the fourth round of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-4), we have come to (know that) people with metabolic syndrome were vulnerable to pandemic,” he said quoting a synopsis.Banerjee further said that red and orange zones have more number of metabolic syndrome patients with high blood and sugar levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-people-with-metabolic-syndrome-take-longer-to-recover-say-experts/story-A0OPdG0YSVx84PNrKAon7L.html
17-05-2020||India||Those travelling by special train must ‘agree’ to follow quarantine protocol of states: IRCTC||After passengers on board a special train to Bengaluru refused to be quarantined, the IRCTC has now decided that only those who agree to follow the quarantine protocol of the destination states will be allowed to book tickets on its portal. The new rule, mentioned in a pop-up on its website, reads “I have read the health advisory issued by my destination state. I accept and shall abide by the same” and requires the passenger to click on ‘I agree’ to move forward and book tickets. The rule comes days after around 50 passengers who arrived in Bengaluru from Delhi on May 14 refused to be quarantined at an institutional facility and created a ruckus at the station.Despite much persuasion, the railways had to attach an extra bogie and send back around 15 passengers who refused to be quarantined. The passengers paid for their tickets.According to IRCTC officials, before finally proceeding to book a ticket, a pop-up will now appear on the computer or mobile screen asking passengers to confirm if they had read the health advisory of the destination state and agree to abide by it.The message is being displayed in Hindi as well as English. If the passenger selects disagree, then s/he won’t be able to book the ticket and will be returned to the reservation page.The new rule is part of a growing list of “mandatory” protocols that the railways has issued due to travel restrictions during the coronavirus crisis.Earlier, railways made it mandatory for passengers to download the government’s contact-tracing app Aarogya Setu and also made it compulsory for passengers to list their destination address before they could book tickets on the IRCTC portal. It has also made wearing masks and social distancing mandatory during travel.The special Rajdhanis are travelling between 15 major cities and the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-travelling-by-special-train-must-agree-to-follow-quarantine-protocol-of-states-irctc/story-A2VCpQueua9n5tMWxhQirO.html
17-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand Covid-19 update: 77-year-old suspected patient dies at quarantine center||A 77-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient in Uttarakhand died at a quarantine center on Saturday night in Pauri Garhwal district, informed officials. The lady had recently returned to her village in the hilly district from Delhi.Manoj Bahukhandi, chief medical officer of Pauri Garhwal district said the woman along with a few of her family members had been quarantined at a center in Rikhnikhal block of the district after they returned from Delhi.“The woman was quite old and did not show any symptoms similar to that of coronavirus, but as per protocol, she had been quarantined at a center in the block. She had been suffering from bronchitis and hypertension, but did not show any Covid-19 symptoms,” said Bahukhandi.He added that late night on Saturday, the lady suddenly started vomiting blood.For Coronavirus Live Updates“Prima facie vomiting blood along with bronchitis seems to be the cause of death. But a team of doctors have rushed to the quarantine center to conduct further check-ups and take samples of other people staying there,” added the chief medical officer of Pauri Garhwal.The health department had not received official feedback from the team of doctors till the filing of this report.In April, two suspected Covid-19 patients had died in Government Doon Medical College Hospital, a day before tests confirmed them to be negative for the disease.Dr NS Khatri, deputy chief medical superintendent of the hospital had then attributed chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) for the death of the 77-year old suspect and said that the other person, a 23-year-old male, was in a critical condition before his death on April 22.While according to the union health ministry data, a total of 88 people have been detected positive for the disease in the northern hilly state, however, the data released by the state authorities puts the count of infected to at least 92.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-covid-19-update-77-year-old-suspected-patient-dies-at-quarantine-center/story-3uITsVLuReTVzSfsjY7dUM.html
17-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan intensifies into severe cyclonic storm: Update||Cyclone Amphan that has been circling over the Bay of Bengal for the last two days has now intensified into a severe cyclonic storm raising the possibility of heavy rainfall coupled with high velocity winds in several coastal districts of Odisha and parts of Gangetic West Bengal, the MeT department said on Sunday. The cyclonic storm, pronounced UM-PUN, is very likely to intensify further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours. Ahead of Cyclone Amphan making landfall, Odisha has urged the Centre to temporarily suspend ‘Shramik Special’ trains passing through areas falling in the direction of the storm. The Odisha government on Saturday announced that it will shift migrant workers lodged in various quarantine centres near the coast to safer places.“Saving of lives is our priority. We should put our best efforts to save every precious human life,” Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik had said.Tracking the movement of Cyclone Amphan in 10 points:1. The Bhubaneswar unit of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a yellow alert on Sunday indicating that West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts are likely to be affected by Cyclone Amphan which is brewing over Southeast Bay of Bengal.2. The cyclone which is now a severe cyclonic storm is very likely to intensify further into a ‘Very Severe Cyclonic Storm’ during the next 12 hours, according to MeT department data.3. Cyclone Amphan is likely to make landfall in between West Bengal’s Sagar Islands (well known for an annual pilgrimage thronged by devotees) and Hatiya Islands in neighbouring Bangladesh during the afternoon or early evening of May 20 as a very severe cyclonic storm.ALSO READ | Cyclone Amphan likely to bring heavy rain in coastal Bengal districts from May 194. The MeT department has predicted heavy rainfall in isolated places over the Odisha districts of Gajapati, Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara. Rainfall will commence from May 18 evening, according to the advisory.5. Light to moderate rain or thundershowers are possible over the districts of coastal Odisha and Koraput.6. Cyclone Amphan may become phenomenal over southern parts of central Bay of Bengal from Sunday night, over northern parts of central Bay of Bengal and adjoining north Bay of Bengal on May 19 and over north Bay of Bengal on May 20.7. Seventeen teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in Odisha and West Bengal to deal with the approaching cyclone, the NDRF chief said on Sunday.8. Seven teams of the NDRF have been deployed in West Bengal. These teams are stationed in six districts -- South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Howrah and Hooghly. In Odisha, the remaining 10 teams have been deployed in seven districts -- Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore and Mayurbhanj. Normally, one team of NDRF consists of around 45 personnel.9. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has put forth a target of ‘zero casualty’ before the state administration, which is in the midst of a battle against the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government has predicted that around seven lakh people in 649 villages along the sea coast are likely to be severely affected due to Cyclone Amphan.10. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into north Bay of Bengal along and off West Bengal-Odisha coasts from May 18 to 21 and those who are out in the sea were asked to return to coasts by May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-intensifies-into-severe-cyclonic-storm-latest-updates/story-tBk1DKI3LL0SjXlhBvUopM.html
17-05-2020||India||To arrest Covid spread, jails intensify medical screening of inmates, suspend ‘mulaqat’ with family||Releasing prisoners on bail and parole to decongest jails, compulsory wearing of masks, frequent medical screening and suspension of ‘mulaqat’ with family -- these are some of the steps being taken by the Delhi prison authorities to check the spread of the novel coronavirus.Authorities are extra cautious now after coronavirus infections were reported from the Rohini Jail. There are three jails in Delhi -- Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli.After a 28-year-old inmate of Rohini Jail tested positive for the coronavirus, 15 others who shared a barrack with him and one head warden contracted the infection.The jail authorities said they are conducting medical screening of each inmate more frequently and at a faster pace. All the inmates have been strictly advised not to hide about their health conditions in case they are unwell and should report to doctor immediately, the authorities said.The jail staff and doctors have been educating the inmates about the novel coronavirus and the precautionary measures to be taken to contain its spread, said an official.“Every inmate has been provided with two masks each and they are reused after washing. These masks have been stitched by jail inmates,” he added.While coming out of barracks, it is compulsory for inmates to wear masks. The jail authorities also encourage inmates to wear masks while inside the barracks too as a preventive measure, said the DG (Prisons) of Tihar, Sandeep Goel.The inmates cannot be confined to their barracks all the time. They do come out when needed, and in such times, it is ensured they have limited interaction with members of other barracks, Goel said.The inmates usually come out of their respective barracks either to avail phone facility, canteen facility or to visit the jail office or dispensary which is within the jail premises, he said.All these areas are encircled so that inmates wait in queue within the marked circle to avail the facility as and when their turn comes, he said.Only eight to 10 inmates are at a time allowed to come outside their barracks to avail phone facility. Earlier, they used to interact with inmates of other barracks but now, they are very cautious and have limited interaction and maintain social distancing even while speaking to inmates belonging to their own barrack, officials said.Usually, a barrack houses 20-25 inmates.A major step that was taken towards maintaining social distance was to decongest the jails. The jail authorities said when they started the process of decongestion back in March, the population in jails were 175 per cent of the capacity -- the three jails were housing 17,500 inmates against the capacity of 10,000. But a lot of effort was taken and many inmates were either released on emergency parole or on interim bail.So far, 3,500 inmates have been released and more will be freed in the coming days to avoid over-crowding.Another significant effort that was taken was to stop court production of inmates and ‘mulaqat’ (meeting) with family members to ensure they are not exposed, they added.Phone facility in the jail was made free of cost for the inmates and it is ensured, they get to speak to their family at least once in a week.In case someone falls sick, doctor after checking his health condition decides if the person needs to be kept in medical isolation which is made in each barrack or if he has to be kept in a jail dispensary from where his conditions are monitored regularly, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-arrest-covid-spread-jails-intensify-medical-screening-of-inmates-suspend-mulaqat-with-family/story-lRcOyZcfV5TtMqutc5s1fM.html
17-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times | ‘Won’t be left alone’: Arvind Kejriwal extends guarantee to migrant labourers in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Won’t be left alone’: Arvind Kejriwal extends guarantee to migrant labourers in DelhiDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday extended an assurance to all migrant workers stuck in Delhi that the government was fully committed to their care whether they desired to stay back in the capital or leave for their home states. Read more. NDRF deploys 17 teams in Odisha, West Bengal to prepare for Cyclone AmphanSeventeen teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in Odisha and West Bengal in view of the approaching cyclone ‘Amphan’, the chief of the force said on Sunday. Read more. ‘Nation-building migrant workers are out in the sun, allow us to help them’: Priyanka Gandhi writes to UP CMCongress leader and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday took to Twitter and asked Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister to grant permission to help migrant labourers amid the coronavirus crisis. Read  more. India brings down coronavirus test swab price to one-tenthAs COVID-19 pandemic spread quickly, India faced twin challenge - short supply of testing swabs and those imported from China at a steep price of Rs 17 per stick were proving to be inferior. Read more. I knew if MS Dhoni is playing, I won’t get to play: Saha on how he made most of opportunitiesIndia wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha on Sunday said that he learnt the most from former India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, as he knew that he will not be included in the team till Dhoni is in the team. Read more. Mumbai Police gets on Paatal Lok hype train, share meme on spreading fake newsThe Mumbai Police has one of the funniest and wittiest Twitter accounts and never loses a chance to drop a fresh, topical meme. They have done it again, this time with a meme featuring a scene from Paatal Lok. Read more. Mompreneurs in times of coronavirus: The deep-seated strength of a womanThe lockdown announced in March came crashing down on the woman of the house, who had to, overnight, manage both, family (in full quorum and maid-less) and office simultaneously. Read more. ‘Dramebaazi’: Nirmala Sitharaman on Rahul Gandhi meeting migrant workersFinance Minsiter Nirmala Sitharaman slammed Rahul Gandhi over migrant workers. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had interacted with migrant workers on May 16. Gandhi spoke to migrants sitting on a sidewalk in the national capital. Sitharaman urged Congress party to come together to help stranded migrant labourers. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-won-t-be-left-alone-arvind-kejriwal-extends-guarantee-to-migrant-labourers-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-SjH8iEWn0rtSiaTVDryzvO.html
17-05-2020||India||India brings down coronavirus test swab price to one-tenth||As COVID-19 pandemic spread quickly, India faced twin challenge - short supply of testing swabs and those imported from China at a steep price of Rs 17 per stick were proving to be inferior.A solution was fixed in 10-days combining the expertise of Johnson & Johnson of manufacturing a similar product in earbuds, and Reliance Industries providing custom-made polyester staple fiber that resulted in the cost of swabs coming down to just Rs 1.7 per unit.While the earbuds typically use cotton and the stick is too small to take throat and nasal swabs, an extender was used to increase the length of the stem and the PSF from Reliance provided lab-approved material for testing.Sandeep Makkar, Managing Director, Johnson and Johnson Medical India told PTI that the entire plan was stitched in matter of 7 to 10 days, soon after the Ministry of Textile contacted the company for a solution to the shortage of testing swabs.Vasai-based Adi Enterprise, which does third-party manufacturing of earbuds for J&J, has started manufacturing the test swabs which are approved by the National Institute of Virology, Pune.It is importing new machinery which will eliminate the need for manual putting of extenders and further bring down the cost to just Re 1 per swab.“Manufacturing of the test swabs in a record seven days from conceptualisation to production under the Make In India initiative required ingenuity and rapid action.“In this design, Reliance provided the raw material and Johnson & Johnson India provided pro bono scientific expertise of research, development, engineering for manufacturing of the test swabs. Production has already started on May 6, 2020, by the manufacturer Adi Enterprise, an Indian MSME in Mumbai,” he said.Officials involved in the project said the move started over a ‘Zoom’ call the ministry of textile did with J&J and Reliance, and within 24 hours Adi Enterprise was given permission to produce a prototype that was sent to the National Institute of Virology.The premier institute suggested modifications that were incorporated and prototype resent. After approval, Adi Enterprise was given orders to manufacture.The company, they said, is making about one lakh of test swabs a day, which after machine automation will increase to 5-6 lakh in 3 weeks time.J&J is making sure the government is aware of the pricing and batches manufactured so as to prevent mark-ups in price or swabs being exported.As capacity scales up, India may begin to export swabs as well, they said.Officials said it all started about 10 days back when Ravi Kapoor, Secretary, Textiles contacted J&J and Reliance to check whether India can manufacture swab required for testing purposes.The two companies readily agreed to take the project on a mission mode with no commercial considerations.Over the next two days, the companies managed to get the polyester shipped to Adi Enterprise which wrapped it around the stem used for earbuds and sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for testing.NIV suggested that the length was too small and this was solved by using an extender. Thereafter NIV approved of the design.Adi Enterprise, an MSME, was given charge of manufacturing and it produced WHO standard product under the supervision of J&K and Reliance, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-brings-down-coronavirus-test-swab-price-to-one-tenth/story-Jf8DA5UXluwQFi7g0L0Q8N.html
17-05-2020||India||No distractions and time to introspect, devout Muslims find silver lining in lockdown Ramzan||The nationwide lockdown had ensured this year’s Ramzan was going to be like no other in living memory -- no iftaar parties, no meeting with friends, no late night shopping, no prayers at mosques. But many devout Muslims are appreciative the lockdown has helped them stay true to the spirit of the holy month. Three weeks into fasting, many Muslims feel the coronavirus-forced lockdown has a silver lining. It has left them with plenty of time to read the Quran, attend virtual Quran classes and focus on prayers. After all, Ramzan is a time for self-discipline and introspection, they point out.Tanvir Parvez, a lawyer from Ghaziabad, was among those bracing himself for a Ramzan devoid of its usual charms of special prayers in mosques (Taraweeh), sitting with his friends and family to break the fast at iftaar time and gatherings to discuss the teachings of Prophet Mohammad.Parvez, who has never missed the Taraweeh during Ramzan, said he was gutted to learn that this year prayers would not be allowed in mosques due to the coronavirus lockdown.  “I was mentally preparing for a bad Razman experience with so many restrictions in place, but it has turned out to be a very special one as staying at home with family, discussing religion and reading the Quran with English translation has given me a new perspective on life,” the 63-year-old told PTI.  The special prayers, iftaar congregations and spiritual gatherings are being missed, but the benefits have also made it a special “special Razman” this year.“Earlier Ramzans were just about racing against time from the courts to reach home for iftaar, but now I am involved in making iftaar with my wife and though the spread is very simple, it brings the family closer as everyone is involved,” he said.People are also relishing the time they are getting to introspect and learn more about Islam with no distractions such as grand iftaar parties and shopping sprees.Hasan Askari, an agriculturist based in Ghaziabad, said the month usually raced by with a string of iftaar parties and endless shopping trips, but not this time.“The lockdown is proving to be a boon with distractions like shopping and endless iftaar parties not there, allowing me to read books on Islamic teachings which my brother-in-law gets from Jeddah and watching Islamic sermons online,” Askari told PTI.Prominent Muslim body Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind’s president Maulana Arshad Madani said it is heartening to see Muslims finding positivity in these difficult times and using the lockdown downtime to learn more about Islamic teachings and Quran.“Another significant trend witnessed this year is that seeing the sufferings of migrant labourers and the needy, Muslims have undertaken charity at a scale not seen before,” Madani told PTI.Even though everyone’s economic future is uncertain, Muslims are helping the poor with money and food in a massive way to realise the true meaning of Ramzan, he said.Another popular trend this Ramzan has been Muslims watching religious programmes and taking up Quran classes online.Professor Salim Engineer, vice president of the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, said his organisation is webcasting many religious programmes on its YouTube channel to explain the meaning of Quranic verses and important Islamic issues.“We are also webcasting programmes for non-Muslims. Recently, we shot one with religious leaders from different religions discussing the importance of fasting. In mosques, 1,000-1,500 people would listen to the discussions. This year, many thousands are watching these programmes online during Ramzan,” he told PTI.Iftaar food, normally an elaborate feast with kebabs, kormas and much more, have also become simpler.  Sultana Siddiqui, a homemaker from Lucknow, would spend most of her day preparing the meals. Not this time though.  “Making non-vegetarian delicacies during Ramzan takes up a lot of time. But this year with most meat shops closed and lockdown in place, the iftaar menu is very modest and allows plenty of free time to devote to Islamic learning and preaching,” Siddiqui said.“I have enrolled for online Quranic classes to fine tune my Arabic pronunciation and also to enhance my understanding of the Quran. It has been a life-changing experience,” she said.There are also those missing the festive fervour of iftaar parties and sehri (pre-dawn meal at the start of a fasting day) at old Delhi’s famous eateries.“Ramzan is a time when family and friends come together -- praying, fasting and feasting. With many family members stranded in different parts, the festive feel is missing this time,” said Qazi Aamir Ali, a corporate employee working in Gurgaon.Also, the going is not easy for everyone. While middle and upper class homes are finding positivity during the holy month, the poor and the needy are struggling to make ends meet.“We are fasting through the day and there is hardly anything to eat around sehri. Organisations and people are reaching out, so iftaar is sorted, but we begin our fast just by drinking water,” said Shaheen Bano, an out of work house maid and mother of six.“We pray to Allah and fast that these difficult days will pass, I will go back to work and see smiles on my kids’ faces,” she said.Ramzan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar during which Muslims worldwide refrain from eating and drinking from dawn to dusk and end their fast in the evening. The month is in its fourth week now and Eid will be celebrated on May 24 or 25, depending on the sighting of the moon.For Muslims, this Ramzan is also about hope that their prayers will be answered and a new dawn will emerge in post-pandemic times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-distractions-and-time-to-introspect-devout-muslims-find-silver-lining-in-lockdown-ramzan/story-82SULeekWnCMrHFWetnPnN.html
17-05-2020||India||‘Won’t be left alone’: Arvind Kejriwal extends guarantee to migrant labourers in Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday extended an assurance to all migrant workers stuck in Delhi that his government was fully committed to their care whether they desired to stay back in the capital or leave for their home states.Kejriwal said the government was arranging for as many special Shramik trains to ferry them to their homes as may be required for the purpose.“The migrant labourers living in Delhi are our responsibility. We will take full care of them if they want to stay back and if they want to return to their villages, then trains are being arranged to transport them. Under no circumstance will they be left on their own,” the CM tweeted highlighting another tweet by his deputy Manish Sisodia, who noted that approximately 47,000 migrant labourers from the national capital had been sent home in special Shramik specials as of Sunday. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesDelhi houses hundreds of thousands of migrant labourers, who had come out on the streets after losing their livelihoods post the imposition of a nationwide lockdown on March 25. They had to be put up in special relief camps with arrangement for food and medicines till the union government decided to allow movement of the migrant workforce. However, several desperate migrant workers can still be seen hitchhiking rides to reach home, while several others have lost their lives in both rail and road accidents while trying to cover massive distances on foot.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Kejriwal tweeted a notice issued by the Delhi government directing all concerned authorities including the Delhi Police to ensure that migrant workers are not allowed to walk along highways and railway tracks in an attempt to cover the long-distance home on foot or by unauthorised transport. The letter says the workers have to be mandatorily put up in relief centres while the arrangement is made to transport them through Shramik special train services or state-organized busses.Delhi government is running several such camps to provide shelter and food to the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-be-left-alone-arvind-kejriwal-extends-guarantee-to-migrant-labourers-in-delhi/story-nSO2pVLDjPZSnqb8HdUOaO.html
17-05-2020||India||Maharashtra reports 587 deaths due to Covid-19 in last 13 days||Maharashtra has reported 587 new deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 13 days, taking the state’s death toll to 1,135, as of Saturday. The first case in Maharashtra was reported on March 11 and till May 3, the state had reported 12,974 coronavirus cases.But in the last 13 days, the total deaths rose to 1,135 whereas the Covid-19 cases climbed to 30,706, as of Saturday, according to state health department data.Whereas in Mumbai, the number of cases and deaths doubled in the last 13 days. From 8,800 cases and 343 deaths (as of May 03), the city reported 18,555 cases and 696 deaths as of Saturday. Maharashtra on Saturday recorded its highest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with 1,606 new infections, bringing the case count to 30,706.Mumbai on the other hand recorded 884 new coronavirus infections on Saturday, whereas Pune recorded 161 new Covid-19 cases, while Thane recorded 114, Navi Mumbai 105 and Aurangabad 93.Meanwhile, Maharashtra has extended the lockdown till May 31. The fourth phase of the lockdown, which starts from May 18, is expected to have more relaxations for industries and businesses in districts that fall in the green and the orange zones. For the red zone, the state government is open to allowing further relaxations outside the containment area; a decision is expected after getting clarity from the Central government.A senior bureaucrat said, “We are awaiting Centre’s directives for lockdown protocol in the red zone. As the PM had indicated in his last address that the next phase would be different, we expect that more activities would be allowed outside containment areas. The sense among decision-makers is that we have to live with Covid-19.” The Centre is yet to issue guidelines for the next phase, following which the Maharashtra government would issue its guidelines.The state has so far registered 15,181 cases in the third phase of the lockdown, which is higher than the total it recorded in the 19-day lockdown between April 15 and May 3. In the second phase of the lockdown, Maharashtra recorded 11,627 Covid-19 cases.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the lockdown has helped restrict the spread of the disease in the state. He added that the doubling rate has also increased during the lockdown period in Mumbai and the overall state.The doubling rate — the number of days it takes for Covid-19 cases to double — has improved, he said. The state’s doubling rate is at 11.5 days, while Mumbai’s stands at 14 days.“The doubling rate has increased to 14 days in Mumbai now. This is a big improvement from the earlier doubling rate of 7 to 8 days. Elsewhere in the state, too, we are trying to contain the spread in hotspots. We are working towards stricter enforcement of lockdown in such containment areas, so that cases reduce,” Tope said.The state health minister has already said that Maharashtra would see the peak of the Covid-19 outbreak by June-end. He said that they are preparing for a projection of over 50,000 cases in Mumbai in three weeks. “There are various projects. Some mathematical projections haven’t been accurate, but we are preparing for the worst. Currently, Mumbai has about 17,500 cases. It could increase three times by around June 20; so it would go over 50,000. We are preparing accordingly,” he said.Over 2.45 lakh migrant labourers have been sent back to their home states by 191 Shramik trains, said the state home minister Anil Deshmukh. He added that the first trains carrying migrant workers to Bihar and West Bengal, which had so far disallowed labourers to come back, departed from Maharashtra on Saturday.“Around 2.45 lakh migrant workers have been sent to their respective home states by running 191 train services till now. We could not send trains to Bihar and West Bengal since these states did not allow it. But [NCP chief] Sharad Pawar and chief minister Thackeray personally spoke to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar over the phone. Today, the first trains carrying migrant workers to West Bengal and Bihar were sent,” Deshmukh said in a video message.The trains are being run from parts of Maharashtra to Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh. Deshmukh also informed that 3,71,310 migrant workers have been kept in 3,884 shelters across the state and the state government has arranged for their food.Continuing the evacuation of migrants who are desperate to return to their homes, the Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has, so far, ferried 1.42 lakh migrant workers in 11,380 buses to the state’s borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-587-deaths-due-to-covid-19-in-last-13-days/story-fgDjxFiAdcDaOidG2IYxUL.html
17-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: Tamil Nadu extends statewide curbs till May 31, resumes public transport in some areas||Tamil Nadu on Sunday extended state-wide lockdown triggered by the coronavirus outbreak in the country and joined the list of states who have entered the fourth cycle of extension of restrictions. Additionally, Tamil Nadu has allowed resumption of public and private transport in 25 districts of the state beginning May 18, when the fourth phase of current nationwide lockdown kicks in. However, the same restrictions as seen during the third phase of lockdown will continue in 12 other districts including Chennai, which is among coronavirus hotspots in the country.Chief Minister Palaniswami on Sunday afternoon made the announcement to extend the lockdown in the state by two more weeks till May 31 but with more relaxations. Tamil Nadu is the third-worst Covid-19 affected state in the country after Maharashtra and Gujarat. The number of positive cases in the state has crossed the 10,000-mark and reached 10,585 as on Sunday.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesPeople in 25 districts including Coimbatore, Salem, Erode, Tirupur, Namakkal and Karur will be able to avail government and private bus transportation for intradistrict commute, the government said and added that no special permission in the form of TN e-pass will be required for the purpose.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Public transport in the state has been under suspension since March 24 evening, hours before the first phase of nationwide lockdown was clamped to contain the spread of Covid-19.In the 12 other districts, the curbs in effect will continue even after the end of the third phase of lockdown on Sunday.While the full range of additional exemptions granted in the 25 districts with the purpose of resumption of business and industrial activities have not been revealed yet, the state government has made it plain and simple that the restrictions on the functioning of educational institutions, public entry into religious places, mass gatherings for political and social purposes will continue.It also clarified that no relaxations that are already in effect will be withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-extended-in-tamil-nadu-till-may-31-public-transport-to-resume-in-25-districts/story-Nt89WzL3uAVBLRFCAoW19H.html
17-05-2020||India||Govt package only worth Rs 3.22 lakh cr and 1.6% of GDP, not Rs 20 lakh crore: Congress||The Congress on Sunday accused the government of misleading people in the name of an economic package and said the measures announced by the Centre amounted to only 1.6 per cent of India’s GDP, i.e. worth Rs 3.22 lakh crore instead of Rs 20 lakh crore as claimed by the Prime Minister. Congress’ senior spokesperson Anand Sharma said Prime Minister Narendra Modi must “walk the talk” and announce the measures required by giving money in the hands of the poor and small and medium enterprises to help reboot the economy.He noted that there was a difference between providing stimulus to the economy and merely giving loans and credit to people.  Sharma, a former union minister, challenged the finance minister for a debate on the package while raising questions about the announcements made by the prime minister.“The government’s economic package is only of Rs 3.22 lakh crore and is only 1.6 per cent of India’s GDP and is not worth Rs 20 lakh crore as announced by the prime minister,” Sharma said while addressing a press conference through video conferencing.“I am questioning the Finance Minister, disputing the announcement of Prime Minister and challenging the government to disprove me on the numbers given by me and am ready for a debate with the finance minister,” he said.The Congress leader further said the Finance Minister should answer questions and not ask questions instead. He also demanded that the government provide answers to the country on the plight of migrants forced to walk on roads due to lack of planning on the part of the central government.Sharma hit back at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for her attack on the opposition party and termed it as “frivolous”, saying the country expects some seriousness and gravitas from the finance minister. He also asked the government to apologise to the poor citizens of the country who have been abandoned and their fundamental rights and legal rights violated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-package-only-worth-rs-3-22-lakh-cr-and-1-6-of-gdp-not-rs-20-lakh-crore-congress/story-4w4cl2kMRrcl76p2CD4aiI.html
17-05-2020||India||More borrowing, spending will be measure of Centre’s fiscal package: Chidambaram||Former finance minister and veteran Congress  leader P Chidambaram on Sunday said the additional borrowing and additional expenditure over and above the Expenditure Budget of Rs 30,42,230 crore will be the true measure of the fiscal stimulus rolled out by the Centre throughout this week.“We are not agreed on the amount of additional expenditure involved in your PMGKY and 5-tranche economic package. When you do the additional borrowing we will know the answer,” Chidambaram said in a series of tweets on his official Twitter handle.The former finance minister was referring to the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package meant to revive the Indian economy after the 55-day nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.ALSO READ | ‘PM gave a headline and a blank page’: Chidambaram on Rs 20 lakh cr economic package In a tweet, he also thanked Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for acknowledging that the additional expenditure can be met only by additional borrowing. “The additional borrowing and additional expenditure (over and above the Expenditure Budget of Rs 30,42,230 crore) will be the true measure of the Fiscal Stimulus,” Chidambaram said.Earlier on Wednesday, the senior Congress leader had reacted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of releasing Rs 20 lakh crore as an economic stimulus package for the country amid the coronavirus health crisis.The Congress leader had said that in the Centre’s announcement, the Prime Minister had given a “headline” and a “blank page”. Chidambaram had said that he looked forward to learning the details of the stimulus package which were at that point to be made public by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in separate announcements.“Yesterday, PM gave us a headline and a blank page. Naturally, my reaction was a blank!” Chidambaram had tweeted.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had initially spoken about the economic package sans the details and had urged citizens to be more self-reliant in the post-Covid-19 world. .In his reaction, Chidambaram had also said that every “additional rupee that the government will actually infuse into the economy will be carefully counted. What the package offers to the poor, migrant workers will also be carefully examined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-borrowing-spending-will-be-measure-of-centre-s-fiscal-package-chidambaram/story-T2LU9Oyvmhl9nuHKYtFlKJ.html
17-05-2020||India||‘Nation-building migrant workers are out in the sun, allow us to help them’: Priyanka Gandhi writes to UP CM||Congress leader and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday took to Twitter and asked Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister to grant permission to help migrant labourers amid the coronavirus crisis. She said that the buses are there at the border while thousands of “nation-building migrant workers” are walking in the sun. “Our buses are there at the borders... grant permission and let us help our brothers and sisters,” she said.“Blank announcements and cheap politics will not work. Operate more trains, run more buses. We have asked for permission for 1,000 buses. Let us serve,” she posted in a tweet on Sunday. Also read: ‘Go pick up their bags, do something,’ Sitharaman slams Cong over migrant labourersहमारी बसें बॉर्डर पर खड़ी हैं। हजारों की संख्या में राष्ट्र निर्माता श्रमिक और प्रवासी भाई-बहन धूप में पैदल चल रहे हैं। परमीशन दीजिए @myogiadityanath जी, हमें अपने भाइयों और बहनों की मदद करने दीजिए pic.twitter.com/kNyxdKyxZA“There are many labourers on every side of the border of UP. They are walking in the sun, today they are being kept standing for hours. They are not allowed through. They have no work for the last 50 days. Livelihood is at a standstill,” Gandhi’s tweet read.Gandhi has sought permission from Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to run 1,000 buses to send migrant workers back to their native places amid the coronavirus lockdown...मजदूरों को घर भिजवाने के लिए कोरी घोषणाएं और ओछी राजनीति से काम नहीं चलेगा। ज्यादा ट्रेनें चलाइए, बसें चलाइए। हमने 1000 बसों की परमिशन मांगी है हमें सेवा करने दीजिए। 2/2In a letter to the chief minister, she said the party will bear expenses of their journey to their native places Uttar Pradesh.A delegation led by Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu and legislature party leader Aradhana Mishra handed over the letter by Priyanka Gandhi at the chief minister’s office in Lucknow, news agency PTI reported on Saturday.Gandhi, on Saturday, said in a tweet that there is a need to sit and talk with the migrant labourers. “These are our own people. Their suffering has to be shared,” she tweeted. ये हमारे अपने लोग हैं। इनके साथ बैठकर बात करनी होगी। इनकी पीड़ा को साझा करना होगा।ये राष्ट्रनिर्माता हैं। संकट के समय हम इनको अकेला नहीं छोड़ सकते।शुक्रिया मेरे नेता राहुल गांधी जी pic.twitter.com/GYNUpoHbTSFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday lashed out at the Congress party and said that merely sitting with them or talking to them while they walk on the roads in the heat is not going to serve any purpose.“Go walk with them, pick up their bags rather than sitting next to them and talking to them,” Sitharaman stated.I want to tell the Opposition party that on the issue to migrants we all must work together. We are working with all states on this issue. With folded hands, I ask Sonia Gandhi ji that we must speak & deal with our migrants more responsibly: FM Sitharaman pic.twitter.com/CHXLxWiqPOThe finance minister said that now is not the time to indulge in politics.“I am urging the opposition party very politely, folding my hands and requesting them here. We must all come together and help migrant labourers in this crisis,” the finance minister said on the sidelines of unveiling the final tranche of government’s economic package on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nation-building-migrant-workers-are-out-in-the-sun-allow-us-to-help-them-priyanka-gandhi-writes-to-up-cm/story-xz02bzThU4HS8ePgJki7TL.html
17-05-2020||India||Maharashtra extends lockdown till May 31, new relaxations only after Central notification||India’s worst Covid-19 affected state, Maharashtra, on Sunday announced a two-week extension to the lockdown clamped to contain coronavirus pandemic. The state government said the guidelines governing the relaxations for lockdown 4.0 will be issued in due course.The extension was widely expected after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and health minister Rajesh Tope suggested the same over the last two days. The state government is waiting for the centre to issue new guidelines for the 4th phase of nationwide lockdown, beginning tomorrow, before it releases a Maharashtra specific plan, said an official from the state government.Maharashtra, while backing an extension to the lockdown, has asked the Centre for more relaxations including resumption of suburban trains in Mumbai for the exclusive use of essential services. The state may, if the train operations start, increase the workforce in government offices from existing 5%. The state has also sought permission to conduct commercial and industrial activities in Green and Orange zones and also Red zones outside the containment areas.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“We are in favour of allowing activities in the non-affected Tehsils of the Red zone districts,” health minister Tope had said on Saturday.“Activities in Green zones will be fully permitted by keeping district boundaries sealed. It will be applicable to the Orange zones, excluding the containment zones. We cannot give relaxations beyond Central guidelines and hence we are waiting for the Centre to clear its stand,” an official added explaining the state government’s position on relaxations.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesMaharashtra chief secretary, who is also the de-facto chairperson of state executive committee of the disaster management authority, has issued the orders using his powers under the Disaster Management Act and also the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-extends-lockdown-till-may-31-new-relaxations-only-after-central-notification/story-bCNBGZ5vQPloypcl2gBiHL.html
17-05-2020||India||‘A game changer’: Amit Shah praises PM Modi, Nirmala Sitharamam for stimulus package||Union home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday the announcements in the economic stimulus package made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman “will go a long way in realising the idea” of Atmanirbhar Bharat.Nirmala Sitharaman said on Sunday the fifth and final tranche of the economic stimulus package would focus on MGNREGA, healthcare and education, businesses, de-criminalisation of the companies act, ease of doing business, public sector undertakings, and resources related to state government.She also gave details on the Rs 20 lakh crore package breaking up the funds issued to deal with the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic.In a series of tweets, Amit Shah said the announcements will “a game changer”.“Today’s announcements by Modi govt will go a long way in realising the idea of AtmaNirbhar Bharat. These steps will prove to be a game changer for health, education & business sectors, which will provide employment to crores of poor. I thank PM @narendramodi & FM @nsitharaman,” Amit Shah tweeted.The Union home minister also said the Centre’s decision to allocate an additional Rs 40,000 crore for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) will boost the rural economy and infrastructure.The government had allocated Rs 61,500 crore for MGNREGS, and the Rs 40,000 crore allocation will be over and above this budget estimate (BE), Nirmala Sitharaman said while speaking to the media on Sunday.“The additional allocation of Rs 40,000 crores under MGNREGS by Modi government will not only help in generating employment for the poor and migrant workers but will also help create durable livelihood assets, which will greatly boost our rural economy and infrastructure,” he said.The announcements regarding the health sector will help India get ready for any crisis in the future.“While Prime Minister @NarendraModi’s leadership in handling Covid-19 has outshined several developed nations, he has resolved to prepare India for any such pandemic in the future, by strengthening and revamping India’s health sector,” he posted.“Modi government has decided to increase India’s health expenditure to create Infectious Diseases Hospital Blocks in every district, strengthening lab network & surveillance and encouraging research. I am sure this foresight will take India way ahead in the medical sector,” he added.The government’s decisions on the ease of doing business will fulfil the Prime Minister’s vision of self-reliant India, Shah said.“Decision on reimagining the Public Sector Enterprise Policy, focus on further improving Ease of Doing business through IBC related measures, decriminalisation provisions in the Companies Act reflects PM @NarendraModi’s futuristic vision & commitment towards a self-reliant India,” Shah said.Modi govt has decided to increase borrowing limit of States, which will give them extra resource of ₹4.28 lakh cr. The centre had previously given: •₹46,038cr through devolution of taxes in April •Revenue Deficit Grants of ₹12,390 cr •SDRF funds to the tune of ₹11,000 cr,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-game-changer-amit-shah-praises-pm-modi-nirmala-sitharamam-for-stimulus-package/story-34Fn8b3WPdrRnN7SNNhKvK.html
17-05-2020||India||Thane MLC, who recovered from Covid-19, admitted to hospital again after getting bitten by snake||Shiv Sena legislature from Thane, who returned to his bungalow in Yeoor hills after recovering from Covid-19, was admitted to the same private hospital a day later after getting bitten by a snake at his bungalow. The Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC) member’s health is stable, his party workers informed.The Sena MLC had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 9 and was admitted to a private hospital in Mulund. His wife too had tested positive in the first week of May. The MLC was discharged on Friday.A party worker informed, “He was advised to self-quarantine and thus decided to stay at his bungalow in Yeoor range of Sanjay Gandhi National Park to avoid party workers who might visit him at his city residence”. Also read: Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 31“On Saturday evening, he was sitting in his lawn when a venomous snake bit him. He was immediately rushed to the hospital. He is now stable,” the party worker informed. Yeoor was declared as a Covid-19 green zone as there were no cases of coronavirus. the villagers had asked the forest and civic officials not to allow anyone inside.A villager said, “Few politicians frequent their bungalows in Yeoor. They come from outside the city and we fear might bring the virus to our village. Apart from the Sena MLC, NCP MLA has also quarantined himself at his Yeoor bungalow. Both were tested positive for coronavirus and should not have been allowed in a green zone.”A forest official requesting anonymity said, “We cannot stop people who have their home inside the forest gate. As per the norms, they are allowed to stay there and no other outsiders are allowed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thane-mlc-who-recovered-from-covid-19-admitted-to-hospital-again-after-getting-bitten-by-snake/story-XiYH2HJWMbNxlzs049w17O.html
17-05-2020||India||NDRF deploys 17 teams in Odisha, West Bengal to prepare for Cyclone Amphan||Seventeen teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in Odisha and West Bengal in view of the approaching cyclone ‘Amphan’, the chief of the force said on Sunday. NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said in a video message that the federal contingency force is “watching the situation closely from the headquarters and we are in touch with state governments, the Indian Meteorological Department and all stakeholder agencies”. Cyclone ‘Amphan’, according to an IMD report on early Sunday, is developing into a severe cyclonic storm in the Bay of Bengal and can become a very severe cyclonic storm potentially in the next 24 hours, he said. “The trajectory is mostly towards West Bengal, Sagar Islands and probably towards Bangladesh.... But we have to watch the trajectory very closely. NDRF has deployed the teams well in advance. They are either deployed or moving towards the destination,” he said. Pradhan said seven teams of the force have been deployed in West Bengal. These teams are in six districts -- South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Howrah and Hooghly. In Odisha, 10 teams have been deployed in seven districts -- Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore and Mayurbhanj. One team of NDRF consists of around 45 personnel. These teams are already been deployed and the personnel are either conducting awareness drives or implementing preparatory measures. Cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ (pronounced as UM-PUN) is moving over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood and has been turning north-northwestwards with a speed of six kmph over past six hours, the home ministry said on Sunday. Heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, accompanied by high speed winds and tidal waves, are expected in the region due to Cyclone ‘Amphan’. PTI NES SMN SMN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-deploys-17-teams-in-odisha-west-bengal-to-prepare-for-cyclone-amphan/story-PaAxhdSYAhF5rOhW6RBTzM.html
17-05-2020||India||Bar association urges PM Modi to amend law to allow citizens to seek damages from China||The All India Bar Association on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to amend Section 86 of the Civil Procedure Code, which restricts the scope of a citizen to sue a foreign government, enabling the filing of lawsuits against China to seek damages for the COVID-19 pandemic.Terming the pandemic a “handiwork” of China, President of the Association Adish C Aggarwala said the government should bring an ordinance to amend the CPC Section which will enable Indians to seek damages from China for the disease that has brought the economy to a grinding halt and claimed 2,752 lives.“The pandemic is the handiwork of The People’s Republic of China. The virus is the creation of its laboratories under orders of the government which is now trying to cover its tracks,” he alleged.The virus, developed with a remarkable ability to mutate, spread and afflict, and with unprecedented rate of mortality, has been deliberately and consciously wreaked upon the world by the Government of China, as part of its design, he alleged in the letter.In his letter to the Prime Minister, Aggarwala, a senior Supreme Court lawyer and President of International Council of Jurists, said according to section 86 of CPC of India no foreign State may be sued in any court otherwise competent to try the suit except with the consent of the Central Government certified in writing by a Secretary to that Government.“It should be noted that above provision allows suits to enforce contractual obligations in respect of trade activity in which a government is engaged but not for damages for commission of tort. There is no logic underlying this distinction,” he said.A law which tends to take away, completely, the capacity of a person to canvass his rights, is itself a nullity, he said.“As the law stands today, there is no other remedy available to an individual against the State of China. An individual can also not approach, directly, the International Court of Justice for seeking damages,” he said.The Doctrine of State Immunity--countries enjoying protection from being sued in courts of other countries --applies on those who have signed and ratified the United Nations Convention on Jurisdictional Immunities of States and their Property (“Convention”).He said India having signed the Convention on January 12, 2007 is yet to ratify it. China too is a signatory but did not ratify it, he said.Aggarwala in the absence of ratification India is under no obligation to exempt China or any other country from being prosecuted or sued in India for any for any violations.  “Any citizen will be entitled to sue in India once CrPC is amended. At International level, anyone can approach only United Nations Human Rights Council. No other court or Tribunal for this purpose,” he told PTI over phone.When asked if verdict of Indian courts will be binding on China, he said,” Yes. Once there is decree from Indian court, then China would be under obligation to pay. If China is not making payment of decree, then decree can be executed from the assets of China in India and the decrees can be transferred to Chinese courts for execution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bar-association-urges-pm-modi-to-amend-law-to-allow-citizens-to-seek-damages-from-china/story-Tu9zbkiLsdBGihaqYF6qoI.html
17-05-2020||India||UK refuses to extradite Dawood Ibrahim aide and Gujarat blasts accused Tiger Hanif to India||Britain has refused India’s request to extradite Tiger Hanif – described as a ‘classic fugitive’ by the high court of England and Wales – to face charges related to two blasts in Gujarat in 1993 as a revenge for the 1992 Ayodhya demolition.One of India’s high-profile cases in the UK, Hanif, reported to be an aide of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, was arrested in Bolton in 2010. He exhausted options to block extradition after it was cleared by the Westminster Magistrates Court and the high court in 2013.The Home Office informed Hindustan Times that the extradition request for Hanif – full name: Hanif Mohammed Umerji Patel – was refused by former home secretary Sajid Javid and was later discharged by the court.After losing in the high court in 2013, Hanif made ‘further representations’ to the home secretary, who for years did not take a decision until mid-2019. The home secretary is the final authority to order extradition after a request has gone through courts. India’s case against Hanif, as the high court stated, was that he was “part of Muslim group which obtained explosives, guns and other weapons and then carried out revenge terrorist attacks on the Hindu community, including two explosions which resulted in loss of life, injury and damage”. Others involved in the blasts were convicted and sentenced.Hanif’s arguments to oppose extradition included risk of torture in a Gujarat jail, passage of time, that he would be denied justice, and that there is no case for him to answer. For the first time, a team was sent from London to inspect jail conditions in India during the trial.Charges brought by India against Hanif and businessman Vijay Mallya who is also facing extradition trial are different but the trajectory of their cases in the UK is similar; Mallya has also exhausted legal options to block extradition and is likely to make last bids on ground of issues that arose after court rulings.For example, health and the incidence of coronavirus in the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai - where Mallya is to be lodged if extradited - are likely to factors. There are reported to be over 150 coronavirus cases in the jail.“One specific argument that Mallya could advance as a supervening event is that the presence of Covid-19 in Indian jails poses a new and unacceptable risk to his health amounting to a breach of Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights”, said Nick Vamos, former head of extraditions at the Crown Prosecution Service.“Events can occur after all appeals have been dismissed which would make extradition incompatible with the requested person’s human rights...The law is now clear that, in this event, the case will go back to the high court”.“Mallya would have to establish that the issue arises as a result of a supervening development or event and provide a reasonable explanation why the issue was not anticipated at the extradition hearing or on any appeal”, Vamos, partner of law firm Peters & Peters Solicitors, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-refuses-to-extradite-dawood-ibrahim-aide-and-gujarat-blasts-accused-tiger-hanif-to-india/story-bgUtEeEtehmBfE6uVl5GQK.html
17-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Rajasthan CM orders to setup online Labour Employment Exchange||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has directed the officials to set up an ‘online employment exchange’ for labourers to help them get jobs during the coronavirus lockdown.Gehlot said the exchange will also meet the requirement of the industries by providing manpower. He asked for online mapping of workers, including construction workers who have been coming to Rajasthan or those going to other states.After a review meeting of the labour department, the chief minister said, “it is our responsibility to support the workers in this period of crisis”. It is necessary to ensure the availability of workers to bring industries back on track.Also read: Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 31 “New projects of skill development should be designed to ensure that workers skill can be developed as per the current needs,” the chief minister said.Gehlot said that due to the nationwide lockdown, a large number of migrant labourers have come to Rajasthan and migrated to other states. The Labor Department should impart training to the workers according to the qualifications and requirement of the industries so that these workers can be employed in enterprises and earn their livelihood, he said.Emphasizing the need to bring reforms in labour laws, Gehlot said, “The entire scenario of the industry has changed due to the lockdown and at the same time, there is a big challenge of labour planning. There is a need to change and bring reform in the purview of labour laws as per the need of the hour.” He directed to make maximum departmental schemes and programs online.Also read: Centre’s guidelines on lockdown 4.0 likely to be announced todayGehlot approved the formation of the ‘Pravasi Rajasthani Workers Welfare Fund’ announced in the budget for the welfare of migrant Rajasthani workers.Labor Minister Tikaram Julie informed that the department is preparing their database according to the skills of the migrant workers so that they can be linked to employment opportunities according to the requirement of industries.Department Secretary Neeraj K Pawan said, till date, around 6 lakh workers have arrived in Rajasthan and 1.35 lakh workers have gone to other states. The department is preparing their database and after the completion of the mapping of the workers, their skill development will be made through the State Livelihood Development Corporation.He informed that the list of about 4 lakh people trained by the department has been made available to the Department of Industry and Health in the past years so that they can be employed as per the requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-rajasthan-cm-orders-to-setup-online-labour-employment-exchange/story-H4dewbgZCHa6PysRKw00II.html
17-05-2020||India||Judicial probe ordered after civilian killed in Arunachal in army firing||The Arunachal Pradesh government has ordered a judicial inquiry to probe the death of a civilian in firing by the Indian Army in Longding district of the state on Saturday.A 60-year-old resident of Pumao village in the district was killed when a team of army personnel fired at a crowd. Several others, including army personnel, are also stated to have sustained injuries in the incident.“A judicial inquiry, to find exact details of what happened, has been ordered. The first class judicial magistrate of Longding has been entrusted to submit the report within 15 days,” RP Upadhyaya, the director general of police, said.“Army doesn’t share their operation details with us, but as far as we know there is no search operation going on at Pumao village on Sunday,” Upadhyaya added. Longding is one of the three districts in Arunachal—the other two are Tirap and Changlang—where rebels groups from Nagaland and Assam, like NSCN-IM and United Liberation Front of Assam-Independent (ULFA-I), are active.The three districts are the only ones in the state where the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, (AFSPA), which gives sweeping powers to the armed forces, is operational.“Usually, the army informs the local police before conducting any operation. But since Longding is under AFSPA, they are not supposed to inform us,” Upadhyaya said. According to a statement issued by the army on Saturday night, a search operation was launched on Saturday at Pumao village based on intelligence inputs about the presence of National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Isak-Muivah (NSCN-IM) cadres.“There was a gathering of villagers which started protesting against security forces and resorted to stone pelting. Troops identified suspicious movement and started moving towards a house, which drew two to three bursts of fire on Indian Army party,” the statement said.“Civilians were told to disperse and to safeguard lives and property controlled retaliation was resorted to by firing eight single shots. In this melee, insurgents managed to escape. However, in this crossfire, it is believed few villagers have got hurt and one villager has expired,” it added.The statement said many army soldiers were also injured due to “stone pelting by supporters of NSCN-IM”.However, student bodies and human rights organisations in Arunachal allege the firing took place as a fallout of a meeting between residents of Pumao and the army to discuss reported thrashing of another villager on Friday night by the men in uniform.According to them, a commotion broke out in the meeting and the army team left it midway. This was followed by stone-pelting by villagers on the army personnel, who fired back in retaliation, killing one villager and injuring others.The North East Human Rights Organisation (NEHRO) has filed two complaints with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) against the 19th Sikh Regiment of the army for alleged human rights violations.The All Arunachal Pradesh Students Union (AAPSU) has also condemned the incident and termed the army’s action as “barbaric”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judicial-probe-ordered-after-civilian-killed-in-arunachal-in-army-firing/story-RJxAciBaiwcDIN1l4vrEAL.html
17-05-2020||India||States will see Covid-19 peak at different times, says epidemiologist||The COVID-19 would peak at different times in states and there is not going to be uniformity across the country, a noted public health expert and epidemiologist said, suggesting heightened surveillance and forming district action plans to handle the pandemic more effectively. Professor and Head of Life Course Epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India, Giridhara R Babu said the coronavirus is in complete ascendancy stage in states such as West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat, where it has gone beyond minimal containment. There, things will have to be completely different in terms of reducing the mortality rate, while in other states we are yet to see the surge and, therefore, our preparedness will have to continue, he said. But in both these categories we have to make sure surveillance is the only thing which will guide us, because if we lose our guard now, then we will no longer enjoy that success that we relatively have compared to the other countries, Babu told PTI. The only way forward is surveillance. On whether states would see the pandemic peaking at different times and it would not be uniform across the country he said: Absolutely, each State is like a country. We can postpone (the peak) in low transmission areas. Babu, who is trained in Epidemiology (MPH and PhD) from University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), said one should not get bogged down with the increase in number of cases, adding, the goal is to reduce the number of deaths. If your surveillance is good, then you will pick up more cases, and thereby you will reduce the number of deaths, that should be the focus. He said he is worried about silent districts, where there is not even a single COVID-19 reported case. Giving an example, Babu said a few days ago there were no cases in three districts in Karnataka (Davanagere, Chitradurga and Shivamogga) but they have now become hotspots. So, for me, the nomenclature of red, orange and green is completely artificial because it is dynamic and you cannot have such a categorisation for a dynamic process, he said. According to him, it is now known that the number of expected COVID-19 cases in the country is 54 per million (ten lakh) population. He said if a district has not reported coronavirus cases, it should be in the red because surveillance is not adequate. Even in a well-controlled state like Kerala, cases are coming back. He suggested drawing up district action plans, something similar to pulse polio campaigns (which are done three days in a year), for which preparations start three months in advance in terms of micro-plan, which lists every migrant population and temporary settlement. Then, teams are drawn to cover everybody, then there is logistics that are planned, we do not have district action plan for the country (to handle COVID-19). When you open up after lockdown, and if there is a surge in cases in a few districts, they dont know what to do. That terrifies me. Districts should have task force and action plans to handle the COVID-19 pandemic, added Babu, who has worked with World Health Organisation for nearly six years, during which his efforts included stopping polio transmission in Karnataka and initiation of measles surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-will-see-covid-19-peak-at-different-times-says-epidemiologist/story-FJyBR6iJvUL2AhkJwPdpkO.html
17-05-2020||India||Public expenditure on health to be increased: Nirmala Sitharaman||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said there will be an increase in public health expenditure, which currently hovers a little over 1%, as she announced a slew of measures to reform the sector in the country to brace for such pandemic situations in future.Apart from increasing public health spending, the government has also decided to create a dedicated infectious diseases block at hospitals and establish government diagnostic lab till the block level to strengthen the country’s testing capacity at the grass-roots level. Special focus will also be on ramping health and wellness centres in villages, she said.“The government will be increasing investments in public health to be absolutely ready for such eventualities in future,” said Sitharaman.The strengthening of government lab network in villages will also help in maintaining robust surveillance. The step has been taken specially to keep in mind pandemic situations in future so that clustering is picked up early and containment measures are put in place immediately for a better outcome.“Increasing testing capacity is the key in better managing any outbreak situation that hinges on test, isolate and treat guidelines. This will be a big plus for the public health system,” said an official in the health ministry, requesting not to be identified.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will be contributing to building a national institutional platform for one health that will boost research initiatives. Also, the implementation of national digital health blueprint will be expedited to make better use of technology in delivering healthcare services in the country.The health ministry has already released at least Rs 4,113 crore directly for anti-coronavirus disease (Covid-19) activities so far, of the Rs 15,000 crore funds allocated by the Centre for containment. The essential items worth Rs 3,750 crore and testing labs and kits worth Rs 550 crore has also been disbursed.Another significant step was providing an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh per person for health professionals under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana.The information technology system will also be leveraged in a big way to meet the demands of the sector, the finance minister said.So far, issuing guidelines for conducting consultations through telemedicine has worked, with the government rolling out e-Sanjeevani Tele-Consultation Services and building capacity by having introduced e-training modules for healthcare and other workers. The launch of Aarogya Setu app is another important step that has led to the identification of several potential hot spots in the country. Close to 100 million people have already registered on the app that also tells people’s risk of contracting Covid-19.“We have also taken great care in protecting our healthcare workers by increasing the domestic manufacturing industry for personal protection equipment and N-95 masks. We have identified some 300 domestic manufacturers who from zero kits to now are capable of producing 3 lakh kits in a day,” said Sitharaman. Experts in the field said these are initiatives in the right direction.“The announcements regarding Rs 15,000 cr allocated for Covid-19 containment and treatment including for essential items and testing kits is a much needed support… Leveraging of IT services for teleconsultation will help patients with non Covid health issues, who were left stranded due to cessation of all non-emergency health services,” Charu Sehgal, partner and leader of life sciences and healthcare at Deloitte India, said in a statement.“Our doctors and health workers have been working under very trying circumstances and without adequate protection. The increase in the supply of PPE (57 lacs already supplied and more than 300 domestic manufacturers producing) N-95 masks (87 lacs have been provided) is the right start but we need many many more supplies given the situation,” Sehgal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-expenditure-on-health-to-be-increased-nirmala-sitharaman/story-Dipsy19htlYYCFvJ03lkRJ.html
17-05-2020||India||No fresh insolvency to be initiated for 1 year under IBC: FM Sitharaman||In a bid to give relief to companies defaulting on loans due to the Covid-19 stress, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said no fresh insolvency will be initiated for one year under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. Also, coronavirus-related debt will be excluded from definition of default, she said.Minimum threshold to initiative insolvency proceeding has been raised to Rs 1 crore from Rs 1 lakh to benefit MSMEs, she said adding that an Ordinance will be promulgated to bring this change in IBC. She also announced decriminalisation of the Companies Act in violations involving minor technical and procedural defaults including shortcoming in CSR reporting, inadequacies in board report, filing defaults and delay in holding AGM. Majority of the compoundable offences sections will be shifted to internal adjudication mechanism (IAM), she said adding that amendments will be brought through an Ordinance and will de-clog the criminal courts and NCLT. Seven compoundable offences under the Companies Act altogether dropped and five to be dealt with under alternative framework, the finance minister said. Also, the government allowed companies to directly list securities in permissible foreign jurisdictions. Private companies, which list non-convertible debentures on stock exchanges, would not to be regarded as listed companies, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-fresh-insolvency-to-be-initiated-for-1-year-under-ibc-fm-sitharaman/story-zCnDXpbvycMePkfJKfLQhK.html
17-05-2020||India||Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 31||Maharashtra on Sunday extended the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for two more weeks till May 31, officials said.The third phase of the Covid-19 lockdown will end on Sunday night.Maharashtra had on Saturday recorded its highest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with 1,606 new infections, bringing the tally to 30,706. The state’s death toll also jumped by 67 deaths to 1,135.The state has so far registered 15,181 Covid-19 cases in the third phase of the lockdown, which is higher than the total it recorded in the 19-day lockdown between April 15 and May 3. In the second phase of the lockdown, Maharashtra recorded 11,627 Covid-19 cases.State health minister Rajesh Tope has said the lockdown has helped restrict the spread of the disease. The doubling rate — the number of days it takes for Covid-19 cases to double — has improved, he said. The state’s doubling rate is at 11.5 days, while Mumbai’s stands at 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-31/story-JtZCyLfm0dEKHK41WHWROO.html
17-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt to decriminalise minor violations of Companies Act, says FM and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt to decriminalise minor violations of companies act: FM Nirmala SitharamanUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Sunday the government will decriminalise most of the sections of the companies act as she gave details of the last tranche of the economic stimulus package. Read more2 feared dead, 4 rescued in J-K’s Ramban; Kashmir highway blockedTwo people were feared dead and four others rescued after a slope of a hillock came crashing down on the Jammu-Srinagar highway in Ramban district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday evening, officials said on Sunday. Read moreHighest single day spike as Gujarat crosses 10,000 mark, amid slow responseGujarat became on Saturday the third Indian state to record 10,000 Covid-19 infections, reaching the milestone in 58 days. According to state health department data, 350 cases on an average have been reported every day in May as compared with 143 infections a day in April. Read moreTwo Parma players test positive for Covid-19Two players from the Italian Serie A club Parma have tested positive for coronavirus, the club said. The development comes amid talks of a resumption of group training in the country from Monday after the government gave the green light. Read moreUnemployed actor Manmeet Grewal commits suicide, neighbours refuse to help fearing he had Covid-19TV actor Manmeet Grewal, who was seen in shows such as Aadat Se Majboor and Kuldeepak, committed suicide at his residence in Navi Mumbai on Friday night, as reported by Mid-Day. The actor was burdened by debt and couldn’t find any work due to lockdown. Read moreWorld Hypertension Day: Use Ayurveda to get rid of stress, lifestyle disorders. Here’s howIt’s a fact that modern man is over-dependent on technology and is perpetually stressed to get more out of life. The truth is, in today’s fast-paced world, it’s not possible to avoid stress unless we live a life of seclusion. Read moreMumma bear shows cub how to climb a tree. Video makes people go ‘wow’It’s often said that when we see something, we learn it faster. Seems like this bear mom knows that the way her baby is going to learn how to climb a tree if she shows the little one herself. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-to-decriminalise-minor-violations-of-companies-act-says-fm-and-all-the-latest-news/story-DK1yjf3sgaTUYyQx0jHqwK.html
17-05-2020||India||‘Go pick up their bags, do something’: Sitharaman lashes out at Congress over migrant labourers||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday lashed out at Congress party over the movement of migrants labourers amid the coronavirus crisis and requested the opposition to come together to help stranded migrant labourers. “I am urging the opposition party very politely, folding my hands and requesting them here. We must all come together and help migrant labourers in this crisis,” the finance minister said. Sitharaman said that the Centre joined hands with various state governments to run special trains for the migrant labourers. Also read: ‘Borrowing limit of states raised from 3% of GSDP to 5%’ - Sitharaman I want to tell the Opposition party that on the issue to migrants we all must work together. We are working with all states on this issue. With folded hands, I ask Sonia Gandhi ji that we must speak & deal with our migrants more responsibly: FM Sitharaman pic.twitter.com/CHXLxWiqPO“We ensured that lakhs of migrant workers reach their native places, get food, essentials. Yet many are on the roads, walking back home, it is painful,” she said.Watch | ‘Dramebaazi’: Nirmala Sitharaman on Rahul Gandhi meeting migrant workersThe finance minister asked why isn’t the Congress doing something more for the migrants in the states ruled by the party. “I want to ask the Congress party, why is it not doing anything more for these migrant labourers in the states ruled by them or where they have alliances. Make arrangements for more trains where you can, help them. Ask for more trains from the Centre,” she said.Also read: Govt to announce new public sector policy for ‘self-reliant’ India, says SitharamanSitharaman said that merely sitting with them or talking to them while they walk on the roads in the heat is not going to serve any purpose. “Go walk with them, pick up their bags rather than sitting next to them and talking to them,” Sitharaman stated. The finance minister said that now is not the time to indulge in politics. “Hath jod ke main request kar rahi hu (I am folding my hands). I request Sonia Gandhi. Let us speak responsibly, let us deal with our migrants responsibly,” she said. Sitharaman’s comments during her press conference on the final tranche of Centre’s economic stimulus package on Sunday. Today’s announcements focussed on seven steps taken by the government - MGNREGA, health & education related steps, business & COVID, decriminalization of Companies Act, ease of doing business, public sector enterprises, state government resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/go-walk-with-them-pick-up-their-bags-and-do-something-sitharaman-lashes-out-at-congress-over-migrant-labourers/story-zGbz8OfaeoXK7M2lQ54mIJ.html
17-05-2020||India||‘Borrowing limit of states raised from 3% of Gross State Domestic Product to 5% in 2020-21’: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||In the final phase of her announcement on the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said that the government has decided to increase the borrowing limits of states from 3% to 5% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) for the year 2020-21.Sitharaman said that the state governments, so far, have borrowed only 14% of the limit which is authorised to them while 86% of the limit remains unutilized. The finance minister said that part of the borrowing will be linked to specific reforms like increasing job creation through investment and promoting urban development, health and sanitation. This will be done to promote state-level reforms, Sitharaman said on Sunday. “The states have seen a sharp decline in the revenue, we have consistently extended help to the states,” she stated. Also read: ‘Go pick up their bags, do something,’ FM slams Congress over migrantsThe finance minister informed that despite Centre’s stressed resources, Revenue Deficit Grants of Rs 12,390 crores was timely given to various states in April and May. “Devolution of taxes of Rs 46,038 was given in full in April,” she said. Sitharaman said that the government has taken several steps to help states battle the Covid-19 pandemic. “Rs 15000 crore have been announced for states, essential items, testing labs and kits, along with rolling out of teleconsultation services, the launch of Aarogya Setu app and protection to health care workers with adequate PPEs,” Sitharaman said on Sunday.Also read: Govt to announce new public sector policy for ‘self-reliant’ India - FM SitharamanThe finance minister stated that the Centre has released more than Rs 4,113 crore to states. Insurance cover of Rs 50 lakhs per person has been announced for healthcare workers.“Now, Indian public companies can list their securities directly in foreign jurisdictions. Private companies which list Non-Convertible Debentures on stock exchanges will not be regarded as listed companies,” Sitharaman announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/borrowing-limit-of-states-raised-from-3-of-gross-state-domestic-product-to-5-in-2020-21-fm-nirmala-sitharaman/story-tRKzQ1Q2uDlNt0LTRIUXfO.html
17-05-2020||India||Govt to announce new public sector policy for ‘self-reliant’ India: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||The government will announce a new public sector policy to make India ‘self-reliant’ (Atmanirbhar) in the wake of the coronavirus crisis, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Sunday. Sitharaman underlined the need for a new coherent policy “where all sectors are open to the private sector, while public sector enterprises (PSEs) play an important role in defined areas”.“Now, Indian public companies can list their securities directly in foreign jurisdictions. Private companies which list Non-Convertible Debentures on stock exchanges will not be regarded as listed companies,” Sitharaman announced.Also read: ‘Borrowing limit of states raised from 3% of GSDP to 5%’ - SitharamanGovt to announce a new public sector policy- a list of strategic sectors requiring presence of PSEs in public interest will be notified. In strategic sectors,at least 1 enterprise to remain in public sector but pvt sector to be allowed. In other sectors,PSEs to privatised: FM pic.twitter.com/1dEdFyrRNNThe finance minister said that as per the new policy which will be announced by the government, a list of strategic sectors requiring the presence of PSEs in the public interest will be notified. Also read: Debts related to Covid-19 to be excluded from default under IBC, says FM Sitharaman“In strategic sectors, at least one enterprise to remain in the public sector but the private sector to be allowed. In other sectors, PSEs to privatised,” she said. The finance minister said that timely action was taken during coronavirus pandemic to reduce compliance burden under various provisions of Companies Act. “Board meetings were allowed to be online, rights issues can be done digitally, major reform in corporate governance,” she said. Sitharaman on Sunday opened her address on the final tranche of the economic package by quoting Prime Minister Narendra Modi.She said that prime minister Narendra Modi, in his address earlier this week, has said that the coronavirus crisis has brought an opportunity to build a self-reliant (Atmanirbhar Bharat).Sunday’s announcements on Centre’s economic stimulus package focussed on seven steps taken by the government - MGNREGA, health & education related steps, business & Covid-19, decriminalization of Companies Act, ease of doing business, public sector enterprises, state government resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-announce-a-new-public-sector-policy-for-self-reliant-india-fm-nirmala-sitharaman/story-zyL00VPC2GcKdp0lCLfLxI.html
17-05-2020||India||‘Several steps have been taken to battle Covid-19, Rs 15000 crore announced for states’: FM Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said that the government has taken a number of steps in the healthcare sector to battle the Covid-19 pandemic. “Rs 15000 crore have been announced for states, essential items, testing labs and kits, along with rolling out of teleconsultation services, the launch of Aarogya Setu app and protection to health care workers with adequate PPEs,” Sitharaman announced in her final tranche on Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package on Sunday.The finance minister said that the Centre has released more than Rs 4,113 crore to states. Insurance cover of Rs 50 lakhs per person has been announced for healthcare workers.Also read: 7 sectors in focus under last tranche of economic stimulus - Nirmala Sitharaman“The Epidemic Diseases Act was amended for protection of healthcare workers,” she said. Sitharaman said that health expenditure will be increased and investment at the grassroots level will be ramped up for health and wellness centres, with a particular focus on “aspirational districts”. “All districts will have infectious diseases block in hospitals. Public health labs will be set up at block levels,” Sitharaman added. Also read: FM Nirmala Sitharaman gives a break-up of govt’s stimulus packageSitharaman on Sunday opened her address on the final tranche of the economic package by quoting Prime Minister Narendra Modi.She said that prime minister Narendra Modi, in his address earlier this week, has said that the coronavirus crisis has brought an opportunity to build a self-reliant (Atmanirbhar Bharat). “As a nation today we stand at a very crucial juncture. Such a big disaster is a signal for India, it has brought a message and an opportunity,” Sitharaman quoted the prime minister. She said that today’s announcements will be about 7 steps taken by the govt - MGNREGA, health & education related steps, business & Covid-19, decriminalization of Companies Act, ease of doing business, public sector enterprises, state govt resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-steps-have-been-taken-to-battle-covid-19-rs-15000-crore-announced-for-states-fm-sitharaman/story-TsISB73nGuVQgLCeKmjMiO.html
17-05-2020||India||20 crore Jan Dhan account holding women have received Rs 10,025 crore: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday, in her final tranche on Rs 20 lakh crore economic package, said that 20 crore Jan Dhan account holding women have received Rs 10,025 crores in their accounts so far.“2.2 crore building and construction workers have received Rs 3,950 crores. 6.81 crore people got free LPG cylinders and 12 lakh EPFO holders got online withdrawal of advance,” she said. The finance minister said that the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package used technology to do direct benefit transfer to people. Also read: 7 sectors in focus under last tranche of economic stimulus - Nirmala Sitharaman“We could do what we did because of the initiatives taken during the last few years,” she said. One-time transfer of Rs 2,000 has reached 8.19 crore farmers - a total amount Rs 16,394 crore, Sitharaman said.“NSAP beneficiaries got Rs 1,405 crore in first the instalment and Rs 1,402 crore in the second instalment, target of Rs 3,000 crore nearly achieved,” Sitharaman stated on Sunday. Also read: FM Sitharaman gives a break-up of govt’s stimulus package Sitharaman announced that the Centre has allocated an additional amount of Rs 40 thousand crores under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.She also said that various have been taken to enhance the ‘ease of doing business’ in the country. Technology-driven education will be the focus now, she said, adding that PM eVIDYa programme for multi-mode access to digital/online education will be launched. “Top 100 universities will be permitted to automatically start online courses by May 30, 2020,” Sitharaman said. The finance minister said that the government will increase its healthcare expenditure.“Investment at the grassroots level will be ramped up for health and wellness centres with particular focus on aspirational districts. All districts will have infectious diseases block in hospitals. Public health labs will be set up at block levels,” Sitharaman announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-crore-jan-dhan-account-holding-women-have-received-rs-10-025-crores-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-says-in-final-tranche-of-economic-package/story-36Ga1HBIJEnHhYlrt4z8DI.html
17-05-2020||India||2 feared dead, 4 rescued in J-K’s Ramban; Kashmir highway blocked||Two people were feared dead and four others rescued after a slope of a hillock came crashing down on the Jammu-Srinagar highway in Ramban district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday evening, officials said on Sunday.Eight people have also been injured and have been shifted to the district hospital in Ramban, they said.“Workers of NHAI (National Highways Authority of India) were on the job on the slope. They were cutting rocks off the hill with machines when it fell off. The incident took place at Seri at around 7pm,” Haseeb Ur Rehman, Ramban’s senior superintendent of police (SSP), said.Rehman said two people are still buried under the debris.“A rescue operation is on but their chances of survival look grim. A JCB machine is also buried under the debris,” he added.The officer said a dumper fell off the Kashmir highway into a nearby gorge after being hit by the debris. The Jammu-Srinagar highway has also been blocked by the debris.Initial reports from the site state that three dumpers, a truck, a load-carrier and a JCB machine are under the debris. “The search operation will continue till we retrieve all those who were hit by the landslide,” Nazim Zai Khan, Ramban’s deputy commissioner, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-feared-dead-4-rescued-in-j-k-s-ramban-kashmir-highway-blocked/story-fy8jH6mK2QquLfAxh24bFM.html
17-05-2020||India||Highest single day spike as Gujarat crosses 10,000-mark, amid slow response||Gujarat became on Saturday the third Indian state to record 10,000 Covid-19 infections, reaching the milestone in 58 days. According to state health department data, 350 cases on an average have been reported every day in May as compared with 143 infections a day in April. On Saturday night, the total number of cases in the state stood at 10,989, behind Maharashtra’ s 30,706 and ahead of Tamil Nadu’s 10,585 — the two other states with over 10,000 cases. The Saturday’s increase of 1,057 Covid cases was highest single-day spike in Gujarat as over 700 vegetable vendors tested positive in Ahmedabad. On May 1, there were 4,721 Covid-19 cases in the state. The increase of 6,268 till the May 16, put the doubling rate of the infection at 11.9 days. India’s current doubling rate is 13.9 days, according to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan.On Saturday, fatalities in Gujarat reached 625 with 5.68% death rate. While the national average is 3.02%, 6.21 (West Bengal) with 160 fatalities and 6.1 (Madhya Pradesh) with 239 fatalities are the states with highest death rate.An official in chief minister Vijay Rupani’s office said the government was testing every symptomatic person, has enforced a hard lockdown, created additional medical facilities in all major hospitals, and deployed additional medical personnel in containment zones.“We are conducting round-the-clock monitoring of containment areas and have prepared a medical database of all persons above 60 years of age in the state. Effective monitoring is the best way to check Covid,” said Ashwini Kumar, secretary to the chief minister.The first patient in the state was reported from Ahmedabad on March 19. He returned from Dubai a week before his test results came in. According to the Ahmedabad municipal corporation, between March 1 and March 15, around 6,000 people returned from overseas locations.“Those with symptoms were tested as per the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) protocol, and the rest were asked to remain in home quarantine,” said an official of the civic body who did not want named.Then on March 20, a video went viral on social media, showing a West Asia returnee shopping for vegetables in an Ahmedabad market. Several other videos surfaced, purportedly showing people who were supposed to be in home quarantine moving out of their houses.The first reaction of the Gujarat government to Covid-19 was slow and many people did not abide by guidelines of the lockdown, which was imposed on March 25 to slow the spread of Covid-19, according to Vidyut Desai, the chairman of Academy of Medical Sciences, which is a body of health care professionals.“There was no complete lockdown and contact tracing of patients was not done properly. The government failed to monitor persons coming from abroad to Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodra, which contribute 90% of all cases in the state,” he said.“The Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi also contributed to an increase (of cases) in Ahmedabad as did huge public gatherings during janata curfew,” he said, referring to the Islamic sect’s mid-March gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin that became a hot spot of the disease, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to observe a lockdown on March 22, but celebrate frontline health care workers at 5 pm by clapping hands and banging vessels. Some people responded by taking out processions.The state began recording a spike after mid-April even as the government ramped up testing facilities . Between March 19 and April 15, Gujarat tested just 29,104 samples. But between then and May 15, the number rose significantly to 124,708 tests, taking tests per million in the state to 1,858.Gujarat health secretary Jayanthi Ravi said on Friday that the high infection count could be attributed to the overhauled testing process. “We have increased the number of labs as well as our testing capacity. Gujarat was among the first states to have a private testing lab,” she said.Mona Shah, the president of Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA), said neither doctors nor the administration was prepared for the outbreak. Shah said a section of the infected people did not share their medical history with doctors and also pointed out that there was delay in reporting symptoms , which, she said, contributed to a high death rate. Desai said people initially did not cooperate with health workers. He said the state started consulting health experts only when the situation deteriorated.Health secretary Ravi said the state has adopted a multi-pronged strategy, which involves surveillance of affected areas, monitoring every person in such areas and conducting random tests. “It is wrong to say that we started late,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-single-day-spike-as-gujarat-crosses-10-000-mark-amid-slow-response/story-Xwf0h5FoZog2DD55apR1LO.html
17-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: Centre’s guidelines on the fourth phase of Covid-19 lockdown likely to be announced today||The third phase of the coronavirus lockdown will come to an end today (May 17). This phase of the lockdown witnessed considerable relaxations in measures with standalone stores lifting shutters, liquor shops opening up and 15 special passenger trains resuming service ever since the Railways suspended operations on March 25. The fourth phase of the lockdown will commence from Monday and will last till May 31. Prime Minister Narendra, in his address earlier this week, said that this phase of the lockdown will be very different in nature “with new rules”. Centre’s guidelines on lockdown 4.0 are likely to be announced today. Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 90,000-mark; death toll at 2,872“The fourth phase of lockdown, lockdown 4, will be completely redesigned, with new rules. Based on the suggestions we are getting from the states, information related to Lockdown 4 will also be given to you before 18 May,” PM Modi had said during his address to the nation on May 12. Also Watch l Covid-19: Satyendar Jain on what Delhiites want open during lockdown 4.0“I am confident that by following the rules, we will fight Corona and move forward,” he added. The Centre has introduced Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package to spur growth and infuse vitality in the economic sectors amid the lockdown. The prime minister said that the economic package will help build an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ - a self-reliant India.Also read: Curbs relaxed or not, Delhi’s Chandni Chowk to stay shut till May 31Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, over the past week, announced details of the stimulus package in multiple press briefings. The first phase of her briefing was held on Wednesday and the final tranche was announced today at 11 am. Today’s announcements focussed on seven steps taken by the government - MGNREGA, health & education related steps, business & Covid-19, decriminalization of Companies Act, ease of doing business, public sector enterprises, state government resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-centre-s-guidelines-on-the-fourth-phase-of-covid-19-lockdown-likely-to-be-announced-today/story-be7QNJR1B7QiuP2dlkxmHN.html
17-05-2020||India||2 dead in fight between neighbours over allegedly jumping quarantine in MP’s Bhind||Two persons – a woman and her brother – were killed in a clash between neighbours over the issue of home quarantine in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind, police said on Saturday.Two others were injured in the incident took place in Prem Nagar area of Bhind town on Friday night.Superintendent of police, Bhind, Nagendra Singh said, “The main accused Kapure Khan’s son-in-law Rajnu Khan visited the family two weeks back. Hence, the entire family was asked by the district administration to undergo a home quarantine. On Friday, one of Khan’s family members visited another family in the locality after two weeks of quarantine. However, a neighbour, Kala Jatav, objected to his moving around in the locality by jumping home quarantine and without being tested negative for coronavirus as, she said, this would put others life at risk. The verbal spat led to a clash between the two families.”In the fight, 47-year-old Kala Jatav, who sustained injuries on her head after being hit by stones, died on the spot while her brother Vishnu Jatav, 45, who was stabbed by Kapure Khan’s relative Chhutki Khan, succumbed to his injuries in a hospital in Gwalior on Saturday morning, the officer said. The injured Akash Jatav and Ramesh Jatav are undergoing treatment in Gwalior. Their condition is critical, said police. An FIR was registered against nine people under various sections of the IPC and six people have been arrested.“An FIR under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC were registered against 9 persons. Six of them including Kapure Khan and three women have been arrested,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-dead-in-fight-between-neighbours-over-allegedly-jumping-quarantine-in-mp-s-bhind/story-fEXyED29TiRNzTbC5A42tO.html
17-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan to intensify as serious storm surge: Here’s all you need to know||Cyclonic storm Amphan over the Bay of Bengal is very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours and into a very severe cyclonic storm by Monday morning, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned.Amphan, which is over the southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood, moved north-northwestwards with a speed of 6kmph during past six hours, intensified slightly and lay centred over the same region at 5:30am on Sunday about 990 km south of Paradip in Odisha, 1140km south-southwest of West Bengal’s Digha and 1260 km south-southwest of Khepupara in Bangladesh. The cyclonic storm, pronounced UM-PUN, is very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm during the next six hours and into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 12 hours. It is very likely to move nearly northwards during next 24 hours and then re-curve north-northeastwards across northwest Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Sagar Islands in West Bengal and Hatiya Islands of Bangladesh during the afternoon or evening of May 20 as a very severe cyclonic storm.Here’s all you need to know:* Odisha’s 12 districts—Ganjam, Gajapati, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Balasore, Mayurbhanj, Jajpur, Cuttack, Khurda and Nayagarh—have been put on alert following IMD’s forecast.* Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has put a target of zero casualty before administration, which is in the midst of a battle against Covid-19.* The state government has predicted that around seven lakh people in 649 villages along the sea coast are likely to be severely affected due to the Cyclone Amphan.* Odisha has urged the Centre to temporarily suspend ‘Shramik Special’ trains passing through areas falling in the direction of Cyclone Amphan.* Cyclone Amphan is likely to bring heavy to very heavy rain in the coastal districts of West Bengal from May 19. The system is likely to intensify into a severe cyclonic storm by Sunday evening and move north-northwestwards till May 17.* It is very likely to recurve north-northeastwards thereafter towards West Bengal coast from May 18 to 20.* Coastal districts of Gangetic West Bengal, including North and South 24 Parganas, Kolkata, East and West Midnapore, Howrah and Hooghly will experience heavy to very heavy rain on May 19 and 20.* Fishermen have been advised not to venture into north Bay of Bengal along and off West Bengal-Odisha coasts from May 18 to 21 and those who are out in the sea were asked to return to coasts by May 17.* Wind speed along and off the coastal areas of West Bengal will reach 45 to 55kmph with gusts of 65kmph from May 19 afternoon and will gradually increase to 75 to 85kmph with gusts up to 90kmph from May 20 morning.* Disaster management teams are being sent to cyclone shelters in the coastal areas and other places of West Bengal for rescue and relief operations. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams will also be deployed for rescue and relief operations.* The movement of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRF), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Fire Service personnel has already started in Odisha.* Odisha has suspended leave of all government employees in the 12 coastal districts.* The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has also prepared itself for maritime search and rescue operations. Its ships and aircraft on patrol are directing fishing boats operating at sea to return to the harbour for safety.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-to-intensify-as-serious-storm-surge-here-s-all-you-need-to-know/story-LS5BwyRRJEHplUFm8uU7yK.html
17-05-2020||India||Gujarat Chief Minister formulates action plan for Ahmedabad amid Covid-19 crisis||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday held a high-level meeting via video conferencing after which it was decided to carry out health check-ups and surveillance in 10 wards of the Covid-19 containment zones in Ahmedabad within the next 15 days.“Following the increasing cases of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad, the chief minister had formulated this action plan and guided the administration for immediate implementation. The CM also interacted with officials specially appointed for the control of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad and directed them to actively move towards ‘Containment Free Zone-Corona-free Ward’,” said Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the chief minister.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 90,000-mark; death toll at 2,872He added that under the action plan, intensive health campaigns-checkups at 160 locations in 6 central zones will be carried out - 2 in the south zone, 1 in the east zone and 1 in North zone - by forming different teams through 40 mobile medical vans.“The teams would regularly visit the containment zones so that people with common ailments also get treatment and care at home as well as rapid testing-health check of Covid-19 suspects is done. Accordingly, a mobile medical van with a team of allopathic doctors, an AYUSH doctor, lab technicians, pharmacists and paramedical staff will be deployed at 4 points for 2 hours for next 15 days,” Kumar said.The van will focus on testing as well as treating people with common cold and fever symptoms. Homoeopathic and ayurvedic medicines that boost immunity will also be distributed. Atul Gor, CEO and administrative officer of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority has been entrusted with the responsibility of executing the entire strategy.Kumar informed that during the meeting, the CM made it clear that the fight against Covid-19 is to be intensified. According to the chief minister, it is to be ensured that maximum infected patients recover in time and go home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-chief-minister-vijay-rupani-formulates-action-plan-for-ahmedabad-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-tV83CFJAW6wlZR0txD2nhI.html
17-05-2020||India||Mathematical modeling suggests containment of Covid-19 possible||Mathematical modeling studies suggest containment of Covid-19 might be possible but success of containment operations “cannot be guaranteed” since there is efficient human to human transmission, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.It also said there is no approved drug or vaccine for the treatment of Covid-19 as of now and Chemoprophylaxis with Hydroxychloroquine are recommended for healthcare workers and high risk contacts.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Since there is efficient human to human transmission, success of containment operations cannot be guaranteed. Mathematical modeling studies suggest containment might be possible,” the health ministry said.The government has drawn out a containment plan as clusters posing high risk of further spread of Covid-19 have emerged.The cluster containment strategy aims to contain the spread of the disease within a defined geographic area by early detection of cases, breaking the chain of transmission and thus preventing its spread to new areas.For institutional mechanisms and inter-sectoral coordination at the national level, the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) and the Committee of Secretaries (CoS) will be activated. The NCMC will coordinate with health and non-health sectors on issues flagged by the health ministry.“The concerned state will activate the State Crisis Management Committee or the State Disaster Management Authority, as the case may be to manage the clusters of Covid-19,” a document by the health ministry read.There will be regular co-ordination meetings between the Centre and the affected states through video conference, it said.The document said India would follow a strategic approach for possible scenarios - travel-related cases reported in India, local transmission of Covid-19, large outbreaks amenable to containment, widespread community transmission of the disease and India becoming endemic for Covid-19.According to the document, “Containment for large outbreaks through geographic quarantine strategy calls for near absolute interruption of movement of people to and from a relatively large defined area where there is single large outbreak or multiple foci of local transmission of Covid-19”. “In simple terms, it is a barrier erected around the focus of infection. geographic quarantine shall be applicable to such areas reporting large outbreak and/or multiple clusters of Covid-19 spread over multiple blocks of one or more districts that are contiguous,” it said.The cluster containment strategy would include geographic quarantine, social distancing measures, enhanced active surveillance, testing all suspected cases, isolation of cases, quarantine of contacts and risk communication to create awareness among the public on preventive public health measures, the document stated.As far as the evidence for implementing geographic quarantine is concerned, the document said that the “current geographic distribution of Covid-19 mimics the distribution of H1N1 pandemic influenza”. “This suggests that while the spread of Covid-19 in our population could be high, it’s unlikely that it will be uniformly affecting all parts of the country,” the ministry said. Large-scale measures to contain Covid-19 over large territories have been tried in China. Mathematical modelling studies have suggested that containment might be possible especially when other public health interventions are combined with an effective social distancing strategy, the document stated.   The ministry listed some of the factors affecting large outbreak cluster containment.A number of variables determine the success of the containment operations through geographic quarantine which include the number and size of the cluster and also how efficiently the virus is transmitting in Indian population, taking into account environmental factors especially temperature and humidity, it said.The factors also include public health response in terms of active case finding, testing of large number of cases, immediate isolation of suspect and confirmed cases and quarantine of contacts along with the geographical characteristics of the area.According to the document, the authorities will do extensive contact tracing and active search for cases in the containment zone, test all suspect cases and high risk contacts, isolate all suspect or confirmed cases, implement social distancing measures and intensive risk communication as part of the cluster containment strategy.For large outbreaks amenable to containment, the document stated that the strategy will remain the same but vary in extent depending upon spread and response to be mounted to contain it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mathematical-modeling-suggests-containment-of-covid-19-possible/story-NlqTv6QCeU6Gd0YrZoKgAM.html
17-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 90,000-mark; death toll at 2,872||India recorded the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections with 4,987 new cases in the last 24 hours as the national tally crossed the 90,000-mark on Saturday, according to the Union health ministry. The jump in the number of Covid-19 cases comes on the last day of the third round of the lockdown, which was first imposed from March 25. It is scheduled to end on Sunday night and the norms for the next round would be announced before that.As of 8am on Sunday, the cases in India stood at 90,927, the number of deaths at 2,872 and the number of those recovered at 34,108.Also read: Odisha tribal walks 160 kilometres with two kids on sling amid Covid-19 lockdownMaharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi have three out of every four cases in the country. Maharashtra reported 30,706 cases and 10988 followed by 10,585 in Tamil Nadu. The national capital has 9,333 cases.The health ministry has told the government that 30 municipal areas, including Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata which account for nearly 80% of India’s coronavirus cases, should have the maximum restrictions under lockdown 4.0 ground rules.These 30 municipalities are spread across 12 states and Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu account for over one-third of these municipalities. Gujarat and Rajasthan have three cities each in this list and West Bengal has two.The government’s renewed focus on the urban areas comes in the context of data that suggests these 30 cities are home to most of the country’s Covid-19 case.Union health secretary Preeti Sudan held a special meeting on Saturday with municipal and health officials from the 12 states where the 30 municipal corporations are located. The meeting discussed the high-risk factors and reviewed indices such as confirmation rate, fatality rate, doubling rate, tests per million for these places. Also Read| Lockdown 4.0: Centre’s guidelines on the fourth phase of Covid-19 lockdown likely to be announced todaySudan also updated the states about the health ministry’s new guidelines aimed at such urban settlements, particularly informal settlements such as Mumbai’s Dharavi slums.The last version of the lockdown that came into effect from May 4 had introduced considerable relaxations in districts that had not reported Covid-19 cases and eased restrictions elsewhere. The Centre’s objective, starting from the first round of relaxations from April 21, has been to gradually resume economic activity.Also read| More people recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi during Lockdown 3: DataPrime Minister Narendra Modi had this week told chief ministers that the Centre would opt for another spell of the national lockdown but made it clear that lockdown 4.0 would be very different from the earlier three versions. PM Modi had also indicated that the Centre would let the states decide how to ease the restrictions this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-90-000-mark-death-toll-at-2-872/story-tdc8yROtXHdXmKZIp1ncuI.html
17-05-2020||India||Jawan killed in ongoing gun battle between security forces, terrorists in J&K’s Doda||A gun battle broke out between security forces and terrorists in Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday morning, officials said. An Army jawan laid down his life in the encounter which is still underway, officials said on Sunday. IGP Jammu, Mukesh Singh said that one terrorist has also been killed in the ongoing encounter. The slain terrorist belongs to Hizbul Mujahideen. Another terrorist has been injured in the exchange of fire, police sources informed. According to inputs from sources, a terrorist has been identified by the forces by the name Auqaaf - an associate of slain Haroon Abbas Wani. “On a specific police input, an operation was launched late last night in Doda district. An encounter has started just now,” police spokesperson and Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Manoj Sheeri said. He said further details shall be shared later. There has been a spurt in terror activities across J&K amid the coronavirus pandemic. Jammu’s Doda—comprising Doda, Kishtwar and Ramban districts which have been declared militancy free—have also witnessed terror attacks and related activities amid the lockdown.A day after Hizbul Mujahideen’s chief Riyaz Naikoo was killed in Kashmir, security forces on May 7 arrested an overground worker of the outfit from Doda district. He was identified as Raqib Alam, 22, son of Seeraj Din of Swanda village.Also read: In Hizbul’s Kashmir terror team, ‘military adviser’ is most brutalSecurity forces on April 17 eliminated two Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists, who had hacked a special police officer (SPO) to death with an axe and critically injured another on April 13 in Dachhan area of Kishtwar district.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a charge sheet against six people, including three slain Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) terrorists and three arrested overground workers of the terror group, for providing support to Pakistan-based terrorists to kill BJP leader Anil Parihar and his brother Ajeet Parihar in Jammu’s Kishtwar.Also read: Saifullah Mir aka Ghazi Haider is Hizbul’s new face of terror in KashmirThe charge sheet has been filed in the special NIA Court, Jammu against the six accused under Sections 302, 120B, 109 and 34 of the Jammu and Kashmir State Ranbir Penal Code (RPC), Sections 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 38, 39 and 40 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Section 25(1A) and 25 of the Arms Act.The Parihar brothers were shot at point-blank range outside their house on November 1, 2018, when they were returning home after closing their shop.Meanwhile, Pakistan also violated ceasefire in Malti and Digwar areas of Poonch district on Sunday morning prompting Indian Army to retaliate in equal measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-erupts-between-security-forces-terrorists-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-doda/story-r2Z7pd6Yww9BrqoVCDO17N.html
17-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: High courts tell states to ensure aid to migrants struggling to get home and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.High courts tell states to ensure aid to migrants struggling to get homeOn the day the Supreme Court bench said dealing with migrant workers on the roads was the problem of the states and that it couldn’t really do anything about it, high courts across the country issued directions to states on dealing with the exodus of these people, many of whom have lost their jobs because of the ongoing lockdown to fight the spread of Covid-19, and are struggling to get back home. Read moreMore people recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi during Lockdown 3: DataThe number of patients recovering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi during the third phase of the lockdown has tripled compared to the first two phases, data from the government shows. Read moreOdisha tribal walks 160 kilometres with two kids on sling amid Covid-19 lockdownDaily wage labourer Rupaya Tudu left his home in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district to work in a brick kiln in Jajpur district, 160 kilometres away with his family. Read more6 killed, 20 injured as bus flips over on China highwaySix people died and 20 others were injured when a bus flipped over on a highway in southwestern China, local authorities reported. Read more‘Of course there is pressure’: Ahmed Shehzad on comparisons with Virat KohliAhmed Shehzad, the batsman from Pakistan has revealed it wasn’t easy for him to prosper as a batsman due to the comparison people made between him and Virat Kohli. Read moreHow to get trolls off your Instagram postsInstagram and other social media platforms are still struggling to handle troll comments, misinformation and more such practices. To help give users more control over bullying comments, Instagram rolled out a new feature. Read moreWorld Hypertension Day: 5 things to keep anxiety and stress awayHypertension, often touted as the silent killer, is common in 1 of 5 Indian adults as per statistics. It is becoming increasingly common among the younger population due to factors such as stress and resultant anxiety. Read moreKartik Aaryan shows how his mum tricked him into trimming his beard: ‘Mummy sahi khel gayi’Actor Kartik Aaryan on Saturday shared a hilarious video in which he is seen getting back to his basic look and ditching the fuzzy beard that he grew during the quarantine. Read moreWatch: People line up for alcohol, keep belongings outside liquor shops in Tamil Nadu||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-high-courts-tell-states-to-ensure-aid-to-migrants-struggling-to-get-home-and-all-the-latest-news/story-H8F25UNZ9vhbaTQrWBwJXM.html
17-05-2020||India||Govt eyes key reforms, 35 migrants killed in accidents: Covid-19 news today||In the fourth tranche of a Rs 20-lakh-crore stimulus package, the government focused on structural reforms of key sectors --- coal, minerals, defence, power, civil aviation, space, atomic energy and social infrastructure. Meanwhile, road accidents killed 35 migrant workers in two states, the latest in a string of fatalities.Government picks defence, coal among key reform areasFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday announced structural reforms across eight key sectors -- coal, minerals, defence, power, civil aviation, space, atomic energy and social infrastructure -- while announcing the fourth tranche of a Rs 20 lakh crore relief and stimulus package to help companies and individuals cope with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the ongoing lockdown to fight its spread. Read moreFiscal cost of package Rs 1.5L-crore to Rs 4L-croreTill Saturday evening, the government had announced Rs 18.8 lakh crore of the Rs 20 lakh crore relief and stimulus package promised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. Read more35 more migrants die in accidents across statesRoad accidents claimed the lives of 35 migrant workers in two states on Saturday, the latest in a string of fatalities among some of the most vulnerable sections of the population who left urban centres in the hundreds of thousands and are on treacherous journeys back home after the nationwide shutdown since March 25 dried up jobs and wages. Read moreCentre sets up an online database to monitor, facilitate workers’ journeyAs tens of thousands of migrant workers continue to walk back home, the Centre on Saturday created an online repository to monitor and facilitate their movement in coordination with the state governments. Read moreDon’t act as moneylender, give cash aid, says Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the government should not be a “sahukar [money lender]” and argued in favour of cash assistance instead of loans to tide over the coronavirus (Covid-19) crisis while warning of an impending economic crisis. Read moreUS will send ventilators, PM Modi thanks TrumpThe United States will airlift 200 mobile ventilators to help Indians combat Covid-19, people familiar with the developments said on Saturday, hours after US president Donald Trump made the announcement on Twitter. Read moreTracing the Nanded cluster trailIn the span of four days, Hardeep Singh Kahlon’s life turned upside down.The 38-year-old bus driver was hailed as a hero in his village in Punjab’s Shahid Bhagat Singh Nagar district when he ferried back 40-odd stranded Sikh pilgrims from Maharashtra’s Nanded town on April 29. Read moreGovt issues Covid-19 response norms for slum clustersThe Union health ministry on Saturday released coronavirus disease (Covid-19) preparedness and response guidelines for slum clusters and unauthorised colonies, a development that comes amid increasing infections in Mumbai’s Dharavi – believed to be Asia’s largest slum which houses an estimated one million people. Read moreGovt advises buddy system for doctorsThe Union health ministry has advised hospitals to start a “buddy system” wherein a team of two or more staffers is formed that covers for each other in terms of ensuring that infection control practices are adequately followed while managing patients. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-eyes-key-reforms-35-migrants-killed-in-accidents-covid-19-news-today/story-6ZepTgX0szu1DcXS1iumAL.html
17-05-2020||India||US will send ventilators, PM Modi thanks Trump||The United States will airlift 200 mobile ventilators to help Indians combat Covid-19, people familiar with the developments said on Saturday, hours after US president Donald Trump made the announcement on Twitter.Trump also said the two countries were cooperating to develop a vaccine for the disease that has claimed more than 310,000 lives globally and infected 4.6 million people.“We stand with India and @narendramodi during this pandemic. We’re also cooperating on vaccine development. Together we will beat the invisible enemy!” Trump tweeted.Trump reiterated the point at his press conference later, referring to his India visit in February, the role played by Indian expatriates in the US and describing Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a “good friend of mine”.“We are working closely with India,” he told reporters.Modi thanked him in a tweet and highlighted the India-US relationship. “In such times, it’s always important for nations to work together and do as much as possible to make our world healthier and free from Covid-19,” he said.Trump did not mention details of the ventilators but a senior Indian government official said the consignment may “arrive by the end of this month or latest, early June”.Each of these mobile ventilators is estimated to cost $ 13,000 (Rs 9.6 lakh at current exchange rates) without accounting for the transportation costs. In all, the ventilators will cost about $ 2.6 million (or Rs 192 million) plus freight charges.The US move comes weeks after Modi acted on Trump’s request to reverse a ban on the export of hydroxychloroquine, an anti-malarial drug that was championed by the US President as a “game changer” in the fight against Covid-19.Trump has often said the United States is the “king” of ventilators — a respiratory aid needed for severely ill hospitalized Covid-19 patients — as a result of an extraordinary push from his administration in response to early fears of an impending shortage. He has since said the United States has more ventilators than its needs and it will be willing to share them with allies and partners.In a separate tweet hours later, the president’s National Security Council followed up with a full-bore acknowledgement of the vaccine projects. “The US and India are working together to fight #COVID19 and find a vaccine,” it said, adding, “the US-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership has never been stronger.” There was no mention of the ventilators.Three vaccine candidates are in various stages of development in separate bilateral projects involving two of India’s leading pharmaceutical companies with robust portfolios of vaccines. Their US counterparts are research units of two universities and the third is a biotechnology company.Diplomats in Washington and New Delhi said Trump’s offer to send the ventilators and his public statements were an indicator of the deepening ties between the two countries and close contact between the two countries at different levels.It also comes against the backdrop of growing congruence of views between the two countries on accountability and transparency on the origin of the coronavirus, reforms in the World Health Organisation (WHO) and even strategic issues such as terrorism and the situation in the Indo Pacific.For weeks, Trump has criticised the WHO for allegedly allowing itself to be led by China’s assessment of the virus when the disease was detected in central China’s Wuhan city last year. There have also been allegations from Washington that the Sars-CoV-2 virus may not be natural and may have been created in a laboratory.That the two sides are on the same page on China and WHO also came across at a seven-nation video conference initiated by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. There was broad agreement on the need to stress on transparency and accountability for the spread of the disease. The emphasis on transparency and accountability at this meeting attended by Foreign Minister S Jaishankar is seen to be aimed at China and the WHO that is due to hold its annual meet on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-will-send-ventilators-pm-modi-thanks-trump/story-FZ88WQBORLPjXqfV72ipwI.html
17-05-2020||India||87 from Tripura stranded abroad due to Covid-19 to be brought back to India||Eighty-seven people from Tripura, who are stranded in Russia, Ukraine and Bangladesh due to the ban on international travel amid the coronavirus pandemic, would be among the nearly 400 people from different northeastern states to be brought back to India, Tripura’s law minister Ratan Lal Nath said on Saturday.Among the 198 Indians stranded in Ukraine, 25 are from Tripura and 177 from other northeastern states while 53 Indians are stranded in Bangladesh. There are nine people from Tripura who are stranded in Russia. “We were informed by the ministry of home affairs that the northeastern people stranded in Bangladesh, Russia and Ukraine will be brought back. But the dates of their travel are not finalised yet,” Nath said late on Saturday evening while speaking to reporters.Those coming back from Russia and Ukraine would fly to Guwahati and the Tripura government has been asked to bring them back from the Assam city. The Assam government has also been asked to make arrangements for their stay till they move to their own state. Those being brought back from Bangladesh would travel on a bus and enter the state through the Akhaura Integrated Check-post, as per the travel plan. The Tripura government has got a list of as many as 39,799 people who are stranded in different parts of the country. Among them, more than 1,200 people have already returned to the state and another 2,640 are expected to reach from Bengaluru and Chennai. Tripura has 165 Covid-19 cases of which 64 people have recovered, according to latest health department record. It also said that samples of 13,178 people have been tested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/87-from-tripura-stranded-abroad-due-to-covid-19-to-be-brought-back-to-india/story-9JIzzNBwNcgtiZKD1oN5cP.html
17-05-2020||India||Odisha tribal walks 160 kilometres with two kids on sling amid Covid-19 lockdown||Daily wage labourer Rupaya Tudu left his home in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district to work in a brick kiln in Jajpur district, 160 kilometres away with his family. When he walked back home following the Covid-19 lockdown, Tudu shouldered not just the burden of feeding his family but his two sons on a sling.A few months ago, Tudu, a tribal man from Baladia village under Morada block of Mayurbhanj district, had gone to Panikoili in Jajpur district to work in a brick kiln there. After the lockdown was clamped, the kiln owner stopped the work and refused to give him his dues.Finding no other way, the family decided to walk back home. Though his 6-year-old daughter Pushpanjali could walk with his wife Matrika, the problem he was confronted with was how to carry his two sons - 4-year-old and two-and-a-half-year-old.Tudu then organised two slings and suspended them from a bamboo yoke. He put his two sons on the slings and lugged them on his shoulders for the next 120 kilometres till he reached his village on Saturday. “As I did not have enough money, I decided to return to my village on foot. We had to walk for 7 days before we could reach our village on Friday evening. Sometimes it was a little painful carrying the kids on the sling, but I had no other way,” said Tudu.Tudu and his family were kept at a quarantine centre in the village, but there was no provision of food for them. They would spend 21 days there and next 7 days at home as part of the quarantine protocol of the Odisha government.Yesterday, Mayurbhanj district BJD president Debashish Mohanty made arrangements of food for Tudu’s family and other workers staying there.Since lockdown, several migrant workers across the country have either walked, cycled or hopped onto any form of transport available to return to their homes. So far, 1.15 lakh migrant workers who were stranded in other states amid Covid-19 lockdown, have returned to the State. Odisha has reported 737 positive cases of coronavirus so far, of which 600 are migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-tribal-walks-160-kilometres-with-two-kids-on-sling-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-JLKUOToBfj3gf3EmYj8BIN.html
17-05-2020||India||BJP marks 6 yrs in power, highlights CAA, Article 370||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday released a video celebrating its six “incomparable” years in power and to highlight achievements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government since 2014 when it was first voted to power. Modi is due to complete the first year of his second term in office on May 30 and officials said any celebration will be subdued and limited to the virtual world in view of the Covid-19 crisis. The Congress hit out at the BJP over the nine-minute video, which makes no mention of the pandemic, saying the celebration amounts to insensitivity towards people suffering because of the crisis. “It is not surprising that the BJP is celebrating, or that they have absolutely no sympathy for millions of people, who have been left to the mercies of God on the streets of India. If they had an iota of sensitivity, they would have observed a minute’s silence to mark the people’s difficulties in reaching their homes without any assistance from the government,” said Congress leader Manish Tewari, referring to the migrant workers. The nationwide lockdown enforced on March 25 to slow the spread of Covid-19 left migrant workers jobless and has forced many of them to walk and cycle back to their homes. In late April, some states started transporting the workers on buses, and on May 1, the Centre started running special trains for them.Despite multiple attempts, BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya could not be reached for comment. BJP MP Rakesh Sinha hit back saying that Congress leaders would not understand that report cards are only produced by performers.“This is not a celebration but an expression of performance, which has been backed by the mandate of the Indian people. Moreover, report cards can be produced only by those who produce and have the potential to transform the country and not by those who were non-performers in their ten-year UPA rule. Therefore, Congress party fails to understand the empirical evidence of the Narendra Modi government and the Congress argument is ridiculous,” said Sinha.As the party’s supporters shared the video on social media, many reacted by posting pictures of migrant workers making arduous journeys on foot amid the pandemic while questioning whether it was the right time to celebrate. In the video, the BJP has lauded the government’s initiatives such as the Swachh Bharat (Clean India) campaign that was launched in 2014 to eliminate open defecation and the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme. The nullification of Constitution’s Article 370 to divest Jammu & Kashmir of its special status and the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act last year to fast-track the citizenship process for non-Muslims from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh, who have entered India before 2015, have been cited as important events during Modi’s second term. The BJP swept back to power with a bigger majority of 303 seats in 543-member Lok Sabha last year.The criminalisation of the practice of instant divorce among a section of Muslims and the Supreme Court’s verdict in November awarding the contested religious site in Ayodhya to Hindus also finds mention in the video.“The BJP government is now working expeditiously to construct a Ram Temple in Ayodhya,” the voice-over in the video says. The officials cited above said there would not be any major celebrations of Modi’s first year in office and that there have been suggestions including one on holding virtual exhibitions on the fight against Covid-19 that are under consideration. “The information and broadcasting ministry is also planning to seek details from other ministries on the important decisions taken during this one year especially on reviving the key sectors that have been affected by Covid-19. However, it is clear that this is an occasion to fight the crisis,” said one official on condition of anonymity.A second official who asked not to be named said social distancing will play a major role and the activities to celebrate could be limited to the virtual world. “...it is yet to be decided what course of action is to be adopted for the first anniversary. The government is conscious of the hardships faced by the people and any decision will be take accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-marks-6-yrs-in-power-highlights-caa-article-370/story-fANK2Bi4s8dJdgnXpApk4N.html
17-05-2020||India||Centre sets up an online database to monitor, facilitate workers’ journey||As tens of thousands of migrant workers continue to walk back home, the Centre on Saturday created an online repository to monitor and facilitate their movement in coordination with the state governments.This database, the Centre said, will also help in contact tracing of migrant workers and keeping in touch with them so as to ensure theat the benefits they are eligible for reach them, and to plan their reverse journeys. Through the database, the states will also be able to plan more effectively as they will have the exact number and details of migrants before they arrive, the ministry of home affairs said. The database is currently on the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) portal accessible to government agencies and states. It is likely to be available for access to states/ministries from Sunday, said an official.The lockdown imposed from March 25 to fight the spread of the Coronavirus disease stranded many migrant workers in cities where they were working; many lost their jobs on account of the lockdown and in the absence of public transport they couldn’t travel back home. Many set out walking, or cycling back home, but some were turned back at state borders and housed in shelters. It was only in late April that some states started organizing buses to ferry them back home. Soon after the ministry of home affairs came up with a protocol on their movement by bus, and, on May 1, the rail ministry launched special trains for them. However, there aren’t enough trains and some migrants do not have the documents required , so they continue to walk back home. Those who can afford to, hire trucks and buses, but many are just walking. The format seeks the migrants’ Aadhaar and mobile number, state or origin, address, mode of transportation and destination state. This data will also be collected for all stranded migrants, including students, tourists, and pilgrims. Developed by National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), the online dashboard , National Migrant Information System (NMIS) will maintain a central repository. It will also help the states from which the migrants are departing, and the states to which they are headed, coordinate the movement, union home secretary Ajay Bhalla stated in his letter to all the states/union territories. Both sets of states have to sign off. “This system will help in speedy communication between states without creating additional work at the level of field officers. It has additional advantages like contact tracing, which may be useful in overall Covid-19 response work,” Bhalla added.The states can upload data on the portal.Many states have already collected migrant data. “States will be able to visualize how many people are going out from where and how many are reaching their destination states. The mobile numbers of people can be used for contact tracing and movement during Covid-19,” the letter said.Each migrant worker will be provided a unique ID which can be used for all transactions and Central government ministries will also be able to track movement using this portal. These IDs of people moving by a particular train will be given to railways by the origin state while giving the requisition for trains. Railway minister Piyush Goyal tweeted – “To provide relief to migrant labour, Indian Railways is ready to run Shramik Special trains from any District in the Country. District Collectors should prepare lists of stranded labour & destination and apply to Railways through the State nodal officer.” The home secretary told the states that both individual particulars and special identifiers (origin, destination address) need to be captured to provide facility of contact tracing as more train and bus journeys are planned. “A ready database can be of help in planning reverse journeys in a systematic manner,” he wrote. The central database, government said, can also be used for e-pass generation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sets-up-an-online-database-to-monitor-facilitate-workers-journey/story-Bxrbb3rZEXi5oNLozSUlOO.html
17-05-2020||India||FM Nirmala Sitharaman to announce 5th and final tranche of economic package at 11 am||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will address the media on Sunday at 11 am in the fifth and final phase of announcements on government’s Rs 20 lakh crore package.In her fourth day of the briefing on the stimulus package on Saturday, Sitharaman announced “structural reforms” in 8 sectors - coal, minerals defence production, airspace management, MROs power distribution companies, space sectors, atomic energy.Sitharaman said that over the days, along with her team, she has been announcing the various steps that the government wants to take to give stimulus to the economy and help various sectors.Also read: Private firms to get access to ISRO’s facilities, space exploration opportunities“We have made several announcements and introduced many measures. We also made sure people don’t have to struggle to file taxes and have given boost to the MSMEs,” the finance minister said.Announcing the introduction of commercial mining in the coal sector, Sitharaman said, “The government will introduce competition, transparency, and private sector participation in the Coal sector through revenue sharing mechanism instead of the regime of fixed rupee per tonne.”Also read: Fourth tranche of economic package will boost job opportunities, says PM Modi“Commercial mining is being introduced in the coal sector and the age-old government monopoly is being removed. The commercial mining of coal will be done on a revenue sharing basis. An amount of Rs 50,000 crore is being provided for evacuation infrastructure in the coal sector,” Sitharaman said.In defence production, the finance minister said for self-reliance a list of weapons and platforms will be notified and a ban imposed on import with year-wise timelines. There will be indigenisation of imported spares so that defence equipment is both made and bought in India.Foreign Direct Investment limit in defence manufacturing under the automatic route is being raised from 49% to 74%, the government has decided.In Civil Aviation, Sitharaman indicated that “Restrictions on the utilisation of Indian Air Space will be eased so that civilian flying becomes more efficient. We will bring a total benefit of Rs 1000 crore per year for the aviation sector.”The announcements made by the FM on May 13 (first phase) were majorly focussed on the MSMEs while in the second phase of announcements on Thursday, the focus was on migrant labourers, street vendors and farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-s-5th-and-final-phase-of-announcement-on-covid-19-economic-package-today-at-11-am/story-NrpMs0vdq4FEHvWLSJBkLN.html
17-05-2020||India||79% of India’s Covid-19 cases are from 30 municipal areas||The Centre has asked officials from 30 municipal areas spread across 12 states, which contribute to 79% of India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, to maintain high vigil and closely monitor areas of old cities, slums, migrant labourer camps and other high-density pockets.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThese areas are in Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. Maharashtra.The selected municipal areas are Brihanmumbai or Greater Mumbai, Greater Chennai, Ahmedabad, Thane, Delhi, Indore, Pune, Kolkata, Jaipur, Nashik, Jodhpur, Agra, Tiruvallur, Aurangabad, Cuddalore, Greater Hyderabad, Surat, Chengalpattu, Ariyalur, Howrah, Kurnool, Bhopal, Amritsar, Villupuram, Vadodara, Udaipur, Palghar, Berhampur, Solapur and Meerut.These areas should have the maximum restrictions under the home ministry’s lockdown 4.0 ground rules, the health ministry has told the government.There is no word on the extent of the restrictions that would be imposed during the fourth phase of the lockdown. The ground rules for the next round would be made public on Sunday.The third phase of the lockdown, first imposed form March 25, is due to end on Sunday night.Preeti Sudan, Union health secretary, and Rajesh Bhushan, the officer on special duty in the health ministry, along with other senior officers, held the high-level review meeting on Saturday with the principal health secretaries, municipal commissioners, districts magistrates and other officials from these 30 municipal areas.It was stressed during the meeting that timely tracing of patients to improve recovery percentage and influenza-like illness (ILI)/severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) surveillance is important.A health ministry statement said the measures taken by the officials and the staff of the municipal corporations for the management of Covid-19 cases were reviewed during the meeting and they were informed about fresh guidelines on the management of the disease in urban settlements.A presentation was made on the present status of Covid-19 infections in the districts while highlighting the high-risk factors, indices such as confirmation rate, fatality rate, doubling rate, tests per million etc.The municipal officials were briefed about the factors to be considered while mapping the containment and buffer zones, the activities mandated in containment zone like perimeter control, active search for cases through house to house surveillance, contact tracing, testing protocol, clinical management of the active cases, surveillance activities in the buffer zone like monitoring of SARI/ILI cases, ensuring social distancing and promoting hand hygiene etc.It was highlighted that in general the geographic area of containment zones is to be defined based on factors like mapping of cases and contacts, geographical dispersion of cases and contacts, area with well-demarcated perimeter and enforceability, the statement said.Municipal Corporations, residential colony/mohallas/municipal wards or police-station area/municipal zones/towns etc, can be designated as containment zones, as appropriate, it said.The officials were advised the area should be appropriately defined by the district administration or local urban body with technical inputs from the local level. Along with the containment zones, the buffer zone around the containment zone also must be demarcated to break the chain of transmission.Regarding management of indicators like high doubling rate, high case fatality rate and high confirmation percentages seen in the containment zones, the officials were informed about the possible root causes and recommendations were offered on possible actions that could be taken.It was also highlighted that especially in the densely populated urban areas further challenges need to be considered like poor socio-economic conditions, limited health infrastructure, lack of social distancing, issues faced by women, among other factors.The health secretary emphasised that along with the containment and management of the coronavirus disease cases, the issue of continuing all essential non-Covid-19 health services in the urban localities like reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health (RMNCH+A), cancer treatment, tuberculosis surveillance, immunisation efforts, vector control measures in view of the ensuing monsoon, etc, need to be ensured.The municipal areas were asked to focus on effective risk communication in order to build trust and confidence.The officials were requested to engage with community leaders and local opinion leaders, who could accompany local surveillance teams to encourage cooperation from the local communities, in finding solutions, building trust, and for a positive influence on the health workers.All health service providers need to be provided with adequate protective gear and communication must focus against the stigmatisation of these frontline workers.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-of-india-s-covid-19-cases-are-from-30-municipal-areas/story-HG2qyRtLRkeoD41WeUGFwI.html
17-05-2020||India||South Central Railway develops robotic device to assist in patients care in hospitals||South Central Railway zone has developed a robotic device, “RAIL-BOT” (R-BOT) to assist in hospital management functions towards patient care in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.The Innovation, developed by Hem Singh Banoth, Additional Divisional Railway Manager, Hyderabad Division, SCR and his team, has come in for praise from the Zone’s head, Gajanan Mallya, General manager, SCR.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMallya termed it as good attainment to strengthen medical care management, particularly in the prevailing Covid-19 Pandemic Virus situation, according to a press release from the South Central Railways.The R-BOT underwent extensive trial and demonstration before being deployed for use in Central Railway Hospital, Lallaguda, Secunderabad.R-BOT is being used to provide medicines, medical accessories and to serve food to the patients, without any need for physical contact. This will enable doctors, nurses and other support medical staff to stay away from the risk of contracting infections.The R-BOT is operated through a unique mobile application developed as part of the Innovation, supported by Wi-FI- facility. The R-BOT holds sensor-based features to read the body temperature of patients and transmit the same for display on Mobile phones.It is capable of raising an alarm in case of any abnormally high-temperature readings so as to alert the Medics attending to the patients.The R-BOT acts as two-way audio and video communication with recording, facilitating smooth interaction between patients and doctors. It uses infrared technology with emergency Night lamp and night vision to enable communication even in complete darkness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/south-central-railway-develops-robotic-device-to-assist-in-patients-care-in-hospitals/story-nM1kGBldcuHoggfuLe6MWK.html
17-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan likely to bring heavy rain in coastal Bengal districts from May 19||A cyclonic storm brewing in the Bay of Bengal lay 1220 km south-southwest of Digha in West Bengal on Saturday and is likely to bring heavy to very heavy rain in the coastal districts of the state from May 19.The state government has geared up for rescue and relief operations.The system is likely to intensify into a severe cyclonic storm by Sunday evening and move north-northwestwards till May 17, regional Met director G K Das said. It is very likely to recurve north-northeastwards thereafter towards West Bengal coast from May 18 to 20, he said. Under its impact, the coastal districts of Gangetic West Bengal, including North and South 24 Parganas, Kolkata, East and West Midnapore, Howrah and Hooghly will experience heavy to very heavy rain on May 19 and 20, Das said. West Bengal Home secretary Alapan Bandopdhyay said that the entire state machinery is prepared to deal with the situation. Disaster management teams are being sent to cyclone shelters in the coastal areas and other places for rescue and relief operations, he said. Bandopadhyay said that provisions have been made for maintaining social distancing norms at these shelters in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said that National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams are also there for rescue and relief operations. The state chief secretary held a meeting with concerned officials on Saturday evening to take stock of preparations and the movement of the cyclone, he said. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into North Bay of Bengal along and off West Bengal-Odisha coasts from May 18 to 21 and those who are out in the sea were asked to return to coasts by May 17. Sea condition will be very high to phenomenal over north Bay of Bengal on May 19 and 20, the regional Met director said. Wind speed along and off the coastal areas of West Bengal will reach 45 to 55 kmph with gusts of 65 kmph from May 19 afternoon and will gradually increase to 75 to 85 kmph with gusts upto 90 kmph from May 20 morning, the weatherman said. The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has also prepared itself for maritime search and rescue operations. “All out efforts have been made in the maritime states of West Bengal and Odisha in co-ordination with the state administration and Fisheries department,” the ICG has said. The ICG ships and aircraft on patrol are directing fishing boats operating at sea to return to harbour for safety, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclonic-storm-likely-to-bring-heavy-rain-in-coastal-bengal-districts-from-may-19/story-JJJVxMAViaQKRry2JyO32L.html
17-05-2020||India||Largest single-day spike takes India’s case tally over 90k||India recorded the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections with 4,863 new cases on Saturday as the national tally crossed the 90,000 mark.As of Saturday night, the total cases in India stood at 90,572, the number of deaths at 2,797 and the number of those recovered at 34,039. The previous highest daily count was recorded on May 10 when 4,370 new cases were reported. Three out of every four cases in the country have been reported in four states – Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. With 1,606 new cases on Saturday, Maharashtra crossed the 30,000 mark on Saturday, while Gujarat and Tamil Nadu are both above the 10,000 mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/largest-single-day-spike-takes-india-s-case-tally-over-90k/story-XuMEvE6CiCRHY6RQvR3SHL.html
17-05-2020||India||1 in 4 most-viewed Covid-19 videos in English on YouTube incorrect: Study||One in four of the most-viewed videos on coronavirus (Covid-19) in English on YouTube are factually incorrect, according to a new study that comes against the backdrop of several websites removing a 26-minute viral video called “Plandemic” that alleged that the disease was a conspiracy being promoted by people looking to profit from it.Videos from government and professional sources on the disease scored high on facts but accounted for just 10% of the around 257 million views considered by the researchers from Canada whose study was published in the journal, BMJ Global Health on May 13.“The general public has varying degrees of health literacy. When we consider the enormous volume and diversity of misleading information being generated and spread, it has significant potential for harm,” one of the study’s lead-author Heidi Oi-Yee Li, faculty of medicine, University of Ottawa, said over email.“Given that YouTube has grown since past outbreaks, its reach is greater than ever [the study says 2 billion users daily], and we felt it was important to evaluate whether misinformation was spreading to wider audiences.”The researchers used keywords “coronavirus” and “Covid-19” separately to identify the top 75 most viewed that were in English, shorter than an hour in duration, and excluded non-audio and non-visual content.They said 69 videos met the criteria, and together clocked 257,804,146 views. These were evaluated on facts, quality, reliability and usability. Videos made by the news media accounted for 47% videos.“Our study highlights that over 25% of YouTube’s most viewed English videos contained non-factual or misleading information reaching over 62 million views,” read the study. “Professional and government videos demonstrated higher accuracy, usability and reliability across all measures but were largely under-represented in our sample.”Subscriptions and presentation is what drove views, the author said.“The most viewed video in the study with over 20 million views was produced by a YouTube and television celebrity. Meanwhile, the most popular government video only reached 4 million views,” wrote Heidi. “This is because governments typically use traditional information dissemination tools (e.g. infographics, posters, websites) which is less appealing and may not be as accessible for those who are less health-literate.”The study is limited because of its focus on one language , but is one of the largest such exercises.“It’s a fine study. Although ‘views’ don’t necessarily translate to ‘users’, and to calculate that you may need IP addresses that may not have been available, it does indicate the trend. The Indian context, however, will require a broader explanation,” said P Vigneswara Ilavarasan, professor at IIT-Delhi and social media researcher.The problem may be far worse in India where such videos do the rounds as forwards on messaging platforms.Indians rarely go to social media platforms directly to gain information, Ilavarasan said. “One reason is the legacy issue, where we tend to trust forwards from our elders and superiors without question. Then there is the lack of information literacy where people are unable to detect misinformation and are not good gatekeepers, and lastly there is manipulation where a video can be taken out of context,” said Ilavarasan.“We’re committed to providing timely and helpful information at this critical time... We also have clear policies that prohibit videos promoting medically unsubstantiated methods to prevent the coronavirus in place of seeking medical treatment, and we quickly remove videos violating these policies when flagged to us,” said a YouTube spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-in-4-most-seen-english-language-youtube-videos-on-covid-19-are-incorrect-study/story-Bpnbpavubn0sQMufdIMzpK.html
17-05-2020||India||Health Ministry says urban areas need to improve disease surveillance||Surveillance system for Covid-19 in urban areas should be strengthened and strict perimeter control be maintained in containment zones with Section 144 enforced to ensure people remain in their dwelling units, according to the health ministry’s guidelines on coronavirus management in urban settlements released on Saturday. In most of the cities or towns, the disease surveillance system is not as well organised as in the rural areas, the health ministry guidance document for preparedness and response to Covid-19 in urban settlements said, asserting that this is more so pronounced in these urban settlements. “Hence, the surveillance system shall be strengthened for surveillance and contact tracing mechanism. This would include identification of the health workers in the health posts/dispensaries, Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM), ASHAs, Anganwadi Workers, municipal health staff, sanitation staff, community health volunteers and other volunteers etc,” the guidance document said. An orientation training will be organised by the Chief Medical Officer or Executive Health Officer to train the identified surveillance workers which would emphasize on the basic information on Covid-19, orientation on basic Dos and Don’ts with focus on hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene, environmental sanitation and use of face covers/masks. The training would also emphasise on active case search through questionnaire during field visit, listing and tracking of contacts, recording temperature with handheld thermometer, recording oxygen saturation with pulse oximeter, identification of high risk individuals based on contact history, age, and co-morbidities, inter-personal communication with households for creating awareness on Covid-19 and other essential health service, addressing stigma, health seeking behaviour and other issues, and establishing rapport with the community. Informal settlements within cities that may have mushroomed due to migration have inadequate housing and poor living conditions, the document noted. According to 2011 Census, there are 2,613 towns/cities such settlements with 6.54 crore population residing in 1.39 crore households, representing 17.4 of all urban population, they said, adding that this would have increased in number further since the last few years. An incident commander of appropriate seniority would be identified depending upon the geographic extent of the settlements and its population size and the commander will identify its planning, operation, logistics and finance teams to implement the preparedness measures to respond to a Covid outbreak, the guidelines said. The incident commander shall report to the municipal commissioner, they said. A coordination mechanism shall also be evolved under the leadership of Incident Commander and would comprise of representatives from Health, Women and Child Development, Integrated Child Development Services, Housing & Urban Affairs, Public Health Engineering Wing, Swachh Bharat Mission, elected representatives, prominent NGOs already serving the area, community leaders, etc, the guidelines state. The Covid containment plan for these urban settlements will address the key challenges specific to these areas and implementation of this plan will ensure that the core capacities are available to respond to Covid-19, the document said. Non-Covid services especially immunization, management of communicable and non-communicable diseases, and maternal and child health services should continue to be provided in these areas, they said. “There will be community mobilization to adopt Covid-related behaviour for lifestyle changes. This would include practising frequent hand washing, following respiratory etiquettes, ban spitting in public places, following social distancing and promotion of masks/face covers, avoiding consumption of gutkha, paan, cigarettes/bidis etc. Social distancing will be a major challenge due to many people crammed into very small living spaces, the document states. “While sleeping the distancing can be achieved to an extent by sleeping in opposite direction in a manner that head end of one person faces the leg of the other. Social distancing should be practiced particularly in community water points, public toilets, PDS distribution points, health centers etc,” it said. A contingency plan will also be in place to move high-risk population to alternative or temporary sites, the guidelines said. Social media should be used with appropriate messages to target these population and for refuting fake news and community groups should also popularize adoption of Aarogya Setu application, the document said. Most of the inhabitants of such communities are daily wage workers, who might be compelled to go outside for work, hence, strict perimeter control must be enforced to regulate entry and exit from the containment zone, the document said.“Section 144 under CrPC will be enforced to ensure people remain in their dwelling units. The local administration however must make every effort to maintain supply of essential commodities (food, milk, groceries, medicine and other essential supplies) in such an area,” the guidelines stated. If feasible, the relief centers in the containment zone may be geo-tagged and information may be made available through mobile applications, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-says-organised-surveillance-systems-needed-to-stop-covid-19/story-tHTeAmTk30mhhVZRvkxVZN.html
17-05-2020||India||With Cyclone Amphan circling over Bay of Bengal, Odisha to shift migrants away from coast||With the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting that cyclonic storm Amphan is likely to make landfall somewhere between the North Odisha coast and West Bengal by May 20, Odisha on Saturday announced that it will shift migrant workers lodged in various quarantine centres near the coast to safer places.“Saving of lives is our priority. We should put our best efforts to save every precious human life,” Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik said.IMD director general Mrityunjay Mohapatra said the depression over Southeast Bay of Bengal lay centred 1,040 km south of Paradip and had intensified into a cyclonic storm on Saturday evening and may intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm in another 24 hours. ALSO READ | Cyclone Amphan to hit Odisha, WBCyclone Amphan will recurve north northwestwards across northwest Bay of Bengal towards West Bengal and adjoining Odisha coasts during May 18 to 20. “The exact place of landfall of the cyclone would be known by Sunday,” he said. The system is now moving at 20 km per hour. Under its impact, rain will start in coastal Odisha by May 18 evening and by May 19, northern coastal Odisha will receive very heavy rainfall.The cyclonic storm is likely to affect around 7 lakh people in 649 villages along the sea coast. Special relief commissioner Pradeep Jena said Odisha is working towards ensuring ‘zero casualty’ and district collectors have been asked to conduct vulnerability analysis in view of the summer cyclone.There are 809 cyclone shelters in 12 districts expected to be affected by the cyclonic storm, of which 242 are being used as quarantine centres. Jena said the rest 567 cyclone shelters and 7,092 more buildings would be used to keep the evacuated peopleALSO READ | NDRF deploys teams in Odisha and Bengal as Cyclone Amphan closes inAs the cyclonic storm is likely to affect the four coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur, additional chief secretary of health department, Pradipta Mohapatra said instructions have been issued to shift the migrant labourers staying in quarantine centres within 3 km of the coastline in the districts.Mohapatra said all hospitals in the state have been asked to ensure adequate stock of medicines including anti-snake venom, ORS and other equipment. “The state government is ready to combat any situation arising out of Cyclone Amphan even though the focus of the entire machinery is on dealing with the Covid-19 challenge,” he said.So far, 1.33 lakh migrant workers have returned to Odisha from other states through bus, train and other arrangements. Ganjam, the epicenter of Covid-19 in Odisha has so far seen 55,567 migrants returning followed by Balasore (11368), Cuttack (8198), Kendrapara (7457) and Bhadrak (7273). Odisha has urged the Centre to suspend ‘Shramik Special’ trains for 3-4 days to districts which are expected to be affected by the cyclonic storm.Meanwhile, director general of NDRF, Satya Narayan Pradhan said each of the 4 teams have been sent to the four coastal Odisha districts of Balasore, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara and Bhadrak that are likely to be affected by the cyclone. Another 20 NDRF teams have been kept on standby. In view of the impending cyclone, Eastern Naval Command has assumed a high degree of readiness to render necessary humanitarian assistance. Indian Naval ships at Visakhapatnam are standing-by to proceed to the most affected areas for evacuation and to provide medical aid.The special relief commissioner said the collectors in all the coastal districts have been asked to ensure that the diesel generator sets, inflatable tower lights, telescopic tower lights, chain saws given to multipurpose cyclone shelters be in operational readiness. He said 335 teams of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force and state fire units will be sent to the districts likely to be affected by the cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-cyclone-amphan-circling-over-bay-of-bengal-odisha-to-shift-migrants-away-from-coast/story-LgwHZbFSb55kfTDnng4JhK.html
17-05-2020||India||30 cities to have maximum curbs during lockdown 4.0: Here’s a complete list||With lockdown 3.0 ending on Sunday night, these 30 cities across the country are likely to have the maximum restrictions during the next phase of the lockdown soon to be in place from May 18. The reason for minimal relaxations in these 30 municipal areas is the high concentration of Covid-19 cases which have been detected in these cities. Most of these cities have a number of areas which are still containment zones or fall under red zones. Though some of them have not reported fresh coronavirus positive cases for some time, there are others where the number of positive patients increases day by day.Thirty municipal areas including metro cities Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata account for almost 80% of India’s coronavirus cases and are likely to have the maximum restrictions under the Home Ministry’s lockdown 4.0 rules, according to the Union health ministry. The third round of the lockdown, first imposed on March 24 midnight, is due to end in about 24 hours.ALSO READ | Lockdown 4.0: What states are saying about relaxationsThese 30 cities in various states will have the maximum restrictions during lockdown 4.0.(Maharashtra)1. Brihanmumbai 2. Thane 3. Pune4. Solapur5. Nashik6. Aurangabad7. Palghar(Tamil Nadu)8. Greater Chennai9. Tiruvallur10. Cuddalore11. Chengalpattu12. Ariyalur13. Villupuram(Gujarat)14. Ahmedabad15. Surat16. Vadodara(Rajasthan)17. Jaipur18. Jodhpur19. Udaipur(West Bengal)20. Kolkata21. Howrah(Madhya Pradesh)22. Indore23. Bhopal(Uttar Pradesh)24. Agra25. Meerut(Telangana)26. Greater Hyderabad(Andhra Pradesh)27. Kurnool(Punjab)28. Amritsar(Odisha)29. Berhampur(NCR)30. Delhi.The guidelines for lockdown 4.0 have been designed by the Union government to start economic activity at a standstill for over 54 days now and at the same time continue some of the restrictions in municipal areas that have reported a large proportion of Covid-19 positive cases.These 30 cities are spread across 12 states. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu account for over one-third of these municipalities. Gujarat and Rajasthan have three cities each in the list and West Bengal has Kolkata and Howrah—the two main cities of the eastern state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-cities-to-have-maximum-curbs-during-lockdown-4-0-here-s-a-complete-list/story-Bf0A7qOJtJayoaxxGVE3zM.html
17-05-2020||India||Govt issues Covid-19 response norms for slum clusters||The Union health ministry on Saturday released coronavirus disease (Covid-19) preparedness and response guidelines for slum clusters and unauthorised colonies, a development that comes amid increasing infections in Mumbai’s Dharavi – believed to be Asia’s largest slum which houses an estimated one million people.Experts have warned that cases could spiral up in slums and unauthorised colonies across the country as people live in close proximity in these areas, making social distancing tougher to follow and implement.The health ministry’s guidelines focus on issues that need to be addressed by urban local bodies to prepare a response against the Covid-19 outbreak, which has infected at least 88,000 people in the country. At least 53 new cases were reported in Mumbai’s Dharavi on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the area to 1,198.“Informal settlements within cities have mushroomed due to migration from villages, and have inadequate housing and poor living conditions… These localities are often overcrowded, with many people crammed into very small living spaces… These areas are characterized by poor structural quality of housing, inadequate access to safe water, poor sanitation and insecure residential status… In the context of COVID (or any other respiratory infectious disease for that matter) implementing strategic interventions such as surveillance, physical distancing, isolation, quarantine and communicating the risk to the dwellers could be challenging,” the health ministry document said.The ministry has directed that a nodal officer (incident commander) of appropriate seniority be identified to prepare the response depending on the geographic extent of the settlements and its population. The person, who will directly report to the municipal commissioner, will identify its planning, operation, logistics and finance teams to implement the preparedness measures, the Centre said.According to the guidelines, the effort against Covid-19 has to be a coordinated among various departments, including representatives from health, women and child development, housing and urban affairs, public health engineering wing, Swachh Bharat Mission, elected representatives, prominent NGOs already serving the area and community leaders while being spearheaded by the nodal officer.These experts will have to draft other smaller details according to the local requirements of an area.The health ministry’s guidelines directed the local bodies to put in place cluster containment strategies that will include active and passive surveillance. They also stress compliance with regard to social distancing, use of face cover, observing hand hygiene and cough etiquette, hospital preparedness and treatment, community engagement, risk management, capacity building locally, etc.There’s special emphasis on maintaining social distancing. “While sleeping, the distancing can be achieved to an extent by sleeping in opposite direction in a manner that head end of one person faces the leg of the other. Social distancing should be practiced particularly in community water points, public toilets, ration distribution points, health centers, etc. Social distancing is to be promoted at all formal and informal gatherings,” the guidelines said.A central government official, who asked not to be named, said: “The onus lies on the local civic bodies to manage the challenges that these areas pose. We cannot not focus proactively on these areas as these are hotbeds for spread of any infectious diseases, and not just Covid-19. The guidelines have laid out dos and don’ts in detail that the local administration must follow to ensure the risk of infection spread is minimised if a case is reported there. It has to be a two-pronged preparedness strategy: prevention and control.”According to the 2011 Census, there are 2,613 towns and cities with such settlements, with 65.4 million people residing in 13.9 million households.Experts say it is the need of the hour to draft separate containment strategy for such areas, keeping in mind the urban settings. “No two urban settlements are the same; so there is a need to draft a micro plan for prevention and containment keeping in mind the local conditions of the area. In Delhi, if you see, there are several types of residential colonies and each would require a specific containment plan, especially those that are densely populated,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, community medicine faculty, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-issues-covid-response-norms-for-slum-clusters/story-qJejnyI95sDGYxdcB0SMoO.html
17-05-2020||India||Tracing the Nanded cluster trail||In the span of four days, Hardeep Singh Kahlon’s life turned upside down.The 38-year-old bus driver was hailed as a hero in his village in Punjab’s Shahid Bhagat Singh Nagar district when he ferried back 40-odd stranded Sikh pilgrims from Maharashtra’s Nanded town on April 29.He was part of a fleet of 231 Punjab Roadways and Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) buses that rode 3,500 kilometres over 50 hours and four states to bring 4,125 people from the Hazur Sahib Gurdwara, one of Sikh religion’s holiest shrines.But in four days, the celebration turned into suspicion as hundreds of pilgrims across the state started testing positive for the coronavirus disease, or Covid-19. Local villagers started avoiding his family and Kahlon, along with two other drives who accompanied him on the bus, were whisked away to a quarantine centre where it was confirmed they had also contracted the disease.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAs he remained shuttered from the world, a fog of rumours and allegations descended on his family and relatives. The drivers were accused of being carriers of the virus, helping passengers evade screening and allowing people other than pilgrims to enter the buses; politicians, local leaders and television channels discussed their role in Punjab’s largest Covid-19 cluster that accounts for two-thirds of the state’s 1,946 cases.But Kahlon betrayed little bitterness as he walked out of the quarantine centre after testing negative for the virus on Saturday. He said the shower of messages he received and the news he read over the past two weeks made him feel disheartened because of the politics and vilification, but it didn’t change how proud he felt about being a part of the operation to rescue the pilgrims.Also Read: With 1,257 patients cured, Punjab’s recovery rate is almost double the national figures“It was our duty to bring our own people who were stranded and even though there was a risk to life, you can’t run away from a fight…I am very happy I am going to meet my family finally,” he said.Based on interviews with 30-odd government officials, doctors, pilgrims, gurdwara management officers and pilgrims, HT recreated the circumstances that led to the rescue of 4,125 pilgrims across India in a fleet of buses and the unlikely emergence of the cluster across two states despite near-hourly surveillance by multiple officials.Situated on the banks of the Godavari river, the Hazur Sahib gurdwara in Nanded is one of the five holy seats of Sikhism where Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th guru, was laid to rest on October 7, 1708.The shrine comprises the main Sach-Khand (Realm of Truth) gurdwara and a second gurdwara, langar sahib, where a majority of the pilgrims stay. In all, the shrine powers the economy of Nanded town and forms the core of the cultural identity of the city of 550,000 people.Also Read: Health Ministry says urban areas need to improve disease surveillance“People from all over the world come to Nanded because of the gurdwara. It is part of an identity, and we regret that this holy name has been tainted by the infection,” said Avinash Jondhale, a local activist. Every year, in the weeks after Holi and Diwali, the crowd swells at the shrine. According to Baba Balwinder Singh, the granthi of the langar sahib gurdwara, the numbers easily exceed 200,000 on such days.When the crush is too much, the staff often uses the amount of salt being consumed in the langar as the indication of the size of the crowd. “This time, for example, we used 70kg of salt in one batch of langar cooked, so you can imagine the crowd,” said Master Singh, who manages the shrine.The pilgrims are housed in a sprawling complex of 13-floor apartments, flats and dormitories that can house upwards of 50,000 people, said Balwinder. The accommodation includes 12-bed dorm rooms with shared toilets, eight-bed rooms for large families, four-bed rooms and rooms with air conditioning – the last one in a special building for non-resident Indian pilgrims.Apart from the pilgrims, the shrine also employs 1,100 people who work as labourers, masons, cooks and staff. Of these, 306 people have been screened for the virus and 32 tested positive. All the labourers and gurdwara staff are currently quarantined in the NRI building, which has been designated as a Covid care centre.Every year, the pilgrims follow a pattern, explained Master Singh. They celebrate the Hola Mahalla fair at Punjab’s Anantpur Sahib shrine for a week – the important festival usually falls around the second week of March -- and then come to Nanded.This year, too, pilgrims started pouring into Nanded from the second week of March, oblivious to the danger of the infection. At the time, India had seen around 100 Covid-19 cases and roughly 30 of them were from Maharashtra. Nanded was a green zone with zero infections. Among the pilgrims was Daya Singh, a 57-year-old farmer from Sursingh village of Punjab’s Tarantaran district, accompanied 60 of his friends and family in a truck. Narinder Singh, a 60-year-old resident of Khemkaran village in Punjab’s Tarantaran district, came by himself. Gurwinder Singh, a 38-year-old soldier from Chajjal Wadi village in Amrisar district guided 10 members of his family for the once-in-a-lifetime pilgrimage. All stayed in the complex at langar sahib.When Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown to arrest the spread of Covid-19 on March 25 and suspended public transport, most pilgrims had left for their home states but roughly 4,500 people were still in the gurdwara complex.Of this, 4,125 people were from Punjab and the rest were from Jammu, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Rajasthan. At least 200 of them continue to stay in the pilgrim quarters even now, said Master Singh.Of the pilgrims, 332 were staying at the main gurdwara premises and the rest at Langar Sahib. Daya Singh, Narinder Singh and Gurwinder Singh were all stuck.Pilgrims were quarantined to their rooms, making two trips daily to the langar that remained operational through the clock. The gurdwara management arranged for doctors to do daily checks of the pilgrims and started negotiating with the local government for the passage of the stranded pilgrims.But negotiations were stalled quickly.The gurdwara board approached the district administration, which got in touch with the state government. Simultaneously, the Punjab government wrote to the Maharashtra government for permissions. Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal also appealed to the government for special arrangements to evacuate the pilgrims.“Two special trains were demanded for their passage, but permission was not given. Finally, the permission came on April 21-22 for the evacuation by road,” said a senior official from the Nanded district administration on condition of anonymity.By then, many pilgrims had already grown restless. Daya Singh, for example, convinced some of his family to pool money in for a taxi.“We were stopped at many places and somehow reached Tarantaran on April 15, after a week,” he said. Ordinarily, the journey should have taken three days. Daya Singh was one of 300 pilgrims who returned to Punjab that day – the first tranche of pilgrims to come back. Two days later, the rest of the 60-member group reached the village. None of them was tested on arrival, and they were instead sent to home quaratine.Their return added a human face to the news headlines of stranded pilgrims, an emotive issue in a state with 16 million Sikhs. Within hours, chief minister Amarinder Singh and Harsimrat Kaur Badal had exchanged barbs with the ruling Congress and the opposition Shiromani Akali Dal and Bharatiya Janata Party blaming each other for the delay in evacuating the pilgrims.Back in Nanded, with virus cases rising across India and especially in Maharashtra, anxiety was running high among the pilgrims and this prompted the second tranche of pilgrims to leave the shrine.On April 13, Narinder Singh decided it was too dangerous to stay back in Nanded and arranged for a vehicle to take him back, along with 12 other pilgrims. His other motivation for going back: the harvest season had begun and he was already getting several calls a day from his family to come back and oversee the cutting of crop.It took him nine days to return home, and they, too, were stopped at several barricades.“Many a times we got only single meal as dhabas were closed. We paid Rs 1 lakh to the tempo for the journey,” said the 60-year-old man.By the time Narinder Singh got back home – on April 22 – negotiations between the Punjab and Maharashtra government to send buses for evacuating the pilgrims were almost closed. There was only one sticking point: Should the buses come in one fleet or space out the operation over several days.“We admitted to bear the cost of around Rs 1.25 crore for 100 buses needed for the journey and paid for the first fleet of 10 buses. But then the Punjab government sent the fleet of 79 buses and remaining pilgrims were taken back,” said Bhupinder Singh Manhas, president of the gurdwara board.With the arrival of the buses on April 24, the third and most important leg of the pilgrim evacuation began. Gurwinder Singh and his family were among the passengers on the first few buses.“We agreed to board the buses to reach Amritsar. I had Rs 15,000 in my pocket and some packed langar. When I first entered the bus, I saw worried faces of the other pilgrims, wearing face masks and chanting god’s name. No one in the bus was eager to talk to one another,” he said.The soldier claimed no one in his family slept for the three days on the road. “The bus only stopped when people need to go washroom. We even got our langar, made by the gurdwaras on the way, inside our buses and we were not allowed to step out of the bus.”They reached their home in Amritsar district late on April 27 but bad news was waiting for them. Five pilgrims in Tarantaran district’s Sursingh village – the native place of Daya Singh – had tested positive for the virus earlier that days, sounding an alarm throughout the state and forcing the Punjab government to screen all pilgrims.By the next day, Daya Singh, Narinder Singh and Gurwinder Singh had all tested positive for the virus. As of Saturday, 1253 pilgrims have tested positive for the virus and one –56-year old Gurjant Singh from Ludhiana district – has died.How did so many pilgrims get infected without the authorities finding out until it was too late? Despite a high-pitch political tussle between Punjab and Maharashtra governments and wild rumours flying about, medical experts and government officials agree that there is no one definite answer.Instead, there are three theories.The first is that the pilgrims contracted the virus during their month-long stay at the gurdwara. The Maharashtra government and the gurdwara management vehemently deny this. “Not a single person had any symptoms of virus till last day of the departure of the last batch on April 27. We were conducting regular check-ups as per the guidelines of the central government,” said Bumgai.But Nanded municipal corporation health officer Suresh Singh Bisen confirmed to HT that the authorities conducted only thermal screening. Given that about 90% of the Covid-19 positive pilgrims are asymptomatic, it is possible they contracted the infection without any symptoms such as fever. “We did it continuously for five days. No complaint. We didn’t find anything,” Bisen said.Moreover, the crowded dormitories and the langar may not have enforced social distancing, said some pilgrims.“We used to cook langar together and serve it for the pilgrims in routine and social distancing was not followed properly because there was a word among us that as we are already locked up together in the gurudwara because of the lockdown, we were safe,” said a 52-year-old pilgrim from Ludhiana.The second theory is that the pilgrims were infected during the journey.The 79 buses came in two varieties – with 40 seats and 31 seats – but they were all airconditioned. The passengers sat close to each other, and the AC – which research has shown can be a carrier of the virus – was on the whole time.The route crossed several red zones and at many places, Sikh volunteers organised ‘langars’. One such spot was Indore city, which has reported more than 2,200 cases.“Our bus was stopped by the authorities and we were told that due to a surge in the coronavirus cases, entry into the city was not allowed. We eventually made our way to the langar, packed food and set off,” said Kahlon.Some pilgrims also alleged that in a limited number of buses, outsiders were allowed to board. According to gurdwara management member, around 150-200 labourers had joined the pilgrims when they got to know that Center has allowed buses to evacuate them.“The labourers joined the pilgrims and came back using vehicles arranged by the government. However, these labourers were not checked even using thermal scanners,” a 42-year old pilgrim from Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district claimed.The gurdwara management backs this theory. “Yes I agree, some problems happened during the journey, in Indore, Hanumangarh and Bhilwara, when outsiders boarded the bus,” said Balwinder Singh.The third, and somewhat less plausible, theory is that some of the drivers had been unknowingly infected before they drove their buses down to Maharashtra. This theory has taken hold in Punjab in the past two weeks after a 45-year-old driver tested positive for the virus.NK Aggarwal, the Fatehgarh Sahib civil surgeon, said the driver went to Nanded from Fatehgarh Sahib on April 24 and came back on April 28. He tested positive on May 1, but when authorities tested his family – his nephew and niece were also found positive.“Because the viral load takes five to six days to return a positive test, we suspect that he may have been Covid positive before he went to Nanded. Moreover, he was in quarantine and hadn’t met his family, so their testing positive also makes us think in that direction,” said Aggarwal.Maharashtra public works department minister and guardian minister of Nanded, Ashok Chavan, said the infection was spread through the drivers and cleaners of the buses. “These drivers and bus assistants, who travelled all the way from Punjab and halted at many hotspots in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Had gurdwara staff been infected earlier [as claimed by the Punjab authorities], the virus could have spread across the city much before the pilgrims were evacuated,” he said.Despite the blame game and the human tragedy, there are clear lessons for governments trying to stop the spread of the virus. In both states, officials were stumped by the asymptomatic nature of the disease – just 35 of the 1,253 patients showed symptoms.“Initially, we decided to isolate only those who have been showing symptoms. But such cases turned to be only 30 as most of the pilgrims tested positive are asymptomatic. Positive cases are being treated in civil hospitals,” said a senior health department functionary in Punjab.Similar concerns were seen in Maharashtra. “Out of five containment zones in the district, three have the high and low risk contacts linking to drivers and workers from Gurudwara. We have traced 94 high risk and 414 low risk contacts with these positive patients,” said Balaji Shinde, Nanded district health officer.But the largely asymptomatic nature of the cluster has also helped in mitigating the human costs. Nearly 1,200 patients were released on Friday and Saturday after government guidelines last week allowed asymptomatic patients to be released after 14 days without testing.For 41-year-old Parwinder Singh, a co-driver of Kahlon, this means he can finally see his family after a month. “I have performed my duty and I am proud of it because the people who were stranded were our people. Now I can go home,” he said. (with inputs from Gagandeep Jassowal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tracing-the-nanded-cluster-trail/story-gGnjxWWzSOt8WBxnjfdNZO.html
17-05-2020||India||BJP asks state units to ensure aid to labourers||Migrant workers left jobless by the Covid-19 lockdown making their way back home on foot despite special trains and buses arranged for them has emerged as a major challenge for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as it nears the completion of its first-year office after it swept back to power last year. Three BJP functionaries said the party has taken a serious view of the ramifications of images of poor workers, some with children and families, and their deaths in road accidents on its electoral politics. On Saturday, 24 migrants were killed and over 30 injured in the latest road accident involving them in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya.The buses were arranged in late April while the trains from May 1. Many migrant workers have been unable to register to travel since they did not have identity papers.Social welfare schemes for the poor are widely believed to have contributed to the BJP’s return to power last summer with the bigger majority of 303 members in the 543-member Lok Sabha, or Parliament’s lower House.“The party has asked all its state units to redouble their efforts in reaching out to the poor and the needy and ensure that anyone seen walking is provided all necessary help,” said a BJP general secretary on condition of anonymity.The functionary said BJP president JP Nadda had instructed all workers to take the responsibility of feeding over 50 million poor people across the country during the lockdown imposed in late March to check the pandemic spread. The extension of the lockdown has resulted in the closure of workplaces, left lakhs without jobs and exacerbated the situation, the functionary added.“We are the only party that took the lead in providing food and shelter to the migrant workers. Lakhs of workers have turned up so far. The state has not only offered them shelter but also made arrangements for their employment in case they do not want to go back and also provide them immediate cash assistance,” said a party functionary in Uttar Pradesh.In some states, BJP functionaries have been asked to urge migrant workers to stay back and benefit from central schemes such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.“Efforts are also underway by the government to bring unskilled, unorganized workers under the ambit of social security schemes. As was announced by the [Union] finance minister [Nirmala Sitharaman], rental housing and credit facility for small entrepreneurs and street vendors is also being worked out,” said a third functionary, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-asks-state-units-to-ensure-aid-to-labourers/story-lPh9mEG471tiuSCTGfKfDP.html
17-05-2020||India||Goa govt bus covers 2,800km to pick up migrants from Bengal||On Saturday evening, a bus arranged by the Government of Goa set off from Darjeeling in West Bengal , after picking up its sole passenger. It was to pick up four more from Kolkata and begin its 2,800 km long journey back to Goa. The bus was dispatched to West Bengal earlier this week and arrived in Darjeeling on Friday. By the time it finishes its round trip, it would have travelled from one end of the country to the other -- and back. Another bus left Goa for Baleshwar (Balasore), Odisha on a similar mission earlier this week. With the number of Goans stranded across the country being too small , the Goa government has decided that, rather than organise trains like many of the bigger states have done, it is better off dispatching buses -- those operated by the state government run Kadamba Transport Corporation or those that have been arranged through private operators -- to help stranded Goans return home. The buses are coordinated by the Interstate Movement Cell that has been set up specifically for the purpose. At least 6,200 people have approached the cell for help in being brought home (in some states the number runs into lakhs) . While most bus trips are of a shorter duration and involve bringing students from Kerala or neighbouring Karnataka, buses by the Kadamba Transport Corporation have travelledas far as Udaipur in Rajasthan and Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh. “The movement is planned through judicious use of buses in consultation with nodal officials of different states,” the state government said in a statement. “Once they register on the Goa government portal, those wishing to be brought back are informed through sms/calls by the control room once the travel plan for a particular destination is finalised,” the statement added. Over the last week, 15 buses have brought back to Goa 241 people stranded from Kerala (Kasargod), Karnataka (Mangluru, Bengaluru, Belgaum,Hubli, Dharwad, Khanapur, Jamboti and Gadag), Maharashtra (Navi Mumbai, Pune), Gujarat (Ahmedabad,Vadodara and Surat), Dadra and Nagar Haveli.“Driving a Volvo is relaxing. However, crossing the state borders, changing routes due to blockages in Red Zones, waiting in long queues for constant security checks was hectic. This was an unforgettable experience,” Savlo Parab, 55, a driver of the KTCL who drove to Ratlam, said. The journeys are fraught with risk; a Goa bound bus that began its journey from Chennai via Bengaluru met with an accident injuring 21 passengers after the driver allegedly dozed off at 4:30 am in Gadag, Karnataka. But barring this solitary incident, the bus-based evacuation model has worked well for the state. “Today, I am proud and feel more responsible. The government has arranged the trip well. Each person was provided with masks and sanitizers, food and other essentials. We did not halt anywhere except for food,” Mahesh Khanolkar, 45, another driver said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-bus-covers-2-800km-to-pick-up-migrants-from-bengal/story-fW8yh50Iuw0nzNuC4mtpRJ.html
17-05-2020||India||Lockdown spells cleaner air with stubble burning at lowest in 5 yrs||The heavily polluted Indo-Gangetic plains have recorded the lowest agriculture residue burning this year since 2016, satellite images from US space agency NASA have shown.Researchers and government officials said of the several reasons behind the decline in the springtime farm fire count could be the nationwide lockdown after the outbreak of Covid-19.“Springtime fire activities (mostly agricultural) over the Indo-Gangetic Plain have been the lowest this year in comparison to the last five years during the Covid-19-led lockdown period,” Hiren Jethva, a researcher from Universities Space Research Association at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, tweeted on Saturday.Although the National Capital Region gets engulfed in smoke from stubble burning during the winter season, particularly in the villages of Haryana and Punjab, rabi crop residues are also burnt during this time of the year across north India. Air pollution is, however, much lower during summer because of favourable meteorological conditions such as strong winds.Graphs and data tweeted by Jethva showed that while in 2016 the cumulative fire count between April 15 and May 15 was around 70,000, in 2020 the figure has come down to around 10,000 during the same period across various north and central Indian states located in the plains. In 2019, the fire count registered a rise, the data shows.Top officials from the state pollution control boards of Punjab and Haryana confirmed that there has been a sharp drop in stubble burning incidents this year till date.“In 2019 there were around 5,768 such incidents in Haryana till May 15. In 2020 we have recorded around 2,430 incidents. The lockdown effect could be one reason. A clearer picture will emerge when the harvest is completed by the end of May and we take the final survey,” said S Narayanan, member secretary of the Haryana Pollution Control Board. “We have seen the NASA maps and analysed fire counts in the National Capital Region. There is definitely a decline in such incidents. The restrictions during the all-India lockdown and the shortage of labour could be the reasons,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury executive director (research and advocacy) at the Centre for Science and Environment in New Delhi.Though Jethva suggested lower crop volumes could be an additional factor for the decline in stubble burning, government officials said the harvest has been good this year.The reasons notwithstanding, the fall in air pollution levels should come as welcome news. As HT has reported earlier, SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, can cling to air pollutants. Tests conducted in Italy have found the same. Also, air pollution is likely to be a major risk factor for coronavirus disease mortality, scientists have concluded.“There has been a definite decline in the number of fire incidents. The reasons behind this need to be verified -- whether it is because of the shortage of labour, whether crop yield is low this time or some other reason. This could provide some vital inputs for future planning,” said Sagnik Dey, coordinator of the Center of Excellence for Research on Clean Air (CERCA) and associate professor at the Centre for Atmospheric Sciences (CAS) at the Indian Institute of Technology in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-spells-cleaner-air-with-stubble-burning-at-lowest-in-5-yrs/story-riZBgY6noMqeB8ih4nNNOJ.html
17-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: An arduous journey back home for migrant workers||It’s a few minutes to midnight on Friday. Around 35 km from Raipur city, a truck ferrying about 70 migrants including women and children is standing on the Raipur-Bilaspur highway.A bitter altercation is going on between the migrants -- most have alighted from the truck -- and the driver. “Lootat hass tola”, (You are looting us) ,” cries Lalit Banjare a resident of Bemetra district of the state, speaking in Chhattisghari. “We booked this truck from Pune for Rs 1.5 lakh to ferry us to Navagarh tehsil of Bemetra..Now the driver is asking Rs 500 more from each of us”. Banjare doesn’t want to pay up but everyone else is keen to be on their way. . “Thoda door aur hai...jhagda na karo...(It’s only a short distance (home); don’t fight)” a woman intervenes. The truck left Pune on Wednsday. The money is finally arranged but Banjare is almost in tears. The driver looks embarrassed. “The owner demanded ...I am just a driver.”Chattisgarh lies in the heart of India, a link between the south and the north and the east and the west. It shares borders with Andhra and Telangana to the south; Maharahtra and Madhya Pradesh to the West; Odisha to the east; and Uttar Pradesh and Jharkand to the north. Thousands of migrants from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu cross Chhattisgarh each day to reach Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. They move mostly at night. A little after the altercation on the highway; Tatiband Square, the entry into the city from Maharashtra and other states is packed with migrants.Two roads lead away from the square -- one to Odisha and the other towards Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.The Chhattisgarh government has arranged food, water and buses for the migrants.“The buses are arranged by district administration, regional transport office (RTO) and NGOs. About 4,000 migrants are ferried to Jharkhand, Odisha and within the state every day,” said Sandeep Kumar, a social activist who arranges buses for migrants at Telibandha square. But some migrants, especially those travelling to locations in Chattisgarh are in a hurry and do not want to wait for buses; others, who have longer distances to travel, wait. Most of those who do not wait “travel by hitching rides on trucks,” said Kumar.Four constables of Chhattisgarh police have worked out a good system. They stop every truck which heads towards UP, MP, Bihar and Jharkand , and get some migrants on board. It’s an informal system -- but it works. “I am here for the last three days... We stop trucks, ask their destination , and urge them to ferry migrants to their destination... The Chhattisgarh government has also arranged buses for them but still most of them travel on their own,” said Chandrahas Verma, one of the four constables. Well after midnight , on the Raipur -Odisha highway, about 60 km from Raipur, a group of 40 migrants are sleeping in a truck lay-by. About 14 auto-rickshaws, owned by these migrants, are parked in the lay-by. The migrants are travelling from Mumbai to Jharkhand in the auto rickshaws. “We started our journey on Tuesday from Mumbai with these auto-rickshaws. My village is about 1850 km from Mumbai... We travel whole day and camp anywhere in the night. Now around 500 km is left,” says Jahangir Ali.“This is the time of Ramzan but most of us cannot fast because we are travelling and it is very difficult to sustain due to immense heat,” Ali adds.The group says most of them won’t return to Mumbai. “It is better to do farming than to get stuck in some big city. We have decided to live in our native village for next couple of years because we cannot survive in big cities,” says Anas, who gives only one nameFurter ahead on Raipur-Odisha road, a dozen migrants are camped near a Dhaba, r waiting for a ride. “We took a lift from a truck from Tatiband Chauk in the evening with the help of policemen. The driver forcibly dropped us here. We have no option now but to wait till morningt,” says Diwakar Ravi, on is way to Jharkand. The Chhattishgarh government says 67,441 of its migrant workers from different parts of the country have reached the state till Friday. These labourers came on trains and buses provided by the state government. According to labour commissioner Sonmani Bora, around 240000 migrants from Chattisgarh have registered with the state government, seeking a ride back to the state. The state has no record of the number of migrants entering it on their way to other states. At Tatiband Chauk , a young migrant worker, travelling from Nagpur to Varanasi is sitting on his suitcase . It’s time to call home. “Raipur mein hun ..kal shaam tak pahuch jaaunga …khana mil gaya hai yahan (I am in Raipur; I will be home tomorrow evening; I’ve got food here),” Saraj Kumar tells his mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-arduous-journey-back-home/story-XSKFZwDYprqtrLD1ACuxSK.html
17-05-2020||India||35 more migrants die in accidents across states||Road accidents claimed the lives of 35 migrant workers in two states on Saturday, the latest in a string of fatalities among some of the most vulnerable sections of the population who left urban centres in the hundreds of thousands and are on treacherous journeys back home after the nationwide shutdown since March 25 dried up jobs and wages.In two of the incidents, which claimed the lives of 31, the victims were perched on cargo being carried in trucks before they were rear-ended at a high speed. In one of the other cases, the victims were mowed down by a speeding truck when they had parked to refill fuel in their autorickshaw. The deadliest of the accidents took place in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya. “The victims were in a stationary truck that was hit by a trailer near a dhaba (roadside eatery). The truck was carrying bags of wheat flour, and most of the labourers were seated on these bags. Most of the victims died when they were crushed under these bags. Some succumbed to injuries on the way to hospital,” said Abhishek Singh, the district magistrate of Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya, where 25 died. The group, which included people employed as labourers in Rajasthan, comprised people headed to Jharkhand, West Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The accident took place around 3:15am and local police officials said they suspected the driver of the vehicle that crashed into the victim’s truck had fallen asleep.On the Lucknow-Agra expressway, another truck driver who is believed to have fallen asleep at the wheel crashed into a parked vehicle on Saturday, killing a man and a woman who were travelling with their five-year-old son to Bihar from Haryana. The duo had gotten off the vehicle and refilling it with petrol when they were mowed down. The child survived the accident. Police said the couple died on the spot and were identified with the help of the driving licence and Aadhaar Card recovered from them. The lockdown since March 25, put in place to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has left hundreds of thousands of people without work, wages and, often, food – forcing most of them to set out on gruelling journeys on foot. There have been several instances of people succumbing to the exhaustion in peak summer heat, while others have been run over on roads and train tracks. On May 13, six migrants walking to their homes in Bihar were crushed to death by a speeding truck in Muzaffarnagar. On May 8, 16 migrant workers were run over by a train in Maharashtra after they fell asleep on the tracks out of exhaustion. In Madhya Pradesh, eight migrants were killed in three separate road accidents on Saturday, police said.At least 29 others were injured in these accidents which took place in Sagar, Guna and Barwani districts.Six of the fatalities -- four women and two men -- were from the accident near Sagar, said superintendent of police (SP) Amit Sanghi. The group was heading for Uttar Pradesh from Maharashtra when the truck carrying them overturned on Sagar-Kanpur Road, 70 km from Sagar district headquarters, at around 10 am.Five of them were killed on the spot and 19 others injured. They were rushed to a government hospital at Banda, where one victim died later.The truck was carrying bundles of clothes on top of which migrant travellers were sitting, police said.A woman who was among survivors said they were three families returning from Nalasopara near Mumbai to UP.In the accident at Guna, a man was killed when the tempo in which he was travelling overturned near Bhadora.Sub divisional magistrate Shivani Garg said that a family from Dharavi in Mumbai was returning from Pratapgarh in UP, where they had been stuck due to lockdown, when the tempo overturned while trying to avoid hitting a bike.In Barwani district, a 22-year-old man, resident of Azamgarh (UP), was killed when another vehicle rammed into the truck in which he was traveling from behind near Gavghati on Agra-Mumbai Road in the afternoon.According to activists tracking media reports, more than a third of the 381 fatalities in road crashes since March 25 – the day the lockdown began – have been of migrant workers returning home. “The remaining crashes have resulted in the deaths of essential workers, such as health care professionals,” said Piyush Tewari of road safety advocacy group SaveLife Foundation. The figures collated by Tewari were based on media reports of accidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/35-more-migrants-die-in-accidents-across-states/story-roakcbB2UfTRIVBklm1gyO.html
17-05-2020||India||Don’t act as moneylender, give cash aid, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the government should not be a “sahukar [money lender]” and argued in favour of cash assistance instead of loans to tide over the coronavirus (Covid-19) crisis while warning of an impending economic crisis.“When a child is hurt, the mother does not offer a loan. As a citizen, my disappointment is the [Rs 20 lakh crore] package should not be of loans but for giving money in hands. The government should not be a sahukar,” said Gandhi while interacting with journalists from the regional media via videoconferencing.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced the 20 lakh crore economic package to help individuals and businesses deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown enforced to combat its spread. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who has been providing details of the scheme, on Thursday announced assistance involving free food grains, cheaper loans, and affordable housings as part of the package. Gandhi asked the government to consider rolling out the Nyuntam Aay Yojana, or Nyay, which the Congress had proposed as a social welfare programme in its 2019 national election manifesto. Under the scheme, the Congress had proposed to distribute Rs 72,000 cash annually among 20% of India’s poorest, or 250 million people. Gandhi said the scheme should be implemented temporarily in urban areas while the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) must be strengthened in the rural areas. The Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government introduced the MGNREGS in 2006 to provide 100 days of work annually to at least one member of every rural household. The demand for work under the MGNREGS has surged as hundreds of thousands of migrant workers left jobless by the Covid-19 lockdown have returned from big cities to their homes since late March.Gandhi said he has heard the government was not giving the money because it wants to retain ratings. “Our ratings are made by our farmers, our workers and businessmen. When people will start working, India’s ratings will improve,” he said as he warned the government of an impending economic storm.Gandhi said the most important thing now is to “fire demand and supply”. He added while infrastructure is certainly the key, the government must give money in the hands of the poor. “If you want to start an engine, you have put fuel in the carburettor. The fuel is cash. We must have a national strategy for income. We cannot sacrifice our economy...,” Gandhi said. He said in a short time, small and medium businesses, farmers, migrant labourers and people in the high-risk category need to be protected.Gandhi refused to compare the 1991 economic crisis when the Congress government ushered in the economic reforms with the current situation. He refused to indulge in a political blame game with the government and said his party will apply pressure “pyaar se [with love]” on the government to accept its proposals.Gandhi cited the steps taken by the Congress-ruled states to help the poor and migrant workers. He did not hesitate in contrasting their responses with those where the Congress is part of coalition governments. “There is a difference between Congress and an alliance government. If you look at the Congress-ruled states like Chhattisgarh, you will see a very aggressive strategy. But in an alliance, we try to put pressure through conversations,” he said when asked about the lack of services allegedly offered by Maharashtra for migrant workers.Senior BJP leader and MP Rakesh Sinha said: “Rahul Gandhi speaks like a feudal lord and he considers the government of the day as his fief. This government has been doing everything, taking into account two major aspects – making India an economic superpower and performing on the principle of catch-up. Secondly, another paradigm of government policy and program has been strengthening the economic foundation of the marginalized people of the country who form the majority. Therefore, Rahul Gandhi’s observation shows his lack of understanding of a dynamic government and its dynamic leader”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-act-as-moneylender-give-cash-aid-says-rahul/story-Tca8WUeATOALAdYkKSkV9N.html
17-05-2020||India||Following industry demand, Centre allows export of woven masks||Almost two months into the lockdown, the central government Saturday eased some restrictions on the exports of masks. In a circular, the Directorate General of Foreign Trade made modifications to its earlier order and allowed the export of non-medical masks made of woven cloth such as silk, wool and cotton, as well as knitted ones. All other masks under the Indian Trade Clarification based on Harmonised System of Coding remain prohibited for exports. On January 31, the government had banned the exports of all categories of personal protection equipment (PPE) but allowed exports of 2-ply and 3-ply surgical masks from February 8, inviting criticism from the Opposition. The textile ministry said that it did so after it was assured by the industry of adequate supply . N95 and N99 masks, which are used by health-workers and Covid patients in hospitals, as well as two and three-ply masks used in surgeries are non-woven and made of meltblown fabric, which ministry officials defined as a “critical component”. “There is a shortage of meltblown fabric the world over, not just in India, and we cannot part with the masks made of the material at this critical point,” an official said. Days before the lockdown was announced on March 24, key government officials in a meeting helmed by the textiles secretary on March 18 pegged the shortage of 10.5 lakh N95 masks and 10 lakh masks. Since then India has reached the capacity to produce 2lakh N95 masks daily, prime minister Modi said during his address on May 19.Ashok Juneja of the Textile Association of India said that as garment industry does not have any orders, the move will help generate income. “The woven ones are washable and can be reused, and in the near future, the usage of masks will increase,” said Juneja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/following-industry-demand-centre-allows-export-of-woven-masks/story-8Qdr1p2F7XwAcXSLIg3s6N.html
17-05-2020||India||Govt advises buddy system for doctors||The Union health ministry has advised hospitals to start a “buddy system” wherein a team of two or more staffers is formed that covers for each other in terms of ensuring that infection control practices are adequately followed while managing patients.“...Under this approach, a two- or more-person team is formed amongst the deployed hospital staff who share responsibilities for his/her partner’s safety and well-being in the context of (i) Appropriately donning and doffing of PPEs, (ii) maintaining hand hygiene and (iii) taking requisite steps on observing breach of PPEs,” read the health ministry advisory issued on Friday.“It is a way of ensuring that important steps aren’t missed in the entire infection prevention exercise while on duty. There is a possibility one person might miss a step which the other person in the team would notice and alert his or her partner. This is a step taken for ensuring multiple layers of check and balances so that the risk is minimised,” said a health ministry official. The step has been taken amid growing concerns of a large number of health care workers getting isolated for fear of having contracted coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection, resulting in overall disease management getting affected due to shortage of staff in hospitals.If there is any breach in the protective gear then the team is expected to inform the nodal officer immediately, so that preventive actions can be taken to minimise the risk of infection. The nodal officer will get the exact details of exposure to ascertain whether the exposure constitutes a high risk or low risk exposure, and advises action accordingly.“The health care personnel working in hospitals are at increased risk of acquiring the Covid-19 disease, if there is a breach in the personal protection while managing patients. The health workforce is a valuable and scarce resource. Large number of Covid-19 affected health personnel getting isolated for treatment and their close contacts undergoing quarantine affects the health/ hospital service delivery,” read the advisory.Hospitals have been advised to strictly follow the earlier directive asking them to activate its Hospital Infection Control Committee (HICC). The HICC in the health facility will be responsible for implementing the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) activities and organizing regular trainings on infection prevention control practices for health care workers. A Nodal Officer (Infection Control Officer) will be identified by each hospital to address all matters related to health care associated infections.“Provisions have been made for regular (thermal) screening of all hospital staff. All health care workers managing Covid-19 cases are being provided with chemo-prophylaxis under medical supervision. Provisions have been made for prompt reporting of breach of PPE by the hospital staff and follow up action…” the advisory further says.The experts also say that there is no alternative to strictly adopting routine infection control practices such as regular hand washing, use of alcohol based hand sanitizer, respiratory etiquettes (using tissue/handkerchief while coughing or sneezing), etc.“The ministry has been time and again issuing detailed infection prevention and other guidelines that must be followed properly by all health care workers. Safety of our front-line health care workers is priority for us as they are the backbone of our fight against Covid-19,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-advises-buddy-system-for-doctors/story-1ZoSraoy4o8zPgCdHmy5rI.html
17-05-2020||India||Need Centre nod to raise funds: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Several state governments have urged the Centre to relax the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act which will allow them to raise more funds to spend on boosting the economy which has been hit by the Covid-19 crisis and the ongoing nationwide lockdown, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Saturday.Interacting with journalists through video conferencing, Chouhan said he felt the next phase of the lockdown would give significant room for kick-starting economic activities even though curbs would be firmly in place in severely affected zones.The Madhya Pradesh government could even offer a package to some like salons and barbers as they may have to continue to keep their businesses shut, the chief minister said. Chauhan said his government had assigned top priority to ensure that migrants passing through the state to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand etc are facilitated.“States have requested the Centre to make relaxations in the FRBM Act to allow them to raise more funds. The Centre is considering this request. Presently, the act allows a state to raise funds amounting to 3.5% of its GDP and if this limit is raised by a couple more points, Madhya Pradesh can raise ₹15,000 crore more which can be used to boost the economy,” he said.Chouhan also called for proper coordination among states to ensure that migrant workers are provided transport to their homes. The MP government has deployed 1,000 buses to ferry migrant workers, Chouhan said.With the third phase of lockdown ending Sunday and Prime Minister Narendra Modi speaking of an “entirely different lockdown-4.0”, Chouhan said the focus should be on speeding up economic activities while ensuring that Covid-19 is contained. “We will have to fight the virus and take measures to kick-start the economy,” Chouhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-centre-nod-to-raise-funds-mp-cm/story-l33UhmD2TGusONC1FpMwoK.html
17-05-2020||India||Phishing attacks around Aarogya Setu app on the rise, says Cert-In||India’s cyber security agency CERT-In has issued an alert saying phishing attacks in the name of the government’s contact tracing application – Aarogya Setu -- are spiking as cyber criminals try to take advantage of the pandemic.The advisory states that “Aarogya Setu app-focused phishing (attacks) have seen a high rise . Scammers impersonate as HR department, CEO, or any other known person and target users by sending messages such as “your neighbour is affected”, “see who all are affected”, “someone who came in contact with you tested positive”, “recommendations to self-isolate”, and “guidelines to use Aarogya Setu”. When recipients click on such messages, they are asked to provide some information, usually personal or financial. The most common form of phishing is from websites that impersonate a recipient’s bank or credit card company, hoping to elicit personal financial information. The advisory, however, did not mention the number of such phishing cases or the rise thereof.Phishing is a cybercrime in which a target is contacted by email, telephone or text message by someone posing as a legitimate institution and are lured into providing sensitive data such as banking and credit card details.The CERT-In or Indian Computer Emergency Response System is a government-mandated information technology (IT) security organisation whose purpose is to respond to computer security incidents, report on vulnerabilities and promote effective IT security practices throughout the country. “New phishing domains are created which are centered around subjects like ‘relief package’, ‘safety tips during corona’, ‘corona testing kit’, ‘corona vaccine’, ‘donation during corona,” the CERT-In advisory said. Pavan Duggal, one of the top cyber experts in the country, said: “ We don’t have strong laws on cyber security and things like phishing are not directly covered by IT Act. The Act needs to be amended.”He also added that the Aarogya Setu app isn’t secure enough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phishing-attacks-around-aarogya-setu-app-on-the-rise-says-cert-in/story-1Fqqehn531nf3YU8JvV9BM.html
17-05-2020||India||Vizag cops thrash suspended doctor, tie his hands and drag him on road for allegedly creating nuisance||Visakhapatnam police on Saturday roughed up a doctor, tied his hands and dragged him on the road for allegedly creating nuisance in public and abusing the state government in an inebriated condition.Videos of a bare-chested Dr K Sudhakar, being kicked by a police constable and floored on the road, went viral on social media, drawing criticism from the opposition parties.Sudhakar, an anesthesiologist at Narsipatnam government hospital was suspended last month on disciplinary grounds for alleging the government was not providing an adequate number of PPE kits and N-95 masks to the doctors.The police constable tied Dr Sudhakar’s hands behind his back and beat him up before bundling him into an auto-rickshaw to take him to the police station, in the presence of bewildered onlookers.Visakhapatnam police commissioner R K Meena later announced that the constable who behaved rudely with the doctor was placed under suspension, pending an inquiry.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe opposition Telugu Desam Party, CPI and other parties condemned the incident, saying it reflected the law and order situation in the state.“It was an inhuman treatment meted out to a Dalit doctor for questioning the inefficiency of the government. The police and the ruling party leaders are trying to project him as a mentally challenged person to defend their action,” TDP politburo member Varla Ramaiah alleged.The police commissioner told reporters that the police control room had received a call stating that a person was creating nuisance on the highway at Akkayyapalem area. According to him, the fourth town police rushed to the place and ascertained that the person was Dr Sudhakar of Narsipatnam government hospital, presently under suspension.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Sudhakar was in a drunken state and he behaved rudely with the police. He snatched the mobile phone from a constable and threw it away,” the commissioner said. “The doctor is apparently suffering from some psychological problems,” the police commissioner said.Meena said the police took Dr Sudhakar into custody and shifted him to the police station to avoid inconvenience to the traffic on the national highway.“We have sent him to King George Hospital for medical examination. After receiving the medical report, we shall book a case against Sudhakar under appropriate sections of Indian Penal Code,” the commissioner said.In the first week of March, Sudhakar created a flutter by protesting before the media stating that the government was not providing them sufficient N-95 masks and the PPEs meant for doctors were being given to politicians and the police.“We are asked to use the same mask for 15 days before asking for a fresh mask. How can we treat patients risking our lives?” he asked. As the video of his comments went viral in the media, the state government ordered a probe into his allegations and suspended Sudhakar on disciplinary grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vizag-cops-thrash-suspended-doctor-tie-his-hands-and-drag-him-on-road-for-allegedly-creating-nuisance/story-PKkAzUstZwSq7oY5b1tPrJ.html
17-05-2020||India||Bihar elections: BJP to hold booth level meets from May 31||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to allow its election booth management functionaries to begin meetings on a small scale with social distancing measures in place as it seeks to resume political activity in poll-bound Bihar, two functionaries aware of the matter said. A state BJP functionary said the first such meeting will take place on May 31 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s monthly radio broadcast ‘Mann ki Baat’ will be aired. Assembly elections in Bihar, where the BJP is part of the ruling coalition, are due later this year. The polls are crucial since the BJP lost power in the neighbouring Jharkhand last year while it was unable to form the government in Maharashtra despite emerging as the single largest party. In Haryana, the BJP returned to power but with a reduced majority. The Election Commission has put on hold elections to fill vacant seats in the Rajya Sabha as well as by-elections in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have decided that seven people put in charge of a booth in every assembly constituency will gather to hear the broadcast together and that will serve the purpose of restarting political activity without breaking any protocols,” said the functionary on condition of anonymity.The activity will be started as a pilot in 50,000 of 62,000 booth areas across Bihar. Seven booth functionaries, known as ‘saptarishis’, each will gather to hear the broadcast and exchange their feedback. No person from the general public will be allowed to attend the programmes that will be documented and shared through social media, the functionary said.“Though there is little we can do by way of political activity, like gathering or sabhas, we have decided to bolster our presence at the booth level. Earlier there used to be three people in charge, now there are seven, which includes a woman, and representatives from the SC [scheduled caste], ST [scheduled tripe] and EBC [Economically Backward Class] categories,” the functionary said.Asked whether the BJP’s state unit has begun discussions on how to prepare for the election, a second national functionary said the party’s focus is now on providing relief to migrant workers, who have been left jobless because of the Covid-19 lockdown and have been returning to states like Bihar, and combating the pandemic.“It is too early to start preparing for the election, but as a party that has a strong cadre, we have told our members to focus on issues at hand,” the second functionary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-elections-bjp-to-hold-booth-level-meets-from-may-31/story-NjHE0GdfNQoxVA960F5fyJ.html
17-05-2020||India||Lashkar-e-Taiba hideout busted in Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam||A head constable was killed when unidentified militants fired indiscriminately at a joint check-post of the Jammu & Kashmir police and Central Reserve Police Force at Yaripora in Kulgam district on Saturday amid a spike in violence over the last several weeks in the Union Territory.In a statement, the police identified the head constable as Mohammad Amin Bagat. It added he sustained grievous gunshot injuries and later succumbed to his injuries. The statement said that the security forces have launched a search operation in the area to track down the attackers.The policeman was killed on a day when security forces busted a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) module in Budgam district and arrested five persons, Zahoor Wani, Younis Mir, Aslam Sheikh, Parvaiz Sheikh, and Rehman Lone. Police said Wani also led security forces to an underground hideout. “As per the police records, they were involved in providing logistic support and shelter to the active terrorists of LeT operating in the area,” a police spokesman said.The police on Friday said it arrested three overground LeT workers from Baramulla town. Two operations separately launched in Pulwama district since Friday night have also led to the recovery of arms and ammunition. “This recovery emerged as a big success in thwarting nefarious design of terrorists against security forces and averted a major terrorist-related incident planned in Pulwama,” the spokesman said. It added the recovery is another major blow to Hizbul Mujahideen since the killing of its top commander Riaz Naikoo this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-let-hideout-busted-in-budgam/story-FTBWnB4N81O456WjcC5aCK.html
17-05-2020||India||Covid-19 is the new reality as lockdown exit gets closer||As states plan to exit the national lockdown and restricted travel resumes, social distancing, wearing masks and washing hands will be the only defence against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). With infections likely to rise after restrictions are relaxed and the anticipated second wave hitting the world, some amount of social distancing will have to continue through 2022, said Harvard researchers in the journal, Science, on Wednesday.In India, even with states planning to move towards a staggered lifting of the lockdown, the number of cases will continue to rise because the absolute number of cases is high. How the outbreak evolves over the next few weeks will depend on the lessons learned so far from infection trends, including clustering.“You can’t police social distancing; people must learn to protect themselves. The acid test will be how we behave as we exit from the lockdown in the next few days,” said Dr Ambarish Dutta, associate professor of epidemiology and public health, Indian Institute of Public Health, Bhubaneswar. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“Studies show infected people take on average five to six days to develop symptoms, but are infective from day one. Some people have no symptoms and others have mild disease, but still infect others. Lockdowns prevent undiagnosed infected people from stepping out and infecting others, but with less restricted travel, chances of exposure increase, so we need to be extremely cautious,” said Dutta.As India prepares to loosen lockdown measures, knowing who is most at risk of infection is critical. India has finally begun population-level surveillance of random samples, with pool testing for current infection and antibody testing for past infection, to help guide policy and help people protect themselves.Also Read: 30 cities should have maximum restrictions in lockdown 4.0: OfficialThe world’s first study on who is at risk of both infection and severe disease shows that older people, men, obese people, the poor, those living in densely populated areas, and people with chronic kidney disease are more likely to test positive for Covid-19.Unlike previous studies that have established trends from hospital data for the people with severe symptoms, the study, published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases journal, analyses electronic health records of 3,802 people who visited doctors’ clinics in England between January 28 and April 4.“The risk of infection among the general population remains a grey area. It’s important to know which groups in the wider community are most at risk of infection so that we can better understand SARS-CoV-2 transmission and how to prevent new cases,” said study author professor Simon de Lusignan from the University of Oxford, and director of the Royal College of GPs Surveillance Centre, UK.Hospital-based studies have found that being older, male, and having underlying diseases like hypertension and diabetes cause more severe disease and death. The Lancet study has found that most underlying diseases such as hypertension, diabetes and heart disease did not raise susceptibility to infection, as neither did household size.Also Read: 6-year-old untouched by Covid-19 despite 15-day exposure to ill patientsThe only clinical conditions associated with higher susceptibility to infection was chronic kidney disease and obesity. Of 207 people with chronic kidney disease, 32.9% tested positive, compared with 14.4% without kidney disease. Around 20.9% people who were obese tested positive, compared with 13.2% people with healthy weight.The study also found smokers were less likely to test positive than non-smokers, which study authors said was due to confounding factors and because of a protective effect of smoking. “This result does not indicate that smoking protects against infection, and there are many potential alternative explanations – such as smoking hampering the sensitivity of the Sars-CoV-2 test, or smokers being more likely to have chronic cough so being more likely to be tested despite not having the virus. Apart from the well-documented health damage from smoking, smoking increases the severity of Covid-19, and so our findings should not be used to conclude that smoking prevents Sars-CoV-2 infection, or to encourage smoking,” said professor de Lusignan.The study confirmed earlier findings of older people and men being at higher risk of disease. People between the ages of 40 and 64 years were at the greatest risk of testing positive (18.5%), compared with children younger than 17 (4.6%). Around 18.4% men tested positive, compared with 13.3% of women, which suggests that gender differences in poor outcomes are in part related to differential infection susceptibility.Two preprint studies that examined population level risks showed increased risks of Covid-19 deaths in hospitals with older age, male sex, obesity, and poverty. Underlying diseases such as hypertension and diabetes and smoking play a more important role in disease progression and poor outcomes in hospital studies than in developing infection, The Lancet study suggests. The study did not measure socioeconomic factors that raise infection risk, including high-risk jobs such as health and municipal workers.Going out with protection and social distancing is safer than being in a closed environment with infected people because the wind disperses the virus and the sun and humidity make it less transferable in sparsely populated areas.Also Read: Agra attains cure rate of 61 %, 96 Covid-19 patients discharged in 24 hrsThe chances of getting infected from contaminated surfaces such as doors, railings, elevator buttons, table tops and shelves in shops and public places is high, as washing hands and avoiding touching your mouth, nose, eyes or the part of the mask that covers your face is crucial.What works in India’s favour is its demography. “Most of India’s workforce, including the migrants going home, is predominantly young and are likely to recover and become non-infective very quickly. In countries like Italy and Spain, the deaths have been predominantly in older people in care homes,” said Dutta.“The challenge for India will be preventing infection in public transport, retail markets and wholesale markets, which can seed large outbreaks, as evident from Chennai and Delhi wholesale mandis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/healthwise-who-is-at-risk-of-infection-age-gender-obesity-kidney-disease-poverty-play-a-role/story-ziZpX8r0x8sbWcJf7Oj27I.html
17-05-2020||India||24 migrants killed in road accident in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya||More than 20 migrant labourers were killed and dozens were injured after the truck they were travelling in collided with another vehicle in Auraiya district of Uttar Pradesh early on Saturday, reports said.The trailer truck, carrying around 50 migrant labourers, was coming from Rajasthan when it collided with a van coming from Delhi in Auraiya district’s Mihauli area, reports said.“The incident took place at around 3:30am… Most of them are from Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal,” Abhishek Singh, Auraiya’s district magistrate, was quoted as saying by ANI.WATCH | At least 24 migrants killed in accident in UP’s Auraiya, CM Yogi orders probe “Twenty-four people were brought dead, 22 have been admitted and 15 who were critically injured have been referred to Saifai PGI,” Archana Srivastava, Auraiya’s Chief Medical Officer (CMO), said, according to ANI.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has taken note of the accident in Auraiya and expressed his deepest condolences to the families of the labourers who lost their lives, Awanish Awasthi, the additional chief secretary (home), said.The chief minister has also directed that all the injured must be provided with medical care immediately and the commissioner and inspector general of police (Kanpur) to visit the site and give a report on the cause of the accident immediately, Awasthi said.Tens of thousands of people have been walking home from big cities after being laid off because of the lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since late March.Millions of workers were left without work across cities and towns in India when the lockdown was announced on March 24, resulting in the first wave of workers going back to their villages. Every phase of the extension has seen a new wave—the lockdown was extended twice, from April 14 to May 3 and then May 3 to May 17.Before this, 15 migrant workers on their way back home were killed in three accidents, one each in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar earlier this week. On May 8, 16 workers sleeping on tracks were run over by a goods train in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad district. On May 9, five workers were killed in Madhya Pradesh’s Narsinghpur district when the truck in which they were travelling hit the central verge of the road.Police have said close to 100 were also injured in road accidents across states on Thursday, as migrant workers continue to seek rides on trucks, cycle, or just walk on the country’s highways in a struggle to return home. The government, starting May 1, announced special trains for migrant workers, but there are still far too few of them and far too many workers wanting to return home. Some of the workers do not have the documentation required to travel; others have not registered for the trains or buses being run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-migrants-killed-as-truck-collides-with-another-in-up-s-auraiya/story-1T3YPJwRUeSNDqEyZLo3FP.html
