18-05-2020||India||New Delhi building ‘illegal’ defence facilities in Galwan Valley, says Beijing||China on Monday accused India of building “illegal” defence facilities in the Galwan Valley region of the disputed Aksai Chin area, which is controlled by Beijing but claimed by New Delhi.Chinese border troops enhanced control measures in the area, a state media report said quoting an anonymous military source.The latest round of conflict comes days after Indian and Chinese soldiers clashed at a remote site near the Sikkim border, which left troops on both sides injured.The nationalistic tabloid published the report on Monday about the developments in the Galwan region.India and China have an unresolved border dispute that has cast a shadow on ties for decades.Protracted rounds of negotiations have failed to resolve the 3,488km long border dispute between the two neighbours.Troops from the two countries had clashed at the Galwan Valley region ahead of the 1962 war.Neither the Chinese foreign or defence ministries had commented on the latest incident until Monday evening.“In a resolute response to India’s recent, illegal construction of defence facilities across the border into Chinese territory in the Galwan Valley region, Chinese border defence troops have made the necessary moves and enhanced control measures,” the report said, quoting a Chinese military source.China says the area is located in the Hotan prefecture of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR).“Since early May, India has been crossing the boundary line in the Galwan Valley region and entering Chinese territory. The Indian-side built defence fortifications and obstacles to disrupt Chinese border defence troops’ normal patrol activities, purposefully instigated conflicts and attempted to unilaterally change the current border control situation,” the report said.The report said the region belongs to China.“The Galwan Valley region is Chinese territory, and the local border control situation was very clear. The actions by the Indian side have seriously violated China and India’s agreements on border issues, violated China’s territorial sovereignty and harmed military relations between the two countries, according to the source”.“…China’s border defence troops have taken necessary measures to strengthen an on-the-spot response and control of border areas, resolutely safeguarding China’s sovereignty and security and maintaining peace and stability in border areas”.The report added that troops from both sides were in contact with each other about the current situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-delhi-building-illegal-defence-facilities-in-galwan-valley-says-beijing/story-2Yk7GVK8oSEJOaBv6WUJ2M.html
18-05-2020||India||France to help Indians begin virtual classes||France said on Monday it is exploring novel ways to maintain cooperation with India amid the Covid-19 crisis, especially in education, and has augmented the proportion of scholarships for this academic year by 50% or ₹10 crore. The efforts are focused on maintaining people-to-people exchanges despite the lockdown and suspension of events. France also intends to turn the Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity to boost partnerships in education, research and culture.France is fully geared to enable the start of the academic year for new students through virtual classrooms, if necessary. Authorities are hoping students will be able to join their classes in France in autumn, if not September.“France has also augmented its proportion of scholarships by 50%—equivalent to ₹10 crore—for this academic year. These scholarships will be awarded regardless of whether a student starts the semester in India or France,” a statement from the French embassy read.French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said: “The strategic partnership between India and France is nurtured through strong people-to-people ties. As France and India gradually emerge from their lockdowns, their exchanges will serve as building blocks for a new world and a common future.”Trusted global scientific collaboration is the need of the hour since no country can achieve a breakthrough alone in the Covid-19 crisis, he said. “Our country recognises that education will play a critical role in shaping a post-pandemic world, and thus reiterates that Indian students and researchers are welcome in France,” he added.Notwithstanding logistical and planning challenges, France will continue to welcome Indian students for higher studies. France has taken care of its foreign students on an equal footing with their French counterparts, ensuring their safety and well-being through its social and public healthcare system. Visas and scholarships were extended, where necessary, amid the Covid-19 crisis. The French Embassy will also organise a virtual version of its biannual “Choose France Tour” at the end of September for the intake of students for the 2021 academic session. This will enable more French institutions to interact with students from all over India.The French government is also committed to the National Plan for Open Science, and the third edition of the Indo-French Knowledge Summit is scheduled in Pune in 2021 to bring health and the environment into greater focus.French network programmes are adapting to the situation arising from the Covid-19 pandemic, and Alliance Française centres in more than 13 Indian cities have arranged online classes during the lockdown. This has ensured continuity in French language lessons for more than 31,000 students.The statement said France remains one of the most affordable destinations for higher education, with many institutions boasting some of the highest global standards and offering more than 1,500 courses taught in English. Business and engineering programmes are the most sought after, though France has courses in niche areas as well.The latest global rankings have shown four of the six best animation schools of the world are in France, including Rubika, which has a campus in Pune. On the cinematic front, while the Cannes festival will be missed, a film market will be held online in June and there will be online professional meetings for the film industry. “With more and more streaming platforms, there is a great potential for Indo-French collaborations and exchanges,” the statement read.The French embassy is continuing collaborations with Indian partners, such as the launch of the Serendipity Arles grant that provides opportunities for artists from South Asia to participate in the Arles Photography Festival next year. The Assises Internationales du Roman/Villa Gillet in Lyon recently saw the virtual participation of Indian writers. India will also be the guest of honour at the 2021 Paris Book Fair, for which preparations are underway. The French Institute in India, through its #ifionlineprogramme, is bringing France to Indian homes through films, documentaries, museum visits, online training, and dance and music performances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-to-help-indians-begin-virtual-classes/story-Qpy9U7NIjRISVDUNuxnP3L.html
18-05-2020||India||Rajasthan man rapes minor daughter, kills her with help of wife: Cops||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her father in Rajasthan’s Alwar and on finding out about her pregnancy, the accused killed her with the help of his wife, police said on Monday. The accused, a resident of Neemrana town in Alwar, has been arrested. The matter came to light when the elder sister and brother-in-law of the minor secretly informed the Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (RSCPCR).Amandeep Kapoor, superintendent of police(SP), Bhiwadi, said that the girl was killed on May 10. “The accused allegedly came to know that the girl has got pregnant after which he, along with his wife, strangulated her to death on May 10 and the next day performed her funeral so that nobody doubted them. But the sister and the brother-in-law of the deceased informed the RSCPCR through a letter” said Kapoor.The RSCPCR sought a factual report of the incident after which police investigated the matter. “We are yet to find out whether she was pregnant or not? We have collected samples from the crematorium and have sent it to forensics for examination. The couple has been arrested and has been sent to judicial custody,” added Kapoor.Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-man-rapes-minor-daughter-kills-her-with-help-of-wife-cops/story-8g1qBuoAaR0Bm81ApmFKpJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Man beats wife to death with rolling pin in front of kids||New Delhi: A man beat his 32-year-old wife to death with a rolling pin in front of their four children in East Delhi’s Harsh Vihar on Sunday afternoon after a domestic quarrel, the police said on Monday.The suspect , identified by his first name as Aftaab, 35, escaped from the scene after the murder. The four children , between the ages of three and eight years, sat with the body for nearly five hours before one of them walked over to their grandmother’s home some lanes away and informed her about the killing.The police found the murder weapon next to the woman’s body. The suspect remains on the run.The alleged killer worked odd jobs for a living. “His first wife had left him a few years ago. Their two children lived with him,” said Ved Prakash Surya, deputy commissioner of police (north-east).About a year ago, Aftaab married Sayema, whose husband had died in a road accident. “Sayema had got lakhs of rupees as compensation after her husband’s death. When she got married to Aftaab, she brought her two children from her first husband to live with him and his two children,” said another senior police officer, who didn’t want to be identified.But the couple would allegedly fight often. “Aftaab suspected Sayema of having an affair. He was also a drunkard and would keep pestering his wife to give him money from the compensation amount. If she refused, he would use the alleged affair as an excuse to beat her up,” said the officer.Aftaab had allegedly beaten up Sayema on Saturday as well. “She had complained to her mother, who lives in another lane of the same neighbourhood, but it had no impact on Aftaab,” said the officer.Around 8 am on Sunday, the couple quarrelled again. “He wanted to go out and buy alcohol. But Sayema refused to give him any money. So he accused her of having an affair and began beating her up,” the officer said.He then picked up the rolling pin from the kitchen and beat her. “Once she fell unconscious, Aftaab banged her head against the wall, picked up some money from the safe and escaped,” said the officer.The four children tried to intervene, but were allegedly pushed away. “The children stayed with the woman’s body from 8am to 1pm. When she didn’t respond, one of them walked to their grandmother’s home and called her,” The officer said.The police were informed and they moved the body to the mortuary of GTB Hospital. “We have registered a case of murder and are searching for Aftaab,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-beats-wife-to-death-with-rolling-pin-in-front-of-kids/story-rTA4Oe5lf2cIb6UsPp3uhL.html
18-05-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 case tally crosses 10,000 mark||With 299 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) being reported in Delhi on Monday, the state’s tally crossed the 10,000 mark within two-and-a-half months of the first case being detected on March 2. Delhi has now reported 10,054 Covid-19 cases and 160 deaths, with 12 deaths recorded in the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. This puts the mortality rate of Covid-19 in Delhi at 1.6%, which is roughly half the national average of 3.09%.Even with the three-member death audit committee adding backlog of deaths to the cumulative total after reviewing hospital case sheets since May 12, Delhi has the second lowest mortality among the five states with the highest number of Covid-19 cases – Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Rajasthan. Only Tamil Nadu, with a mortality rate of 0.69%, has reported fewer deaths than Delhi.Delhi has one of the highest testing rates in the country, with 7,147 tests per million population. The national testing rate for India is 1,671 tests per million population.Around 45% of the people infected have already recovered from the viral infection, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday. So far, 4,485 people of the 10,054 infected have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi. “In Delhi, there are 10,054 cases till date. This is large in number. However, a total of 4,485 persons have been cured/discharged, which is 45% of the total cases,” Kejriwal said during a press conference.So far, 100,311 Covid-19  cases have been recorded in the country and Delhi accounts for 10.02% of them. From housing the nation’s busiest airport to Southeast Delhi’s Nizamuddin area emerging as the biggest cluster of cases following a religious congregation at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in March, there are several reasons for the high caseload in the city.The Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi handled about 180,000 passengers daily, on an average, pre-Covid lockdown, before commercial passenger flights were suspended. Then in later March, Delhi discovered that 2300 people of the thousands who attended a week-long meeting of the Tablighi Jamaat at a hostel-like complex called the Markaz near the Nizamuddin Dargah remained there. When the authorities started the evacuation process on March 31, around 2,300 people were still there. Of them, 1,080 tested positive for the infection. Across the country at least 4,000 Covid-19 cases have been linked to the Delhi gathering. This led to a spike in the number of cases in the first half of Apri. The number of cases started shooting up again in May with over 400 cases being recorded on several days. Delhi breached the highest single-day spike in numbers four times in May -- 427 cases had been recorded on May 3, 428 on May 6, 448 on May 7, and 472 cases on May 21.This corresponds with an increase in the number of tests conducted in the city and laboratories across the capital rushing to deliver Covid-19 test reports with 24 hours of collecting the samples, complying with Delhi government and high court orders. Delhi has tested 139,727 samples since mid-January when the screening for the disease first began. From just one collection centre and no testing laboratory in the city in January, Delhi now has almost 60 sample collection centres and 28 laboratories that test the samples.During the second spike of the cases in Delhi, district authorities pointed out that hospitals were becoming hotspots for the infection, with several health care workers, their family members, and patients visiting hospitals also testing positive. So far, over 500 healthcare workers across the city have tested positive for Covid-19. This includes 106 healthcare workers from Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, around 90 from All India Institute of Medical Sciences, and 75 from Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital.“Many of the cases are coming from hospitals, BSF (Border Security Force), and CISF (Central Industrial Security Force). There have been many cases from the police department, and healthcare workers. Right now, most of the cases are coming from the existing containment zones, we will increase the containment zones as and when needed,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, in an interaction with journalists on Sunday.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said, “The number of infections is higher in places with busy airports, along highways that a lot of people travel on, and in commercial hubs because that is where the infections were first imported by those who had travelled from abroad. Now, the problem areas are the slum populations in the major cities like Delhi and Mumbai as there are many people living in close quarters leading to easy transmission.”“I would have said that the number of cases (across India) would start coming down by June but the travel of migrant workers may take the infections to villages and small town now prolonging the infections for a little longer. However, the good thing is that viruses tend to kill fewer people after every mutation and our population is young so even if there are cases, the mortality will remain low,” said Dr Kishore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capital-s-covid-19-cases-cross-10-000-mark/story-qzHCmLzJ6x7AoewmYk3FfJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Will need Rs 300 cr for quarantine care if 1 lakh people return, says Assam minister||Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Monday that the state would need around Rs 300 crore to provide proper quarantine facilities under Covid-19 protocol if nearly one lakh of its residents return from other states.“The state government is preparing a detailed plan of how much money we can afford to spend on each person in quarantine while ensuring they get good care. Our estimate says, we will have to spend Rs 300 cr if one lakh people are placed in quarantine,” the minister said while addressing a press conference.The Assam government had provided financial assistance of Rs 2,000 each to nearly 4 lakh workers from the state staying outside. As per that figure, it is estimated that nearly 1 lakh of them could return in the next few weeks.Sarma said that the Rs 300 cr figure is only for providing care to the quarantined persons including their stay, food, transportation etc. It would cost additional money to treat those found positive. It would cost nearly Rs 30,000 to keep one person in quarantine for 14 days, he added.“Most of the recent cases that have been detected are of people who were already in quarantine facilities after returning to the state from other parts of the country. It is a good sign as there is no chance of community spread from them,” said Sarma“But if our quarantine system fails, it will pose a big risk. Therefore all our efforts are effective management of facility as well as home quarantine. We are looking at providing good care to in quarantine with one toilet meant exclusively for one person,” he added.Sarma appealed to those stranded outside and wishing to come back to either delay their return or come back in a staggered manner to that it doesn’t put severe stress on their management once they arrive in Assam.“If people come in hordes, we won’t be able to give them proper care and they might have to spend time in quarantine in conditions similar to makeshift relief camps set up during floods. That could mean risk of infection and rise in cases,” he said.Sarma said that the government has coined a new slogan - ‘Ruthless Quarantine With Big Heart’ - which would require strict compliance of mandatory 14 days quarantine for all returnees while giving them good care and facilities.Till Monday 48,000 people had returned back to Assam from states in the northeast, other parts of the country and abroad.With the detection of six new cases on Monday, Assam’s Covid-19 tally rose to 107. While three patients have died, 42 have recovered, 58 are under treatment and two cases have migrated to other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-need-rs-300-cr-for-quarantine-care-if-1-lakh-people-return-says-assam-minister/story-qQJykD89YHDcO7HYBFKgbO.html
18-05-2020||India||Videos of jam sessions by Assam youths to overcome quarantine blues go viral||Spending several days in a Covid-19 quarantine facility can be an unnerving or depressing experience. More so if one has travelled thousands of kilometers to reach home before undergoing quarantine.But what better than music, songs and dance to lift the mood and overcome the monotony of remaining under strict safety and social distancing guidelines. That’s what several youths from Assam did at the quarantine facility set up at Sarusajai stadium in Guwahati.The videos of the impromptu jam sessions by these youths, who returned last week from Delhi by buses, have gone viral and cheered up many in the quarantine facility and others staying inside homes.“Nearly 100 of us from Assam left Delhi on May 10 in four buses and reached Guwahati on May 13 where we were put in quarantine,” said Sudarshan Baruah, a 26-year-old musician from Naharkatiya in Dibrugarh district and now based in Delhi for the past 5 years. Baruah is better known as Mou Ssak (bee hive in Assamese).“Most of us got to know each other during the journey back home. Once in quarantine, we found that several others were also interested in music. Someone took out his guitar, another played the flute and soon we are were jamming,” he added.Mou Ssak has since left the quarantine facility in Guwahati after his Covid-19 test came negative on May 16. He is at present in home quarantine. Same is the case with Mrinmoy Baruah, a 22-year-old from Nazira, who was doing his B Tech internship in Delhi.“While we are kept segregated in quarantine, there was a chance to interact at the few mobile charging points inside. It was while charging our phones, we started taking out our instruments and soon music happened. It was a nice relief from the quiet and sombre mood inside,” said Mrinmoy.“We indulged in these things inside to make ourselves feel better while waiting for results of our tests. Surprisingly, even the health workers and officials manning the quarantine encouraged as since they also needed some relaxation from the tough job at hand,” he added.Besides the songs and music, Mrinmoy and another quarantine resident Rag Barua also did one hour’s rehearsal to make a dance video inside the facility, which has also earned them praise online.“I am not a singer or dancer, but can hum along. It was nice to share our anxieties inside quarantine with fellow residents and indulge in songs and dance to overcome stress,” said Saroj Agnibashya, a graduate from Delhi University who started an Assamese food stall in the nation’s capital this January.Like other of his fellow travelers from Delhi, Saroj’s Covid-19 test also came negative on Monday and he will leave the quarantine facility and go to his home in Rangiya.With detection of six more positive cases on Monday, Assam tally of Covid -19 patients rose to 107 on Monday.Besides smaller facilities in each district, the Assam government has set up six large quarantine facilities at different locations to accommodate the large number of persons returning back. Till Sunday, the state had 13,618 beds available for mass quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/videos-of-jam-sessions-by-assam-youths-to-overcome-quarantine-blues-go-viral/story-u2htqatGOc3WWjmQLBNTaM.html
18-05-2020||India||Karnataka allows buses, taxis to ply as it sees highest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases||Karnataka has announced a series of new measures for lockdown 4:0, which will come into effect from Tuesday and will be in place till May 31, in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease.Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa told mediapersons after holding a Cabinet meeting that state-run buses, private buses, taxis and auto-rickshaws would be allowed to operate from Tuesday. Public parks would remain open between 7 and 9 am and 5 and 7 pm for people to exercise and walk, he added.Auto rickshaws and taxis would be allowed to carry only two passengers at a time. Maxi-cabs that play a key role in rural last-mile connectivity would be allowed to carry three passengers. All buses would be allowed to operate at 50% of their capacity and carry 30 passengers.The CM promised to make good for the losses to be accrued by state-run buses for operating at 50% of their capacity. The public transport will be available on all days, except Sunday, between 7 am and 7 pm.Karnataka has also permitted all commercial establishments to open and operate, except malls and theatres. Earlier, all industrial establishments had been allowed to reopen and operate.Trains will run within the state, but inter-state rail service remains barred.None of the opening up measures is applicable in the containment zones, which will continue to comply with strict lockdown restrictions. Only 50 guests will be allowed to attend a wedding ceremony. Wearing of masks in public is compulsory across the state and anybody flouting the rule will be penalised.On Sundays, the state will observe a complete lockdown and only emergent services will be allowed to function. Yediyurappa made it clear these measures are an experiment that will continue till May 31, and based on how it pans out the government is likely to decide on the next course of action, including re-imposing some of the earlier restrictions, if necessary.The relaxation in lockdown measures came even as the state saw the highest single-day rise in Covid-19 positive cases. Karnataka on Monday registered 99 new Covid-19 positive cases taking its tally to 1246 which includes 37 deaths and 530 discharges. A state health department official who did not want to be identified - as he is not authorized to speak to the media – said, “Nearly 70 of the 99 new cases are people who have had a travel history to Maharashtra. The spike is a cause of concern and we will try to effectively seal down the border even further.”Meanwhile, Deputy CM Ashwath Naryan said that there would be restrictions on the entry of people from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Gujarat and only those who have obtained e-passes on Seva Sindhu app could enter the state till May 31 and the government’s stance would be revised only after that date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-allows-buses-taxis-to-ply-as-it-sees-highest-single-day-rise-in-covid-19-cases/story-U9TxeUQSgqCH4R9rumjzFL.html
18-05-2020||India||No place like home, want to work in Uttarakhand, say migrants||At the Lalkuan railway station in Nainital district on Sunday night, 1,400 migrant workers who travelled on a special train from Ahmedabad seemed delirious with joy at just being in their home state.Bhola Dutt, resident of a village in Champawat district said “I worked in a steel plant in Ahmedabad. I faced so many problems financially due to the lockdown. My landlord took rent till May 14, while we had been sitting home since the lockdown started in March. We were not being given salaries and there was the constant worry of how will we would eat or live. We are now counting on the Uttarakhand government to give us employment opportunities here as we do not want to go back.”Vikas Chamola, a resident of Dharchula in Pithoragarh district said “Lockdown taught that our home state is much safer in comparison to other places in the country. I worked in a hotel in Ahmedabad and after the lockdown was imposed, no one helped me and I was not even getting paid. I will do anything here in my own state, but not go outside now.”Even those working in multinational companies hold the same view after returning to Uttarakhand.Mohan Singh, a resident of Someshwar in Almora district who worked in a multinational company said that in the past one month he spent anxious days and sleepless nights wondering how we will return home.“We stopped getting our salaries as the office was closed and securing every meal seemed like a major task. We hope that the Uttarakhand government gives us employment here now,” he said.On Monday, another 1,595 migrants returned to Nainital from Surat. Savin Bansal, district magistrate Nainital said “Around 1,595 migrants arrived from Surat and each passenger was screened at the station itself.”Out of the 1595, 125 migrants were from Nainital, 417 from Bageshwar, 116 from Champawat, 197 from Almora, 336 from Pithoragarh, 131 from Chamoli, 17 from Dehradun, 14 from Uttarkashi, 125 from Rudraprayag, 51 from Tehri Garhwal, 56 from Pauri Garhwal, 35 from US Nagar and 14 from Haridwar.Bansal said that every migrant was given water bottles, juice, masks and food packets before they were sent to their respective destinations in 61 buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-place-like-home-want-to-work-in-uttarakhand-say-migrants/story-sd9hMDCA0L1HO9xecQE1YM.html
18-05-2020||India||Migrant workers travel with dead bodies of those killed in UP’s Auraiya||The bodies of migrant workers who were killed in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya road accident last week were stuffed in a truck with the workers and sent to West Bengal and Jharkhand late on Sunday night.On being tipped off, the Prayagraj police intercepted the truck near Nawabganj and arranged for separate vehicles.According to information, bodies of at least 17 workers who belonged to West Bengal and Jharkhand were loaded on a DCM truck with some labourers. IG Range Prayagraj KP Singh said the bodies were sent separately in air conditioned ‘dead body van’ and arrangements were made to send the workers to their native places in another vehicle.The authorities said that there are only two hearses in the entire district. Therefore, the bodies were transported in a truck with the injured, a senior official said. It remains unexplained as to why hearses were not requested from adjoining districts like Kanpur, Etawah, Kannauj, Kanpur Dehat. Both commissioner Kanpur division SK Bobde and DM auraiya Abhishek Singh were not available despite repeated attempts.In a development, DM Auraiya has suspended five lekhpals Ankit Agarwal, Lalit Pratap, Shashikant Porwal, Bhupendra Pal and Rocky. These lekhpals were given the responsibility of transporting the bodies of migrant workers.Twenty-four migrant workers had died and 36 injured on Saturday early morning when a trailer truck carrying sacks of lime, along with 43 people, rammed the back of a stationary truck with many other migrant workers sitting in it on the national highway in Auraiya.A police sub-inspector and seven constables were suspended for negligence in discharging duty in connection with the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-travel-with-dead-bodies-of-those-killed-in-up-s-auraiya/story-kFlKkHm7yrdiYWL2vsTdrN.html
18-05-2020||India||Nepal to publish maps showing India’s Kalapani, Lipulekh as its territory||The Nepal government decided on Monday to publish new maps showing Lipulekh and Kalapani, the subject of disputes with India, as part of Nepalese territory amid an escalating border row between the two countries.The decision to show Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani was made at a meeting of the council of ministers chaired by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli.Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali tweeted in Nepali that the council of ministers had decided to publish a new map of the country showing the seven provinces, 77 districts and 753 local administrative divisions, including “Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani”.The official map will be published soon by the land management ministry, he said.Culture and tourism minister Yogesh Bhattarai, in a tweet, thanked Oli and said the council of ministers’ decision “will be written in golden letters in the pages of history”.There was no immediate response from Indian officials. The external affairs ministry has already said Lipulekh, at the centre of a border row over the construction of a road to the border with China, is “completely within the territory of India”.Defence minister Rajnath Singh recently opened the 80-km road that ends at Lipulekh Pass. It was built so that pilgrims going to Kailash-Mansarovar can avoid dangerous high-altitude routes through Sikkim and Nepal.Nepal has also been irked by Indian Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane’s remarks last week that Nepal’s protest against the border road was at the behest of “someone else” – a veiled reference to China. The Indian Army chief is also the honorary chief of the Nepal Army.Monday’s development came barely a day after Gyawali thanked the Indian government for providing medical logistics and kits for 30,000 tests as part of cooperation to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Kathmandu has contending the new road “passes through Nepali territory” and the government summoned the Indian envoy last week to lodge a protest. The border row erupted months after Nepal was irked by the depiction of Kalapani as part of Uttarakhand in new Indian maps showing the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.India has said both sides can resolve such boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue, though such talks would be held after they have dealt with the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-to-publish-maps-showing-india-s-kalapani-lipulekh-as-its-territory/story-qy09NQCvW40C3rvzw2i3QJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Big challenge to tackle Super Cyclone Amphan amid Covid-19 outbreak: NDRF||Warning that Super Cyclone Amphan has the potential to cause extensive damage to the coastlines of Bengal and Odisha during landfall later this week, National Disaster Response Force Director General SN Pradhan on Monday said preparing for the super cyclonic storm amid the Covid-19 pandemic was a “dual challenge” for the force. “Cyclone Amphan is very intense and has the potential to do large-scale damage. It’s a big challenge as the cyclone is striking during the outbreak of Covid-19. We have dedicated 53 teams, including those on standby, for Cyclone Amphan and for the people likely to be affected in Odisha, West Bengal,” the NDRF DG said at a news briefing.Cyclone Amphan developed rapidly into a super cyclone in the Bay of Bengal on Monday afternoon prompting a series of key meetings in New Delhi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday afternoon chaired a meeting of the National Disaster Management Authority to discuss the preparations in place to tackle the cyclonic storm. The Prime Minister has directed that all necessary measures be taken to complete evacuation of people from areas in the cyclone’s path and maintain adequate quantities of essential supplies.ALSO READ | 21 years later, Bengal, Odisha prep for another Super Cyclone, this time AmphanThe super cyclonic storm is expected to make landfall on May 20 between Digha in West Bengal and Hatia Island in Bangladesh, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). It is an extremely severe cyclonic storm with wind speeds ranging from 195 kmph to 250 kmph. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has spoken to the chief secretaries of West Bengal and Odisha on Monday. He told the West Bengal government that as per their request, 13 teams of NDRF have already been pre-positioned in the state, 4 teams are en-route and 4 teams are on standby for relief and rescue operations if needed.Bhalla also assured of any assistance if required from the Centre and said help would be provided immediately.According to definition, a super cyclone usually travels with wind speed velocity of almost 250 kmph and makes a tremendous impact on landfall causing large-scale destruction.“We don’t want to take Amphan lightly as it’s only the second time that India is witnessing a super cyclone after 1999,” Pradhan said. Twenty-one years ago, in 1999, another super cyclonic storm had ravaged large parts of Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal. It had taken Odisha, a number of months to repair the extensive damage that the Super Cyclone had caused back then.Cyclone Amphan will also cause heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of West Bengal and it has the potential to cause extensive damage in the coastal districts of the state, a government statement issued on Monday evening said.The districts of East Medinipur, South and North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Kolkata in West Bengal are likely to be the worst affected due to Cyclone Amphan. The storm is also likely to impact the coastal districts of north Odisha, including Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapada, Bhadrak and Balasore.The IMD has warned of a storm surge of a height of about four-six metres above the astronomical tide, which would inundate the low-lying coastal areas of South and North 24 Parganas, and three-four metres in East Medinipur at the time of landfall, the statement said.The government statement also recommended review of telecommunications in the event of damages caused to them and also to ensure quick resumption of services in the event of any disruption.The Indian Coast Guard and the Navy have deployed ships and helicopters for relief and rescue operations. The Army and the Air Force units in West Bengal and Odisha have also been put on standby to prepare for the Super Cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dual-challenge-to-tackle-super-cyclone-amphan-amid-covid-19-outbreak-ndrf-chief/story-M7clwHhUZB6f9N9dBtjWmN.html
18-05-2020||India||India took all necessary steps well in time to combat Covid-19 pandemic: Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||India took all the necessary steps well in time to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, Union Health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday, asserting that the country has done well in dealing with the disease and is confident of doing better in the months to come.Prime Minister Narendra Modi personally monitored the situation and ensured a preemptive, proactive and graded response, leaving no stones unturned to contain the deadly virus from spreading, Vardhan said, addressing the 73rd World Health Assembly via video conferencing.India undertook the Covid-19 challenge with the highest level of political commitment, he added.Therapeutics, diagnostics and vaccines for the whole world is the only way out of this pandemic, Vardhan asserted. “Global collaboration is paramount. Governments, industry and philanthropy must pool resources to pay for the risk, the research, manufacturing and distribution, but with the condition that the rewards should be available to everyone, regardless of where they have been developed,” he said.His remarks come after India on Monday joined nearly 120 countries at the crucial conference of the World Health Organisation in pushing for an impartial and comprehensive evaluation of the global response into the coronavirus crisis as well as to examine the origin of the deadly infection.The two-day 73rd session of the World Health Assembly (WHA) of the WHO began in Geneva amid growing calls including by US President Donald Trump to investigate how the virus originated in China’s Wuhan city and subsequent action by Beijing.Taking to Twitter, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that the 73rd World Health Assembly (WHA) -- the first ever to be convened virtually -- is an opportunity for health leaders to commit to “fight Covid-19 together, in unity, in solidarity!” This is the time when humankind must come together, Vardhan said in his remarks at the conference, urging all governments, industry and philanthropy to prioritise the long-term and pool their resources, to ensure everyone benefits.“On our part, India is playing a key role in fostering bilateral and regional partnerships. Under our prime minister’s able leadership, India has supplied essential medicines to 123 nations as an expression of solidarity,” he said.Talking about India’s response to the Covid-19 battle, Vardhan said the country took all necessary steps well in time, including surveillance at points of entry, evacuation of nationals stranded overseas, massive community surveillance through robust disease surveillance network, strengthening of health infrastructure, capacity building of over two million frontline human resources, risk communication and community involvement. “I think we did our best and we did well. We are learning and we are confident of doing better in the months to come,” Vardhan said.Underlining that there are compelling circumstances that have forced WHO member states all to meet virtually, he said the 73rd WHA is the first ever virtual health assembly, it is unprecedented, but it’s also perhaps the most important one because the pandemic is continuing to kill thousands of people and also causing a deep global recession.“Today, in the two-day deliberations, we should share our learnings from how each one of us has tackled this catastrophe since January, how we can support the financial or technical gaps that some of our member states may have and agree to continue R&D in an aggressive and collaborative way,” Vardhan said.“In congratulating all those who are striving to save humanity, we welcome efforts to make all International Institutions more reflective of 21st century realities. India will always stand with such efforts to foster meaningful and broad-based change,” the minister asserted.Closing his speech, Vardhan stood up to give a loud applause for all those across the world who are in the forefront of the battle against the deadly virus.“I stand here to honour the doctors, the nurses, the paramedics, the scientists, the journalists, the delivery boys, security staff, sanitation staff and the police personnel - the forgotten roles who are today playing ‘super humans’. They are our real heroes,” he said after he stood up from his chair in a heartwarming gesture to honour the ‘Covid warriors’ Vardhan also expressed his deepest condolences at the loss of lives across the world due to Covid-19. The WHA is also expected to delve into pooling in additional resources to deal with the pandemic that has killed over 310,000 people and infected nearly 4.7 million besides wrecking the global economy.A draft resolution pushed by the 27-nation European Union and supported by a large number of countries for deliberations at the WHA has called for a step-wise process of impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation of the WHO-coordinated international response to Covid-19.It, however, did not mention China. The coronavirus pandemic was first reported in Wuhan, a port city in China in December last year. Since then, it has spread to over 180 countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-took-all-necessary-steps-well-in-time-to-combat-covid-19-pandemic-health-minister-harsh-vardhan/story-AFKSf2QYAUHkyDfntnGTQI.html
18-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand may use rapid testing on borders after consultation with ICMR, says HC||Expressing concern over many migrants returning to the state testing positive for Covid-19, the Uttarakhand high court on Monday directed that state government may use rapid testing for surveillance purposes on borders, only after consultation with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is the nodal agency spearheading the fight against the pandemic in the country.The HC said “the sense which we get from the long discussion we had so far is that the State government may implement the use of rapid testing for surveillance purposes, only after consultation with ICMR”.The court’s direction came while hearing a PIL filed by Haridwar-based Sachdanand Dabral regarding the plight of the migrants and other needy people amid lockdown.So far 24 people who returned to Uttarakhand from other states during the ongoing evacuation process have turned Covid-19 positive in the state, raising alarm bells among the health officials fighting the epidemic in the state. The state has so far reported 96 Covid-19 cases.The HC noted that the “Secretary, health, government of Uttarakhand as of now has assured this court that the government will consult ICMR on whether rapid testing can be done at the borders for surveillance purposes only, and he shall apprise this court of the outcome on the next date of listing,” according to Shiv Bhatt, counsel of the petitioner.The next hearing in the matter has been fixed on May 20In the PIL, Dabral had alleged that authorities concerned had failed to provide relief materials to daily wage labourers and needy persons on their doorsteps during the lockdown, adding that such people are “incapable of approaching the court as in the present crisis they are without any food or money..”.On May 13, HC had sought reply from state and Central government on two issues - whether, each person returning to the state was also being medically examined as ‘thermal screening is not enough’ and whether antigen tests, or any other rapid tests, could be performed on people returning to the state.Abhishek Tripathi, chief operational officer for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand said that ICMR has said that rapid testing is not an authentic test and it has not recommended it.“As per the guideline from ICMR of April 27, it had said that it advocates that RT-PCR throat/nasal swab test as the best use for diagnosis of Covid-19. RT-PCR test detects the virus early and is the best strategy to identify and isolate the individual,” said Tripathi.According to government officials, till Monday evening, over 2.25 lakh registrations for return to Uttarakhand had been made on the state website. Of these, the state government under its evacuation process has so far brought back 1,04,461 people through trains and buses.In the case of people from other states stranded in Uttarakhand, 38,176 have registered with the government for return to their respective states. Of these, 22,526 have been sent to their respective states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-may-use-rapid-testing-on-borders-after-consultation-with-icmr-says-hc/story-KWyHBO76v2mQgeP1eFF7OL.html
18-05-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray wants to get rid of Covid-19 by the start of monsoon||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday set an ambitious target of overcoming the Covid-19 pandemic by the time the monsoon starts.“We want to get rid of this calamity by the beginning of monsoon,” he said in a video addressMaharashtra with a tally of over 35,000 Covid-19 cases is the state with the highest numbers in India.But Thackeray claimed that the government has managed to slow down the spread of the disease.“We have slowed down the spread of Covid-19. Now we can lift the restriction step by step,” he said.He ruled out relaxing restrictions in red zones during the fourth phase of the lockdown to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and that he was willing to face flak for it.“I am willing to face criticism but it would not be feasible to lift lockdown at this stage. We know what happened in the US and Europe.” Maharashtra had announced extending the lockdown till May 31 hours before the Centre made the announcement on Sunday.Thackeray, who took oath as a legislator earlier in the day, also said that 50,000 industrial units have resumed operations.Amid the continuing migration of stranded workers from Maharashtra, he appealed to migrant labourers not to travel on foot.“We have facilitated the return of five lakh migrants to their home states,” he said in his address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-wants-to-get-rid-of-covid-19-by-the-start-of-monsoon/story-e3Uyy8Im8iHfgikkuwWGUL.html
18-05-2020||India||Migrant worker, 26, found hanging at quarantine centre in Chhattisgarh||A migrant labourer allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at a quarantine centre in Balod district on Monday. He was 26.The police said that the reason of the suicide is yet to be ascertained and the investigation is underway.“Suraj Yadu, a resident of Paraswani village under Arjunda police, returned on Sunday from Surat ( Gujarat) and was kept in a quarantine centre near his village. On Monday evening, he committed suicide by hanging himself,” Additional Superintendent of Police, Balod, ML Kotwani told HT.On Monday, Suraj gave samples for Covid-19 tests after which he was seen inside the school-turned-quarantine centre, the police said.“Later, he was found hanging. The body has been sent for post-mortem and investigation is underway,” said Kotwani, adding that he had returned to his village after two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-worker-26-found-hanging-at-quarantine-centre-in-chhattisgarh/story-qAzVVvxcm6K4NElwtKC1sJ.html
18-05-2020||India||4 people with travel history test Covid-19 positive in Uttarakhand, tally climbs to 96||Four people who returned from different parts of the country to Uttarakhand last week have tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the state’s tally of total cases to 96.A bulletin issued by the state health department on Monday evening confirmed the development.The bulletin mentioned, “Three new positive cases of Covid-19 were detected in district Dehradun, Uttarkashi and Nainital.”A 35-year-old man who returned to Dehradun from Mumbai and a 23-year-old man who returned to Uttarkashi from Gurugram tested positive at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences’ (AIIMS) Rishikesh lab. Meanwhile, a 20-year-old woman who had returned to Nainital from New Delhi tested positive at the VRDL lab in Haldwani.Earlier in the day, the health department had said that a 60-year-old woman from Dehradun who had recently returned from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 late on Sunday night. The 60-year-old woman had returned from Mumbai on May 14 and was in home quarantine at the time when the sample was tested.With this, a total of 47 Covid-19 cases have been reported from Dehradun with 18 active cases are there in the state. The rate of doubling of cases in Dehradun stands at 17.75 days.Uttarakhand has so far tested 13,870 samples of which results of 1,087 are awaited. With the latest case, 24 people who returned to the state in the past one week have tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand.On Saturday night, a 27-year-old man who had returned from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 from Dehradun district. Harish Mohan Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS Rishikesh informed that the patient who tested positive on Saturday night worked in a luxury hotel in Mumbai and was asymptomatic when he had returned.“The patient worked as a hotel receptionist in a high-end hotel in Mumbai for the past five-six years and had recently returned home after a few positive cases surfaced in the same hotel though he had tested negative when his samples were taken there. He was asymptomatic and stayed in home quarantine in Rishikesh. He came to our screening OPD on Saturday with the intention for testing since his hotel co-workers were positive and he had travelled a long distance. We took his samples on Saturday morning and he tested positive by the same day mid-night,” Thapliyal said.He added that after the patient tested positive, officials are now doing a detailed contact tracing and taking other necessary action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-people-with-travel-history-test-covid-19-positive-in-uttarakhand-tally-climbs-to-96/story-cyslLNm980b2hTUBHXUIPK.html
18-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Anti-lockdown protests in US may spread Covid-19, says report and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Anti-lockdown protests in US may spread Covid-19, says reportAnti-lockdown protests taking place around the United States could potentially spread the coronavirus as people are travelling to them far and areas not relatively unaffected by the epidemic, according to an analysis of data gleaned from location tracking of cellphones of the protestors.Read more. Delhi allows buses, taxis, autorickshaws; odd-even for shops in marketsDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced steps to restart the economy amid relaxation in the fourth phase of the lockdown to tackle the spread of Covid-19. Read more. 29 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, wine shops to open WednesdayKerala reported 29 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, the highest in two months, even as it announced a series of measures to ease the lockdown including opening of wine shops. Read more. Afghan govt rejects Taliban leader’s remarks about India’s ‘negative role’The Afghan government on Monday rejected a senior Taliban leader’s remarks that India has been playing a “negative role” in Afghanistan, saying India has been cooperating in development and is expected to contribute to the peace process. Read more. ‘Death warrant’: Gautam Gambhir shreds CM Kejriwal over Delhi relaxationsBJP leader Gautam Gambhir on Monday strongly urged Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to rethink again the lockdown 4.0 relaxations he announced this evening for Delhi. The BJP leader cautioned that one wrong move and it will be over. Read more. Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s wife Aaliya files for divorce: ‘There is not one but several reasons behind my problems with Nawaz’Actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s wife Aaliya has filed for divorce. She has also sent him a notice seeking maintenance and has made some ‘serious allegations’ against him. Read more. Kangana Ranaut reveals her inner poet with new poem titled ‘Aasmaan’National Award winning actor Kangana Ranaut once again proved that she is a Jack of all trades when she penned down another poem after the one she wrote for her mother for Mother’s Day which was on May 10. Read more. Mariah Carey’s response to this girl thinking the singer coined E=mc2 is hilariously uplifting. WatchIf you’ve been on Instagram recently, you must have seen the entertaining new head filters. Some of them make you guess coherent phrases out of gibberish while others expect you to sound-out celebrity names based on emojis. Read more. ‘Practical lockdown in West Bengal’: TMC MP lashes out at Modi GovtAs India enters the fourth phase of the lockdown, TMC Parliamentary party leader in Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien said that the West Bengal government has always been in favour of a partial lockdown. He said that migrant workers got no time to return to their villages. He also spoke on the migrant crisis and the politics over train services. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-anti-lockdown-protests-in-us-may-spread-covid-19-says-report-and-all-the-latest-news/story-yRwA2vRkEYESDumAhVraFO.html
18-05-2020||India||Yashwant Sinha claims ‘arrest’ by Delhi police over protest for migrants||Former BJP leader Yashwant Sinha on Monday claimed that he was “arrested” by the Delhi police for protesting to send migrant workers home safely. Sinha said Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh too was arrested along with him.“We have just been arrested by the Delhi Police,” tweeted Sinha this evening.  We have just been arrested by the Delhi Police.The former finance minister sat on a dharna at Rajghat this morning to demand the deployment of armed forces and para military forces to take the migrant workers home with dignity.He was protesting against the treatment meted out to the migrants with police beating them up and they being left on their own to die on the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yashwant-sinha-claims-arrest-by-delhi-police-was-protesting-to-send-migrants-home-safely/story-Mp3PSACaplwoo6kGcmIM2M.html
18-05-2020||India||Afghan govt rejects Taliban leader’s remarks about India’s ‘negative role’||The Afghan government on Monday rejected a senior Taliban leader’s remarks that India has been playing a “negative role” in Afghanistan, saying India has been cooperating in development and is expected to contribute to the peace process.Sher Muhammad Abbas Stanikzai, the Taliban’s chief negotiator and head of its political office in Qatar, had been quoted by the media on Sunday as saying that India has been playing a negative role in Afghanistan for the past 40 years.Stanikzai, a former military officer who once trained at the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun, also said India should reconsider its policy on Afghanistan. If the Indian government reconsiders its policy and wants an active role in peace, reconciliation and reconstruction, the Taliban will welcome it and look at it positively, he said.The Afghan foreign ministry said on Monday that Afghanistan’s ties with India are “within international frameworks and based on mutual respect”. India has very good relations with Afghanistan and is one of the biggest donor countries, the ministry said.Foreign ministry spokesperson Gran Hewad told the US-backed Radio Azadi: “India one of the biggest donor countries and has helped Afghanistan in development and reconstruction areas, we appreciate their cooperation. We expect India and other neighbouring counties [will] play a significant role in [the] Afghan peace process.”There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Stanikzai’s remarks.Stanikzai had also claimed that India has only cooperated with “those who are corrupt and have been put in power by foreigners not elected by Afghan people”.These developments have come days after the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, discussed the Afghan peace process with external affairs minister S Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval during a trip to New Delhi. He also said India should directly engage with the Taliban.People familiar with developments have said India is yet to take a call on engaging with the Taliban in any way.Khalid Sadaat, a political analyst, told Radio Azadi that the Taliban are making such assertions on Pakistan’s demand. He said, “The Taliban should not give themselves this liberty to make county and state-level remarks, as it will have negative consequences for Afghanistan in future.“The other thing is that India and Pakistan are having historical enmity and Pakistan is playing a proxy role in Afghanistan, and Taliban are being accused of playing Pakistan’s proxy role in Afghanistan and are backed by Pakistan. I believe Taliban [are making] these assertions on Pakistan’s demand.”The US has also stepped up efforts to implement its troubled deal with the Taliban, which has run into problems because of several issues, including the release of prisoners. India has also called for a cessation of hostilities so that authorities can focus on the Covid-19 pandemic.Over the past few days, a fake document about the Taliban calling for the launch of jihad in India went viral on social media. The Taliban denied the reports and a spokesman clarified the group’s policy does not allow interference in the affairs of any other country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-govt-rejects-taliban-leader-s-remarks-about-india-s-negative-role/story-qq6W3KLv6pp7pN323ANvVP.html
18-05-2020||India||Job hunt turns into nightmare for 21 Nepalese youths stranded in Bengal||On Sunday, 19-year-old Rakesh Kathayat and his friends from Nepal watched helplessly as Ganesh Yadav, an Indian commercial goods driver, crossed the bridge over the Mechi river in his truck and drove into Kakarvitta in Nepal.Kathayat, a resident of Nepal’s Dang region, and 20 of his friends came to Siliguri on March 23 to look for jobs. After the nationwide lockdown started on March 25 and the borders were sealed, the youths made several attempts to return home. They were stopped by West Bengal police and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), that guards the international border, and sent back to Siliguri. It has been 40 days since the youths are living in a government facility for migrant workers.On Sunday, the youths walked 30 km from Siliguri to Panitanki in Darjeeling district and pleaded with officials. They were once again refused entry into Nepal.The youths claimed that they contacted some officials in their country before starting from Siliguri.“The officials promised to help us. We walked in the rain all night. But they are not even taking our calls,” Kathayat told HT.Nikesh Malla, another youth in the group, said, “We have not eaten anything since Saturday evening.”Achintya Gupta, the local deputy superintendent of police, said the local administration is helpless. “There is no way that we can help these stranded Nepali youths reach home,” he said. Kakarvitta is less than one km away from Panitanki and the two countries are divided by the Mechi river. During normal time, people from both countries can freely across the border. The Covid-19 pandemic, however, has changed the scenario. The border has been sealed for people. Only movement of goods vehicles between Bhutan and Nepal and India and Nepal have been allowed since May 9 to help Nepal meet its demand for essential items.Every day, trucks carrying essential commodities from the Kolkata port enter Nepal through Panitanki. While returning to India, however, the drivers have to use the Jogbani border point in Bihar.“The Bengal government has not allowed trucks to enter through this land port,” said a customs officer posted at Panitanki.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/job-hunt-turns-into-nightmare-for-21-nepalese-youths-stranded-in-bengal/story-IbBDCvRe0ZcRB7NvBkRhMP.html
18-05-2020||India||Water wars between AP, Telangana escalate: AP lodges counter complaints against Telangana||Andhra Pradesh on Monday accused Telangana of constructing new irrigation projects on the Krishna and Godavari rivers without permissions even as it defended its own plans to take up new schemes.Andhra Pradesh’s special chief secretary (irrigation) Adityanath Das submitted a detailed explanation to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) on its latest proposal to draw 6 thousand million cubic feet (tmc) to 8 tmc of water from Krishna river by constructing the Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme and expanding the Pothireddypadu head on the foreshore of the inter-state Srisailam reservoir.Das pointed out that the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act clearly stipulated that any new project by both states has to be first evaluated and recommended by KRMB and Central Water Commission. Thereafter, the projects require approval from the apex council of the Jal Sakthi ministry.He said after bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh in June 2014, Telangana had taken up five new projects for using 150.53 tmc of waters from Krishna, with an ayacut of 16.87 lakh acres, in violation of the provisions of the act. These projects are Palamuru-Ranga Reddy lift scheme, Dindi lift scheme, Bhaktha Ramadas lift scheme, Mission Bhagiratha and Tummilla lift scheme.In addition, Telangana enhanced the capacity of existing projects such as Kalwakurthy, Nettempadu and Srisailam Left Bank Canal, Das said.“Andhra Pradesh lodged its protest on several occasions on these projects and in spite of repeated requests by Andhra Pradesh, Telangana is going ahead with executing these projects, affecting the interests of the people of Andhra Pradesh,” he said.Das defended the latest projects proposed by Andhra Pradesh, saying they were meant to meet drinking water and irrigation needs of drought-hit areas of Rayalaseema, Nellore and Prakasam districts.“At present, water can be drawn from Pothireddypadu head regulator only for 10 to 15 days a year, only when the water level in Srisailam is above 810 feet. We have proposed the Rayalaseems lift scheme to draw water at a level of 800 feet to meet our needs and it will be within the allocation of the tribunal,” he said.Das also wrote a separate letter to the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB), complaining against Telangana for building several irrigation projects, including the Rs 1 lakh crore Kaleshwaram lift irrigation scheme, which allegedly violates the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act.He said the total water available to both states from Godavari river is 1,430 tmc, including 776 tmc to Andhra Pradesh and 650 tmc to Telangana.“However, Telangana has been executing seven new projects, including Kaleshwaram, with utilisation of 450 tmc feet without furnishing the detailed project reports to GRMB and approval of apex council. What is more, Telangana has enhanced the utilisation of waters under Kaleswaram from 225 tmc to 450 tmc, which will affect the Andhra projects like Polavaram in the downstream,” he complained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/water-wars-between-ap-telangana-escalate-ap-lodges-counter-complaints-against-telangana/story-rXK4km16DGAEZ2laKYxHFN.html
18-05-2020||India||Nawazuddin Siddiqui home quarantined with family at UP home||Actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui, who along with his mother and two other family members reached his ancestral house in Budhana in western Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Muzaffarnagar district on Friday afternoon, has said he that travelled to his hometown, as his mother wasn’t keeping well.The actor said he took necessary permission from the authorities in Maharashtra before driving down to Budhana and also followed all lockdown restrictions enforced by the UP government. The actor’s mother Mehrunnisha, younger brother Fayazuddin, and the latter’s wife Saba came back with him from Mumbai.Dr Praveen Chopra, chief medical officer (CMO), Muzaffarnagar, said they collected swab samples of the actor and three of his family members upon their arrival from Mumbai on Friday and sent for tests. “The report that was made available to us on Sunday. The results showed that all four tested negative. However, they’ve been placed under home quarantine for 14 days, as a precautionary measure,” the CMO added. Officials in the actor’s hometown were concerned as Maharashtra, and particularly Mumbai, has emerged as Covid-19 hotspot.“My mother, who is 71, suffered a panic attack twice because of the recent loss of our younger sister. We have followed all the state government’s guidelines. We are #HomeQuarantined at our hometown Budhana. Please #StaySafe #StayHome,” the 45-year-old actor tweeted on Monday.Ayazuddin, one of his younger brothers, said the actor decided to travel home because he could not visit Budhana when their younger sister, Syama Tamshi Siddiqui, died of cancer last year due to prior work commitment. He also clarified that the family would not celebrate Eid this year because of the younger sister’s death.“Muslims don’t celebrate festivals at least for a year after a death in a family. But my elder brother’s presence was essential and he fulfilled his responsibility towards the family,” said Ayazuddin.His fans have not been able to throng to his ancestral residence, as they are still unaware of his visit amid the lockdown restrictions. Ayazuddin said that he, too, has not met his elderr brother for the last two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nawazuddin-siddiqui-home-quarantined-with-family-at-up-home/story-HfVHKbEEf0Qh3CfjV6RzHP.html
18-05-2020||India||29 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, wine shops to open Wednesday||Kerala reported 29 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, the highest in two months, even as it announced a series of measures to ease the lockdown including opening of wine shops.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said out of 29 cases 21 had returned from abroad and seven came from other states.Kerala has recorded 630 cases of Covid-19 so far out of which 130 are active cases. Four have died so far.With 38 flights from foreign countries and 24 trains from other states scheduled in the next two weeks, the state is bracing for a major surge in Covid-19 cases. Some of Kerala’s worst fears came true last week after the exodus from West Asian countries and other states led to a surge in active cases from 16 to 130. Thousands of others are under observation with some symptoms.“We have announced some concessions but it doesn’t mean that restrictions are over. We have to keep in mind the rising number of cases,” said Vijayan.The CM conceded that the rising number of Covid-19 cases was a major concern. In the last five days, 97 cases were reported in the state. Despite this the government announced many steps to ease the lockdown which ends on May 31.All liquor outlets will be opened from Wednesday and bars hotels will also be allowed to sell alcohol on retail price, for the first time since the lockdown was enforced on March 25. For this virtual queue will be introduced, said the CM. Once a person registers online a particular time will be slotted to the customer. Kerala had earlier refused to open wine shops fearing that it would spark a mad rush during the lockdown.Many prohibition activists and others have asked the government not to resume the sale of alcohol which is one of the main sources of revenue for the state. The opposition Congress has criticised the move to sell liquor through bars. After the lockdown, the state had reported many suicides over the non-availability of alcohol.The state will also resume bus services within districts with fares being hiked. For inter-district travel, passes are mandatory and buses will be allowed to carry passengers only half the vehicle’s capacity, Vijayan said.Similarly auto-rickshaws and taxis will be allowed but with a restricted number of passengers.In barber shops only cutting of hair will be allowed, no facial or other services. Beauty parlours and spas will not be allowed to open.Big shopping complexes and mall will remain closed, the CM said. All government offices will remain closed on Saturday and on Sunday a complete lockdown will be in force, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/29-new-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-wine-shops-to-open-wednesday/story-6br4kn5LM4RSU0d0qxESQL.html
18-05-2020||India||Karnataka lockdown 4.0: Shops to open, trains to start, cabs and buses allowed||Karnataka has announced a series of new measures for lockdown 4:0, which came into effect from Monday and will be in place till May 31 in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The relaxation in lockdown measures came on a day when the state saw the biggest single-day rise in Covid-19 positive cases at 99, taking the total count to 1,246, including 37 deaths. While 530 patients have recovered so far.“Nearly 70 of the 99 new cases have been recorded among people, who have had a recent travel history to Maharashtra. The spike is a cause of concern. We’ll try to further tighten the Karnataka-Maharashtra borders,” said a state health department official, requesting anonymity. State chief minister BS Yediyurappa told media persons on Monday that state-run buses, private buses, taxis, and auto-rickshaws would be allowed to operate from Tuesday. Public parks would remain open between 7am and 9am and 5pm and 7pm for people to exercise and walk, he added.Auto rickshaws and taxis would be allowed to carry only two passengers at a time. Maxi-cabs that play a key role in rural last-mile connectivity would be allowed to carry three passengers. All buses would be allowed to operate at 50% of their capacity and carry 30 passengers.The CM promised to make good for the losses for the state-run buses for operating at 50% of their capacity. The public transport will be available on all days, except Sunday, between 7am and 7pm.Karnataka has also permitted all commercial establishments to open and operate, except malls and theatres. Earlier, all industrial establishments had been allowed to reopen and operate.Trains will run within the state, but inter-state rail service is barred.None of the opening up measures is applicable in the containment zones, which will continue to comply with strict lockdown restrictions. Only 50 guests will be allowed to attend a wedding ceremony. Wearing of masks in public is compulsory across the state and anybody flouting the rule will be penalised.On Sundays, the state will observe a complete lockdown and only emergency services will be allowed to function.Yediyurappa made it clear these measures are an experiment that will continue till May 31, and based on how it pans out the government is likely to decide on the next course of action, including re-imposing some of the earlier restrictions, if necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-lockdown-4-0-shops-to-open-trains-to-start-cabs-and-buses-allowed/story-FocU4ZouWUUQ93ij19YcYP.html
18-05-2020||India||‘Death warrant’: Gautam Gambhir shreds CM Kejriwal over Delhi relaxations||BJP leader Gautam Gambhir on Monday strongly urged Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to rethink again the lockdown 4.0 relaxations he announced this evening for Delhi. The BJP leader cautioned that one wrong move and it will be over. “The decision to open up almost everything in one go can act as a DEATH WARRANT for Delhiites! I urge Delhi Govt to think again & again! One wrong move & everything will be over!” tweeted Gambhir. The decision to open up almost everything in one go can act as a DEATH WARRANT for Delhiites! I urge Delhi Govt to think again & again! One wrong move & everything will be over!! #DelhiLockdownDefending the decision, deputy CM Manish Sisodia said we have to learn to live with coronavirus. “We have to live with Corona so Delhi decides to open but slowly & cautiously. Public Buses, Taxis, Auto allowed to operate. Markets, shops, offices, restaurants-home delivery allowed. Metro, malls, barbers, schools closed. Take care and stay safe,” tweeted Sisodia.The CM announced opening of shops in markets on an odd-even basis and running of buses with only 20 passengers, but said Metro services, schools, colleges, cinema halls and saloons will remain closed.“We have to gradually move towards opening the economy. We used the lockdown period to make arrangements to deal with Covid-19,” he said.People boarding buses in the city will have to be screened first, he said, adding that four-wheeler vehicles, including taxis, will be allowed with only two passengers.Two-wheelers will be permitted but no pillion riders, the chief minister said.“Construction activities and trucks carrying goods will be allowed in Delhi,” he said.Religious gatherings are barred in the city till May 31, the chief minister said, adding that restaurants can open for home-delivery but dining facilities will not be permitted.A total of 50 people can attend marriage functions, while 20 people can take part in funerals, Kejriwal said.On Sunday, the Centre extended the lockdown, necessitated by the coronavirus outbreak in the country, till May 31 while giving more relaxations. Earlier today, the home ministry advised states against diluting restrictions under lockdown guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-warrant-gautam-gambhir-shreds-cm-kejriwal-over-delhi-relaxations/story-ejQZOrtqubF3BmmcrgWr6L.html
18-05-2020||India||Top UK award for India’s national hydrographer||Vice Admiral Vinay Badhwar has been presented the 2019 Alexander Dalrymple Award in recognition of his “outstanding contribution” to Indian hydrography and across the wider Indian Ocean region, official sources said here on Monday.First awarded by the UK Hydrography Office (UKHO) in 2006, the award is named after the first hydrographer of the Admiralty. Recipients are selected for their efforts in raising the standards of hydrography, cartography and navigation around the world.Vice Admiral Badhwar, who joined the Indian Navy in 1982, has extensive hydrographic surveying experience, including work in the Gulfs of Kutch and Khambhat, and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands – widely recognised as some of the most challenging environments to survey in the world.In his role as India’s national hydrographer, Vice Admiral Badhwar has been a key member of the International Hydrographic Organisation’s capacity building sub-committee since its creation. He also leads the Indian Naval Hydrographic Office’s regional capacity building programmes.The UKHO said his contribution to the sustainable development of Indian Ocean coastal economies was recognised in 2019, when he received the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal for ‘distinguished service of an exceptional order during peacetime’.Rear Admiral Peter Sparkes, UK’s national hydrographer, said: “Vice Admiral Badhwar is a true champion of the hydrographic profession. He has helped to unlock the economic potential of marine geospatial data and further hydrographic science in both India and the wider Indian Ocean region”.“The important capacity building contribution of our friends and partners at the Indian Naval Hydrographic Office, who work in concert with the IHO, is helping to usher in a safer, more prosperous and more sustainable world”.Vice Admiral Badhwar said on receiving the award: “This recognition would not have been possible without the support of my colleagues in the National Hydrographic Department, who worked tirelessly towards achieving the goals set forth by the United Nations and IHO”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-uk-award-for-india-s-national-hydrographer/story-0hprEsvCxLrBe0iZ7wlgVP.html
18-05-2020||India||BJP chief J P Nadda accuses opposition states of silencing dissent||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda in a series of tweets on Monday lashed out at opposition ruled states for “unfairly targeting” the party workers and said it was unbecoming of “those in power” to silence dissent.“In the last few days, it has been observed that in opposition ruled states, the state machinery has been used unfairly to target BJP workers and independent voices on social media, critical of the local government’s handling of Covid. In a vibrant democracy, this is unacceptable,” he said in a tweet. In the last few days, it has been observed that in opposition ruled states, the state machinery has been used unfairly to target BJP workers and independent voices on social media, critical of the local government's handling of Covid. In a vibrant democracy, this is unacceptable.The BJP president went on to say that the culture of debate and criticism of those in public life is an integral part of our democratic process. “…but using state agencies at your disposal to silence dissent is unbecoming of those in power. Opposition should adhere to political arguments, when questioned on their failing,” he said in a second tweet. Culture of debate and criticism of those in public life is an integral part of our democratic process but using state agencies at your disposal to silence dissent is unbecoming of those in power. Opposition should adhere to political arguments, when questioned on their failing. I want to assure every BJP worker, supporter & well wisher, who is being targeted by those scared of their unprincipled politics getting exposed, that the BJP stands with you. We will defend your right to free speech and resist these tyrannical forces in the democratic framework.Nadda took no names in his tweets.The BJP has been at odds with the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal, and several party MPs have complained of not being allowed to step out and join relief work during the Covid-19 pandemic.Union home minister Amit Shah had also written to Banerjee last week, stating that her government was not allowing special trains and it was “injustice” to migrant workers stuck there.The BJP and the Trinamool Congress have been at loggerheads over sharing of information about the casualty numbers in Bengal and the steps being taken to contain the spread of the virus. Words were also exchanged between the Congress governments in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh over running of Shramik Special trains for taking migrant workers to their native states. While the BJP at the Centre accused states of not giving permission to requisition trains, the states refuted the allegation and said their lists were pending with the railway ministry.In April, Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar was booked under different sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act (DMA), 2005, for allegedly spreading false alarms while MP from Alipurduars, John Barla, complained of being put under ‘house arrest’ by the district administration.While Nadda did not specify any incident or state, he assured his party workers and said, “I want to assure every BJP worker, supporter & well wisher, who is being targeted by those scared of their unprincipled politics getting exposed, that the BJP stands with you. We will defend your right to free speech and resist these tyrannical forces in the democratic framework.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-j-p-nadda-accuses-opposition-states-of-silencing-dissent/story-O8M9kXRNbcgmSom9qMzd8H.html
18-05-2020||India||Cab aggregator Uber makes masks mandatory for riders, drivers; updates policies||Cab aggregator Uber on Monday said it will introduce a set of rules, including mandatory use of face masks for both the driver and rider in Uber cabs in India during a ride. The move coincides with the Delhi government’s announcement on Monday allowing certain relaxations in the fourth phase of the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19.“Beginning today, drivers and riders will have to wear face masks if they are using Uber in India and in most other countries where Uber operates,” Uber Global Senior Director Product Management Sachin Kansal said.He added that this is part of Covid-19 specific safety features and policies being introduced to ensure safety of drivers and riders.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced the resumption of public transport such as buses, taxis and auto-rickshaws. Depending on the decision of states, ride-hailing platforms like Uber and Ola will resume services in various locations and follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs).ALSO READ | Delhi allows buses, taxis, autorickshaws; odd-even for shops in markets“Auto-rickshaws, cycle rickshaws will be allowed to ply with only one passenger. Taxis and cabs will be allowed with two passengers while maxi-cabs will carry five passengers,” he said.These new policies by cab aggregators have been rolled out globally, and will be enhanced and revised as needed to ensure a safer experience for all, Kansal added.Before they go online on the platform, driver-partners will be asked to confirm - via a new Go Online Checklist - that they’ve taken certain safety measures and are wearing a face mask. They will also have to upload a selfie wearing a face mask, and Uber’s new technology will verify the identity of the driver.A similar checklist has been built for riders and before every trip; the rider will have to confirm that they’ve taken precautions like wearing a face mask, and have washed or sanitised their hands. Kansal said new options for feedback have also been added for both rider and driver to inform the company if the other party was not wearing a mask or face cover.The cancellation policy has also been updated to allow drivers and riders to cancel trips if they don’t feel safe, including if a user is not wearing a mask or face cover. To allow for space between the driver and rider during a ride, Uber is advising riders not to sit in the front seat, and only two riders will be allowed in the rear seat of the car.Both app-based cab aggregators Uber and Ola had suspended operations after the government announced a nationwide lockdown from March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus. After 40 days of lockdown, some relaxations were provided in the third phase of the lockdown from May 4, including allowing cab services to operate with conditions in locations that have very few or no confirmed cases of Covid-19 (orange and green zones).As part of lockdown 4.0 beginning Monday, the Centre has also allowed interstate travel though air travel and metro services continue to remain suspended till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cab-aggregator-uber-makes-masks-mandatory-for-riders-drivers-updates-policies/story-4bttpT7IjLwb2ce1AdUQYK.html
18-05-2020||India||Assam CM orders inquiry into allegations of irregularities in PM-KISAN scheme||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Monday ordered an inquiry into growing allegations of irregularities in the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri-Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme in the state. Additional state chief secretary Jishnu Barua has been entrusted the task of probing the scam, which allegedly involved the inclusion of names of bogus beneficiaries for the central government-run scheme, and submit a report within one month.Around 31 lakh farmers from Assam have been earmarked to get a cash grant of Rs 6,000 -- to be paid in three equal monthly instalments of Rs 2,000 each -- in a bid to compensate for their losses suffered due to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Congress’s Assam president Ripun Bora had alleged last week that the panchayat representatives entrusted to make the list of beneficiaries had included names of ineligible people, including their own family members. He had demanded that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) conducts an inquiry into the scam.The All Assam Students Union (AASU) had also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a probe into the irregularities.“The deputy commissioners (DCs) of all the districts have been directed to verify the genuineness of beneficiary lists, the authenticity of eligibility of beneficiaries, bank account details and check duplicity in data entry, etc,” said a release issued from the CM’s office.The DCs have been asked to validate the village-wise beneficiary list through circle officers, panchayat representatives, and village headmen within a month.“The DCs have also been directed to stop further release of payments under the scheme till the preparation of the correct beneficiary list with authenticated bank accounts after deletion of doubtful entries,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-orders-inquiry-into-allegations-of-irregularities-in-pm-kisan-scheme/story-1gsE66Kn3ATgWkEHcMevZP.html
18-05-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath to deploy buses, use trains to bring back migrants home||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asked all the states to send details of migrant workers from the state stuck in various parts of the country since the lockdown first came into effect on March 24.Additional chief Secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the government will bring migrants by train from distant states, say, in South India, while buses will be deployed to bring migrants from the neighbouring states.The move comes after Priyanka Gandhi sought permission for Congress party to run 1,000 buses to send migrants back home in UP. The state government has okayed the proposal.The Centre on Sunday extended the nationwide lockdown till May 31. The states, however, have been warned not to dilute restrictions under lockdown phase four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-s-yogi-adityantah-to-bring-migrants-home-in-buses-trains/story-ccPmIDHWbvtHg8TeS1yQ3M.html
18-05-2020||India||Congress moves to set its house in order in MP but hurdles remain||Nearly two months after it lost power in Madhya Pradesh, the Congress has started restructuring and is drafting a strategy to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in crucial by-elections to 24 assembly seats later this year despite no let-up in internal strife.The process started with Congress president Sonia Gandhi accepting the resignation of Deepak Babaria, the general secretary in-charge of Madhya Pradesh, and naming senior leader Mukul Wasnik as his replacement last month.Babaria, who hailed from Gujarat and was considered close to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, cited ill-health as the reason for his resignation.But his exit was inevitable after former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia quit the Congress to join the BJP in March. Scindia had repeatedly flagged his concerns about the Congress government’s failure to implement the party manifesto or pre-poll promises. Twenty-two legislators loyal to Scindia also quit the Congress and resigned from the assembly, resulting in the fall of the Kamal Nath government. BJP’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan then took oath as chief minister for the fourth term.As Congress general secretary, Wasnik also oversees party affairs in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Soon after he assumed the charge of Madhya Pradesh, two new secretaries were named to assist him.CP Mittal, who hails from Delhi, and Kuldeep Indora, a party leader from Rajasthan, were appointed as All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretaries. Both are said to be close to Wasnik.Mittal and Indora replaced Varsha Gaikwad and Harshvardhan Sapkal, while the Congress chief retained Sudhanshu Tripathi and Sanjay Kapoor as the two other AICC secretaries.Wasnik’s immediate challenges are to set the party house in order, try to end factionalism and prepare for crucial by-elections, whenever they are held.Congress leaders in Madhya Pradesh familiar with developments said he had chalked out a plan for the by-polls and started working on it though hurdles remain.Of the 24 seats in which by-elections will be held, 16 are in Gwalior-Chambal region, a stronghold of Scindia.Wasnik is facing a tough task in appointing a Congress legislature party (CLP) leader who will also be leader of opposition (LoP) in the Madhya Pradesh assembly.A Congress functionary said the party had almost finalised the name of senior leader Govind Singh, a close associate of former chief minister Digvijaya Singh, but the move was stalled due to opposition from the Kamal Nath camp, which is pushing the names of Sajjan Verma and Bala Bachchan.Wasnik is expected to take a call on the LoP soon.But the BJP has taken a dig at the Congress and appears confident of winning the by-elections in all 24 seats. “The Congress continues to be a divided house. They are yet to decide the name of the LoP. The infighting between the Digvijay and Kamal Nath camps is on. They have lost everything but have not yet learned the lesson,” said BJP leader Pankaj Chaturvedi.“We will win the by-elections on all the 24 seats and provide a stable government,” he added.Congress leaders have blamed Babaria for his “failure” to resolve internal dissension in the Madhya Pradesh unit, which eventually resulted in the loss of power that the party had regained after 15 years by ousting the BJP in the 2018 assembly elections.Wasnik was one of the front-runners for the Congress president’s post last year after Rahul Gandhi refused to take back his resignation in the wake of the party’s drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, when it won just 52 seats in the 543-member House against the BJP’s tally of 303.However, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) in its meeting on August 10 last year prevailed on Sonia Gandhi to again assume the reins of the grand old party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-moves-to-set-its-house-in-order-in-mp-but-hurdles-remain/story-rxxbhnRByoTG8w5IdCb6WO.html
18-05-2020||India||Rajasthan reports 173 new Covid-19 cases, overall tally now at 5,375||Rajasthan reported 173 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Monday, as the overall tally in the desert state rose to 5,375.There were reports of two fresh deaths, as the Covid-19 related toll climbed to 133.Most of the new Covid-19 positive cases were reported from districts, where migrants are returning home for other states, including hotspots such as Maharashtra and Gujarat, amid the easing of lockdown restrictions, which were imposed since end-March to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak. So far, 588 migrants have tested Covid-19 positive.Dungarpur reported 64 new Covid-19 positive cases and Jaipur 22.Bhilwara, which was on the verge of being declared free from the viral outbreak, has reported 22 fresh cases. Udaipur reported 15 new cases, Barmer (10), Bharatpur, and Bikaner six. Dausa recorded five new cases, Banswara, Sikar, and Pali recorded four cases each, Dholpur (3), Rajsamand and Nagaur two each and Jhunjhunu and Chittorgarh reported one each.Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health, Rajasthan, said one Covid-19 related death each has been reported from Kota and Nagaur districts. Both the patients died at Jaipur’s Sawai Man Singh Hospital, where they were undergoing treatment.State heath minister Raghu Sharma said that the restrictions in lockdown 4:0, which came into effect from Monday and will be in place till May 31, would be further eased.“We need to get the economy back on track. Efforts are on to ease the lockdown restrictions. We need to fight against the pandemic and at the same time ensure that people can get on with their jobs and economic activities are revived,” the minister said.Sharma said that the central government is evacuating Indian nationals, who are stranded abroad, and those from the state would return next week.The minister said that the state is prepared to follow the centre’s guidelines to quarantine the evacuees from abroad and have identified a few hotels near Jaipur International Airport.“We’ve identified a few hotels near the airport, where these evacuees will have to stay under quarantine for 14 days at their own cost,” he added.The minister warned that there could be a spike in Covid-19 positive cases, as hundreds and thousands of migrants are returning home from hotspots such as Maharashtra and Gujarat.He also pointed out the state could take a heart from the fact that over 3,000 people have recovered and its recovery rate is double than the national average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-reports-173-new-covid-19-cases-overall-tally-now-at-5-375/story-ZAfCcJZTOGd4qUqh8rQn9L.html
18-05-2020||India||PM reviews preparedness for cyclone Amphan, says ‘praying for everyone’s safety’||PM Narendra Modi on Monday held a meeting with the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to review the response measures against cyclone ‘Amphan’ developing in the Bay of Bengal. Cyclone Amphan has now intensified into a super cyclonic storm and is likely to move across the northeast Bay of Bengal, and cross the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts between Digha and the Hatia Island on May 20, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).“Reviewed the preparedness regarding the situation due to cyclone ‘Amphan.’ The response measures as well as evacuation plans were discussed. I pray for everyone’s safety and assure all possible support from the Central Government, the Prime Minister said in a tweet. The cyclone, which is likely to make the landfall on Wednesday, could ravage east Medinipur, south and north 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Kolkata districts in West Bengal, the IMD has warned. Prime Minister took full stock of the situation and reviewed the response preparedness as well as the evacuation plan presented by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). In the meeting, DG NDRF informed that 25 NDRF teams have been deployed on the ground while 12 others are ready in reserve. Twenty four other NDRF teams have also are also been kept on standby in different parts of the country.Union home minister Amit Shah, Principal Advisor to the Prime Minister PK Sinha Principal, and Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba were present at the meeting along with other senior government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-plan-to-tackle-cyclone-amphan-25-ndrf-teams-deployed/story-BQvDsDOd7rCoYtatoSO7BJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi takes dig at PM Modi on MGNREGA||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his “U-turn” on the MGNREGA scheme, and thanked him for allocating an additional Rs 40,000 crore for it.“The Prime Minister has approved an additional budget of Rs 40,000 crore for the MNREGA scheme created during the UPA era. We express our gratitude to him for understanding the vision of MNREGA and promoting it,” he tweeted in Hindi.On Sunday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the fifth and final tranche of the Centre’s stimulus package to revive the Covid-19-hit economy. The government allocated an additional Rs 40,000 crore to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), over and above the Rs 61,000 crore budgeted earlier.The announcement came at a time when the nationwide lockdown has forced migrant workers to walk thousands of kilometres back to their home states. Gandhi used the hashtag – “ModiUturnOnMNREGA” – as he put out a video clip of Modi’s speech in the Lok Sabha after he assumed power in 2014.“Do you think I will disband the scheme? My political wisdom does not allow me to do it. This is a living monument of your failures to tackle poverty in 60 years,” Modi had said about MGNREGA in his speech in Parliament in February 2015.Modi also said that even after 60 years of independence, the Congress had to send people to dig ditches and pay them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-takes-dig-at-pm-modi-on-mgnrega/story-96DwR4IEFn9Vahtuf9UXCL.html
18-05-2020||India||Stringent action will be taken against LG Polymers: Andhra CM||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday asserted that stringent action would be taken against the South Korean firm, LG Polymers India Ltd, whose alleged negligence led to the leak of toxic styrene gas from its plant at Visakhapatnam on May 7, claiming 12 lives and over 500 people falling sick.While, the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which was scheduled to conduct a hearing on the Visakhapatnam gas tragedy on Monday, deferred it to June 1 as the experts’ committee, which was constituted by the NGT, sought more time to submit its report.The expert appraisal committee of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change will conduct a separate hearing in New Delhi on Tuesday over reports that LG Polymers had been operating its plant without obtaining the mandatory green nod from the ministry for expanding its capacity from 415 tonnes per day (TPD) to 655 TPD.CM Reddy, who held a video conference with the officials and some of those affected by the gas leak, said that the South Korean firm would be held responsible for the tragedy, and action would be taken against its errant employees.“We’ve appointed committees at district and state-level, respectively. The Centre, too, has appointed three panels. We’ll seek explanations from the company after the panels submit their separate reports. We’ll take appropriate action based on the company’s response. We’ll give the firm a week’s time to respond,” the CM said.He said the company, which was given permission during the previous N. Chandrababu Naidu regime to operate, would not be allowed to function. We’ve ensured that the raw material styrene gas, which caused the industrial disaster, is sent back to South Korea,” the CM said.LG Polymers on Monday announced that it had successfully shipped Styrene Monomer (SM) inventory from its plant in Visakhapatnam to Seoul.The firm’s managing director (MD), Jeong Sunkey, said no styrene gas is left at the plant.“We’re trying to ascertain the cause of the accident, prevent its re-occurrence, and most importantly provide assistance to the families of the deceased and injured,” the MD said.The company’s immediate focus is to provide assistance to the people living in and around the plant and help them restart their normal lives at the earliest, he added.The MD informed that a team of technical experts from the company’s headquarters at Seoul had arrived at Visakhapatnam to take part in the rehabilitation process.“We’ve commissioned a special task force consisting of more than 200 people to support the affected families,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stringent-action-will-be-taken-against-lg-polymers-andhra-cm/story-zP8ediC8L9nsvANU03ZApO.html
18-05-2020||India||Delhi allows buses, taxis, autorickshaws; odd-even for shops in markets||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced steps to restart the economy amid relaxation in the fourth phase of the lockdown to tackle the spread of Covid-19.“We have to open our economy gradually. All industries will be allowed to reopen in Delhi. Construction activities will restart but only local workers will be allowed. Workers beyond Delhi’s borders will not be allowed,” he said in a video address.Containment zones will continue to remain sealed. “There will be no activities in containment zones except for essential services,” he said.All private offices will be allowed to reopen in the national capital but the Kejriwal said he would encourage employees to work from home.All shops will reopen with odd-even formula except those selling essential items which will remain open on all days. Restaurants can open but only for take-away food.Kejriwal also announced the resumption of public transport such as buses, taxis and autorickshaws.“Autorickshaw, cycle rickshaw will be allowed to ply with only one passenger. Taxi and cabs will be allowed to two passengers while maxicabs will carry five passengers,” he said.“Buses will carry a maximum of 20 passengers who will be screened before boarding. The transport department will ensure social distancing.”Two wheelers will be allowed without any pillion.The announcements came as Delhi’s Covid-19 tally soared past 10,000.“Delhi has reported 10,054 cases of Covid-19 out of which 4,485 people have been cured. One hundred and sixty people have died so far,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-allows-buses-taxis-autorickshaws-odd-even-for-shops-in-markets/story-GxrOJFpzti75M1Zav3nlUO.html
18-05-2020||India||In Bengal’s lockdown 4.0 guidelines, no official curfew at night: Mamata||The West Bengal government on Monday extended lockdown in the state till May 31, but with one key exception. There will be no official night curfew in West Bengal, but people are requested not to venture out after 7 pm, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said announcing Bengal’s lockdown 4.0 guidelines.“There will be no official night curfew in West Bengal, but people are requested not to venture out after 7 pm. Hawkers will be allowed to reopen shops in non-containment zones in Bengal from May 27,” Banerjee said.Extending the ongoing lockdown till May 31 in West Bengal, the Chief Minister announced a slew of relaxations and said her government will not impose night curfew in the state as proposed by the Centre.She said hawkers, salons and parlour owners will be allowed to reopen their shops from May 27.The West Bengal CM said that apart from 105 trains, which the state has already requisitioned, the state government will request the railways for 120 more Shramik Special trains in the next few days to bring back migrant labourers stranded in other states.“We won’t officially declare night curfew because people are already under a lot of stress. We do not want to increase their suffering. But we will request people not to venture out of their homes between 7 pm and 7 am or else police will take action,” she elaborated.In West Bengal, containment zones will be divided into three categories-- affected zones, buffer zones and clean zones, she said. The zones under containment are expected to be divided into segments based on high and low levels of infection.Lockdown.4.0 in West Bengal will continue till May 31. But there will be a few more relaxations in the coming days. Hawkers and markets will be allowed to reopen from next week and the inter-district bus service will also begin soon, Banerjee said.Standalone shops in non-containment and green zones are likely to remain open in Bengal from 7 am to 6 pm, a senior government official said.The Centre on Sunday extended the lockdown for two more weeks till May 31, with the fourth phase providing more relaxations outside the containment zones including inter-state movement of buses with mutual consent of states that is expected to be of immediate relief for thousands of migrant workers on the roads.The Ministry of Home Affairs on Sunday night said the fresh guidelines for the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown were issued after taking the opinion of the state governments following a video conference held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the chief ministers on May 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-s-lockdown-4-0-guidelines-no-official-curfew-at-night-mamata/story-6c7mCjAZPQHIBKH7whT59K.html
18-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: What’s allowed, what’s not in Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who has been saying it’s time to reopen Delhi, on Monday addressed a press conference laying out his plan for the city-state capital in this phase four of the nationwide lockdown.In phase four, states will now categorise red, orange and green zones taking into consideration the revised guidelines issued by the ministry of health. Inside these zones, containment and buffer zones will be identified by the district administration. In containment zones, only essential services will be allowed.Earlier today, the states and union territories were advised against diluting restrictions under the lockdown 4.0 guidelines issued by the Centre. Here’s what is allowed in Delhi Buses are allowed to run but with only 20 passengers at a time. Passengers will be screened before he/she boards the bus. Transport Dept will ensure that social distancing norms are followed at all bus-stops and inside the busConstruction activities are allowed, but only with labourers who are in Delhi right nowPrivate offices can open at full strength but they should try that most of the employees work from home. Markets can open but shops will open on odd-even basisSports complexes and stadiums can open but without spectatorsHere’s what is not allowed Barber shops, spas and saloons to remain closed Stepping out of homes between 7 pm to 7 am, except for essential services will be prohibited. Taxis & cabs will be allowed but only 2 passengers at a time||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-in-delhi/story-qtatu7DxemfYkpZGkvRZHK.html
18-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: Complete list of activities that are not allowed in Delhi||In his address on the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the national capital, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that religious gatherings will remain barred in Delhi till May 31.The chief minister said that barbershops, spa, saloon and restaurants will also be closed amid the fourth phase of the Covid-19 lockdown while public transport like buses and auto rickshaws will be allowed to operate with conditions.Elderly people above the age of 65, children below 10 years of age, pregnant women and those with existing health conditions like diabetes, cancer are not advised to step out of their homes unless very urgent. Here is a complete list of activities that are still not allowed in the national capital amid Covid-19 lockdown 4.0.• Delhi Metro operations will remain suspended.• Religious places of worship will also not be allowed to open. Religious gatherings shall not be allowed. • All schools, colleges, coaching and training institutes, among other educational institutes shall remain shut.• Carpooling or car-sharing will not be allowed for aggregators. • Taxi and cabs shall resume services but will not carry more than two passengers. • Gramin seva, fat-fat seva vehicles to not carry more than two passengers. Only five passengers in Maxi cabs. “The driver is to ensure that the vehicle is disinfected after passengers deboard and the seating area is disinfected for the next passenger,” Kejriwal said. • Not more than 50 guests are allowed at marriage functions. Funerals to not see more than 20 people in attendance. • No movement will be between 7 pm to 7 am except in case of an emergency or for essential services.Also read: What’s allowed, what’s not in Delhi• Hotels, cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasium, swimming pools, entertainment parks shall remain shut. • Barbershops, spas and saloons to remain closed.•Theatres, movie halls, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls shall also not open amid the fourth phase of the lockdown. • Restaurants will remain shut for dine-in purposes, can operate kitchen for home delivery. Also read: Delhi govt allows DTC buses, autos; Metro remains shut. All details• Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious or any kind of large gatherings shall not be allowed, the chief minister said.• Not more than one passenger will be allowed in auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and cycle-rickshaws.• For two-wheelers, pillion rider will not be allowed. • There will be no activity allowed in Covid-19 containment zones except for essential purposes.• Not more than 20 passengers at a time shall be allowed in buses.The chief minister, uding his address, said that the number of cases in the national capital is on the rise but the rate of recovery is also good. “45% of patients in Delhi have recovered so far,” Kejriwal said. He also said that the outbreak is not likely to come to an end in a month or two. “We need to start living with this virus,” the CM said. As many as 10,054 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. One hundred and sixty people have died from the infection while 4485 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-4-0-list-of-activities-not-allowed-in-delhi-as-per-cm-kejriwal-s-address/story-wGzUGBZ7R0dwDhjRbladIL.html
18-05-2020||India||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu’s 12- point new normal for life in times of coronavirus||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu has underlined the need to adopt new ways of living in the times of coronavirus and suggested a 12 point framework for this “new normal” to deal with the virus.In a Facebook post, he stressed on the need for new attitudes towards life and humanity amidst indications of the virus likely to stay for longer than earlier expected.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here In a lengthy post after the government extended the lockdown on Sunday evening, Naidu dealt with the philosophical and moral issues thrown by the Covid-19 pandemic and the way life needs to be lived henceforth. The Vice President underlined that life cannot be lived in isolation and the virus outbreak highlighted the inter-connectedness of lives.“..what affects one person anywhere affects everyone everywhere, be it the disease or economy,” he wrote.Naidu stated that man has emerged a loner in his quest for happiness and material advancement reducing the family and the society to being mere adjuncts and his confidence bordering on arrogance made him believe that he can live alone and all by himself, unmindful of the lives of others.“Stacked with better tools to fight the epidemics than when the pestilence struck humanity earlier and empowered with gene editing, Artificial Intelligence, big data etc, man was seeking to play God,” he said in the FB post.On the life after the pandemic, Naidu noted that it has shaken the fundamentals of living by oneself and highlighted the need for living in harmony with nature and fellow humans.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “The invisible microbe once again proved that life can change very quick. It brought into full play the uncertainty that can co-sail with life,” he observed. He suggested that staying calm and confident could help address the anxiety brought about by the pandemic.“Uncertainty continues to haunt the people. Uncertainty is the known source of anxiety which can lead to psychological issues. How to deal with this problem? To stay calm and be confident and adopt a new normal of life”.Naidu said that the coronavirus challenge is more a civilizational issue than that of individual lives and new norms and ethos of living should be evolved to save the present civilization.He urged the people to learn to cope with coronavirus by changing the habits and attitudes towards life and fellow humans, if the virus stays with the people for longer than expected.He suggested a 12-point new normal of living during corona times.They include living in harmony with nature and fellow beings, knowing that safety and security of lives are interconnected, rationally analyzing the impact of every movement or action on the spread of virus, not responding impulsively to the situation and instead living in confidence keeping faith in science which can come up with a solution to the problem, strict adherence to behavioral changes ushered in so far like wearing mask, maintaining physical distance and ensuring hygiene, preventing stigmatization so that the infected volunteer for treatment, checking disinformation and prejudices against fellow citizens as carriers of the virus and replacing the sense of collective helplessness by the spirit of the virtue of living interconnected with shared destiny.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-s-12-point-new-normal-for-life-in-times-of-coronavirus/story-BkLQCrbGdrI6PHhElMqnxH.html
18-05-2020||India||Locally-made ventilators not good enough, say Gujarat officials||Authorities in the civil hospital in Ahmedabad, Gujarat’s worst coronavirus-hit city, have said ventilators built by a firm in Rajkot and supplied free of cost in large numbers to government facilities last month were not giving “desired results” on COVID-19 patients.State Health principal secretary Jayanti Ravi said the ventilators, with the brand name ‘Dhaman-1’, supplied at a time when there is huge demand for them due to the virus outbreak, will be upgraded by the manufacturing firm.Ahmedabad Civil Hospital Medical Superintendent JV Modi had written to the managing director of Gandhinagar-based Gujarat Medical Services Corporation Limited (GMSCL) for 50 ‘high-end’ ICU ventilators for the 1,200-bed COVID-19 facility, the largest of its kind in the state.The letter comes at a time when the hospital has been given 230 ‘Dhaman-1’ ventilators, which a doctor here said cannot be termed “high end”.Quoting the head of the anesthesia department of the BJ Medical College, affiliated to the Civil Hospital, Modi said, in the letter dated May 15, that they are not getting “desired result” from Dhaman-1 and AGVA ventilators (both indigenously produced) on COVID-19 patients.“We have placed demand for 50 high-end ICU ventilators each for COVID Hospital and Kidney Hospital. With rising coronavirus cases, we need more number of ventilators, as per the demand received by head of anesthesia department,” Modi said.Amid global shortage of high-end ventilators during the outbreak, Rajkot-based Jyoti CNC Automation had developed low-cost ventilators in just 10 days in early April, and offered 1,000 pieces free-of-cost to the state government under CSR.These ventilators were supplied to government hospitals across the state to meet rising demand, Principal Secretary (Health), Jayanti Ravi said.“The ventilator was tested and approved by Electronics and Quality Development Centre (EQDC). Our expert doctors also approved it,” Ravi said.She said accessories like high-flow nasal canula, oxygen flow meter, circuits and humidifier would be incorporated in them to make them more effective, she said.Civil Hospital Head of anesthesia Shailesh Shah said Dhaman-1 ventilator in its present form is not as good as what one would term a “high-end ventilator”.“Luckily, until now, we used these ventilators on very few occasions, as high-end ventilators were available with us in enough numbers. Dhaman-1 is not a good replacement for high-end ventilators, but it can be used in dire emergency when you have nothing else at hand,” said Shah.Over the past week, however, the number of coronavirus patients requiring ventilator support has been increasing at the hospital, and depending on Dhaman-1 units was not a good idea, he claimed.“We had around 100 ventilators in a 150-bed ICU of COVID hospital. With increasing demand, we have managed to source around 45-47 high-end ventilators from other medical colleges in Gujarat.“The problem is good quality ventilators are not available in the market. It is very difficult for us or for the government to procure such ventilators. In such a situation, we have to compromise with the lower version,” he said.Till Sunday evening, Ahmedabad district reported 8,420 coronavirus positive cases, with 524 having died of the infection. The number of active cases stands at 5,236.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locally-made-ventilators-not-good-enough-say-gujarat-officials/story-4J2uJJlp2C1vhp9za3cbyK.html
18-05-2020||India||Telangana’s daily rate of 225 Covid-19 tests far behind Andhra’s 9,000||At a time when Andhra Pradesh has been conducting an average of 9,000 tests for Covid-19 every day, the number of samples being tested in the neighbouring Telugu state of Telangana has been abysmally low – an average of 225 samples a day.This figure came to light on Sunday night when the Telangana medical and health department officials disclosed the data analytics of testing as on May 16 to explain the gender and age distribution among the positive cases for Covid-19.According to G Srinivasa Rao, director of medical and health, Telangana government, the cumulative number of samples tested as on May 16 was 23,388. Out of that figure, 947 males tested positive and 14,256 tested negative, 566 females tested positive and 7,619 tested negative.Among the positive cases including both male and female, 218 cases belong to the age group of 0-15 years, 434 are from the age group of 16-30 years, 406 are from age group of 31-45 years, 301 cases are from the age group of 46-60 and 151 cases are of above 60 years of age.The last time the department released the figures of cumulative number of tests done in the state was on April 28, when Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender addressed a press conference and disclosed that 19,303 tests were conducted till that date.Taking into account the latest figures of 23,388 samples tested, the total number of tests conducted between April 28 and May 16 was 4085 – an average of 226 cases per day.Interestingly, a statement from the office of the health minister said the total number of tests conducted in the state as on May 14 was 22,842. It meant 546 tests were done in a span of 48 hours – an average of 273 per day, showing that the testing has slightly improved in the last three days.The first Covid-19 cases was reported in Telangana on March 2 and it was only after March 15 that the government released figures about the number of samples tested – 22 samples on March 15 and the figure went up to 764 on March 24, when Tablighi Jamaat episode came to light. After that the Telangana government stopped releasing the data of samples tested for Covid-19.The health minister has been refusing to divulge the data stating that the number of samples being tested was not a parameter for the spread of the virus, but the number of positive cases that were detected in the testing.Till Sunday evening, Telangana had 1,551 Covid-19 cases 34 deaths. The number of active cases is 525 cases while the others have recovered.“We do not want to do indiscriminate testing of people just for the sake of figures. We have been conducting tests as per the ICMR guidelines only on those having genuine symptoms and also with co-morbid conditions, apart from those who had been the primary contacts of the positive cases,” Rajender said.He further said thought there are private labs that have got permission from ICMR to conduct the tests for Covid-19, the state government did not give the clearance because it would lead to these labs fleecing of people even if they had mild symptoms. “Each test costs around Rs 5,000 and we do not want the people to be fleeced,” he said.In Andhra Pradesh, however, the testing of samples for Covid-19 has been stepped up in the last one month, after the state health department began using Trunat rapid testing kits, besides RT-PCR testing. The AP government has also imported two lakh rapid test kits from South Korea, which are also being used for random testing during a door-to-door survey.According to state nodal officer for Covid-19 Arja Sreekanth, 2,48,711 samples have been tested as on Monday. Andhra Pradesh has reported 2,432 Covid-19 cases so far, including 150 migrant labourers. There have been 50 Covid-19 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-s-daily-rate-of-225-covid-19-tests-far-behind-andhra-s-9-000/story-mitHGU9YS0cJL8iYuDKncL.html
18-05-2020||India||Quest for cure: Are scientists, experts closing in on Covid-19 vaccine?||With over 4 million people infected by coronavirus across the world, and more than 3 lakh people dead, the need for Covid-19 vaccine grows more urgent by the day. According to the World Health Organization, 8 candidate vaccines are currently in the clinical evaluation phase for Covid-19. China-based CanSino Biologics, American biotechnology company Moderna, Inc., the University of Oxford, US-based Inovio Pharmaceuticals are some of the top contenders in the race to developing coronavirus vaccines. According to the World Health Organization, more than 110 candidates are in the preclinical evaluation phase. Cansino Biologics has received clinical trial application approval for recombinant novel coronavirus vaccine, news agency Reuters reported. CanSino will develop the vaccine in collaboration with the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology. Moderna Inc.’s experimental candidate vaccine, mRNA-1273, recently received approval from the US FDA to conduct the phase II of its clinical trial. Also read: What did eight weeks and $3 trillion buy the Covid-19 in the fight against coronavirus?The University of Oxford has come to positive results with its Covid-19 vaccine candidate which involves six rhesus macaque monkeys. Experts at the university exposed the monkeys to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The trial showed improvement and offered hope as the vaccinated monkeys had less virus in their lungs and airways. Rhesus macaque monkeys have immune systems similar to humansInovio Pharmaceuticals is currently testing INO-4800 (a DNA plasmid vaccine with electroporation) as a vaccine against coronavirus. The trial aims to test the vaccine’s ability to trigger an immune response in the body to fight coronavirus.Besides these, clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine by three other contenders are under the clinical evaluation phase. These include trials led by Wuhan Institute of Biological Products/Sinopharm, Beijing Institute of Biological Products/Sinopharm and Sinovac. Sinopharm Group is a Chinese pharmaceutical giant.Also read: China’s Wuhan nearly doubles number of Covid-19 tests per dayThese trials are on “inactivated” type of vaccine candidate wherein non-living pathogens are used to develop an immune response in the body against the target.Last week, Jubilant Life Sciences Limited, an integrated global pharmaceutical and life sciences company, said that its subsidiary, Jubilant Generics Limited, has entered into a non-exclusive licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences that will grant Jubilant the right to register, manufacture and sell Gilead’s investigational drug remdesivir, a potential therapy for Covid-19 in 127 countries including India. Remdesivir is only allowed for emergency usage by the US FDA to treat Covid-19. India’s spotIndian multinational pharmaceutical and biotechnology company, Cipla Limited is reported to have been working on various multiple therapies for treating coronavirus. The Mumbai-based company is working out the finer details of its pact with Gilead Sciences Inc on the experimental antiviral drug remdesivir, chief financial officer Kedar Upadhye told HT’s business publication Mint in an interview.Meanwhile, experts at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bhopal have said that the institute has been conducting drug trials for coronavirus treatment which have shown promising results.The trials of the drug Mycobacterium W (Mw) were conducted on Covid-19 patients at AIIMS Bhopal for the last few days, an official said.“So far, three Covid-19 patients have recovered after the clinical trial of Mycobacterium W (Mw) at AIIMS,” director of the institute Dr Sarman Singh said.Singh said that the institute will soon use Favipiravir, a drug agent used in Japan for Covid-19, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quest-for-cure-are-scientists-experts-closing-in-on-covid-19-vaccine/story-GBBNpfFKGDONYJLhjUUiqL.html
18-05-2020||India||Wayanad’s giant jackfruit eyeing entry into Guinness book||A massive jackfruit, weighing over 52 kg and 117 cm long, is eyeing to enter the Guinness record book. The fruit was found in a private plantation at Kappattumula in nearby Mananthavady and is likely to replace the existing Guinness record of the heaviest jackfruit globally. Another giant jackfruit, weighing 51.500 kg, from Kollam, is also vying for the record books. As on date, the worlds heaviest jackfruit according to the Guinness came from India, the fruit weighed 42.72 kg and was 57.15-cm long with a circumference of 132.08 cm. The 52-kg ripe fruit attracted the attention of residents who plucked it carefully and informed the panchayat officials. The panchayat informed the Department of Agriculture as to verify the claim and officially inform the Guiness World Record authorities. Agricultural officer K G Sunil said necessary documentation was completed on Monday and it would be sent to the Guinness authorities. The fruit, weighing 52.360 kg, is 117 cm long and has a circumference of77 cm, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wayanad-s-giant-jackfruit-eyeing-entry-into-guinness-book/story-YfHrOwXKUg5clK6D7DldfJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Tamil Nadu CM K Palaniswami fumes at Centre over “unreasonable” riders to nod for more borrowing||In a rather unusual outburst against the Centre, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Monday said the conditions put forth by the Union government for additional borrowing were onerous, unreasonable, lacked consensus and above all not in keeping with the spirit of co- operative federalism.Flagging electricity distribution reform as ‘politically sensitive,’ the Chief Minister strongly opposed snapping free power supply to farmers and made it categorical that the mode of disbursement of subsidy should be left to the State governments and batted for “greater latitude” to states to implement reforms.One of the conditions of the Centre to states to increase their borrowing limit was discontinuation of free electricity to farmers.The Centre, as part of the conditions, has asked states to switch to Direct Benefit Transfer instead.Free power distribution to farmers is among the initiatives over which both the Dravidian majors -AIADMK and DMK- have vied with each other to take credit for helping the peasants.Drawing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s attention to the “onerous conditions attached to the additional borrowing limits,” approved for States by the Finance Ministry, he said in a letter that States sought the additional borrowing limit, beyond 3 per cent of GSDP mainly because of the significant shortfall in revenues due to the lockdown.“There are also large additional expenditure commitments. These are borrowings by the state government, which have to be repaid from future tax revenues of the states. They are not grants from the Centre. To attach needlessly demanding conditionalities to the additional borrowing requirements appears to be unreasonable,” Palaniswami said.Aggressively pushing a reform agenda on which “a consensus is yet to be developed, at a time when States have approached the Centre for additional borrowing out of sheer desperation, is not in keeping with the spirit of co-operative federalism,” he said taking a firm position.Ideally, a consensus should have been evolved by the Centre following detailed deliberations with the States on proposed reforms, the Chief Minister said adding reforms may have been linked to special Central COVID-1 grants, and not to additional borrowing by the State.“Linking the Central government’s power under Article 293 (3) of the Constitution to permit additional borrowing by the States to conditionalities, is unprecedented,” he said.As per the Constitutional provision “a State may not without the consent of the Government of India raise any loan...” In some of the four major areas of reform required by the Centre to avail additional borrowing, the state government has already undertaken reforms without expecting any financial assistance.There are, however, some areas, like “power distribution reforms, which are politically sensitive. These issues have been repeatedly raised by me in communications to the Prime Minister as well. I have raised the issue in the context of the proposed changes in the Electricity Act. Our government is strongly opposed to the idea of removing the free power supply to farmers. It has been our stand that the mode of disbursement of subsidy should be left to the State governments themselves,” he said.Since a consensus was yet to emerge on these issues, the Chief Minister requested the Prime Minister to instruct the Finance Ministry to remove the requirements to reform the power sector from the proposed conditionalities and also to “allow greater latitude to states in implementing a reform agenda.” Also, Palaniswami said, “imposing needlessly onerous conditions on borrowings will constrain the state governments in finding funds to meet essential expenditure in the wake of a serious financial situation. I am confident you will appreciate and understand the difficulties that states face at this time and instruct that the necessary changes be made to the relevant guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-k-palaniswami-fumes-at-centre-over-unreasonable-riders-to-nod-for-more-borrowing/story-Wg6kGqjDi5EStH2uAdO0XM.html
18-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ICMR revises strategy for Covid-19 testing and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ICMR revises strategy for Covid-19 testing in countryThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday updated its strategy for testing coronavirus disease Covid-19 as the number of infected people crossed 90,000-mark. The revised strategy proposes all symptomatic individuals with history of international travel in the last 14 days to be tested. It also says that all symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases, healthcare workers at the frontline of battle against Covid-19 and patients of Severe Acute Respiatory Infection or SARI to be tested. Read moreNDRF preps for rescue ops as super cyclone Amphan heads for Odisha, BengalAs Odisha and West Bengal brace for cyclone Amphan, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said Monday it has boosted its strength to face the twin challenge of the storm and the Covid-19 pandemic. “A total of 37 teams have been deployed by NDRF in West Bengal and Odisha, out of which 20 teams are actively deployed and 17 are on standby in the two states,” NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said in a video message. Read moreChina accuses Indian troops of trespass in Galwan Valley region in Aksai ChinChina on Monday accused India of building “illegal” defence facilities in the Galwan Valley region of the disputed Aksai Chin area, which is controlled by Beijing but claimed by New Delhi. Chinese border troops enhanced control measures in the area, a state media report said quoting an anonymous military source. Read moreOn NREGA outlay, Rahul Gandhi tweets thank you to PM Modi. Then takes a digFormer congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for approving a 66% jump in the allocated budget for the flagship rural job guarantee scheme initiated during the Congress rule. However, he ended his congratulatory note by taking a dig at the PM for one of his statements regarding the scheme in parliament. Read moreUttar Pradesh okays Priyanka Gandhi’s request for Congress to run 1,000 buses for migrantsThe Uttar Pradesh government on Monday accepted Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi’s request to allow the Congress to run 1,000 buses to ferry migrant workers to their home in the state. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi in a response to the letter wrote that the state government accepts the proposal. He asked the Congress leader to submit details of 1,000 buses, their drivers and conductors so that they could serve the migrant workers. Read moreJapan braces for worst postwar slump as pandemic tips economy into recessionJapan’s economy slipped into recession for the first time in 4-1/2 years in the last quarter, putting the nation on course for its deepest postwar slump as the coronavirus crisis ravages businesses and consumers. Read more World AIDS Vaccine Day 2020: All you need to knowAIDS (Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome) is one of the most serious health conditions to have affected people globally, and there are 2.1 million people living with the condition in India alone. It is caused by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)which affects the T lymphocytes in the body. The infection can spread from one person to another through sharing of needles, blood, or from unprotected sex. It can also be transmitted from mother to child during pregnancy, delivery, or breastfeeding. Read moreCISCE introduces Project work in ISC 2021 exams for maths, English papersThe Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has decided to introduce a 20-mark project work for subjects English and Mathematics for students who will be taking the Indian School Certificate (ISC) examination in 2021. Earlier the plan was to introduce the project work from ISC year 2022 examination, said a notice issued by the Council. Read moreSatyajit Ray’s sleuth Feluda detects coronavirus disease in an hour. WatchAn accurate and low-cost strip test that can detect the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) within one hour is expected to be available for the first phase of testing in four weeks. Called Feluda, the test is named after a fictional detective created by the late Satyajit Ray, although it is also an acronym for FNCAS9 Editor-Linked Uniform Detection Assay. The test uses CRISPR gene-editing technology to identify and target the genetic material of Sars-CoV2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Watch the video for more details. Read moreCats fight each other on live TV, their journalist mom tries hard to steal focusWho doesn’t remember having fake wrestling matches with their siblings? These pretend-fights usually ended with someone getting actually hurt, physically or emotionally. They also had an added side effect of causing much grief to mom who either had to break the fight, act as a mediator or on some rare occasions pretend she didn’t notice the fight at all. This viral video will remind you of that whole scenario. Only, the fight is between two kitty siblings and the pretending has to be done by their hooman - who just happens to be live on TV at the time. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-icmr-revises-strategy-for-covid-19-testing-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3lqiQp5wUUCmuX6Zx0pVMP.html
18-05-2020||India||India building defence facilities in Galwan Valley region of Aksai Chin: Chinese media||Chinese media on Monday accused India of building “illegal” defence facilities in the Galwan Valley region of the disputed Aksai Chin area, which is controlled by Beijing but claimed by New Delhi.Chinese border troops enhanced control measures in the area, a state media report said quoting an anonymous military source.The latest round of conflict comes days after Indian and Chinese soldiers clashed at a remote site near the Sikkim border, which left troops on both sides injured.The nationalistic tabloid published the report on Monday about the developments in the Galwan region.India and China have an unresolved border dispute that has cast a shadow on ties for decades.Protracted rounds of negotiations have failed to resolve the 3488 km long border dispute between the two neighbours.Troops from the two countries had clashed at the Galwan Valley region ahead of the 1962 war.Neither the Chinese foreign or defence ministries had commented on the latest incident until Monday evening.“In a resolute response to India’s recent, illegal construction of defense facilities across the border into Chinese territory in the Galwan Valley region, Chinese border defense troops have made the necessary moves and enhanced control measures,” the report said, quoting a Chinese military source.China says the area is located in the Hotan prefecture of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR).“Since early May, India has been crossing the boundary line in the Galwan Valley region and entering Chinese territory. The Indian-side built defence fortifications and obstacles to disrupt Chinese border defense troops’ normal patrol activities, purposefully instigated conflicts and attempted to unilaterally change the current border control situation,” the report said.The report said the region belongs to China.“The Galwan Valley region is Chinese territory, and the local border control situation was very clear. The actions by the Indian side have seriously violated China and India’s agreements on border issues, violated China’s territorial sovereignty and harmed military relations between the two countries, according to the source”.“…China’s border defene troops have taken necessary measures to strengthen an on-the-spot response and control of border areas, resolutely safeguarding China’s sovereignty and security and maintaining peace and stability in border areas”.The report added that troops from both sides were in contact with each other about the current situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-accuses-indian-troops-of-trespass-in-galwan-valley-region-in-aksai-chin/story-1m7y4zoQAOPiiHwoDlqNKL.html
18-05-2020||India||Kashmir: SOS appeals on social media generate crores of rupees for people||Last week, Rs 27 lakh was deposited in the bank account of a man who made a fervent appeal for help in a video, saying he had lost his job because of the Covid-19 lockdown and his family was near starvation.Shabir Ahmad Shah, a 35-year-old from Vilgam village in Kupwara who now lives in rented accommodation in the old quarters of Srinagar, appeared in the video with his three young children and his wife. His appeal went viral on social media and people from different parts of Kashmir Valley deposited the money in his account within a day. The very next day another video circulated on social media, in which a man, who identified himself as the head of a voluntary organisation, described Shah’s appeal as fabricated and said several groups had already helped the family by providing food kits.The man criticised Shah for fooling people and asked others to never directly donate money into the bank accounts of persons making such appeals. He also said Shah owned a vehicle.The head of the voluntary organisation said people should instead give money to reputed NGOs. “The person has lied. He was helped by various organisations. People should never trust these videos,” said the man who declined to be named.This is not a new phenomenon in Kashmir. Similar appeals have generated crores of rupees for people, mostly patients suffering from life-threatening diseases.Not only Shah, but the people who posted or shared his video were criticised by many netizens, mostly those having a soft corner for NGOs or voluntarily organisations. Many people on social media described Shah’s actions as a scam and sought action against him and others who made such “emotional videos”.The matter even reached the court, when an advocate filed a complaint that prompted the chief judicial magistrate of Srinagar to order an investigation through the police station at Hawal. “In order to ascertain the truthfulness or otherwise, I deem it proper to get complaint investigated through SHO police station concerned u/s 202 CrPC,” the court’s order stated.Javeed Ahmad, who works with a prominent NGO, said people shouldn’t get emotional about such ploys to seek donations. “Rather, people should leave this job to local groups which follow proper mechanisms and then make appeals,” he said.However, some people defended Shah and his family and described his appeal as genuine. “When the NGOs saw a number of people helping him, it seems they got frustrated. Having debit of Rs 50000, staying at rented accommodation for months now, without work are good signs of being poor. Rest I believe public is best judge,” Mir Suhail posted on social media, with picture of the family that was helped by people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-sos-appeals-on-social-media-generate-crores-of-rupees-for-people/story-9QKSjs4n4gCEhMMGOHIEyI.html
18-05-2020||India||21 years later, Bengal, Odisha prep for another Super Cyclone, this time Amphan||Cyclone Amphan has now intensified into a super cyclonic storm on Monday and is likely to move across the northeast Bay of Bengal, and cross the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts between Digha and the Hatia Island on May 20, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).‘Amphan’ (pronounced UM-PN) that had turned into an extremely severe cyclonic storm gathered more strength over the Bay of Bengal while moving slowly towards the coast. It has now intensified further into a super cyclonic storm likely to make landfall on Wednesday, the IMD has indicated.The IMD has warned that the cyclone could ravage east Medinipur, south and north 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Kolkata districts in West Bengal. Twenty-one years ago, in 1999, another super cyclonic storm had ravaged large parts of Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal. It had taken Odisha, a number of months to repair the extensive damage that the Super Cyclone had caused back then.The state is expected to face extensive damage in the storm that is likely to uproot communication and power poles. It said the Cyclone Amphan could also disrupt rail and road links in many places in Bengal and Odisha and inflict extensive damage to standing crops, plantations and orchards.ALSO READ | Amphan likely to turn into ‘super cyclone’, says govt; will hit Bengal coastAhead of Cyclone Amphan making landfall, Odisha has urged the Centre to temporarily suspend ‘Shramik Special’ trains passing through areas falling in the direction of the storm. The Odisha government also announced that it will shift migrant workers lodged in various quarantine centres near the coast to safer places.Tracking Cyclone Amphan’s movement in 10 points:1. Cyclone Amphan is likely to move north-northeastwards and rapidly across the northwest Bay of Bengal, and cross the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts between Digha and the Hatia Island as a very severe super cyclonic storm.2. This has raised the possibility of heavy rains and high-velocity winds in coastal Odisha and Bengal and the state governments have initiated the process of evacuating people from vulnerable areas. 3. Cyclone Amphan is likely to have a wind speed of up to 185 km per hour on Wednesday, the Union Home Ministry has said in its latest update.4. Heavy rainfall warnings have been issued by the IMD for Gajapati, Puri, Ganjam, Jagatsinghpur, and Kendrapara. On Tuesday, the rainfall activity is likely to increase in Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajapur, Mayurbhanj, Khurja and Cuttack in Odisha.5. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea till May 21, Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P K Jena has said. The IMD has issued a warning to suspend all fishing activity in Bengal and Odisha till May 20.6. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has enhanced its strength to a total of 37 teams, with the addition of 20 more, to combat the dual challenge of Cyclone Amphan and the coronavirus pandemic, the chief of the federal contingency force said on Monday. 37 teams have been deployed by NDRF in West Bengal and Odisha, out of which 20 teams are actively deployed and 17 are on standby in the two states. On Sunday, the force had earmarked 17 teams for the task.7. The NDRF is fully prepared with all the paraphernalia to face Cyclone Amphan which has turned into a super cyclonic storm by Monday and will continue to be so for some time, NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said. In Odisha, the deployment of the force is in seven districts and in West Bengal in six districts so far.8. The Odisha government is in the process of evacuating people from low-lying areas in 12 districts including 6 coastal ones due to the approaching super cyclonic storm.9. The impending cyclone has forced the Indian Railways to divert the route for its Bhubaneswar-New Delhi-Bhubaneswar AC Special trains running from Bhubaneswar between May 19 and 22. The trains will now travel via Bhubaneswar-Angul-Sambalpur City-Jharsuguda-Rourkela-Tata route, bypassing the Bhadrak-Balasore-Hijli route.10. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also discuss the super cyclonic storm in a high-level meeting on Monday to review the situation and preparedness. With Amphan turning into a super cyclone, the Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government has geared up to make necessary arrangements for the cyclonic spell that is expected to make landfall on Wednesday. The Bengal government has said that special arrangements have been made by deploying specialised disaster management teams at Sagar Island and Kakdweep in South 24-Parganas district in Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-years-later-bengal-odisha-prep-for-another-super-cyclone-this-time-amphan/story-uOhp3eUrMA7QrGK68jMrmK.html
18-05-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh okays Priyanka Gandhi’s request for Congress to run 1,000 buses for migrants||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday accepted Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi’s request to allow the Congress to run 1,000 buses to ferry migrant workers to their homes in the state.Additional state chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi, in response to Priyanka Gandhi’s letter to Yogi Adityanath, wrote that the state government accepts the proposal. He asked the Congress leader to submit details of 1,000 buses, their drivers and conductors so that they could serve the migrant workers.The Congress said it would provide the details soon.“We welcome the state government’s decision. We have details of the buses. As the state government has sought more details about driver and conductor, we will provide them at the earliest,” said Congress legislature party leader Aaradhna Mishra. The buses will be run by the Congress and the party will bear the entire expense.Gandhi thanked CM Adityanath and assured that her party will stand with those migrant workers affected by the coronavirus and suffering due to the lockdown situation.“Thank you for allowing us to run 1,000 buses for our brothers and sisters walking home,” tweeted Priyanka Gandhi.While the state agreed, the ruling BJP hit out at the party over what it called “cheap, political drama”. “Why did they send the buses to UP border instead of making arrangements to bring migrants directly from their party-ruled states to UP. It’s cheap political drama of the Congress party,” said UP BJP spokesman Chandramohan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-okays-priyanka-gandhi-s-request-for-congress-to-run-1-000-buses-for-migrants/story-C9wF5jbhR8xGvfu0CXZPUM.html
18-05-2020||India||ICMR revises strategy for Covid-19 testing in country||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday updated its strategy for testing coronavirus disease Covid-19 as the number of infected people crossed 90,000-mark.The revised strategy proposes all symptomatic individuals with history of international travel in the last 14 days to be tested. It also says that all symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases, healthcare workers at the frontline of battle against Covid-19 and patients of Severe Acute Respiatory Infection or SARI to be tested.The asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case should be tested once between day 5 and day 10 of coming into contact, the new ICMR testing strategy says.All symptomatic patients with Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and patients who develop ILI symptoms should also be tested, it further says.The guideline makes it clear that no emergency procedure should be delayed for lack of test.The ICMR had said on Friday that the number of RT-PCR tests for detection of Covid-19 crossed the two million-mark in India.A total of 20,39,952 samples were tested in the country as on Friday 9 am, with 92,911 tests being conducted since Thursday 9 am, Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, the head of the Department of Research Management, Policy Planning and Communication at ICMR said.The testing for Covid-19 has been scaled up significantly over the last two months and the capacity has increased to around one lakh tests per day.Starting with one laboratory at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune and 100 laboratories at the beginning of the lockdown, the RT-PCR tests are now available at 360 government and 147 private testing facilities across the country, said ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-revises-strategy-for-covid-19-testing-in-country/story-libJO0mrqzrznek4giqI5M.html
18-05-2020||India||NDRF preps for rescue ops as super cyclone Amphan heads for Odisha, Bengal||As Odisha and West Bengal brace for cyclone Amphan, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said Monday it has boosted its strength to face the twin challenge of the storm and the Covid-19 pandemic.“A total of 37 teams have been deployed by NDRF in West Bengal and Odisha, out of which 20 teams are actively deployed and 17 are on standby in the two states,” NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said in a video message.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned that Amphan will intensify into a super cyclone.Pradhan said the force is fully geared to face the situation amid the IMD’s warning that the depression in the Bay of Bengal will turn into a very severe cyclonic storm by this evening and remain so for some time and will cross the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts on May 20.On Sunday, the NDRF had earmarked 17 teams for the task.A single NDRF team comprises 45 personnel.Pradhan said the NDRF has deployed its teams in seven districts in Odisha and six districts in Bengal.“It (cyclone ‘Amphan’) is a dual challenge as cyclone is striking in time of Covid-19,” Pradhan said.”We are coordinating with local administrations for active evacuation from possible affected areas.”The IMD has warned that the cyclone could ravage east Medinipur, south and north 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hoogly, Kolkata districts in West Bengal.Kutcha houses are expected to face extensive damage in the storm that is likely to uproot communication and power poles.It said the cyclone could also disrupt rail and road links in many places and inflict extensive damage to standing crops, plantations and orchards.It suggested the evacuation of people from low lying areas and advised against movement in motor boats and small ships.In Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Balasore, Jajpur and Mayurbhanj) the cyclone is expected to completely destroy thatched houses and cause extensive damage to kutcha houses.The cyclone could also damage tarred and untarred roads and disrupt railways, overhead power lines and signalling systems.Odisha is also expected to face widespread damage to standing crops, plantations and orchards.The IMD also repeated its warning to suspend all fishing activity in Bengal and Odisha till May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-preps-for-rescue-ops-as-super-cyclone-amphan-heads-for-odisha-bengal/story-6obX8d3l7dK7EATe1h9cbI.html
18-05-2020||India||Former bureaucrats raise concerns over Central Vista revamp project in letter to PM||Sixty retired bureaucrats have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, raising concerns over the Central Vista redevelopment project, which is likely to cost around Rs 20,000 crore, calling it an “irresponsible” move at a time when enormous funds are required strengthen the public health system. In the letter, also marked to Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, the former bureaucrats said there was no parliamentary debate or discussion that preceded the decisions taken with regard to the project. Moreover, the redevelopment plans were not substantiated by any public consultation or expert review, it said. The selection of the firm and the processes employed to do so leave a lot of questions unanswered, the letter added. “In the post Covid-19 scenario, when enormous funds are required for strengthening the public health system, to provide sustenance to people and to rebuild the economy, taking up a proposal to redesign the entire Central Vista at a cost of at least Rs 20,000 crores, a figure likely to escalate significantly, seems particularly irresponsible. “It seems like Nero fiddling while Rome burns,” it said.Signatories to the letter include retired IAS, IPS and IFS officers. Former DDA vice-chairman V S Ailawadi and former Prasar Bharti CEO Jawahar Sircar are also among them. The Central Vista redevelopment project envisages constructing a new Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat and revamping of the nearly 3.5-km-long stretch from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to the India Gate.  The letter said construction and redesign on the scale planned in the redevelopment project would significantly affect the heritage nature of this precinct and destroy it “irrevocably”.The former civil servants also pointed that the redevelopment planned will, moreover, cause severe environmental damage.“This precinct is at the core of the congested capital of Delhi, and acts as the lungs of the city, with its dense mature tree canopies serving as a repository of bio diversity and the vast lawns of the Vista as a watershed for the city between the Ridge and the Yamuna,” it said. Constructing a large number of multi-storeyed office buildings, with basements, in this open area will create “congestion and irreversibly change and damage the environment”. “Delhi already suffers from enormous environmental pollution. To plan something which will increase this pollution many, many times, not merely during the construction phase but also subsequently, is clearly a thoughtless and irresponsible act,” the letter further said.The former bureaucrats also pointed out that the Central Vista serves at present as a recreational space for the whole city as families throng the area on summer nights to sit around in the open air and enjoy the occasional ice-cream – “innocent and inexpensive pleasures” which they will be deprived of once the vista’s character undergoes a change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bureaucrats-raise-concerns-over-central-vista-revamp-project-in-letter-to-pm/story-UNV4rU6pdSbJZgtAx1eGWO.html
18-05-2020||India||On NREGA outlay, Rahul Gandhi tweets thank you to PM Modi. Then takes a dig||Former congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for approving a 66% jump in the allocated budget for the flagship rural job guarantee scheme initiated during the Congress rule. However, he ended his congratulatory note by taking a dig at the PM for one of his statements regarding the scheme in parliament. “The Prime Minister has approved an additional budget of Rs 40,000 crore for the MNREGA scheme created during the UPA era. We express our gratitude to him for understanding the vision of the scheme and for promoting it,” tweeted the Congress leader. Gandhi ended his tweet message with “#ModiUturnOnMNREGA”. He also tagged a short video clip featuring the PM.  प्रधानमंत्री ने UPA काल में सृजित MNREGA स्कीम के लिए 40,000 करोड़ का अतिरिक्त बजट देने की मंज़ूरी दी है। MNREGA की दूरदर्शिता को समझने और उसे बढ़ावा देने के लिए हम उनके प्रति आभार प्रकट करते हैं।#ModiUturnOnMNREGA pic.twitter.com/XMOmhXhVeDIn it, the PM can be heard saying, “MNREGA aapki vifaltaon ka jeeta jagta smarak hai (MNREGA is a testimony to your failures).” On Sunday, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while laying out the final tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package, said the government will now allocate an additional Rs 40,000 crore to MGNREGA to provide employment boost. This amount is in addition to a little over Rs 61,000 crore budgeted for 2020-21.There has also been a revision of wages under the scheme from Rs 182 per day to Rs 202, keeping in mind the exodus of migrant labourers to villages. The FM’s announcement was part of a slew of measures announced by the government for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), agriculture, migrant workers, defence, businesses, and other segments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-nrega-outlay-rahul-gandhi-tweets-thank-you-to-pm-modi-then-takes-a-dig/story-8iEdd1i7EEbyDkPhkwyurI.html
18-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan intensifies into super cyclone, says IMD||Extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan over the west and central parts of Bay of Bengal has intensified into a super cyclone with wind speed above 200 kmph (kilometres per hour) on Monday afternoon, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Heavy rainfall is expected to hit coastal Odisha by Monday evening and then hit West Bengal’s coast the following day.On Wednesday, the super cyclone is expected to marginally lose its strength and cross over to West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts as an extremely severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 180-190 kmph. The extremely severe cyclone is expected to cross in between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya islands in Bangladesh, IMD authorities said on Monday.Earlier on Monday morning, IMD was expecting it to cross the Indian coasts as a very severe cyclonic storm.Scientists at IMD said this is the first time that super cyclones have been recorded in two consecutive years — Kyarr (2019) and now Amphan -- and this could be linked to higher sea surface temperatures in both the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal.This is the first super cyclonic storm in the Bay of Bengal after the 1999 super cyclone, which impacted coastal Odisha and killed over 9,000 people. There was a super cyclone, called Kyarr, in the Arabian Sea last October and was concentrated only in the ocean. However, Kyarr did not claim any human life. Odisha also faced nature’s wrath last May in the form of cyclone Fani. “All conditions are currently favourable for the development of a super cyclone. The sea surface temperature is in the range of 30 to 31 degrees Celsius, as compared to an expected temperature of 28 degrees Celsius over the region. There is vertical wind shear (change in wind speed with altitude) and sufficient moisture in the air,” said Sunita Devi, a scientist, who is in-charge of cyclones at IMD.Widespread damage is expected in coastal West Bengal and Odisha, according to IMD’s latest bulletin. IMD has warned that would be extensive damage to kutcha and even old or damaged pucca constructions, uprooting of communications and power transmission poles, disruption of rail and road links, crops and plantations; large boats, ships can get torn from moorings, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amphan-now-a-super-cyclone-imd/story-9AeCkY65vfznlO5SYeGcSN.html
18-05-2020||India||5 doctors test positive for Covid-19 in Kashmir||The Covid-19 tally in Jammu and Kashmir rose to 1,188 on Monday after five doctors in three hospitals in Srinagar tested positive for the disease, officials said.A 75-year-old man also died of Covid-19 at Chest Diseases (CD) hospital in Srinagar on Monday taking the death toll to 14.Officials said that the five doctors were tested a day after a 29-year-old woman, who was earlier treated at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh(SMHS) hospital by ENT specialists and then tested positive for Covid-19, died at the CD hospital.“5 doctors positive - 4 of them were treating a single positive patient. No one is immune to the infection. Please take precautions,” Dr Naveed Shah, head of chest medicine at CD hospital, said in a tweet.Dr Salim Khan, nodal officer Covid-19 at Government Medical College, Srinagar, said that three of the doctors are from the ENT department of SMHS, one from Government Dental College and one from SKIMS, Bemina.“The Covid positive deceased lady from Habba Kadal was treated by the doctor from the Dental College and also at ENT, SMHS hospital, Srinagar,” Khan said.The patient was operated at SMHS by ENT surgeons for Ludwig’s Angina (submandibular abscess) and mediastinitis and had suffered septic shock.So far 21 health care workers including 13 doctors have been infected with Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir since the first case was reported on March 9.The infections of frontline workers have triggered concern among the population.“Doctors and paramedics are our frontline workers in the fight against Covid-19. If they continue to be infected with coronavirus, it will be only a recipe for a big disaster. Today 5 doctors from 3 different health institutions in Kashmir are reported to have tested positive for Covid19. This is shocking, to say the least. The last thing we can afford today is to shut down our hospitals during the pandemic that’s only spreading its tentacle,’ said Faheem Aslam, a netizen. Dr Khan said that the 75-year-old person who died on Monday was from Hiller Kokernag in south Kashmir’s Anantnag and was earlier admitted to SMHS hospital.“He tested positive and was shifted to CD hospital where his two latest reports also came positive for Covid-19. The patient died today morning at CD hospital,” he said.On Sunday, 62 people had tested positive for Covid-19 including 14 police personnel and a pregnant woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-doctors-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kashmir/story-HzzJ2lR8TNIPVUT3U5xnLM.html
18-05-2020||India||As lockdown 4.0 begins, a look at list of states with over 5,000 Covid-19 cases||Coronavirus cases in India have surpassed China’s tally and now near a grim milestone. On Monday, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Affairs updated the total number of cases in the country to 96,169. The number of fatalities caused by coronavirus across the country stands at 3,029 while 36,823 patients have been cured or discharged from the hospitals. Maharashtra continues to see no respite in its Covid-19 cases, Delhi, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu also struggle to contain the virus spread. Here’s taking a look at states where coronavirus cases are on a rapid rise and have crossed the 5,000-mark.MaharashtraThe state has reported a whopping 33,053 Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra has recorded 1,198 deaths so far while 7,688patients have recovered. Mumbai, Thane and Pune are some of the worst-hit cities in the state. Mumbai alone has witnessed over 20,000 coronavirus cases.Also read: India sees biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 5,242 new patientsGujaratSecond in terms of number of Covid-19 cases in the country. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 11379. 659 people have died due to the coronavirus disease in Gujarat, 4499 people have recovered so far. Ahmedabad is the worst-hit city in the state. Tamil NaduThe southern state has reported 11224 coronavirus cases so far, third-highest in the country. Tamil Nadu has seen 4172 people recover from the deadly contagion while 78 patients have succumbed to death. DelhiIn the national capital, the number of coronavirus cases have breached the 10,000-mark. 10054 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi. 160 people have died from the infection while 4485 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanThe state has reported 5202 coronavirus cases so far. The number of fatalities in the state has climbed to 131 while 2992 patients have recovered from the deadly contagion. Jaipur is among the worst-hit areas in the state. States that near 5,000-mark Covid-19 cases are rising rapidly in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Both states have reported more than 3,000 coronavirus cases till date and now near the 5,000-markMadhya Pradesh has reported 4977 positive cases of coronavirus. 248 people have died from Covid-19 here while 2403 have recovered. Indore, Ujjain and Bhopal are top coronavirus-hit cities here. The number of Covid-19 positive cases reached 4259 in Uttar Pradesh on Monday. While 2441 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 104 have died from the infection here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-lockdown-4-0-begins-a-look-at-list-of-states-with-over-5-000-covid-19-cases/story-gZyZr7Arjif6dvpD3h9jsK.html
18-05-2020||India||Swiggy to cut 1,100 jobs, shut cloud kitchen ops: Full text of company’s statement||Food delivery startup Swiggy said on Monday it is cutting 1,100 jobs, or nearly 14% of its staff, and scaling down some businesses to reduce costs after the coronavirus pandemic induced hit demand for online food orders.Swiggy co-founder and chief executive Sriharsha Majety said in an internal email, which the Bengaluru-headquartered startup published on its blog, it core food business had been “severely impacted”.Here is the mail:Dear Team,Thanks for attending the town hall today, and I hope you’re staying safe and well. As I’d mentioned during the session, today is one of the saddest days for Swiggy as we have to go through an unfortunate downsizing exercise. With a heavy heart, I have tried to share the reasons and details of the process below, because you deserve to know.As you all know, we started chalking out an accelerated path to profitability for the food delivery business last December. We also started making great progress on our unit economics over the following months before Covid hit us. We had mentioned that we will be focusing on being efficient everywhere – including employee costs – and that we’d come back when we have greater clarity. As we came closer to chalking out the final details of that exercise, Covid hit us with another huge blow of uncertainty, forcing us to look even harder at our cost base and preparedness for the road ahead. While Covid might have long-term tailwinds for the delivery business and digital commerce when things settle eventually, nobody knows how long the uncertainty will last. We therefore need to be prepared to see through this winter, to emerge stronger on the other side. While all our hard work and some good luck has meant that we have had a stable setup all these years, we have to make some very hard decisions today.I want to start by first sharing the management outlook and key business decisions we have made given the landscape. 1. The core food delivery business has been severely impacted and will stay impacted over the short term, but is expected to start growing again after that. We need to hence prepare to come out stronger on the other side by continuing to build on capabilities that will help us make the most of the opportunity when things are better again. While we are very fortunate to have raised capital just before Covid hit and have sufficient runway today, it is incredibly important to prepare for worse scenarios in the macro environment and make sure we are protected. 2. We also need to build a much leaner org and reduce costs to be able to withstand any further risks from the uncertainty. We will have to reduce our expenses such that we can achieve profitability with a smaller order volume than hitherto planned. This will be done keeping in mind already identified efficiencies, along with additional reductions in teams and initiatives that will have lower activity because of Covid. 3. We are choosing to scale down or shut down adjacent businesses that are either going to be highly volatile or will not be highly relevant for the next 18 months. The biggest impact here is on the cloud kitchens business, with many unknowns about volumes through the year. Since the onset of Covid, we have already begun the process of scaling down our kitchen facilities temporarily or permanently, depending on their outlook and profitability profile. We are already operating at significantly lower levels on our staffing and physical infra than our earlier footprint, and will continue to optimize before we get more clarity on order volumes for food delivery.4. While this crisis has impacted our core business negatively, there is no doubt that we are now at an inflection point for the penetration of digital commerce and home delivery in India. This offers us opportunities to continue investing our efforts in grocery and other service offerings that we think will continue to do well. We are going to invest in these high-confidence efforts to focus not on surviving alone, but on growing along the way by adapting very quickly. To enable this, we have already re-aligned some team members from other businesses into these initiatives.5. Identify and significantly reduce every single indirect cost like hubs, office infrastructure, etc. While we will come back to share more information on this, it is one of the areas where we feel the cut is most prudent given it doesn’t affect customer or employee experience. We’ve all done some of the greatest work of our time at Swiggy over the last few weeks working remotely, and that’s reason enough to believe this can be done. In line with the above business decisions, we unfortunately have to part ways with 1100 of our employees spanning across grades and functions in the cities and head office over the next few days. This is easily the hardest and longest deliberated decision the management team and I have been faced with over recent times. We have been fortunate to have some of the brightest missionary talent in the country join us over the last few years, and I would like to state unequivocally that this is not at all a reflection of anyone’s performance.Ever since the day it became clear that we will need to downsize, Girish and I were very clear about a few things. We have always believed in treating people with care and respect at Swiggy, and this process will be 10x more important from that perspective. Without the key contributions of every Swiggster, we wouldn’t have gotten to where we are today, and it’s really the least we can do in this unfortunate situation.While we waited to see if we can have these conversations F2F, it’s increasingly looking like a long time away before we get back to our offices. We are, however, definitely going to do this 1-1 and make sure we do this in the most respectful way possible.Over the next few days, the HR team along with the line manager will have a 1-1 conversation with impacted employees providing further details regarding the next steps and clarifying any questions you may have. All other employees will receive appropriate communication from your line managers regarding the continuity of your role with Swiggy.We are fully committed to providing the best financial, emotional and career-related support that we can to make this journey less painful, and to ease the burden on you and your families. We have done our best to be thoughtful and express our gratitude & support through a care package, with details below.DETAILS OF THE CARE PACKAGEFinancial SupportWhile our primary objective is to ensure that all employees who are leaving us are able to meet their financial commitments and expenses till they find another role, we also want to display our gratitude to team members who have worked with us for longer and have made sustained contributions over the years believing in the mission. The details are below:• All impacted employees will receive at least 3 months of salary irrespective of their notice period or tenure.• For every year they have spent with us, we will be offering an extra month of ex-gratia in addition to their notice period pay, working out to between 3-8 months of salary depending on the tenure.E.g. If someone’s notice period is 3 months and they’ve spent 5 years with us, they will get 8 months of salary.• EquityMany team members have joined Swiggy believing in the growth potential of the company and even preferred ESOP to cash at the time of joining. While our standard ESOP policy has a 1-year cliff and annual vesting, we will now be extending ESOP vesting to the nearest quarter (including the months of notice period) and waive off the 1-year cliff for those who have not completed 1 year.Healthcare & Wellness BenefitsDuring the current health crisis, we want to ensure we provide all possible support for the medical care of impacted employees and their families. To facilitate this, we are providing:• Medical Insurance cover for them and nominated family members till 31st December 2020. Additionally, we will also be providing insurance cover for their parents.• Accident and Term insurance till 31st December 2020. • A Wellness Assistance Programme to ensure the physical, emotional/mental and financial well-being of impacted employees and their families, providing unlimited tele/video consultation access to experienced doctors, counsellors and financial advisors till 31st December 2020.Career Transition SupportWe want to ensure a smooth career transition for the impacted employees, and want to help them find new opportunities. This is something the outplacement cell has been working really hard on and I hope we can get a large percentage of impacted employees placed through this effort. I will also be sharing an update on our outplacement effort at a later time.• We will have a dedicated and fully-trained talent acquisition team assisting impacted employees round the clock in identifying suitable opportunities and providing necessary career support for the next 3 months. • We will also offer free outplacement support from RiseSmart for mid-senior management employees, giving full access to their career coaching services, content and personalized job search.Connectivity SupportGiven that connectivity is going to be paramount during this time from a career transition standpoint, impacted employees will be enabled to retain their allocated work laptops and be supported on mobile phone communication allowance for the next 3 months.Learning SupportTo ensure that the journey of upskilling oneself continues for the impacted employees, we will be providing free LinkedIn Learning access for the next 3 months, for both technical and professional skill development. We have also curated and assigned content to them around resume building, interviewing skills, emotional intelligence, etc. that will help them with their career transition during this time.Relocation SupportWe will support impacted employees who have relocated to join Swiggy within the last 1 year by reimbursing the expenses in case they wish to move back.A dedicated set of HR team members will assist the impacted employees with their queries pertaining to the Care Package, reimbursement and settlements, insurance, and any other relevant areas.To all impacted teammates, I cannot even imagine how stressful this can be and want to let you know we are by your side and are going to do everything we can to help with the situation. We have all built the company together brick by brick and have been very lucky to have you join us on this journey. I am very sorry for having to make this decision, but want to wish you only the very best with everything and want to thank you deeply for all your contributions to Swiggy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swiggy-to-cut-1-100-jobs-shut-cloud-kitchen-ops-full-text-of-company-s-statement/story-imcL94vu42wYue7kruiaLI.html
18-05-2020||India||In Covid epicentre Ganjam, fear and worries over return of migrants||For thousands of men from Ganjam district, such as Sadashiva Dakua, desperate to make a living, Surat in Gujarat has been nothing short of El Dorado.Despite its overflowing sewers and cramped rooms, Surat has been a huge draw for many young men of Odisha, especially Ganjam district, where dreams of a well-paid job die as fast as they begin.Now quarantined with 70 others at a school in Ganjam’s Polasara block, after a train journey back to his home 10 days ago, the 36-year-old is hoping he doesn’t test positive. Ganjam has 307 Covid-19 cases, accounting for more than a third of Odisha’s total of 876 cases, and the administration’s focus is on migrant workers such as Dakua, whose influx has pushed up Covid-19 cases in Odisha. Of the 876 cases, migrant workers accounted for almost 750 cases.“Till May 2, when the first case was detected in Ganjam, we managed to keep things under control. But as more and more migrant workers arrived from Surat, the positive cases zoomed,” said Ganjam’s chief district medical officer (CDMO) Umashankar Mishra.Once hailed in Ganjam for the money that they remitted back home, the tag of ‘Surat returnee’ has become a cross too heavy to bear for the migrants. His words are echoed by several people. “Why did they have to come at all? They will now ruin us,” said Meghnad Pradhan of Polasara, where the first death due to Covid-19 was recorded last week.CURSED BY LOCALS, BUT LEFT WITH NO CHOICESThough cursed by the people of Ganjam for bringing them “misery”, migrant workers such as Dakua had no option but to leave Surat. Having studied up to Class 10, and with few financial resources, Dakua migrated to Gujarat’s textile hub 20 years ago. In between, he married and now has a 10-member family in Jilundi village of Bhanjanagar block. Even before the lockdown, he never had a steady job as he moved from one company to another with little job security.“Tell me, what should I have done instead of fleeing? I not only lost my job in the textile factory, I had to share the 10x10-foot room at Surat with five others as they had lost their jobs. In normal times, only half of us would be in the room at any given point of time as our work hours alternated. It was too difficult and scary to live in the cramped room with no money. Several migrant workers in Surat were testing positive and I was scared whether I would be alive,” said Dakua.Several miles away, in a quarantine centre of Khallikote block, Kalu Charan Panigrahi can’t forget how he escaped, though he was better off with regular payments and an ESI subscription that allowed him to get treated at hospital without spending anything from his own pocket.“I had food for just a fortnight, but was unsure about the lockdown ending. I was scared of queuing up for food as I thought I may end up infecting my 2.5-month-old daughter and my wife,” said Panigrahi, who bought two train tickets for Rs 750 each with much difficulty.Babuli Behera and two of his friends from Polasara block were less fortunate. They used their decrepit bicycles to leave Surat. Behera, 40, has been a regular at Surat’s textile mills for the past 15 years. On April 16, he took his Hercules bicycle, charged his feature phone and switched it off as he and his friends rode their bicycles from Surat, through Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, to Odisha over 10 days. He survived on biscuits and odd handouts on the way, and feels happy that he is out of the “Corona narak (hell)”.“I had no job and no money left. I would have died of the disease had I stayed a little longer,” said Behera.Such stories get repeated across the quarantine centres of Ganjam, home to 55,000 migrant workers who have returned from Gujarat, Maharashtra and other states.MIGRANTS SWELLEDHaving travelled from the Covid-19 hot spots, these workers have swelled the Covid-19 cases of Ganjam in 16 days. From the first case on May 2, when an 18-year-old tested positive, the numbers have gone up to 307 on May 18, clocking around 20 cases a day on an average.Ganjam’s district collector Vijay Amrita Kulange said despite the increase in cases, there is little to be worry about as the infections are all from quarantine centres. “There is no reason to panic as no community transmission has happened so far,” he said.But Ganjam may have seen only the tip of the iceberg as only 5,000 samples from the 55,000 migrant workers have been tested so far. Till Sunday evening, 1,800 samples were pending with labs. In several quarantine centres, only a handful who showed symptoms of Covid-19 have been tested. In the quarantine centre at Mathura village of Khallikote block, none of the 37 who arrived from Surat have been tested.“We are ramping up testing facilities. We are testing 500 samples now and would soon test 1,000 a day. Then we can test almost everyone,” said Ganjam CDMO’s Mishra.But with another 50,000 migrants expected to arrive at the quarantine centres, there is no certainty when a significant number of people at the centres can be tested.At the centres, arrangements are hardly as perfect as the administration makes them out to be in social media posts. More than 150 people left a centre in Beguniapada block and people milled around in some other centres, handing over tobacco and other items, and there are also complaints of poor hygiene and food quality.In Dhunkapada quarantine centre, four buckets have been given for 10 inmates while the single bottle of hand-wash for 73 people is almost exhausted. “The toilets are stinking. With the gates shut, it feels as if we are serving a sentence in jail,” said Nakula Patra.“We have not been tested for Covid-19 so far. Officials toss the medicines to us from a distance,” said another inmate who didn’t want to be named. Adding to the distrust is villagers guarding the local pond over suspicion that some workers may scale the wall of the quarantine centre and bathe there.Outside, people discuss openly how the migrants are ‘polluting’ the villages resentful of administration’s decision of quarantining the migrant workers right inside village schools and colleges.NO SOCIAL DISTANCINGEven as Covid-19 cases increase in Ganjam, there seems to be little social distancing. In Madhupali village, home to Ganjam’s first Covid-19 victim, a 40-year-old man who returned from Surat, his kin milled together while conducting his last rites.Prafulla Behera died in a quarantine centre 10 days ago, just a few days after he arrived there. He left behind a wife and four daughters, the youngest one only give months old. None of the people who attended an event held 10 days after his death wore a mask or maintained social distancing.In other villages of Ganjam, the concept of social distancing isn’t being observed. Very few wear masks or seem to appreciate the importance of such protection while going on with their daily lives.“The real test will be ensuring social distancing in daily lives. In Odisha’s villages, people believe in social mixing and not distancing. Once a Covid-19 positive case in a quarantine centre infects someone outside, community transmission will only be a matter of time,” said Binod Patra, head of the community medicine department of AIIMS Bhubaneswar.” “People are now not worried as Odisha has not seen higher death tolls like Gujarat and Maharashtra. Once that happens, it may be catastrophic.”POST-COVID WORRYWhile the increasing infections are worrying the government, reverse migration is keeping state officials equally worried. Ganjam is chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s home district and any potential social unrest here due to reverse migration may be politically uncomfortable for him. A significant rise in the number of migrant workers is expected to strain resources at a time when there is little scope of raising revenue. A rapid assessment of people returning to Odisha, done by the NGO Gram Vikas and Kerala’s Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development this month, found the migrant workers who have returned will need a monthly income of Rs 5,001 to Rs 10,000 at their native places to go on with their lives.Biswajit Bhoi, who teaches economics at the Central University of Koraput, said this is easier said than done. “The unemployment rate in 2017-18 stood at 7.1% in Odisha, against the all India average of 6.1%. To give more money into the hands of these migrant workers, the government needs to ramp up MGNREGA workers. But how will the government do NREGA work in the next four months of the monsoon?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-covid-epicentre-ganjam-fear-and-worries-over-return-of-migrants/story-njDVGCbmjUvLH8UVuHH82O.html
18-05-2020||India||7, including 4 kids, killed in fire at a shop in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior||Seven members of a family, including three children, were killed and at least three others sustained injuries in a fire that broke out in a shop in a residential complex in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior on Monday morning, police said.A police officer said the fire started at about 10am from the paint shop situated on the ground floor of the complex at Roshni Ghar road in Inderganj market. It took more than two hours for 10 fire tenders to extinguish the blaze, the officer added.“As per a family member, the fire was caused by a short circuit in the electric metre in the morning. Paint and thinner in the shop being highly inflammable soon caught fire and it spread to engulf the three-storey building trapping the family members residing on the first and second floors,” Satyendra Singh Tomar, additional superintendent of police, said.The dead have been identified as Aaradhya, the four-year-old daughter of Sumit Goyal; Aryan, the 10-year-old son of Saket Goyal, and Subhi Goyal, the 13-year-old daughter of Shyam Goyal.Shyam Goyal’s 37-year-old wife Arti Goyal, Shakuntala, 60, wife of Jaikishan Goyal, 33-year-old Priyanka Goyal, wife of Saket Goyal, and Madhu Goyal, 55, wife of Hariom Goyal were also among the dead.Saket Goyal, 36, his father Hariom Goyal, 62, and Gauravi Goyal, the seven-year-old daughter of Shyam Goyal, have been injured and taken to a hospital.“Except the girl, the condition of the other injured is stated to be critical,” Kaushlendra Vikram Singh, Gwalior’s district collector, said. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan condoled the deaths of the seven members of the family.Former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia termed the accident as unfortunate.“I am deeply pained to know about the fire incident that took place in Inderganj and loss of life in it. I pray to God to grant peace to the departed souls and strength to the family in this hour of grief,” the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-including-4-kids-killed-in-fire-at-a-shop-in-madhya-pradesh-s-gwalior/story-8ERZCSbtO5kvDzunb7BM2L.html
18-05-2020||India||Amid lockdown, rally organised in Arunachal to protest death of civilian in Army shooting||At least 50 residents in Arunachal Pradesh’s remote Longding town took out a peace rally on Monday amid the lockdown restrictions, which have been imposed since end-March to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, in protest against the alleged killing of a Wancho tribesman by an Indian Army patrolling party two days ago.Wancho Council, an apex body of Wancho, a Naga sub-tribe, took out the peace march that ended at the Longding district deputy commissioner’s (DC) office, where the council members submitted a memorandum demanding justice for the slain and compensation for his next of kin.“No untoward incident was reported during the rally. All lockdown norms were followed. The participants submitted a memorandum, which will be forwarded to the competent authority for necessary action,” said Chesta Yadav, DC, Longding.The district administration made an exception to hold the peace rally, as the Union Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) prevailing lockdown restrictions prohibit any public gatherings and congregations except for weddings and funerals.“There was a public demand to hold the peace rally in protests against the firing incidents at Pumao village on Saturday. The district administration allowed the rally to be held by Wancho Council in a peaceful manner,” said an order issued by Longing DC on Sunday. The order asked all rally participants to maintain social distancing, wear masks and only 50 people were allowed to take part in the march. “This rally is a one-time exception. No other gathering will be allowed after the rally is over. The violation of Covid-19 guidelines will attract legal action,” it added.On Saturday, Lamdaan Lukham (60) was killed when personnel from the 19th Sikh Regiment of the Indian Army fired at villagers in Pumao during a combing operation against the National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Isak-Muivah (NSCN I-M) cadres. Several others, including villagers and the army personnel, reportedly sustained injuries in the incident.On Saturday night, the army issued a statement, which stated that a search operation was launched at Pumao based on intelligence inputs about the presence of NSCN (I-M) cadres in the village.“Villagers started protesting against security forces and resorted to stone-pelting. Troops identified suspicious movement and started moving towards a house, which drew two to three bursts of fire on the patrolling party,” the statement said.“Civilians were told to disperse and to safeguard their lives and property. Eight single shots were fired as controlled retaliation. In this melee, insurgents managed to escape. However, in this crossfire, it is believed few villagers have got hurt and one died,” it added.However, local residents, student bodies and human rights organisations in Arunachal have alleged that the army personnel deliberately opened fire in a bid to retaliate to settle a dispute that occurred a day earlier, when security forces thrashed a villager in Pumao.Though there was a bid to settle the dispute, trouble broke out when the meeting ended inconclusively, and the army team left the deliberations midway amid stone-pelting by irate villagers. But before leaving the spot, the army personnel purportedly opened fire at the protesters, where one Wancho tribesman was killed.“The heinous crime purported by the Indian Army has severely contradicted the very underlying purpose for which they have been deployed for in the region which is to maintain law and order and to guard against external aggression,” said a release, issued by the North East Students Organisation (NESO), on Sunday.The state government has ordered a judicial inquiry into the incident and a separate police probe is also being conducted. The North East Human Rights Organisation (NEHRO) has filed two complaints with the National Human Rights Commission against the Indian Army for alleged human rights violations.Longding is one of the three districts in Arunachal, along with Tirap and Changlang, where rebels groups from Nagaland and Assam, such as the NSCN (I-M) and the United Liberation Front of Assam-Independent (ULFA-I), are still active.The three districts are the only ones in the north-east largest state, where the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, (AFSPA), which gives sweeping powers to the armed forces, is operational.“Usually the army informs the local police before conducting any operation. But since Longding is under the AFSPA, we’re not informed,” Arunachal Police director-general of police (DGP) RP Upadhyaya said on Sunday.In a press release issued on Monday, NSCN (I-M) condemned Saturday’s firing incident and blamed the Indian Army for targeting innocent Naga villagers in Arunachal as a ruse to flushing out holed up insurgents.The rebel outfit termed the army’s version of the incident as a “hilarious statement to absolve itself from the criminal assault of innocent villagers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-rally-organised-in-arunachal-to-protest-death-of-civilian-in-army-shooting/story-5I1z8yiPlfHEJ5qfBV2QFJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Fire breaks out at residential building in Mumbai’s Mazgaon, rescue ops underway||A fire broke out in two flats of a residential building named Mumbai’s Mazgaon on Monday. The fire was reported in Shirin Manzil. Four fire tenders and four jumbo tankers are at the spot for firefighting operations. No injuries have been reported so far.The fire is said to be confined in two flats on the sixth floor, which has been engulfed in heavy smoke.The incident took place around 12.22 pm on the sixth floor of the seven storey structure and the fire brigade reached the spot around 12.34 pm. Officials said two people have been rescued and brought to a safe zone. Prabhat Rahangdale, chief fire officer of the Mumbai Fire Brigade said, “Two people were rescued from fifth floor and were brought to a safe zone using the staircase while seven other residents are stranded at a safe location on the seventh floor. Efforts are being made to get them to safety.” More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-residential-building-in-mumbai-s-mazgaon-area-rescue-ops-underway/story-rdBSiHGt3ofXp5JAs5zGdO.html
18-05-2020||India||‘One of the trucks came from Punjab’: UP’s Adityanath on Auraiya tragedy||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday attacked the Congress over the issue of migrant labourers.“The politics by Congress in these times of the coronavirus crisis must be flayed,” said a tweet from the chief minister’s official Twitter handle (@CMOfficeUP).Without mentioning Congress governments, he blamed them for the Auraiya tragedy, saying that one of the trucks responsible for the death of the migrants came from Punjab and the other truck was from Rajasthan. इस वैश्विक महामारी के समय में कांग्रेस पार्टी द्वारा की जा रही नकारात्मक एवं ओछी राजनीति की निन्दा होनी चाहिए।औरैया में प्रवासी श्रमिकों की मौत के लिये जिम्मेदार एक ट्रक पंजाब से तथा दूसरा राजस्थान से आया था: मुख्यमंत्री श्री @myogiadityanath जीAnother tweet said that in case any organisation or party wished to help the migrants and if it sends of workers and resources available to transport them, they will get permission and will be welcomed.“Whenever the Punjab or Rajasthan government gave a list of migrants from UP, the state government made arrangements for their return home,” the chief minister added.This comes a day after a minister in Rajasthan claimed on Sunday that the state government had kept 500 private buses ready to ferry migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh but they were not allowed to enter by the Yogi Adityanath government.Vishvendra Singh, Minister for Tourism and Devasthan, said the buses were stopped at Bahej village in Bharatpur’s Deeg area in Rajasthan close to the border between the two states.After making the buses wait for almost the entire day, they were asked to return to Rajasthan, said SinghBahej village falls under the minister’s assembly constituency.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, in a video appeal, had urged the Adityanath government to allow the buses with migrant labourers stranded on the state’s borders to enter.On Saturday, Priyanka Gandhi had written to the Chief Minister to give permission to ply 1,000 buses for the migrants after the accident in Auraiya in which 26 people lost their lives.Priyanka Gandhi, who is also in charge of party affairs in eastern Uttar Pradesh, said that the Congress will bear the cost of these chartered buses at a time when the migrants are finding it tough to return homes safely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-congress-attack-yogi-adityanath-says-politics-over-migrants-issue-must-be-flayed/story-ctjeCquAoKuTVghOfqjeDL.html
18-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: No pillion riding in UP on two-wheelers, offenders’ licenses can be seized||The Uttar Pradesh government has said that pillion riding will not be allowed on two-wheelers till the time the Covid-19 lockdown is in place, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported.The Centre had released guidelines for the fourth phase of the lockdown which began today, in which it had said that pillion riding will be allowed on two-wheelers. The guidelines by the Union Home Ministry said that four-wheelers vehicles will have maximum of two passengers besides the driver.But the Centre had allowed states and union territories to decide on further exemptions based on the spread of Covid-19 in thir respective areas. Accordingly, the Uttar Pradesh government issued this order.Giving details about the latest order, Principal Secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad said that the offenders will be fined Rs 250 the first time. The penalty will increase to Rs 500 for second offence and Rs 1,000 for the third, according to Hindustan.If a person is found not obeying the direction even after being fined thrice, his/her license will be confiscated, Hindustan reported.However, there are certain relaxations. Those women who can’t drive and have to go to office, can ask a family member to drop them to the office. But not without the permission from the district magistrate. The pillion rider will have to wear helmet, mask and gloves.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has given powers to states and union territories to decide green, orange and red zones and allow activities in these areas except in containment zones.In the previous guideline issued on May 1, the MHA had said that in the green zones, all activities are permitted except the limited number of activities, which are prohibited throughout the country like shops in shopping malls, gyms, pools, entertainment parks, movie halls, etc.The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has issued the order to continue coronavirus-induced lockdown measures till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-pillion-riding-in-up-on-two-wheelers-offenders-licenses-can-be-seized/story-2ckM9o84PiSKOe8WENbMLM.html
18-05-2020||India||HT Salutes: Goa-based volunteer calls for need to check mental health issues in migrant labourers||Why would a migrant labourer who is being given his daily meals still want to risk his and his family’s life by walking hundreds of kilometres in the scorching sun? Dhurv Goswami, a business strategy consultant based in Goa, wanted to find out. Volunteering with the Goa Covid-19 Outreach, a network of volunteers that provides food relief to around 4,000 stranded migrant labourers in the state, Goswami got talking to some and realised that distributing ration was not of enough help. Many needed psychological counselling after the traumatic events of the past few weeks, he realised.Around the world, mental health experts are beginning to see the effects of what they are referring to as quarantine fatigue. According to them, people with existing mental health conditions, like anxiety and depression, are prone to face an even deeper trauma on account of the lockdown and its socio-economic implications.Also read: Visually impaired civic staffer builds volunteer network“So many of them were asked to vacate their premises, their water connections were cut off. In some cases, the landlords removed tiles from their roofs to force them out of their rooms. A lot of them were subjected to humiliation before they ended up hitting the streets to return home,” Goswami said. Goswami recalled a conversation with a migrant worker, in particular. “After talking for some time he eased up a bit and started saying that people are getting very restless and if the situation is allowed to continue people will start killing themselves. Then as the conversations continued, he stopped speaking in general terms, and we realised that he was talking about himself.”“I realised that there will be more people like him and that our job does not end at giving rations. We have to check on their mental state,” Goswami said. Also read: India sees biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 5,242 new patientsWith the help of Caritas Goa, a church-run charity, a few trained counsellors began to reach out to the migrant workers. “Several people came forward to talk their heart out and explained their issues,” Goswami said.“A lot of the workers I spoke to talked of the frustration of not being allowed to travel home and even speaking of willingness to walk home all the way to MP (Madhya Pradesh). I tried to reassure them that the government was working on some plans but even I couldn’t say so confidently,” Divya Raphael, one of the counsellors, said.Around 51 workers came forward to speak to counsellors, who visited them in the hutments where they lived — mostly around construction sites in Alto Betim and Ramnagar, Pilerne on the outskirts of Panjim — during the second and third week of the lockdown. One of the primary grouses was not being allowed to go home.“Nobody is happy to be getting free food, nobody is happy to be standing in line. People are leaving their homes and coming to work just to get by. They are not at all proud to get ration for free. Dignity is very important and it is very humiliating for them to come out and stand in line to receive free food. Everyone wants to earn their money with dignity. They are lining up for government help because they are helpless,” he added. To address their economic distress, the volunteer group has further created a database of the workers on their website.“I started by delivering rations for around 200 migrant labourers who were building the new high court complex opposite the Secretariat and were left abandoned by the contractor. The idea to do some relief work and then let the government take over,” said Miriam Koshy, an artist and former business student, who started the volunteer network.However, as the scale of the operations grew, the volunteers realised that their database could be put to better use. “Now that the lockdown is partially lifted and the monsoon is approaching, many people are looking to repair the roofs of their houses or are looking to grow their own food or even doing rainwater harvesting. So our idea was to connect the labourers to the community,” she explained. In Goa, which is a Covid-19 green zone, industries have reopened, including pharmaceutical companies and manufacturing units. But in the absence of public transportation, full-scale economic activity is yet to start. Three Shramik Special trains — two to Udhampur (Jammu) and one to Gwalior (MP) — have already departed ferrying 2,000 migrant labourers; around 80,000 migrant labourers have registered with the state government to be allowed to travel home.“If they are away from home, they are unable to help those who are at home because they are not earning anything. If they were back home, at least they would have fields to work on. Many have aged or ailing parents. Nobody knows when the crisis is going to end,” Goswami said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-goa-based-volunteer-calls-for-need-to-check-mental-health-issues-in-migrant-labourers/story-PlMakuE4LuFbPdb4hDYyHP.html
18-05-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray takes oath as legislator, enters state legislative council||Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray on Monday took oath as a member of the legislative council (MLC) at the Vidhan Bhavan. This is the first time a Sena chief became a member of the state legislature and he is the second from the Thackeray family to become a member of the assembly after his son Aaditya Thackeray.Thackeray was accompanied by his wife Rashmi and son Aaditya at the oath ceremony held in the Central Hall of the state legislature. He was one among the nine candidates belonging to the ruling coalition of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and opposition party who were declared elected unopposed to the council last week.His election to the House was crucial for him to continue as the CM, as he had to fulfill the constitutional requirement of becoming a member of either of the Houses before May 27-- six months from the day he took oath as the chief minister.Speaking to reporters outside Vidhan Bhavan, Shiv Sena MP and party secretary Vinayak Raut, said, “All Shiv Sainiks are proud that their leader is taking oath as a legislator today. The state has got good leadership [under Thackeray].”Besides Thackeray, eight new members of Maharashtra Legislative Council -- Shiv Sena’s Neelam Gorhe, Nationalist Congress Party ‘s (NCP) Shashikant Shinde, Amol Mitkari, Congress’s Rajesh Rathod and Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil, Gopichand Padalkar, Pravin Datke, and Ramesh Karad also took an oath.In toal, 14 candidates were in the fray for the MLC election but later four -- two each from the BJP and the NCP -- withdrew their nomination, while an independent candidate’s nomination was rejected.With the election on the nine seats of the upper house pushed back because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), political uncertainty loomed over the state on how to get Thackeray elected to the council.The state cabinet had recommended that Thackeray should be nominated by Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, as the MLC polls were deferred due to the pandemic. But the governor did not take the decision, prompting Thackeray to raise the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Later, the MVA constituents and Governor Koshyari wrote to the Election Commission to hold the legislative council polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-takes-oath-as-legislator-enters-state-legislative-council/story-gmN9VFqqBAethJX1sQNjxH.html
18-05-2020||India||Migrants pelt stones at police, public in Ahmedabad||Nearly 100 migrant workers gathered on a busy road connecting IIM Ahmedabad with Vastrapur area here on Monday and pelted stones at police and people passing by during the lockdown, an official said.A local claimed the migrant workers were demanding that they be allowed to go back to their native places.Police lobbed teargas shells to disperse the rioters and detained several suspects, an official from the city police control room said.Nearly 100 migrants suddenly came on the road in the morning and engaged in indiscriminate stone-pelting, he said.They hurled stones at the police and people passing by in vehicles, he said.On getting information about the incident, a large police force was rushed to the spot. The police lobbed teargas shells to disperse the mob and brought the situation under control, the official said.Combining operation was underway at a labourers’ settlement nearby to nab the culprits hiding in the area, he said, adding several suspects were detained from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-pelt-stones-at-police-public-in-ahmedabad/story-h647DCHycwxUN8dzgwfcnK.html
18-05-2020||India||Ban on entry of people from 4 states, total lockdown on Sundays: Karnataka CM||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said on Monday people from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Kerala and Tamil Nadu will not be allowed to enter the state till May 31, news agency ANI reported.Yediyurappa said there will be a complete lockdown on Sundays with the provision of essential services only, according to ANI. There will be strict lockdown measures in containment zones and economic activities will be permitted in other areas.The chief minister said state transport corporation buses and private buses will run as will trains running within the state, according to ANI. All shops will be allowed to open, it added.The Centre has extended the nationwide lockdown to May 31 and said that movement of passengers would be allowed only with mutual consent between the states during the fourth phase.Karnataka has reported more than 1,100 patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and more than 30 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ban-on-entry-of-people-from-4-states-total-lockdown-on-sundays-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa/story-bXAzRoFNRPSv1eaGlJrD8H.html
18-05-2020||India||Ahead of big WHO meet, 100+ countries back calls for probe into Covid-19 origin||The European Union-drafted resolution to seek a probe into the origin of the coronavirus disease that has killed over 300,000 people and the WHO’s response has gained the support of over 100 countries including India, according to documents filed ahead of the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) biggest annual event on Monday.The World Health Assembly, the WHO’s key policy making body, is meeting Monday afternoon, 3.30 pm IST. This is the first time that the meeting is being held via video conference. The conference will be wrapped up in two days for now and resume once the world gets a grip on the virus that has infected millions of people.The resolution seeks a probe into the source of the virus, now called Sars-CoV-2, and the route of its introduction to the human population. Coronavirus, the disease that the pathogen causes, was first detected in China’s Wuhan city.But Beijing, which has been accused of trying to conceal the disease in the early days of its detection last year, occasionally insists that it could have originated elsewhere. More than one Chinese foreign ministry official has pointed to the United States.Support probe into Covid-19 originThe European Union and its Member States, the African Group and its Member States, Albania, Australia, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bhutan, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Guyana, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Monaco, Montenegro, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway, Paraguay, Peru, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Russian Federation, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine and United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern IrelandAustralia, who had played a lead role in building support for the resolution that targets China, has welcomed the growing support for the probe, according to news agency Reuters. Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne said the resolution is “an important part of the conversation we started”.Australia has also borne the brunt of Beijing’s anger for this role. Chinese authorities have threatened to impose heavy duties on barley imports and already suspended beef imports from four Australian suppliers.Chinese foreign ministry has denied that the decision was linked to Australia’s push for the Covid origin inquiry that it has described as “highly irresponsible” and could “disrupt international cooperation in fighting the pandemic”.Australia, backed by the United States, however, stayed the course and kept up its efforts.An updated document on the WHO’s website indicates that support for the resolution has been growing.Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the 54-nation Africa Group have also signed off on the resolution - now supported by 123 members - that not only puts China’s role but also that of the WHO leadership under scrutiny. In particular, WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.The draft resolution asks the WHO chief to start an “impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation” to review experience gained and lessons learned from the WHO-coordinated international health response including an evaluation of the effectiveness of the mechanisms at WHO’s disposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-big-who-meet-100-countries-back-calls-for-probe-into-covid-19-origin/story-ar3sLPaPYSI31fCrHSK4HN.html
18-05-2020||India||Swiggy to lay off 1,100 employees amid coronavirus crisis||Swiggy will lay off more than 1,000 employees over the next few days as the coronavirus pandemic has severely impacted demand, the food delivery company said in a statement on Monday.“Today is one of the saddest days for Swiggy as we have to go through an unfortunate downsizing exercise. We, unfortunately, have to part ways with 1,100 of our employees spanning across grades and functions in the cities and head office over the next few days,” Sriharsha Majety, Swiggy’s co-founder and CEO, wrote in an email to the employees, according to the company’s blog. “While Covid might have long-term tailwinds for the delivery business and digital commerce when things settle eventually, nobody knows how long the uncertainty will last. We, therefore, need to be prepared to see through this winter, to emerge stronger on the other side,” he said.Majety said Swiggy will scale down or shut down adjacent businesses that are either going to be highly volatile or will not be highly relevant for the next 18 months. “The biggest impact here is on the cloud kitchens business, with many unknowns about volumes through the year. Since the onset of Covid, we have already begun the process of shutting down our kitchen facilities temporarily or permanently, depending on their outlook and profitability profile,” he said.Swiggy will have to cut expenses to be able to achieve profitability with a smaller order volume than planned earlier, he said. The company needs to reduce costs in order to “withstand any further risks” from the Covid-19 uncertainty, he added. The move by Swiggy came days after restaurant aggregator Zomato said it will lay off around 13% of its workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-zomato-swiggy-lays-off-1-100-employees/story-FOHI0r9J22TIOBYuYcE1MM.html
18-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan to intensify into super cyclonic storm, heavy rains forecast for 6 states||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued a warning of heavy rainfall for six states till May 21 in the light of extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan.The weather bureau said Odisha, West Bengal and its sub-Himalayan parts, Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya will receive heavy rainfall till May 21.Cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ is likely to intensify into a super cyclone by Monday evening and hit the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts as a very severe cyclone with a wind speed up to 185km per hour on Wednesday.Union home minister Amit Shah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet the officials of his ministry and the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) at 4pm. The Prime Minister is NDMA’s chairperson.The coastal districts in West Bengal and Odisha are bracing for heavy rains and wind speed up to 185kmph as cyclonic storm Amphan is likely to intensify into a super cyclone by Monday evening. The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has issued an advisory to West Bengal and Odisha as teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were deployed at several places to carry out evacuation process of almost 11 lakh people in the coastal areas of these states. IMD has said extremely severe cyclonic storm ‘AMPHAN’ (pronounced UM-PUN) is very likely to intensify further into a super cyclonic storm during the next six hours. It is very likely to move nearly northwards for some time and then north-northeastwards across the northwest Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) during the afternoon or the evening of May 20 as a very severe cyclonic storm with maximum sustained wind speed of 155-165kmph gusting to 185kmph.Heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, accompanied by high-speed winds and tidal waves are expected in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-to-intensify-into-super-cyclonic-storm-heavy-rains-forecast-for-6-states/story-ZS6ZRGUCV4IqE2iDTkS3IP.html
18-05-2020||India||Auraiya road accident: Sub-inspector, 7 constables suspended||A police sub-inspector and seven constables were suspended on Sunday for negligence in discharging duty in connection with the Auraiya road accident in Uttar Pradesh, news agency PTI reported.Two more migrant workers died on Sunday following injuries sustained in the road accident a day earlier at Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh, raising the death toll in the incident to 26.Twenty-four migrant workers had died and 36 injured on Saturday early morning when a trailer truck carrying sacks of lime along with 43 people rammed into the back of a stationary truck with many other migrant workers sitting in it near a roadside eatery on the national highway in Auraiya.Auraiya Superintendent of Police suspended a sub-inspector and seven constables for negligence in discharging duty on Sunday evening.On Saturday, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had directed the suspension SHOs of two police stations - Fatehpur Sikri (Agra) and Indirapuram (Ghaziabad) after the accident.A case has been registered against the drivers, owners and transporters of both the vehicles under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Motor Vehicles Act at Kotwali police station in Auraiya, PTI reported.Investigations are going on in this regard, police said, adding that efforts are being made to arrest the drivers, owners and transporters of both the vehicles.Another accident took place on Saturday, on the Lucknow-Agra expressway. A truck driver, who is believed to have fallen asleep at the wheel, crashed into a parked vehicle, killing a man and a woman who were travelling with their five-year-old son to Bihar from Haryana. The duo had gotten off the vehicle and refilling it with petrol when they were mowed down.The child survived the accident.The lockdown since March 25, put in place to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has left hundreds of thousands of people without work, wages and, often, food - forcing most of them to set out on gruelling journeys on foot.There have been several instances of people succumbing to the exhaustion in peak summer heat, while others have been run over on roads and train tracks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/auraiya-road-accident-sub-inspector-7-constables-suspended/story-q2qFc0IsW0XKD5t3IfXynO.html
18-05-2020||India||States cannot dilute restrictions under lockdown 4 guidelines, says Centre||The states and union territories were advised against diluting restrictions under the lockdown 4.0 guidelines by the Centre on Monday as the country entered the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown to fight coronavirus. The restrictions will remain in place till May 31.“As emphasised in my earlier letters, I would like to reiterate again that states/union territories cannot dilute restrictions imposed in the MHA guidelines. States/UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain other activities in various zones, or impose such restrictions as necessary,” home secretary Ajay Bhalla said in a letter. The ministry underlined that the new guidelines have been issued after taking into consideration the views of the state governments following the video conference held by Prime Minister Modi with the chief ministers on May 11.“I would urge you all to ensure compliance of the new guidelines and direct all concerned authorities for their strict implementation,” the secretary added. Under the new guidelines, the states will now categorise red, orange and green zones taking into consideration the revised guidelines issued by the ministry of health. Inside these zones, containment and buffer zones will be identified by the district administration. In containment zones, only essential services will be allowed.In another significant step that stood out was conditional approval to interstate movement of passenger vehicles and buses with “mutual consent” of the states and the union territories involved.The home ministry also allowed the resumption of app-based cab services; gave permission to the functioning of all shops, markets and commercial establishments except those in malls; and eased curbs on private offices that were previously allowed to function with 33% staff strength.Metro train services; domestic and international passenger flights; schools and colleges; hospitality services; cinema halls; shopping malls and dine-in restaurants; and religious and political gatherings will continue to be prohibited across the country. Only special trains — a pair of 15 premium trains and those ferrying migrants to their homes — will run in this period.Also, the ban on non-essential travel between 7pm and 7am will continue. Spitting and consumption of liquor, gutkha and tobacco in public places continue to be banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-cannot-dilute-restrictions-under-lockdown-4-guidelines-says-centre/story-gEW4CYcKyv6FUBl61GOiGP.html
18-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amphan likely to turn into ‘super cyclone’, says govt; will hit Bengal coast and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Amphan likely to turn into ‘super cyclone’, says govt; will hit Bengal coastThe Ministry of Home Affairs on Monday said that cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ is likely to intensify into a ‘super cyclone’ by Monday evening. It said that Amphan will hit West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts as a ‘very severe cyclone’ with wind speed up to 185 km per hour on Wednesday. Read moreIndia sees biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 5,242 new patientsIndia on Monday reported the biggest one day spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in a single day so far as 5,242 more people tested positive in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed. Read moreSmiling Buddha: All about Pokhran test that made India a nuclear powerIndia is observing the 46th anniversary of its first nuclear test in Rajasthan’s Pokhran on Monday. The peaceful nuclear test was codenamed the ‘Smiling Buddha’ and conducted on May 18, 1974. It made India a nuclear power. Read moreUnited States to deport 161 Indian nationals this weekThe United States this week will deport 161 Indian nationals, most of whom had entered the country from its southern border with Mexico and have exhausted all legal options. A special chartered flight will take them to Punjab’s Amritsar. Read moreWhat did eight weeks and $3 trillion buy the Covid-19 in the fight against coronavirus?Unemployment checks are flowing, $490 billion has been shipped to small businesses, and the US Federal Reserve has put about $2.5 trillion and counting behind domestic and global markets. Fears of overwhelmed hospitals and millions of US deaths from the new coronavirus have diminished, if not disappeared. Read moreThis happy kid who just found out his ‘superpower’ is making the Internet a happy place. WatchHaving superpowers is something every child dreams of. Whether it’s superhero comics or the magical world of Hogwarts, the desire to possess similar powers fuels children’s imagination. But, not always does one get bit by a radio-active spider or simply receive a letter from an owl to join a wizarding school. However, they can surely feel that sense of magic with the help of a little improvisation from adults. Read moreInternational Museum Day 2020: Groove Gully, the travelling museum for kidsSuggesting a visit to a museum sometimes elicits responses like rolling of the eyes and an exasperated sigh. But it is an undeniable fact that museums remain a fountainhead of knowledge and when imaginatively curated, they’re a source of edutainment too. Today is International Museum Day, a reminder to the world that museums can actually educate and entertain. Read moreBefore Ganguly, India were a humble, polite team: Nasser Hussain explains how Sourav ‘changed Indian cricket’The likes of Sunil Gavaskar, Anil Kumble, VVS Laxman, Yuvraj Singh, Harbhajan Singh have often credited former India captain and current BCCI president Sourav Gangluly for changing the face of Indian cricket. The aggression and positivity with which Ganguly led India from 2000 to 2005 has been earmarked as one of the glorious eras of Indian cricket mainly because of the manner in which they played their cricket. Echoing the views of many former Indian greats, former England captain Nasser Hussain on Sunday lauded Ganguly for changing Indian cricket. Read moreCBSE datesheet for 10th, 12th board exams todayThe Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will release the revised datesheet for the remaining board exams of class 10th and 12th, today May 18, 2020. Union HRD Minister Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal on Saturday informed the same on the microblogging site, Twitter. Earlier, it was scheduled to be released on May 16 at 5 pm. Read moreSanjay Khan to relaunch Zayed Khan: ‘He is one of the most handsome actors; as a father, it is my duty to make a film for him’Actor Zayed Khan is all set to make an acting comeback as father Sanjay Khan has taken it upon himself to relaunch him. Sanjay is planning a biopic on 1947 India-Pakistan war hero Brigadier Mohammad Usman with his son in the titular role. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amphan-cyclone-to-turn-into-super-cyclone-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LhDUjKqwzKJFLB0htxEQaI.html
18-05-2020||India||‘Govt’s stimulus package totally inadequate, left several sections high and dry’: Chidambaram||Former finance minister P Chidambaram on Monday expressed “deep regret” that the government’s fiscal stimulus package has “left high and dry” several sections, including 13 crore families in the bottom half of the population, migrant workers and farmers.“We express our thorough disappointment and request the government to reconsider the stimulus package and announce a revised and comprehensive fiscal stimulus package of not less than Rs 10 lakh crore of real additional expenditure, equivalent to 10% of GDP,” he told a news conference via video conference.The senior Congress leader said a fiscal stimulus of Rs 1,86,650 crore, amounting to barely 0.91% of GDP, will be “totally inadequate given the gravity of the economic crisis and the dire situation” in which people find themselves because of the Covid-19 crisis.“Most analysts, rating agencies and banks have placed the size of the fiscal stimulus at between 0.8 to 1.5%,” he said.Also Read: Economic package will have multiplier effect, says FM Nirmala SitharamanFollowing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a Rs 20-lakh crore stimulus package on May 12, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman gave details of that package in five tranches over as many days.Chidambaram said he and the Congress have carefully analysed contents of the five tranches and looked into analyses put out by economists, experts, agencies and banks.“We note, with deep regret, that the fiscal stimulus package has left several sections high and dry, including the bottom half of the population (13 crore families), migrant workers, farmers, landless agricultural labour, daily wage non-agricultural labour, workers who have been laid off or retrenched, workers in unorganised or unregistered businesses and units who have lost their jobs, self-employed who have no work, seven crore shopkeepers, lower middle class families who have run out of cash and are forced to borrow, and 5.8 crore MSMEs,” he explained.Chidambaram said the finance minister had acknowledged that additional expenditure must be financed by additional borrowing.“The true value of the fiscal stimulus package will be known when we know what is the additional borrowing in 2020-21 to finance the additional expenditure over and above the expenditure budget of Rs 30,42,230 crore. The truth cannot be hidden for long,” he said. “Let me state categorically that there can be no fiscal stimulus to the economy without additional expenditure over and above the budgeted expenditure,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-stimulus-package-has-left-several-sections-high-and-dry-chidambaram/story-RgjBZqPH0VUwzNr30lBDVN.html
18-05-2020||India||‘Amphan’ to intensify into super cyclone by evening: Home ministry||Cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ is likely to intensify into a super cyclone by Monday evening and hit the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts as a very severe cyclone with a wind speed up to 185 km per hour on Wednesday, the Home Ministry said. In an advisory to West Bengal and Odisha governments, the ministry said ‘Amphan’ (pronounced as UM-PUN) is now spotted over the central parts of South Bay of Bengal and the adjoining central Bay of Bengal. It has been moving nearly northwards with a speed of 13 kmph during past six hours and lay centred at 0530 hours IST on Monday, the ministry said. The cyclone is currently over west-central and adjoining central parts of South Bay of Bengal (near latitude 13.2°N and longitude 86.3°E) about 790 km nearly south of Paradip (Odisha), 940 km south-southwest of Digha (West Bengal) and 1,060 km south-southwest of Khepupara (Bangladesh), a home ministry official said, quoting an India Meteorological Department bulletin. The storm is very likely to intensify further into a super cyclonic storm by Monday evening, the official said. It is very likely to move north-northeastwards across northwest Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha (West Bengal) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) during the afternoon or evening of May 20 as a very severe cyclonic storm with maximum sustained wind speed of 155-165 kmph gusting upto 185 kmph, the official said. The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) on Saturday reviewed the preparedness for the impending cyclone and directed immediate assistance to West Bengal and Odisha, which are likely to hit by the storm. A meeting of the NCMC, headed by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, was held to take stock the preparations for the cyclone. The cabinet secretary took stock of the current situation and preparedness for rescue and relief operations and directed that immediate assistance, as required, be provided, an official statement had said. Heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, accompanied by high speed winds and tidal waves are expected in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amphan-to-intensify-into-super-cyclone-by-evening-home-ministry/story-rtPJa0t5s7UtxJlK8DbNQP.html
18-05-2020||India||Religious heads in Kerala want temples, mosques, churches to open in a staggered manner||Thiruvananthapuram: Several heads of shrines, cutting across religious lines, in Kerala have written to the state government seeking its permission to open temples, mosques and churches in a staggered manner in view of the lockdown restrictions that were imposed since end-March to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.They have reached out to the state government amid a growing cash crunch, as devotees are staying away from the places of worship due to the pandemic.However, the Centre’s announcement to impose lockdown 4:0, which has come into effect from Monday and will be enforced till May 31, has further disappointed the shrine heads.The Centre’s directive has barred gatherings in all places of worship in the state, like the rest of the country.Cardinal George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church, wrote to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday seeking permission to open Christian religious centres to conduct daily ceremonies with the faithful in a restricted manner. The All India Imam Council has also approached the government. The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which runs 2,000-odd temples in south and central Kerala, including the hill shrine Sabarimala in Pathanamthitta district, has urged the state government to at least allow devotees, who want to make significant offerings.“Many are devoid of spiritual support these days. If the lockdown continues, it’ll lead to a growing psychological conflict. No one will be able to prevent such consequences. Churches must be allowed to open in a restricted manner. Religious ceremonies are essential for a believer for solace and inner peace,” said Cardinal Alencherry.The Syro-Malabar church, which runs thousands of educational institutions, hospitals and other charitable establishments in Kerala, the aftershocks of lockdown restrictions are deeper, as it is struggling to meet the expenses required for both institutional upkeep and payment of staff salaries.Though the church introduced virtual offerings they failed to attract believers, say insiders.The Muslim bodies stand divided over the lockdown norms. The All India Imam Council has written to CM Vijayan, urging him to open mosques in a limited manner. Samastha Kerala Sunni Federation leader Basheer Faizy Deshamangalam in a social media post commented that it is unfair to keep mosques closed when liquor stores and other establishments are allowed to open.But many within the community don’t share Deshamangalam’s views. “We need to apply our minds. It’s painful that all mosques are closed during the holy month of Ramzan. It’d be difficult to maintain social distancing norms if the mosques are opened,” said a senior Indian Union of Muslim League (IUML) leader.The TDB had introduced an online facility for major offerings in 27 prominent shrines across the state, which met a lukewarm response. Now, the board plans to urge the government to allow ‘darshan’ for those who book significant offerings online.The TDB had warned its 3,500-odd employees that monthly salary would be a luxury if the prevailing situation persists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-heads-in-kerala-want-temples-mosques-churches-to-open-in-a-staggered-manner/story-LhjUZFsiHyDJNd54gTCttI.html
18-05-2020||India||Amphan transforming into super cyclone, first after deadly 1999 super cyclone in Bay of Bengal||The very severe cyclonic storm Amphan over central parts of south Bay of Bengal intensified into an extremely severe cyclonic storm on Monday morning. It is expected to further intensify into a super cyclonic storm with wind speeds of 230 kmph to 240 kmph, gusting to 265 kmph during the next 12 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday morning.The super cyclonic storm is, however, likely to weaken marginally in strength when it crosses the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya Islands in Bangladesh during the afternoon or evening on May 20. By then, it is expected to be a very severe cyclonic storm with maximum wind speeds of 155 kmph to 165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph.“We are expecting Amphan to cross the coasts as a very severe cyclonic storm. Preparatory measures for damage control are being taken by both West Bengal and Odisha,” said IMD director General M Mohapatra. Large-scale damage is expected in West Bengal and Odisha, according to IMD’s latest bulletin. There will be extensive damage to kutcha and even old or damaged pukka constructions, uprooting of communications and power poles, disruption of rail and road links, extensive damage to crops and plantations, and large boats and ships can get torn from their moorings.This is the first super cyclonic storm in the Bay of Bengal since the 1999 super cyclone that hit the Odisha coast and killed more than 9,000 people. There was a super cyclone in the Arabian Sea last year called Kyarr, which formed in October and was concentrated in the ocean. There were no fatalities from Kyarr. The last extremely severe cyclone to hit land was Fani, which hit Odisha in May 2019.Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director general of IMD’s Regional Meteorological Centre in Kolkata, said: “Even though Amphan is likely to intensify into a super cyclone over the sea, it will then start to lose its steam as it approaches the coast. It will first weaken into an extremely severe cyclone and then further de-intensify into a very severe cyclone before hitting the land.”Tuhin Ghosh, director of the School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University, said: “The damage that Amphan can inflict will depend much on the direction in which it travels and the timing of the landfall. If it hits in a south to north direction and there is high tide at that time, the damage could be more. That’s what happened when cyclone Aila hit Sagar Island in May 2009. But if it travels in an oblique direction and there is low tide, then the damage could be less, as was seen in November 2016 when Bulbul hit the Bengal coast.”Authorities and people are faced with a unique situation where evacuation has to be quick and effective in the face of a deadly storm, but at the same time social distancing has to be maintained and first line responders protected. Amphan will be a test case on how to handle natural disasters during the Coronavirus pandemic. As the monsoon is set to advance, more exigencies are expected such as urban flooding, landslides and more cyclones. This would mean the need for more rescue shelters and sanitary facilities for them.The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has shared an advisory with all cyclone-prone states on disaster preparedness during the Covid-19 crisis. “We have underlined that first-line responders like police, state disaster response forces, and all volunteers engaged in relief work will have to be provided with PPE kits and N95 masks. Cyclone-prone states like Odisha have a lot of multi-purpose cyclone shelters. But now we can use them to only one-third capacity because social distancing needs to be maintained. So, states have been asked to identify new shelters and buildings,” Pavan Kumar Singh, joint advisor for NDMA, said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amphan-transforming-into-super-cyclone-first-after-deadly-1999-super-cyclone-in-bay-of-bengal/story-12vMmByNipIQwibsJwHJIO.html
18-05-2020||India||PM Modi to hold meeting with home ministry, NDMA today over Cyclone Amphan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with officials of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and National Disaster Management Agency (NDMA) on Monday amid a warning that cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ is likely to intensify into a super cyclone by Monday evening.“To review the arising cyclone situation in various parts of the country, PM @narendramodi ji will chair a high level meeting with MHA & NDMA, today at 4pm,” Union home minister Amit Shah wrote on Twitter.MHA has said Cyclone Amphan will hit West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts as a ‘very severe cyclone’ with wind speed up to 185km per hour on Wednesday.The ministry said in an advisory to West Bengal and Odisha governments that Amphan’’ (pronounced as UM-PUN) is now spotted over the central parts of the south Bay of Bengal and the adjoining central Bay of Bengal.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said ‘Amphan’ will cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between the Indian state’s Digha and Hatiya island of the neighbouring country in the afternoon or evening of May 20 as a very severe cyclonic storm.Experts said north Odisha coast will face the maximum impact of Cyclone Amphan when it makes landfall.“Wind speed expected to be 110-120 kmph, gusting up to 130 kmph. Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Mayurbhanj dist can be affected on 20 May (when it makes landfall), IMD Bhubaneswar scientist Umashankar Das said, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-meet-with-mha-ndma-at-4-pm-to-review-amphan-cyclone-situation-in-country/story-TlZZC5jLaNhK4dAhYgTnEJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Defence stocks surge after rise in FDI limit via automatic route; Hal, BEL among gainers||Shares in defence manufacturing companies shot up on Monday after the government raise foreign direct investment (FDI) by allowing 74% up from 49% under the automatic route via automatic route as a part of the economic stimulus announced to help the economy during the coronavirus pandemic. Major defence stocks rose up to 10% in intra-day deals bucking the overall weak broader market trends.Shares of Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) jumped 10%, Bharat Electronics Ltd (BEL) rose 5.53%, BEML advanced 5.3%, Astra Microwave Products surged 4.93% and Bharat Dynamics was trading up 4.71% on the S&P BSE Sensex.India’s benchmark indices erased early gains and fell sharply on Monday as stimulus measures announced over the weekend failed to cheer and investors fretted over the extension of the nationwide lockdown till May 31.The S&P BSE Sensex declined over 957.78 points or 3.08% to 30,139.95 level and NSE’s Nifty50 was at 8,854.35, down 282.50 points or 3.09%, at 11:20am.Both the indices were dragged by bank stocks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-stocks-surge-after-rise-in-fdi-limit-via-automatic-route-hal-bel-among-gainers/story-dqTyqOahCrghVjTYEasdlK.html
18-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: 25 new cases reported in Chhattisgarh on Sunday, highest in two months||Total 25 new Covid-19 cases were detected on Sunday taking the total number of coronavirus-infected people in Chhattisgarh to 92. This is the highest number of cases found in a single day in Chhattisgarh in the last two months.As per the state’s health department, total active Covid-19 cases are now 33 in the state and 59 have been discharged after recovery.“Total nine cases were detected from Balod, six new cases each were also reported from Balodabazar and Janjgir-Champa, two from Kabirdham and one each from Gariaband and Surguja,” a senior health official said.“Most of these cases were detected in migrant labourers,” the officer added.Also read: Lockdown 4.0 begins with more relaxations - All you need to knowTotal 20 patients are admitted to AIIMS Raipur and the rest to the other hospitals in Raipur “The Covid-19 count in the state now stands at 92 but the number of active cases is 33 while 59 others have been discharged after recovery,” the official said.Also read: India sees biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 5,242 new patientsChhattisgarh has total 92 coronavirus cases with no fatalities till date. Fifty-nine people have been discharged from the hospitals or cured while active cases of the infection stand at 33. The state has tested 34,633 people for Covid-19 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-25-new-cases-reported-in-chhattisgarh-on-sunday-highest-in-two-months/story-Un6EHUZrlkRIXRkaJEH87I.html
18-05-2020||India||US daily calls PM Modi a mobiliser, says his popularity soared during Covid-19||The entire country has rallied behind Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the coronavirus pandemic, leading American newspaper The New York Times has said.In an article on the Covid-19 crisis across the world, and in India, the newspaper said that PM Modi’s approval ratings have soared even higher, sometimes touching 90 per cent in the last few months. It also compared PM Modi to other world leaders like US President Donald Trump and Russian president Vladimir Putin. The NYT said that unlike these leaders, PM Modi has been “thriving” during the coronavirus crisis.If India rides out the pandemic in a decent form, PM Modi may emerge even stronger, the NYT further said in the article. It recalled the Pulwama bombing and India’s response which further bolstered PM Modi’s re-election bid in 2019 to make the point.PM Modi is widely seen as a mobiliser, and not as a despot, and that is the reason why his various calls to the nation during the Covid-19 lockdown were largely followed by the people, said NYT. As the coronavirus crisis gripped the country, PM Modi appeared before the nation and asked them to observe Janta Curfew, and the people obeyed. That was March 22.Since then, PM Modi has appeared thrice before the nation - first time to announce a nationwide lockdown, then its extension and most recently, to announce a Rs 20 lakh crore financial package - and all his requests have been adhered to.Even the unique exercises like asking countrymen to stand in their doorways and clap at a certain time, or to light candles at another, have been followed by millions. NYT called them as “softer, feel-good exercises”.The NYT story, however, also pointed out the hardships faced by migrant workers who are leaving in hordes to their native places since they can’t find work in locked down country. The accident in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya is also mentioned in the article.But what worked for PM Modi, according to NYT, is the fact that he never downplayed the virus threat or said India had capabilities it didn’t. The Prime Minister also worked well with the state authorities regardless of ideology, it further said.It also said that the number of infections in India and the death toll is very less for a country which has a population of more than 1.3 billion.India on Monday reported the biggest one-day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in a single day so far as 5,242 more people tested positive in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed.The number of people who have died after contracting the highly contagious disease also rose to 3,029 up from 2,872 from Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-a-mobiliser-his-popularity-soared-during-covid-19-report/story-cD0FWV3czX4GiN0QGEwEPP.html
18-05-2020||India||How 12 trainee IAS officers in Rajasthan are helping in Covid-19 fight||They are dynamic, they are ingenious, they are open-minded and above all, they are handy to perform any given task. The 12 under training (UT) officers of the 2018 batch of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) are playing a significant role in fighting the war against coronavirus in 10 districts of Rajasthan.These officers under training are not in news. They are not supposed to be. They must work behind the scenes to tackle the public health crisis. But the district collectors where they are working are happy with their performance even after their probation period got over on April 24.Sriganganagar collector Shiv Prasad M Nakate said this crisis is something that no one has faced before. “Many of the officers under training are at the frontline, fighting the pandemic. As the most of officers are from engineering background they have been assigned some difficult but important tasks such as data analysis, contact tracing, management of camps and quarantine facilities, logistics and interstate coordination for migrant labours,” he said.Sriganganagar is a coronavirus-free district.Nakate said that the young and energetic officers are always a great human resource in such a pandemic. “They are very handy in every situation. The trainee here has worked as an SDO and now he is dealing with the grievances. He performed as an asset in our war room as well,” he said. Abhishek Surana, who got the 10th rank in 2017 civil services examination, is posted as sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) in Bajju in Bikaner. He said, “There are certain disasters that need an immediate response, such as floods and earthquakes. But a pandemic require a standardised response. We learnt how to make relief camps, ensure sanitation and ensure no discrimination happens. These are the best practices needed to help reduce infections.”“We can extend these to tackle the present migrant worker crisis,” he added.The role of assistant collectors under training depends on their supervisors - the district collectors (DCs). This is the time they spend learning about the different departments they will be in charge of as DCs, said an official.In this pandemic, they are being used to collect data and help the administration. They have no legal powers. So their roles are ancillary - they can effectively act as helping hands as long as their training is not hampered, he added.Jodhpur collector Prakash Rajpurohit said what can be better than a practical learning and that these officers achieved a lot in this pandemic situation. “The officers here were very helpful in tasks like contact tracing, enforcement of laws, maintaining supplies and other assignments. They developed specific software to perform several operations smoothly,” he said.According to the order issued by the department of personal, officers under training deputed as assistant collectors in their respective districts are Atul Prakash (Kota), Abhishek Surana (Bikaner), Deshal Dan (Pali), Utsah Choudhary and Shilpa Singh (Jaipur), T Shubhmangala (Udaipur), Ram Prakash (Banswara), Mohammad Junaid (Sriganganagar), Mayank Manish and Aparna Gupta (Jodhpur), Nithya K (Ajmer) and Abhishek Khanna (Alwar).Interestingly, two married couples are also there in this team who are posted in Jaipur and Jodhpur. Utsah Choudhary (mechanical engineer) working as assistant collector in Jaipur said: “It happens once in a life time and we learnt how to implement the Epidemic Act, the Disaster Management Act, and other government directives so that preventive actions are enforced will be important.”He said normally the officers would not have gone into an in-depth study of these acts. “But this year is different and fortunately during our studies at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) in Mussoorie, our batch attended a health module based on encephalitis (an inflammation of the brain and a viral infection) conducted by senior IAS Arti Ahuja, additional secretary of health ministry. That was a great help.”Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel had described the Indian Administrative Service as the “steel frame” upon which the rest of the bureaucracy would rest and the much-needed transformation is rolling in due to dynamic and dedicated IAS officers who are bringing in fresher ideas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-12-trainee-ias-officers-in-rajasthan-are-helping-in-covid-19-fight/story-6Uv8F6g6HaV0DeEtEX9RjI.html
18-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Cases soar to 33,053 in Maharashtra, nearly one-third of national total||The number of coronavirus cases in the country breached the 96,000-mark on Monday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 96,169. There are 56,316 active coronavirus cases in the country, 36,823 patients have been cured or discharged while 3,029 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have crossed the 33,000-mark while in Gujarat, the second worst-affected state, the Covid-19 cases have crossed 11379.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraWith 33053 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 1198 deaths so far while 7688 patients have recovered.GujaratThe state is second in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. The tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 11379. While 659 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 4499 recoveries so far.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 11224 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 4172 recoveries and 78 Covid-19 deaths.Also read: 550 districts in India have Covid-19 cases; many in rural areasDelhiAs many as 10054 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. One hundred and sixty people have died from the infection while 4485 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 5202 on Monday. The state has reported 131 fatalities, and 2992 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 4977 positive cases of coronavirus. Two hundred and forty-eight people have died from Covid-19 here while 2403 have recovered.Also read: India sees biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 5,242 new patientsUttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 4259 in Uttar Pradesh. While 2441 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 104 have died from the infection here.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 2677 on Monday. There have been 238 deaths and 959 recoveries in the state.TelanganaThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 1551 in state so far. Nine hundred and ninety-two people have made a recovery from the virus while 34 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 2407 positive Covid-19 patients and 1456 cases of recovery. Fifty people have died.Punjab The Covid-19 tally jumped to 1964 on Monday. While 35 people have died in Punjab, 1366 patients have recovered. Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 1183. 13 people have died from the infection while 575 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 1147 Covid-19 cases and 37 deaths. As many as 509 people have been cured and discharged.Haryana The state has reported 910 coronavirus cases so far and 14 deaths. Five hundred and sixty-two people have recovered from Covid-19 in the state.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 601 coronavirus cases on Monday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 497 people have successfully recovered.In Bihar, 1262 people have tested positive for coronavirus, eight people have died while 475 patients have recovered. Odisha has 828 Covid-19 positive patients, 220 have recovered while four people have died. Jharkhand has 223 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 113 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 92 coronavirus patients, 52 patients have recovered from the infection, one patient has died. Himachal Pradesh has 80 cases, three patients have died and 44 have recovered. Assam has reported 101 Covid-19 cases, two people have died while 41 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 86 cases of coronavirus and 59 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 191 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 51 have recovered, three people have died. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, all patients have recovered.Ladakh has 43 patients, 24 people have recovered. Goa reported 29 cases of Covid-19 disease, 7 patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported 13 cases, 9 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 13 cases and one death, 11 patients have recovered. One patient has died. Manipur had seven coronavirus cases, two have recovered. Tripura, meanwhile, has 167 cases, 85 patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Dadar Nagar Havel, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. All patients in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-cases-soar-to-33-053-in-maharashtra-nearly-one-third-of-national-total/story-kPYzhFYmabDYxmwSxSwoDK.html
18-05-2020||India||Noida’s nodal officer helps with last rites of 62 year old who died due to Covid-19||A nodal officer in Noida came forward to help a family carry the body of a 62-year-old man, who died on Saturday after contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and complete the burial rites.Shamsuddin’s three sons had taken his body to the cemetery in Sector 38A after he died at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences. They faced difficulty in carrying the body for burial after the funeral prayers as nobody came forward to help them. They were the only ones wearing personal protection kits (PPEs). And so was Rakesh Thakur, the nodal officer.So Thakur stepped in and carried the body of Shamsuddin along with his three sons to the ground to help them complete the process of the burial. “One has to forget about danger while extending help in times of crisis. I had the responsibility to conduct the funeral and realising this responsibility, I carried the body,” Thakur was quoted as saying by Hindustan.Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining Delhi, in western Uttar Pradesh has recorded five deaths due to coronavirus disease so far, all of them over 60 years of age, officials said on Sunday. The number of Covid-19 patients has risen to 255 in Gautam Buddh Nagar.Noida is part of the district.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noida-s-nodal-officer-helps-with-last-rites-of-62-year-old-who-died-due-to-covid-19/story-x2o4GZsLwegTAdv68d9PfN.html
18-05-2020||India||414 migrant labourers who came back to Uttar Pradesh show Covid-19 symptoms||Hordes of migrants have returned to Uttar Pradesh from different parts of the country during the coronavirus lockdown. These workers were stranded in other states and had no work.Out of those who returned at least 414 migrant workers are exhibiting symptoms of coronavirus disease Covid-19, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. The health authorities in Uttar Pradesh said that all the migrant workers are being tested. The health department, with the help of ASHA workers, have so far tested 3.50 lakh workers, it further reported.Uttar Pradesh health secretary Amit Mohan Prasad said that these migrant labourers are first taken to shelter homes where they undergo thermal screening. The authorities then conduct rapid testing and pool testing. If a single case is found positive in a pool, all the group members are tested individually.The labourers who do not display any symptoms are then sent to home quarantine for 21 days. Village and mohalla committees are tasked with monitoring those workers.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh reported 206 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 4,464, Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, Joint Director/State Surveillance Officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) said in a statement.This is one of the highest number of Covid-19 cases reported in a single day in the state.The state also recorded eight more deaths due to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the toll to 112. Of the eight deaths reported on Sunday, five were reported from Aligarh, while two Covid-19 patients died in Kanpur and one in Meerut.Agra is at the top with 27 fatalities, followed by Meerut (19), Moradabad (11), and Kanpur and Aligarh with (8) each. Jhansi, Mathura and Firozabad recorded four deaths each.Of the fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday, the highest number of 17 fresh cases was reported from Pratapgarh, 11 from Hapur, 10 each from Gautam Buddh Nagar and Lakhimpur Khiri, 9 from Ghaziabad, 8 each from Meerut, Lucknow, Rampur, Siddharthanagar, Bahraich, Ghazipur, Sitapur and Pilibhit.The number of Covid-19 patients discharged in the state stands at 2,636, while the count of active cases in the state is 1,716.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/414-migrant-labourers-who-came-back-to-uttar-pradesh-show-covid-19-symptoms/story-85f7PlWpWT519y4faneqeO.html
18-05-2020||India||India sees biggest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 5,242 new patients||India on Monday reported the biggest one day spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in a single day so far as 5,242 more people tested positive in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed.The number of people who have died after contracting the highly contagious disease also rose to 3,029 up from 2,872 from Sunday, according to the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard at 8am.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe rise in the number of cases comes on a day India relaxed restrictions for the fourth phase of the lockdown put in place to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease till May 31.There are 56,316 active cases and 36,823 people or 38% have recovered from Covid-19. Ahead of announcing lockdown 4.0. the Centre on Saturday officials from 30 municipal areas spread across 12 states, which contribute 79% of India’s Covid-19 cases, to maintain high vigil and closely monitor areas of old cities, slums, migrant camps and other high-density pockets.Apart from this, 550 of India’s 736 districts had Covid-19 cases on May 17, an addition of around 180 districts in the last fortnight. This is according to data compiled from the states.As of Saturday, rural districts accounted for only 21% of the total number of cases in India but the numbers are increasing. Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh witnessed the maximum increase in the number of districts affected since May 1.Government officials largely attribute the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases to the return of hundreds of thousands of migrant workers to rural areas in these states, with weak health infrastructure. The Centre started special Shramik trains from May 1 even as thousands of others continue to walk hundreds of kilometres to their villages.Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi are among those with the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu on Sunday imposed lockdown 4.0 till the end of Ma, even as most of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh said they would follow the Centre’s guidelines on the extension. Meghalaya and Nagaland announced on Sunday that the existing restrictions would continue for the next round of lockdown beginning from Monday in the fight against Covid-19.Delhi, West Bengal, Goa and Jharkhand said they would announce norms for the fourth phase of lockdown on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-biggest-one-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-with-5-242-new-patients/story-xCIXPTLR3bL9mCVBC1oYwL.html
18-05-2020||India||Smiling Buddha: All about Pokhran test that made India a nuclear power||India is observing the 46th anniversary of its first nuclear test in Rajasthan’s Pokhran on Monday. The peaceful nuclear test was codenamed the ‘Smiling Buddha’ and conducted on May 18, 1974. It made India a nuclear power.The test was named ‘Smiling Buddha’ because it was conducted on Budda Purnima that year, and the message conveyed by Raja Ramanna, the director of India’s premier nuclear research institute Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi also said, “The Budda has finally smiled.”It was the first confirmed nuclear test by a nation that was not a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.Though the yield of the device detonated at Pokhran is debated, it is believed that the actual yield was around 8-12 Kilotons of TNT. The highlight of the test was that India had managed to avoid detection by the United States and other intelligence agencies.But India did suffer under the sanctions imposed by industrialised nations like the US which said that such tests can lead to nuclear proliferation. India’s test came six years after the international community concluded the Nuclear non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) in 1968 that divided the world into the nuclear haves and havenots.India undertook its first nuclear journey on September 7, 1972 when the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi authorised scientists at the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) to detonate an indigenously designed nuclear device.After the 1974 tests, explosions of five nuclear devices - three on May 11 and two on May 13, 1998 - were conducted by India, again at the Pokhran test range. Codenamed ‘Operation Shakti’, the tests were carried out under former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s term.India conducted Pokhran-II tests, a series of five nuclear explosions, in May 1998 at the Indian Army’s Pokhran Test Range in Rajasthan. National Technology Day is observed every year on May 11 as a reminder of the anniversary of Pokhran-II tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smiling-buddha-all-you-need-to-know-about-pokhan-test-that-made-india-a-nuclear-power/story-6Gif4ygbQ65BFz2yiaHsMK.html
18-05-2020||India||‘Govt will soon decide on OCI visa issue’: Minister allays fear of card holders||In a bid to allay fears of the OCI card holders over the temporary suspension of their long-term visas, India’s Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan has said the government will soon take an appropriate decision.He also invited members of the Indian diaspora to invest in the country in view of the recent economic reforms announced by the government.Participating in a virtual panel discussion with Indian-Americans on COVID-19, organised jointly by the Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) and the Bihar Jharkhand Association of North America (BAJNA) on Sunday, Muraleedharan was flooded with queries over the OCI (overseas citizen of India) card issue. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was aware of it and will take an appropriate decision soon.A large number of Indian citizens whose children are OCI card holders and several people of Indian-origin having the card are unable to travel to India, even for emergency reasons, because of the temporary suspension of their long-term visa.“This is step-motherly treatment of people of Indian origin and against the very ethos and spirit behind it,” said Jaipur Foot USA chairman Prem Bhandari.India’s top leadership, including Prime Minister Modi, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Home Minister Amit Shah, are personally aware of it and they have no doubt whatsoever about the Indianness of the overseas Indian community, Muraleedharan said in response to a question.“I understand the agony of the OCI card holders. Please do not have any ill will,” he said, assuring the participants that the prime minister will take appropriate decision on this issue soon. Muraleedharan urged the diaspora to invest in India given the opportunity being offered by the major economic reforms announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. “Perhaps, India has never had such an economic reform. This is a great opportunity for the Indian diaspora to come and invest in India,” he said.The announcements by Sitharaman in the last five days are a clear indication of how and what the Indian diaspora should look for, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-will-soon-decide-on-oci-visa-issue-minister-allays-fear-of-card-holders/story-VoO5bEuqkVYWiAA4hQILpI.html
18-05-2020||India||Politics in times of the pandemic||In the 1996 Lok Sabha elections held in the sweltering heat of April-May, Lalu Prasad was at the peak of his popularity, a crowd-charmer without match in the state he ruled as chief minister. I was on the campaign trail with him. As the chopper in which we flew from Patna circled over Samastipur, Prasad soaked his hand towel with Bisleri water to rinse his face. Seeing his starched, white-kurta drenched in sweat, I asked, “Politics is a lot of hard work; it isn’t an easy call. What keeps you going?” He pointed to the crowds below, gyrating to the chopper’s chuffs, amid clouds of dust: “Ye hai hamara indhan (that’s what fuels me on).”The Rashtriya Janata Dal leader is in jail now in the fodder scam. The vignettes from his past juxtapose starkly with the social distancing norms likely to be in force in November in Bihar during the country’s first post-Covid-19 polls.If the pandemic sustains, Bihar’s poll template may be replicated in the April-May elections next year in West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. A noiseless, crowd-less celebration of democracy’s biggest festival will, if it so pans out, mark a paradigm shift in these provinces with a history of mass agitations and gigantic election-time rallies.The organisational muscle of Tamil Nadu’s Dravidian parties has been nurtured since the late 1940s by such iconic leaders as CN Annadurai, MG Ramachandran, M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa. When marching to their call, their cadres haven’t ever brooked barriers. In contrast, the 1998-born Trinamool is a party much younger and more impetuous, taking after the temperament of its founder, the redoubtable Mamata Banerjee, serving a second term as chief minister in the state she wrested from the then mighty Communist Party of India (Marxist), which in turn, remains in power in Kerala.These parties have a mastery over stirring up street power. Their workers are trained to draw out crowds, not observe protocols for social distancing. They will need a veritable personality transplant to follow the inhibitory rules.“If sent to polls in October-November, Bihar will be the benchmark for other states,” said Dr V Maitreyan of the AIADMK. He foresaw, in the event of the pandemic persisting, transformative changes in campaigning patterns. The elections will be party and leader-centric, rather than candidate centric, given the inevitably greater reliance on the social and electronic media.Maitreyan may well be right. His prognosis? The assembly polls in which local candidates traditionally got higher weightage could acquire the characteristics of parliamentary or presidential form of elections — for the public rallies or street-corner meetings where the voter got to see candidates up close may not be permitted.Conscious of the dynamic situation, the Election Commission is studying various possibilities which include the conduct of campaign and polling as per “health” guidelines, said Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa. He agreed that contestants might have to devise their campaigns differently if the threat lasted longer. Overwhelmed as they are by the social, clinical and administrative odds on account of the health emergency, politicians in Bihar haven’t yet applied their minds to the November elections. One among them, the Janata Dal (United)’s KC Tyagi succinctly summed up the mood: currently, religion and electoral politics are on the backburner: “Dharm band, rajniti band.”There hasn’t been any substantial stock-taking in the Opposition ranks barring informal suggestions of a video conference, said Sharad Yadav of the RJD. He thought the prospects of timely polls in Bihar would hinge on the Janata Dal (United)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) coalition’s handling of the return and rehabilitation of natives from other states.From wider conversations this writer had with leaders across party lines, it was evident that they were unsettled the most by the possible political implications of the human cost of Covid-19. “Assembly elections aren’t on anybody’s mind as they’re some distance away,” noted the Trinamool’s Derek O’Brien. From what he said, it seemed the Trinamool regime’s immediate concern was to have in place a mechanism to run the 100-odd civic bodies — that are crucial for fighting the virus and where elections couldn’t be held because of it. In democracies across the world, leaders have been graded, mandated and assigned their places in history on their ability to move the masses — in death and in life. So WhatsApp cannot substitute for what exists on the ground. The hope nevertheless is that Corona too would go the way past pandemics did, returning to us the way we’ve practiced democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/politics-in-times-of-the-pandemic/story-Qo8BiJXUPM0IY1KPhSgIVI.html
18-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Buses, autos, cabs likely to resume; Metro shut till May 31 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Buses, autos and cabs likely to resume; Metro shut till May 31The Centre on Sunday said that state governments may allow the operation of public buses, auto-rickshaws and private cabs during the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown till May 31. Read moreAssam to provide work under MGNREGA to all migrant workers coming backThe Assam government on Sunday decided to provide job cards to all migrant workers who returned to the state and give them work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Read moreSupreme Court to take up ex-BSF jawan Tej Bahadur’s plea who questioned Varanasi election resultThe Supreme Court will take up an appeal filed by a sacked constable of the Border Security Force (BSF) who has challenged the election of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi Lok Sabha seat held last year. Read moreUK coronavirus death toll rises by 170, lowest increase since MarchThe number of people who have died in the United Kingdom after testing positive for Covid-19 rose by 170 to 34,636, business minister Alok Sharma said on Sunday, the lowest increase in the official death toll since March 24. Read moreThe biggest transition in my career is because of him: Virat Kohli credits former coachVirat Kohli’s stunning physical transformation in 2013 is still talked about. And while the India captain in the past has credited intense workout and diet change for his dramatic turnaround career-wise in terms of fitness, Kohli said India’s former Strength and Conditioning coach Shanker Basu had a defining role to play. Read moreApple reopening 25 more US stores, will soon top 100 worldwideApple Inc will this week reopen more than 25 of its branded stores in the United States, the company said on Sunday, continuing a gradual process that has unlocked doors at nearly a fifth of its worldwide retail outlets. Read moreInternational Museum Day 2020: Where does the term museum come from; a look at some interesting museums from around the worldMuseums, the ultimate storehouses of knowledge, have a long history of being associated with highfalutin culture and intellectual snobbery. Read moreAnushka Sharma calls Virat Kohli ‘jhoota’ during Instagram live with Sunil Chhetri, cricketer fell asleep on her film setsFootball star Sunil Chhetri grilled cricketer Virat Kohli to a crisp in his latest Instagram live. He asked him all about his wife and actor Anushka Sharma.Sunil came armed with the best questions and anecdotes, supplied by Anushka herself. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-buses-autos-cabs-likely-to-resume-metro-shut-till-may-31-and-all-the-latest-news/story-7RdfNuulDiKIf7IRSqUqVM.html
18-05-2020||India||How lockdown 4.0 is different from 3.0 and what remains unchanged||The fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 began on Monday. In this phase, the central government has further relaxed the curbs and the focus is on restarting the economy.Before issuing guidelines for lockdown 4.0, the government announced a financial paclage worth Rs 20 lakh crore. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman held a series of press briefings to give details of the financial package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week.In fresh guidelines, the home ministry also allowed the resumption of app-based cab services; gave permission to the functioning of all shops, markets and commercial establishments except those in malls; and eased curbs on private offices that were previously allowed to function with 33% staff strength.The two significant steps that stood out were the conditional approval to interstate movement of passenger vehicles and buses with “mutual consent” of the states and the Union Territories (UTs) involved, and the transfer of power to states for defining red, orange and green zones that have been instrumental in the strategy for imposing area-specific curbs in the previous phase of the lockdown.In lockdown 3.0, interstate travel was a banned activity, except in special cases such as the transport of stranded migrants by bus. Here is what has changed from lockdown 3 to lockdown 4:• Division of zones: States/union territories can now define green, orange and red zones while taking into consideration parametres defined by the Union health ministry.• Movement: Interstate movement f passenger vehicles and buses will be allowed after mutual consent by the states involved; states and union territories to decide on intrastate movement.• Shops and markets: All shops except those in malls can re-open but certain conditions will apply. The markets have been asked to follow staggered business hours. The new guidelines state that only five people are allowed inside a shop at a time. They also specify that social distancing measures and frequent sanitisation are a must.• Stadiums: Sports complexes and stadia have been permitted to open, paving the way for competitive sports to resume. However, spectators won’t be allowed.• Aarogya Setu: The mobile application is no longer a must, but people have been advised to use the contact-tracing app. Employers have been asked to put in their best efforts to ensure staff members install it.Other highlights• While private offices were allowed to function with 33 per cent of staff strength, the fresh order does not mention any such restrictions.• No bar on e-commerce players, who can resume delvery of all goods even in red zones.• Ban on cab aggregators has been lifted.What remains unchanged?• Only special trains run by government are allowed.• Only essential services permitted in essential zones.• Night curfew between 7 pm and 7 am will be in place. However, essetial services are exempt from this measure.• People above 65 years of age, children and those with existing health conditions have been advised to stay at home.• Masks to be worn at all public places and offices.• Spitting in public is a punishable offence.Prohibited across country• All passenger flights (international and domestic)• Metro trains• Dine-in restaurants and eateries• Cinema halls, malls, gyms and assembly halls• All religious/political gatherings• Educational institutes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-lockdown-4-0-is-different-from-3-0-and-what-remains-unchanged/story-4BcPv9zvqYZzi6KWE4RyNO.html
18-05-2020||India||How does India’s Covid-19 package compare to spending by other countries?||Union finance minister Nirmal Sitharaman on Sunday announced the last tranche of the government’s five-part policy reform and fiscal incentive package worth Rs 20,97,053 crore.Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement is part of a slew of measures announced by the government for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), agriculture, migrant workers, defence, businesses, and other segments.  This followed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a Rs 20 lakh crore package, worth about 10% of the gross domestic product or GDP, for the economy to overcome the distress caused by the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown as well as to build an Atmanirbhar Bharat or “self-reliant India”.The government has provided Rs 11,02,650 crore stimulus in the five tranches, Sitharaman said. Earlier, stimulus worth Rs 9,94,403 crore was infused in the system through fiscal and policy measures that included Rs 1.70 lakh crore relief package on May 26 and Rs 8,01,603 crore monetary measures by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) since March 27.In terms of spending as a share of GDP, 6.4% or Rs 12,95,450 crore has been committed to food security, direct cash transfer, money for rural job guarantee scheme, and credit guarantee to MSMEs among others.The government has announced a policy rate cut and other measures to boost liquidity at 3.9% of GDP or Rs 8,01,603 crore in terms of monetary and micro-financial assistance.Here is how India’s measures in terms of fiscal aid and monetary and macro policy assistance compare with some other key nations:United StatesThe US has announced 2.3% of its GDP in Paycheck Protection Program and Healthcare Enhancement Act. The Paycheck Protection Program was established by the US Congress in late March and aimed at helping businesses keep making payroll for eight weeks, despite orders to shut down because of the coronavirus pandemic. The eight-week period may be applied to any time frame from mid-February up to June 30.It has committed 11% of its GDP in CARES Act. US lawmakers agreed on the passage of a $2 trillion stimulus bill called the CARES (Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security) Act in March to blunt the impact of an economic downturn set in motion by the coronavirus pandemic. President Donald Trump signed the bill into law on March 27.The US announced another 1% in the Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA), which was created to expand paid leave options for employees effective from April 2 through December 31, and supplemental budgetary allocation made thereafter.The Federal Reserve also slashed the interest rate at the discount window — the rate at which banks borrow money directly from the Fed — by 150 basis points to just 0.25% in March “to help meet demands for credit from households and businesses.” The US also gave facilities to ensure the flow of credit.ChinaChina announced 2.5% of its GDP in terms of fiscal measures and of which 1.2% of GDP measures are already being implemented. It also has additional measures such as the announcement of local bonds worth 1.3% of GDP.It has put 3.2% of GDP in liquidity infusion and 1.7% of GDP in re-lending and rediscounting facilities.The People’s Bank of China has announced rate cuts in the range of 10-150 bps.JapanJapan is on top of the list of countries’ spending and has announced an emergency economic package of 21.1% of GDP. In this, 16% aimed at protecting employment and business.There has been a host of measures including liquidity provision by an increase in size and frequency of Japanese government bonds and concessional loan facilities for small businesses.GermanyGermany has committed 10.7% of its GDP to fight the coronavirus pandemic induced sluggishness in the economy with a supplementary budget of 4.9% of GDP focusing on providing short-term work and preserve jobs. It is using government guarantees to increase credit volume by at least 23% of GDP.The state government packages over and above this.In terms of monetary and macro-financial, there are additional asset purchases and an extension of European Central Bank (ECB) norms, which include prohibiting banks from paying dividends for FY 2019 and 2020 and/or buying back shares.Germany has also said that conserved capital is to be used to support households, small businesses and other borrowers. The payment moratorium on consumer loans established before March 15 is granted until June 30.(Source minister of finance and International Monetary Fund policy tracker last updated May 15)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-does-india-s-covid-19-package-compare-to-spending-by-other-countries/story-tM8KHsVSE98iBvMdQN3JgI.html
18-05-2020||India||Rules eased as lockdown 4.0 begins, Centre announces final tranche of stimulus: Covid-19 news today||The government announced on Sunday new guidelines with considerable relaxations for the fourth phase of the lockdown, allowing conditional interstate travel, the opening of markets as well as the resumption of autos and app-based cab operators. The Centre also allowed states to define their red, orange and green zones. Earlier in the day, the Centre announced the fifth and final tranche of a Rs 20,97,053-crore stimulus package, approving a substantial hike in states’ borrowing limit while also allocating Rs 40,000 crore for the rural job scheme, among other steps.States to fix zones in lockdown 4.0The government on Sunday lifted several stringent curbs, including that on interstate travel and some local transport such as buses, and announced that state governments will grade zones based on the prevalence of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, while it also extended the nationwide lockdown imposed in March-end to stop the spread of the contagion till May 31. Read moreStates, Union Territories to demarcate zonesThe Centre transferred powers to states and Union Territories to demarcate red, orange, and green zones for carrying out Covid-19 containment activities from Monday, according to a letter by home secretary Ajay Bhalla to chief secretaries of all states. Read moreNREGA outlay, cap on state borrowing hiked in fifth roundConcluding the government’s five-part policy reform and fiscal incentive package worth a total of Rs 20,97,053 crore, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday announced a 66% jump in the allocated budget for the flagship rural job guarantee scheme; a substantial hike in the borrowing limit for states; a new plan that aims to end the monopoly of public sector enterprises (PSEs) and open up sectors for private participation; and substantial ease of compliance for businesses, including relaxations in the insolvency and bankruptcy framework. Read moreWill farmers get a better deal after recent reforms?The government has announced major agricultural policy changes as part of the economic package it has unveiled in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. These include deregulation of farm foods from the Essential Commodities Act (ECA). Read moreEconomic package will have multiplier effect, says FM Nirmala SitharamanOver five days, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the specific contours of a Rs 20 lakh crore economic package to help the Indian economy overcome the immediate crisis caused by the pandemic and the lockdown imposed to control its spread, as well as lay the foundations for a “self-reliant India”. Read moreEye on China, India backs 62-nation coalition’s push for probe into Covid-19 originIndia has backed calls to identify how the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 was transmitted from animals to humans and conduct an ‘impartial’ evaluation of the World Health Organisation’s response to the pandemic, according to a draft resolution proposed for the WHO’s annual meet beginning tomorrow. Read moreLong wait and hope mark rail journeys of migrants to homeIn 2001, Chinak Pherai Nishad left home. A resident of Gidhaura village of Siddhartha Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh, the 20-year-old aced his school and college examinations but found no well-paying job in the sparse economy of the Gangetic heartland. Read moreProtest by migrants stokes traffic chaos after UP govt seals bordersThe Yogi Adityanath government’s decision to seal the state’s borders took hundreds of migrant workers at the Uttar Pradesh heading home by surprise, leading to chaos at many points. Read more550 districts in India have Covid-19 cases; many in rural areasEven as India relaxed restrictions for the next phase of the lockdown, two separate, but related, data points point to a new challenge in India’s battle against the coronavirus pandemic. On May 17, 550 of India’s 736 districts had Covid-19 positives cases, an addition of around 180 districts in the last fortnight, according to data on the disease compiled from different states. Read moreGovt guideline on opening stadiums raises IPL hopesIndian sports received a boost on Sunday after the Centre allowed stadiums to function in its directives for lockdown 4.0, opening a window for the postponed Indian Premier League to be held later in the year. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rules-eased-as-lockdown-4-0-begins-centre-announces-final-tranche-of-stimulus-covid-19-news-today/story-3lIJOgYM6OOkiy7DZvKfxH.html
18-05-2020||India||Assam to provide work under MGNREGA to all migrant workers coming back||The Assam government on Sunday decided to provide job cards to all migrant workers who returned to the state and give them work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).The decision was taken at a meeting held by Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal to discuss the issues of providing employment opportunities to the state’s people returning from outside.“Chief Minister directed to allot job cards to returning migrant workers and provide works under MGNREGA at the earliest. He also asked the skill development department to take steps for imparting training to returning workers for upgrading their skills,” said a government release.Sonowal issued instruction to identify skills of the returning labourers and provide training at development block level through a digital platform.“He instructed the finance department to discuss with banks about ways to provide bank loans to returning labourers for engaging them in productive sectors,” the release added.There is no exact figure on how many workers belonging to the state would be returning back to Assam. Nearly 6 lakh people staying outside the state had registered to avail financial assistance provided by the state. It is estimated that at least one-third of them could return back.The chief minister also directed the industries department to prepare a district-wise list of MSMEs for providing benefits to the sector under the Rs 20 lakh crore financial package announced by the Centre.He said that there are 1.01 lakh micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) in the state, and asked the department concerned to initiate all measures for passing on the benefits announced by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-provide-work-under-mgnrega-to-all-migrant-workers-coming-back/story-ghq5ml9eaGnifBwQ6r5HAJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Supreme Court to take up ex-BSF jawan Tej Bahadur’s plea who questioned Varanasi election result||The Supreme Court will take up an appeal filed by a sacked constable of the Border Security Force (BSF) who has challenged the election of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi Lok Sabha seat held last year.Tej Bahadur had objected to the rejection of his nomination as Samajwadi Party’s official candidate from Varanasi. On this ground, he sought PM Modi’s election to be set aside. The Allahabad High Court dismissed his plea at the threshold by a detailed order on December 6, 2019. It held that Tej Bahadur was neither a candidate nor an elector to question Varanasi election result. The appeal in the top court challenges the correctness of this decision.Interestingly, the apex court received this appeal in February this year. The case suffered many procedural flaws. It took three months to prepare the case for hearing. And now, Bahadur’s lawyers will face a bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy through video-conferencing.Bahadur’s nomination paper was rejected by the Returning Officer on May 1, 2019. He had earlier filed nomination as an independent candidate from Varanasi but subsequently entered nominated as Samajwadi Party candidate.He admitted in his nomination form that the BSF, where he was employed, had terminated his services. This happened in April 2017 after his video exposing cheap quality of food provided to soldiers went viral. The Returning Officer wished to know if the ground for termination was corruption or disloyalty to the state. If so, such candidates attract a five-year bar on contesting elections.Tej Bahadur claimed his dismissal was on other grounds. The Returning Officer followed the rulebook and required a certificate from the Election Commission in this regard. His failure to produce this certificate led to rejection of his nomination. The matter even came up to the Supreme Court which refused to interfere with this decision.Before the high court, PM Modi made an appearance through his lawyers. He told the court that the petitioner lacked locus to file the petition. Section 81 of the Representation of Peoples Act provides that a challenge to an election can be made either by a candidate or an elector of that constituency.PM Modi’s lawyers argued that Tej Bahadur failed on both counts as his nomination stood rejected by the Returning Officer. He was not a registered voter of Varanasi either. In his petition he admitted to be an elector from Bhiwani, Mahendragarh Parliamentary Constituency in Haryana.The high court concluded that the petitioner was neither an elector nor a candidate and went on to dismiss the petition as not maintainable. On merits too, Tej Bahadur failed to succeed. His non-submission of certificate from the Election Commission went against him. The high court held, “When a candidate is dismissed from government service within five years of filing of the nomination, he is under obligation to file certificate from the Election Commission that his dismissal was not on ground of disloyalty or corruption, failing which, he will be presumed to be not duly nominated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-take-up-ex-bsf-jawan-tej-bahadur-s-plea-who-questioned-varanasi-election-result/story-ATdMRKSyn7VzULw1LHvtOK.html
18-05-2020||India||We spread news, not Covid-19||“Newspapers carry tremendous credibility and the local page of a region is widely read by people,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said before the lockdown began on March 25; the Union Home Ministry guidelines include media in the list of essential services permitted to operate during the lockdown. However, at a time when the world is grappling with the spread of the infectious Covid-19 disease, it is not hard to understand why concerns persist around the delivery of newspapers. Yet, these are unscientific and misplaced.Experts are clear that there is no evidence that newspapers can transmit the virus. George Lomonossoff, a professor at the John Innes Centre, told BBC, “Newspapers are sterile because of the way they are printed and the process they have been through.” “If this was happening, we would have said so to stop the infection,” Dr Sujeet K Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control said. Newspapers are vital in spreading correct information, starting with this graphic below.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-spread-news-not-covid-19/story-pymnCt55sM80wSQ2ZhQPQN.html
18-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0 begins with more relaxations: All you need to know||The fourth phase of the natiowide lockdown begins from Monday. The Centre issued a notification in this regard on Sunday, extending the curbs for two more weeks, will May 31. But, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said in his address to the nation, lockdown 4.0 is going to be different from the previous three phases.The home ministry accordingly issued guidelines for the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown, giving power to states and union territories to delineate red, green and orange zones as per the Covid-19 situation taking into consideration the parametres shared by the union health ministry.In fresh guidelines, the home ministry also allowed the resumption of app-based cab services; gave permission to the functioning of all shops, markets and commercial establishments except those in malls; and eased curbs on private offices that were previously allowed to function with 33% staff strength.Watch | Lockdown 4.0 | Barbers, cabs, live sports, malls: What’s allowed, what isn’tHere are the things you need to know about lockdown 4.0:• All metro rail services, schools, colleges, hotels, restaurants will continue to remain shut.• Marketplaces can open but cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, swimming pools will remain closed. But sport complexes and stadiums will be permitted to open. Spectators will not be allowed.• Inter-state movement of passenger vehicles and buses with mutual consent of states and union territories involved.• Intra-state movement of passenger vehicles and buses as decided by the states and union territories.• The zones - red, green, orange - containment zones and buffer zones will be decided by the states on the basis of parametres of ministry of health.• In containment zones, only essential activities shall be allowed.• All other activities will be permitted in green, orange and red zones except those specifically prohibited.• E-commerce activities for non-essential goods are now permitted even in red zones.• Clause for private companies to make it mandatory for employees to use ‘Aarogya Setu’ app has been removed• Large gatherings including religious, cultural, sports, political, will not be permitted.• All religious places/places of worship will remain closed to the public. Religious congregations are strictly prohibited.• People over 65 years of age, people with co-morbidity, pregnant women and children below 10 years of age to stay at home, except for essential and health purposes.All the activities that were permitted during the third phase of lockdown will continue to be allowed in the fourth phase as well, however, states have been given a lot of freedom to add restrictions in any area. It is important to note that above activities will not be allowed in containment zones. In containment zones, the central government guidelines only permit essential services. Here’s the list of guidelines to follow this phase of lockdown: • Wearing face cover is mandatory in all public places.• Spitting in public and work places will be punishable with fine as per the rules and regulations of local authorities, states or union territories.• Social distancing in public places including markets, workplaces, public transport and ceremonies like marriages etc.• Not more than 50 guests allowed for marriage functions.• Funerals and last rites shall not be attended by more than 20 people.• Consumption of liquor, gutka, pan masala, tobacco not allowed in public places.• Shops to ensure minimum 6 feet distance among customers and not allow more than 5 people at a time inside the shop.• Provision for thermal scanning, hand wash and sanitisers to be made at all entry and exit points and common areas.• Making or circulating a false alarm or warning to as to disaster or its severity or magnitude, leading to panic, shall on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment up to one year or with fine.• Obstruction to any officer or employee of the central government or the state government or any authorised personnel is punishable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-begins-with-more-relaxations-all-you-need-to-know/story-ojvCjSthtOiGbXWS2KnpOK.html
18-05-2020||India||Amphan likely to turn into ‘super cyclone’, says govt; will hit Bengal coast||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Monday said that cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ is likely to intensify into a ‘super cyclone’ by Monday evening. It said that Amphan will hit West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts as a ‘very severe cyclone’ with wind speed up to 185 km per hour on Wednesday. Union Home Minister Amit Shah said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a high-level meeting to discuss the cyclone situation with the Ministry of Home Affairs and the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on Monday at 4 pm.To review the arising cyclone situation in various parts of the country, PM @narendramodi ji will chair a high level meeting with MHA & NDMA, today at 4pm.Very severe cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’, over central parts of South Bay of Bengal, intensified into extremely severe cyclonic storm, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. The weather department had warned that ‘Amphan’ may turn into a “super cyclonic storm’. According to experts, North Odisha coast will face the maximum impact of cyclone Amphan when it makes landfall. According to the IMD, cyclone Amphan will cross West Bengal - Bangladesh coasts between Digha (WB) and Hatiya island - in the afternoon/evening of May 20 as very severe cyclonic storm.North Odisha coast will face max impact of #AMPHAN, when it makes landfall. Wind speed expected to be 110-120 kmph,gusting upto 130 kmph. Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Mayurbhanj dist can be affected on 20 May(when it makes landfall): Umashankar Das,Scientist,IMD Bhubaneswar #Odisha pic.twitter.com/N3sQ7ut2DJEarlier, the IMD had warned that ‘Amphan’, over central parts of South Bay of Bengal, will intensify into an extremely severe cyclonic storm on Monday. It will move towards north-northeast direction and cross Digha (West Bengal)-Hathiya island (Bangladesh) on the afternoon/evening of 20th May with a wind speed of 155-165 kmph: Mrutyunjaya Mohapatra, IMD director general #Delhi https://t.co/ABmwHK4Dy1“Very Severe Cyclonic Storm (VSCS) ‘AMPHAN’ over central parts of South Bay of Bengal near latitude 12.5°N and longitude 86.4°E, about 870 km nearly south of Paradip (Odisha). To intensify further into an Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm (ESCS) in the next six hours,” the IMD said in a tweet on Monday. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has sent its 10 teams to Odisha and seven teams to West Bengal in view of the approaching Cyclone Amphan. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-to-intensify-into-extremely-severe-storm-in-next-6-hours-says-imd/story-tkECS1kZxm18IoXgrlvS5I.html
18-05-2020||India||Allowing firms to list overseas may help raise funds||The government’s policy intent to allow Indian companies to list overseas without simultaneous India listing can open up avenues for tech and other companies to raise funds but would be a non-starter without the necessary regulatory clarifications, legal experts said.Historically, due to the existing legal framework, Indian entities have used offshore routes like Mauritius to list on overseas exchanges like NASDAQ and NYSE by creating parent companies or subsidiaries in such tax-friendly jurisdictions.Apart from that, Indian entities are also allowed access to foreign capital through the American Depository Receipts (ADR) or Global Depository Receipts (GDR) route.“While tech firms would be the key beneficiaries, some others with significant US exposure, in terms of customers or employees such as IT services, healthcare, or global business models in commodities, chemicals could look at foreign listings,” said Anuj Kapoor, managing director and head of investment banking at UBS India.The cabinet approved this proposal in March. The idea’s genesis is a Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) panel recommendation from December 2018. The panel had suggested listing Indian companies abroad would require simultaneous easing of provisions of taxation and Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), among others.FEMA regulations need to be tweaked to allow issuance of shares to persons resident outside India and receipt and retention of amounts received in foreign currency accounts overseas.Further, tax laws both relating to capital gains arising on transfer of equity shares and also the rules relating to valuation of shares require changes.“The announcement so far looks to be more of policy intent till the time the associated regulatory amendments and clarifications are not announced in areas including FEMA regulations and tax laws,” said Sai Venkateshwaran, partner and head, CFO Advisory, KPMG in India.Kapoor of UBS also said the government and regulators will need to do substantial work on fine-tuning the ecosystem.The other big hurdle is lack of a fully convertible rupee. The RBI has allowed foreign exchange-settled rupee derivatives trading only at the International Financial Services Centre at Gift City in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allowing-firms-to-list-overseas-may-help-raise-funds/story-Kn7S943863xoHdYCOt0DlL.html
18-05-2020||India||Himachal Pradesh extends Covid-19 lockdown till May 31||Curfew will continue in Himachal Pradesh till May 31, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday after the Centre decided to extend the ongoing lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic.  The state government had imposed the curfew on March 24. In a video statement, Thakur said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had decided to extend the lockdown beyond May 17 after talking to chief ministers of various states. The fourth phase of the lockdown will continue till May 31, the chief minister said. Noting that coronavirus cases had increased after the return of stranded people from other states, the chief minister said that the number of cases may rise further as about 60,000 more people had expressed their wish to come back to Himachal Pradesh. At the same time, he said ‘“there is no need to worry”.  “Himachal Pradesh is still better than other states,” he said and urged the returnees to follow quarantine norms whether they were being kept in any institution or at home.  He said the curfew will remain imposed till May 31 to check the spread of coronavirus.     Thakur said “the nation is fighting the COVID-19 pandemic under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi” and thanked the PM for announcing a Rs 20-lakh-crore package for the revival of economy.    Stating that two ‘corona warriors’ also tested positive for COVID-19 in Kangra a few days ago, he wished them speedy recovery. Himachal Pradesh has reported 81 coronavirus cases and three deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-31/story-hKacFs0wbksBjfR7SVjmGN.html
18-05-2020||India||States, Union Territories to demarcate zones||The Centre transferred powers to states and Union Territories to demarcate red, orange, and green zones for carrying out Covid-19 containment activities from Monday, according to a letter by home secretary Ajay Bhalla to chief secretaries of all states. “Under the new guidelines effective from 18th May 2020, states and UTs will now categorise red, orange, and green zones taking into consideration the revised guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare,” the letter stated.The revised guidelines issued by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan said that districts, municipal corporations or even sub-divisions, wards or any other administrative unit may be categorised as red, orange or green zone after analysis. The decision has to be taken after analysing the geographical spread of cases, contacts and their zone of influence in terms of disease spread.So far, districts as a whole were categorised as red, orange, or green zones by the Union health ministry.To demarcate the zones, the local government will have to keep in mind the total active number of cases, active cases per 100,000 population, doubling rate over seven days period, case fatality rate, number of tests per lakh population, and sample positivity rate.According to the revised guidelines, a total active case count of over 200 will be considered critical and zero or no cases reported in the last 21 days is desirable. More than 15 active cases per 100,000 population will be considered critical.A doubling rate of less than 14 days will be considered critical and that of more than 28 days is desirable. The case fatality rate of more than 6% will be considered critical for the analysis with less than 1% being desirable. Less than 65 tests per lakh population is critical and more than 200 is desirable. A sample positivity rate of more than 6% will be considered critical and less than 2% will be considered desirable, according to the revised guidelines.Within these red, orange and green zones, containment and buffer zones will have to be identified for stringent action such as door-to-door surveillance, contact tracing, and strict enforcement of social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-union-territories-to-demarcate-zones/story-SzfqtgEiidA8IfeA59rDQL.html
18-05-2020||India||Odisha likely to evacuate 11 lakh people once Cyclone Amphan re-curves||The Odisha government will decide on evacuating people from low-lying areas in 12 districts including 6 coastal ones when the re-curve process of very severe cyclonic storm Amphan begins on Sunday late evening, officials said.Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena said the government is waiting for the latest forecast of the India Meteorological Department on the re-curve of the very severe cyclonic storm on the basis of which the government will fine-tune the vulnerability mapping.IMD regional director HR Biswas said the very severe cyclonic storm Amphan is likely to intensify further into an extremely severe cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours and move nearly northwards slowly during the next 12 hours and then re-curve north-northeastwards and move fast across the northwest Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha in Bengal and Hatiya Islands of Bangladesh on May 20 evening. The cyclone now lies over the central parts of South Bay of Bengal, about 960 km south of Paradip and 1,110 km south-southwest of Digha.Jena said of the 12 districts that would be affected, 4 coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara are particularly vulnerable to Cyclone Amphan as they are close to the Cone of Uncertainty of the storm.The Cone of Uncertainty of the cyclone is designed to convey uncertainty in the forecast of the storm’s centre not necessarily the areas that will experience the impact. The cone, however, does not take the size of the storm into account.Jena said the state has planned possible evacuation of 11 lakh people to 542 unused cyclone shelters and 1,072 additional buildings in 12 districts. He said of the total 809 cyclone shelters in 12 districts, 242 are now being used as quarantine centres.“But unlike previous cyclones where the evacuees were kept herded together in cyclone shelters, this time social distancing norms will be ensured as per the Covid-19 guidelines. This is for the first time that the state government is dealing with a pandemic and a natural disaster. As we have given more priority to Covid-19, we will need more buildings to be used as cyclone shelters,” he said.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has already sent 10 teams to Odisha and 7 teams to West Bengal to tackle the cyclone.The impending cyclone has forced the Railways to divert the route for its Bhubaneswar-New Delhi-Bhubaneswar AC Special trains running from Bhubaneswar between May 19 and 22. The trains will now travel via Bhubaneswar-Angul-Sambalpur City-Jharsuguda-Rourkela-Tata route, bypassing the Bhadrak-Balasore-Hijli route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-likely-to-evacuate-11-lakh-people-once-cyclone-amphan-re-curves/story-NjBaaZafZ5sdOfx5ikvOGK.html
18-05-2020||India||States to fix zones in lockdown 4.0||The government on Sunday lifted several stringent curbs, including that on interstate travel and some local transport such as buses, and announced that state governments will grade zones based on the prevalence of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, while it also extended the nationwide lockdown imposed in March-end to stop the spread of the contagion till May 31.In fresh guidelines, the home ministry also allowed the resumption of app-based cab services; gave permission to the functioning of all shops, markets and commercial establishments except those in malls; and eased curbs on private offices that were previously allowed to function with 33% staff strength. Stadiums and sports complexes were allowed to open for the first time since March 25 — when the lockdown was first imposed — but spectators will not be permitted inside.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe two significant steps that stood out were the conditional approval to interstate movement of passenger vehicles and buses with “mutual consent” of the states and the Union Territories (UTs) involved, and the transfer of power to states for defining red, orange and green zones that have been instrumental in the strategy for imposing area-specific curbs in the previous phase of the lockdown.The Centre also allowed states and UTs to decide on the movement of passenger vehicles within their territories, and lifted the ban on cab aggregators such as Ola and Uber even in areas with relatively higher cases.In lockdown 3.0, interstate travel was a banned activity, except in special cases such as the transport of stranded migrants by bus. Also, it was the Centre that came out with two lists — on April 15 and on May 1 — identifying red zones (with maximum Covid-19 cases), orange zones (with fewer infections) and green zones (Covid-19-free areas), though several states expressed dismay over the process.Also Read: Govt eases Aarogya Setu app requirements“Under the new guidelines, States and Union Territories (UTs) will now delineate Red, Green and Orange zones taking into consideration the parameters shared by the Health Ministry,” a press statement by the government said. These zones can be a district, or a municipal corporation, or even smaller administrative units such as sub-divisions.The government’s statement added that within red and orange zones, “containment and buffer zones will be as demarcated by the local authorities, after taking into consideration the Health Ministry guidelines”. No relaxations spelt out in the federal guidelines will be applicable to these areas, which will have strict perimeter control and where only essential services will be allowed.Also Read: Economic package will have multiplier effect: Nirmala SitharamanA containment zone can broadly be defined as the epicentre of an infection, while buffer zones are areas adjoining the containment zone where new cases are more likely to appear.In the fresh guidelines, the government also advised people to use the contact-tracing Aarogya Setu app, and said employers should put in their “best effort” to ensure staff members install it. Earlier, the app was a must for people working in private and public sectors. Metro train services; domestic and international passenger flights; schools and colleges; hospitality services; cinema halls; shopping malls and dine-in restaurants; and religious and political gatherings will continue to be prohibited across the country. Only special trains — a pair of 15 premium trains and those ferrying migrants to their homes — will run in this period.Also Read: Govt nod for interstate travel but flights, trains, Metros still haltedAlso, the ban on non-essential travel between 7pm and 7am will continue. Spitting and consumption of liquor, gutkha and tobacco in public places continue to be banned.“All other activities will be permitted, except those which are specifically prohibited,” the guidelines for the fourth phase of lockdown said. “Further, States/UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain other activities in the various zones...,” the order said, indicating relaxations could largely be dependent on state-specific rules.The opening of marketplaces, albeit in a staggered manner, is expected to help put economic activities, stalled by the unprecedented lockdown, back on track to some extent. Another major decision in that direction was the decision to lift curbs on establishments and factories that were restricted to work with just one-third of their staff from office. However, firms were advised to allow their employees work from home to the extent possible. The guidelines reiterated that wearing of mask was mandatory in public places and offices.States and UTs were asked to make sure that the movement of cargo trucks or medical personnel was not hindered.The nationwide lockdown, the first phase imposed on March 25 for 21 days, has been extended thrice. The second and the third phases of the curbs – starting April 15 and May 4 — lasted 19 days and 14 days, respectively. On March 25, India had 657 Covid-19 cases, which have increased to 95,656 infections as of Sunday. After the central guidelines were issued, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to all states, asking them to ensure strict compliance of the lockdown rules.Officials across states held emergency meetings, and many of them said they will come up with their own guidelines by Monday. Amir Subhani, Bihar’s additional chief secretary of the home department, said the state will adhere to the home ministry order.Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tiwari said, “...We will release Uttar Pradesh-specific guidelines after studying the Centre’s guidelines.”While Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Bengal were likely to announce their guidelines on Monday, Punjab, too, will hold a key meeting to take a call on the rules dictating the terms for lockdown 4.0.Meghalaya and Nagaland announced that the existing restrictions will continue for the next round as well.“In Meghalaya, keeping in mind the inflow of Meghalaya citizens from different parts of the country, we have decided to maintain the current restrictions and no further relaxation are planned as of now. If (there are) any changes, it will be notified accordingly,” Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma tweeted.(With inputs from states)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-to-fix-zones-in-lockdown-4-0/story-fcFuDgympolFWuTNSgmzSI.html
18-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: Rajasthan to run free Shramik Special buses, says CM Ashok Gehlot||The Rajasthan government will be running Shramik Special buses for migrants heading home on foot through national highways.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has said that it is very painful for the workers and their families to walk hundreds of kilometers to return home. “The state government will run special Shramik buses to relieve them from this pain. These buses will be free-of-cost to transport workers after obtaining consent from the states,” he said.The CM continued that this is a poignant and challenging task for the nation and should be resolved early. The Central Government should allow expenditure on buses under the SDRF category, he said.Reviewing a meeting related to lockdown 4.0 at his residence, he said the migrant workers will be sent through Shramik Special buses to those places where the number of passengers aren’t adequate for a train.He appealed to other states that they should also run such buses to send migrant workers of Rajasthan back to their homes.Gehlot said that in the fourth phase of the lockdown, states have been allowed to run buses for the movement of migrants and workers with mutual consent. In such a situation, the Rajasthan government will take the initiative to ensure that the workers reach their homes without any trouble.“According to the guidelines of the Centre, it has been decided to extend the lockdown in the state till May 31. The detailed guidelines for this will be released on May 18,” he said.The Chief Minister directed the officials to form a separate team for intensive monitoring of the coronavirus infection, which would provide thorough feedback on its spread and other aspects. Based on this, the state government will formulate its strategy.He said that a large number of migrants from other states have reached villages. Special attention should be given in rural areas as there may be a risk of the infection spreading in such areas, the chief minister cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-rajasthan-to-run-free-shramik-special-buses-says-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-TapVSQjAP3g3GRUzkMk3bK.html
18-05-2020||India||Call of duty takes nurses from Kerala to West Asia||Suja Verghese, a nurse working in Saudi Arabia for the last 10 years, had come home to Kottayam on a five-month leave in March to complete a list of pending work. But it was not to be. The hospital called requesting her to join work immediately. And on Saturday, she was among 239 medics who took a special flight to Saudi Arabia from Cochin.Earlier on Thursday another flight carrying 219 medical professionals, mainly nurses, had left for Saudi Arabia. Last week 89 health workers flew to the United Arab Emirates. Three more such flights carrying nurses are expected this week.Many Gulf countries who are desperate have cancelled leaves of medical workers and some of experienced who had left their jobs were called back.“It is fact the nurses from Kerala are most sought after all over the world. Like Prime Minister Modi said we should convert crises into opportunities. There is a great demand for trained nurses these days, especially from the Gulf. If they are willing the country should allow them to go,” said a senior government official involved in facilitating the return of medical workers.“This initiative reflects the relationship between India and the Middle East countries and their commitment to support each other in time of crisis. It is our duty to provide best medical professionals during the Covid crisis,” said Dr. Azad Moopen, managing director of Aster DM Healthcare that sent 60 of their trained nurses to the UAE last week.According to the Nurses Council of India among 20 lakh registered nurses at least 15 lakh are from Kerala. “At least two lakh of our nurses are abroad. Other than the Gulf, they are also in the US, Europe, Australia and other countries. Nurses from Kerala are most sought after. It is one of the least paid jobs in the country which is why so many leave for greener pastures,” said United Nurses Association general secretary Sujanapal Achuththan. Besides being service-oriented, nurses from Kerala like to take challenges head on, he said.“In health and hospitality the state has a glorious history. Nurses are ready to go to any place if service calls. In 2014 the country had saved 46 nurses from the Islamic State-held areas in Iraq. It was only then that people realised that Kerala’s nurses were serving in hostile areas also,” he said.Nurses may be frontline warriors in the fight against Covid-19 but they say their cries are often not heard. Like the case of nurses in Israel. At least 82 stranded nurses in Israel, some of them in advanced stage of pregnancy, are set to fly back next week after their plight came to light during a phone-in programme conducted by a Malayalam news channel Asianet. Some of them had broken down during the programme.“Service is in our blood. Kerala’s social background has helped us to imbibe true spirit. Monetary part apart, we love to take challenges and duty comes first to us. If the Gulf needs more health workers we should despatch the willing ones,” said Marina Jose, one of the nurses who was evacuated from war-torn Iraq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/call-of-duty-takes-nurses-from-kerala-to-west-asia/story-5PMVOClX2RT3Tuf7j8MWQM.html
18-05-2020||India||550 districts in India have Covid-19 cases; many in rural areas||Even as India relaxed restrictions for the next phase of the lockdown, two separate, but related, data points point to a new challenge in India’s battle against the coronavirus pandemic. On May 17, 550 of India’s 736 districts had Covid-19 positives cases, an addition of around 180 districts in the last fortnight, according to data on the disease compiled from different states. Among the states, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh witnessed the maximum increase in number of districts affected by Covid -19 since May 1.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWhat explains the spike, and what explains the spike in these states? Government officials largely attribute the increase to the return of hundreds of thousands of migrant workers to rural areas in these states, with weak health infrastructure. Since May 1, when the Central government started special Shramik trains, migrant workers — facing an acute shortage of cash and food — have returned home, even as thousands of others continue to walk hundreds of kilometres to return to their villages. As of Saturday, rural districts accounted for only 21% of total number of cases in India, according to health ministry reported — but the numbers are increasing. Officials said in many of the rural districts, Covid-19 cases are in single digits and the infected persons have been isolated in quarantine centers. The exceptions were districts such as Ganjam in Odisha, which has 292 cases, and Munger in Bihar, which reported 195 cases.Also Read: NREGA outlay, cap on state borrowing hiked in fifth roundHowever, state government officials are worried that many of the migrants, who have returned, are asymptomatic and may infect many more persons. Also, so far, only a fraction of workers have returned.“Only about 20% of the workers have returned and all the districts in my state are infected with Covid-19,” said a senior bureaucrat in Bihar, familiar with the thinking in the government. “Imagine the scene when even half of the workers come back. Keeping all of them in quarantine centers would be a daunting task,” he said. A Jharkhand government official said about 80,000 of the 6.5 lakh registered with the state helpline have returned. In Odisha, 1,10,000 of the seven lakh migrant workers registered have returned, officials said.All 36 districts in Bihar; two-third of 30 districts in Odisha; 80% of 55 districts in Madhya Pradesh; more than half of Jharkhand’s 24, Rajasthan’s 33 and one-third of Chhattisgarh’s 28 districts already have Covid-19 patients.Also Read: AAP says Centre responsible for plight of migrants, BJP hits backThere have been several incidents of migrant workers jumping from quarantine centers in Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal, though most of them were brought back. Workers in Bihar and Odisha have complained of poor quality food and facilities in the government run quarantine centers, a charge denied by the local authorities.Most of the Covid-19 free districts in these states are the remote tribal and poorest districts of India, where not enough tests have been done.“As ICMR has said that only symptomatic persons should be tested, we have not tested many people from some of the tribal districts from where no persons have reported Covid symptoms,” said a Jharkhand government official, who was not willing to be named.Officials in Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha said that there was no possibility of easing of lockdown norms from May 18 because a large number of migrant workers are expected to return in the next fortnight. “We are not going to ease the norms for the time-being,” said Sanjay Kumar, Bihar principal secretary (health).Apart from states receiving large number of migrant workers, Covid-19 has also spread to new districts in Tamil Nadu, Haryana and Karnataka. In Tamil Nadu, all 38 districts and Haryana, all 22 districts have cases. In Tamil Nadu, the Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai was said to have contributed to 30% of over 10,000 cases in the state. In Haryana, the return of locals from red zones in Delhi and nearby areas was said to be the reason for the spread of the infection. In Karnataka, 23 of the 30 districts have Covid-19 cases. On Saturday, the Centre asked officials from 30 municipal areas spread across 12 states, which contribute 79% of India’s Covid-19 cases, to maintain high vigil and closely monitor areas of old cities, slums, migrant labourer camps and other high-density pockets.These areas are in Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. Maharashtra. The selected municipal areas are Brihanmumbai or Greater Mumbai, Greater Chennai, Ahmedabad, Thane, Delhi, Indore, Pune, Kolkata, Jaipur, Nashik, Jodhpur, Agra, Tiruvallur, Aurangabad, Cuddalore, Greater Hyderabad, Surat, Chengalpattu, Ariyalur, Howrah, Kurnool, Bhopal, Amritsar, Villupuram, Vadodara, Udaipur, Palghar, Berhampur, Solapur and Meerut.The health ministry said that these areas should have the maximum restrictions under the home ministry’s lockdown 4.0 ground rules, the health ministry has told the government.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/550-districts-in-india-have-covid-19-cases-many-in-rural-areas/story-EEfW0NI82J4D2CuI0m2TKJ.html
18-05-2020||India||Will farmers get a better deal after recent reforms?||The government has announced major agricultural policy changes as part of the economic package it has unveiled in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. These include deregulation of farm foods from the Essential Commodities Act (ECA). Farmers have also been allowed to sell their produce outside government-regulated markets, or Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs). The move has been celebrated by important voices. The crux of such arguments is twofold. One, laws such as ECA are irrelevant now because we are no longer a food-scarce economy. And two, it will allow farmers greater freedom in selling their produce. This is expected to guarantee better prices. Both these arguments have problems. India has moved from a food-scarce economy to a net exporter of food. However, food production does not guarantee food security. Affordability is what matters. In the early years of economic reforms, India thought affordability will not be a problem. A universal Public Distribution System (PDS) was diluted into a targeted programme. This was reversed to enact the National Food Security Act (NFSA) in 2013. The NFSA covers two-thirds of the population as beneficiaries. It was passed by a Congress-led government and continues to be implemented by the Narendra Modi government. This bipartisanship is driven more by realpolitik than ideology. It is a recognition of the fact that a large part of our population still cannot afford food from the free market. In case of cereals such as rice and wheat, the government directly procures and then provides subsidised food. For other important crops, it uses a mix of policies including price and export controls and, sometimes, even usurping marketing activities when prices rise. Any blanket deregulation of agricultural markets requires an end to these policy interventions. In normal times, this will go unnoticed. But what happens when prices rise? Will a government cite its commitment to reforms and refuse to intervene when onions sell for more than Rs 100/Kg like they were a few months ago? That, in a price- sensitive political economy, will have adverse political and electoral consequences.A story in The Indian Express cites NITI Aayog’s Ramesh Chand to suggest that the latest deregulation will be rolled back in times of a price hike. “Such price increases will have to be at least 100% year-on-year at an all-India average retail level for vegetables (onion and potato) and 50% in the case of non-perishables (grains, oilseeds, etc)”, he said. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s database gives monthly all-India retail prices for essential commodities since 2010. Inflation in potato, onion and tomato prices breached the 100% threshold 21 times between January 2011 and April 2020. For non-perishables including 15 items of cereals, pulses, edible oil and sugar, inflation breached the 50% barrier 48 times during this period. So, the government would have had to revoke this reform 69 times in the past 120 months, according to this suggestion. This cannot be the basis for sustainable reform. Let’s look at the question of farmers not being allowed to sell to buyers of their choice. The claims of Indian farmers being caught in the clutches of a single buyer in the form of APMCs is not supported by data. The National Sample Survey Office released a report on Key Indicators of Situation of Agricultural Households in India. It is based on a survey between January-December 2013. It gives a break-up of farmers reporting sales to different buyers. For 31 crops sold between July 2012 and June 2013, local private traders were the single biggest buyers for 29 crops. Mandis, not all of which would be APMCs, were the biggest buyers in just two crops; arhar in the kharif season and gram in the rabi season. Except in soybean, the share of farmers selling their crops to Mandis did not even exceed 25% for any crop. These figures tell us the true picture of India’s agricultural markets. The private sector has already surged ahead of the APMCs without any reforms. And the farmer is well aware of this change. Does this mean that farmers will get better prices? Not necessarily. The number of buyers is not the only determinant of pricing power. Bargaining power also matters. This is where Indian farmers face their biggest handicap. Abolition of APMCs could make way for bigger corporate penetration in India’s food markets. But this does not guarantee that farmers will get a better deal. While such corporate players could be competitors at the macro level, thanks to their deeper pockets, they might be even bigger and stronger monopsonists at the local level. This makes the worst possible outcome entirely possible. The farmers might be left on their own to deal with perhaps a bigger monopsonist than they were faced with when the prices are low. And, when they do go up, the government will bring back controls in the name of food security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-farmers-get-a-better-deal-after-recent-reforms/story-8wrOzXKTL7J94cuInodOmK.html
18-05-2020||India||Protest by migrants stokes trafficchaos after UP govt seals borders||The Yogi Adityanath government’s decision to seal the state’s borders took hundreds of migrant workers at the Uttar Pradesh heading home by surprise, leading to chaos at many points.After the deaths of 26 migrant workers in a road accident in Auraiya district on Saturday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered not allowing any migrant worker travelling in trucks, cycles or on foot to enter the state. Instead, the government ordered they be provided buses and trains for their home journey. However, these took time to be arranged.In the mean time, in the 13 UP districts that shares borders with Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana chaos reigned. District and police officers struggled to convince the irate people that arrangements were being made to take them home. The migrant workers had made long and arduous journey to reach this far. They also became restive as many were close to their destinations. “We travelled over 1,000 kms with little to eat and drink in this scorching heat and now when our homes are barely hundred kilometers away, we are being told we can’t move ahead,” one said.In Saharanpur, over 3,000 migrant workers who arrived from Punjab and Haryana came out on roads and created ruckus over the delay in arranging transport for their onward journey. Police used mild force to quell them, and to pacify them, announcements were made that buses and trains were being arranged.Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Saharanpur, Dinesh Kumar P said trouble erupted after rumours among the migrants at Radha Swami Satsang Ashram on Ambala Road that they would be held there for two to three months. Police informed them that 1,320 migrants were already sent on a train, and that buses were being arranged for the rest. “The situation is now under control,” he said.In Jhansi, police were seen asking migrant workers on trucks at the border to deboard. But the unconvinced workers shouted slogans against the state government and police. “There was chaos due to confusion among migrants that we were not allowing their entry, but when they were told that the administration was arranging buses for their safe journey, the matter was sorted out. They were taken to a nearby shelter and later boarded buses to their destinations,” said SP City Jhansi Rahul Srivastava. At Agra and Mathura border, migrants entering the state from Rajasthan’s Bharatpur and Dholpur were agitated over the interruption. A group set fire to a garbage dump. The situation was controlled when Mathura administration officials arranged buses.Similarly, long queues of trucks and trolleys ferrying migrants, apart from some on bicycles, were seen in other bordering districts like Gautambuddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Baghpat, Shamli, Lalitpur and Mahoba. Chaos was also reported from some non-bordering districts like Lucknow, Kanpur, Unnao, and Fatehpur.Director general of police (DGP) H C Awasthy said there was an unprecedented turn out of migrants. He, however, said that the situation was defused in a few hours after they were convinced of buses and trains for their safe onward journey. He said the aim of sealing the borders was to ensure safety of migrants and not to interrupt their movement. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said trains from Jhansi, Mahoba, Agra, Mathura, Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Saharanpur and Prayagraj were likely to start from Sunday. He said the UP state road transport corporation deployed 10,000 buses and districts magistrates had been told to hire private buses. The state had requested the Railways to operate trains between Kanpur- Varanasi via Prayagraj, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-by-migrants-stokes-trafficchaos-after-up-govt-seals-borders/story-JxlYQ0QO5hmzGTayIwc0XI.html
18-05-2020||India||Ex-bureaucrats write to govt, say Central Vista project ‘hasty’||In a letter to the central government, 60 former bureaucrats and diplomats, including former secretaries, have expressed “grave concerns about the Central Vista Redevelopment Project” and urged the government to see the “fallacy of the project and issue notifications to keep the work from going ahead”. According to the letter, at a time when the government needs to step up its efforts to help boost the economy due to the coronavirus pandemic, spending Rs 20,000 crore on the Central Vista project is like “Nero fiddling while Rome burns”. “When enormous funds are required for strengthening the public health system, to provide sustenance to people and to rebuild the economy, taking up a proposal to redesign the entire Central Vista at a cost of at least Rs 20,000 crore, a figure likely to escalate significantly, seems particularly irresponsible,” states the letter. The signatories to the letter include Vappala Balachandran, IPS (Retd), former Special Secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, Meena Gupta and Tishyarakshit Chatterjee, former secretaries, Ministry of Environment and Forests, Aruna Roy, former IAS officer, and Harsh Mander, former IAS officer and social activist. Addressed to housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri, the bureaucrats have reminded the government that the Central Vista is a heritage site and “construction and redesign on the scale planned in the redevelopment project will significantly affect the heritage nature of this precinct, and destroy it irrevocably”. “The redevelopment planned will, moreover cause severe environmental damage,” states the letter, a copy of which was accessed by Hindustan Times. A query sent to the ministry over the letter remained unanswered till the time of going to press.“It is sad to note that approvals of empowered supervisory bodies like the Environmental Assessment Committee of the Ministry of Environment and the Central Vista Committee have been pushed through in great haste at meetings convened at short notice while the country is in lockdown due to the Covid-19 epidemic, and despite the absence of private members who expressed their inability to attend and advised waiting till the nation returned to normalcy. The clearances are being given despite the matters being sub judice. These bodies have, unfortunately, been reduced to mere rubber stamps with notes of dissent not even recorded,” the letter states. According to the letter, the tenders issued for the project were “hastily drafted” and “rushed through in record time” to select an architectural firm in an “extremely flawed process”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-bureaucrats-write-to-govt-say-central-vista-project-hasty/story-N1IjFm9tMir9CdyZiOWuCM.html
18-05-2020||India||Kerala student’s suicide puts focus on dubious ‘conversion therapy’||The suicide of a 21-year-old queer woman from Kerala, who claimed that she had been taken to multiple de-addiction centres over three months against her will, in an effort to cure her of her non-heterosexual orientation, has drawn attention to the dubious practice of conversion therapy practised by mental health professionals in the country, experts have said.The body of the Kannur University-affiliated college student was found in Goa earlier last week. She had visited the state with three friends on March 21, but got stuck there on account of the lockdown that was imposed three days later. Gargi H., a friend of the student, said that she was undergoing treatment for depression before her family took her to the de-addiction centres.In a Facebook video that the queer woman posted in March, she narrated how she was put on heavy medication at the centres without her consent. The student had come out to her family as a bisexual woman recently. “The post mortem report has confirmed that (the student) died as a result of the hanging and no foul play is suspected,” Police Inspector of the Calangute police station, Nolasco Raposo, said.Deepa Vasudevan, co-founder of Kerala-based Sahayatrika, an organization that works with lesbian/bisexual women and transmen said, “Parents of queer or trans people often send them to psychiatrists or psychologists to “cure” them of their sexual orientation or gender identity, to make them “normal.” We have seen this practice in many of our crisis interventions.”As per the Mental Healthcare Act 2017, which came into effect in July 2018, an adult person cannot be treated for any mental health condition without their express consent, or that of a nominated representative in case they either lack the capacity to make decisions or pose a danger to themselves and others. A representative can only be nominated by the person requiring treatment.Conversion therapy — which is considered unacceptable practice in psychiatric disciplines today — has historically used medication, and other practices like Electroconvulsive Therapy and chemical castration to cure persons of their homosexuality.According to psychiatrist Dr Soumitra Pathare, “While no provision outlaws conversion therapy, it is a clear violation of the Act.” According to Pathare, who was one of the architects of the Act, the law — predicated on the consent of the person undergoing treatment, as well as an insistence that mental healthcare practitioners should only follow treatments which are approved in the field of their profession — can be interpreted as being clearly against conversion therapy.What’s more, in 2018, the Indian Psychiatric Society released a statement that homosexuality is not a psychiatric disorder. This was in line with the position of the American Psychiatric Association and the International Classification of Diseases of the World Health Organisation, which removed homosexuality from the list of psychiatric disorders in 1973 and 1992, respectively. In 2018, the Supreme Court of India also struck down a colonial law that criminalized consensual adult same-sex intercourse.However, according to Raj Mariwala, director of Mariwala Health Initiative, which focuses on making mental health accessible to marginalized persons and communities, psychiatric disciplines have a history of violence against members of the LGBTQI communities. Conversion therapy, like past practices of lobotomy, admission in asylums and ECT, is part of that violence and has never really died down.“Psy-disciplines and practices classify things as normal and abnormal. If you start with pathologising something like homosexuality as abnormal, it leads us to the place where treatment is required,” Mariwala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-student-s-suicide-puts-focus-on-dubious-conversion-therapy/story-fmgMhK8nFVUuddV97xvDXN.html
18-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan likely to intensify, hit Bengal soon||Severe cyclonic storm Amphan that has been hovering over the Bay of Bengal intensified to what is classified as a “very severe cyclonic storm” on Sunday, according to authorities monitoring the situation.The storm was about 960km south of Paradip in Odisha and 1,110km southwest of Digha in West Bengal on Sunday evening. It is expected to further intensify into an “extremely severe cyclonic storm” on Monday. Over the subsequent 12 hours, it will move northwards slowly before recurving north-northeastwards and cross the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts on May 20 afternoon.Authorities and local people are staring at a unique situation where evacuation has to be quick and effective in the face of a deadly storm but at the same time social distancing has to be practised and first-line responders protected. Amphan will be a test case of how to handle natural disasters during a pandemic. As the monsoon is set to advance, more exigencies are expected to arise out of urban flooding, landslides and more cyclones—this would mean the need for more rescue shelters and sanitary facilities in them.When Amphan develops into an “extremely severe cyclonic storm”, the wind speed is expected to be 170-180kmph gusting to touch even 200kmph. The last “extremely severe cyclonic storm” was Fani over the Bay of Bengal which reached its peak intensity on May 3 and mostly impacted the state of Odisha.The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has shared an advisory with all cyclone-prone states on disaster preparedness during Covid-19. “We have underlined that first-line responders like police, state disaster response force, all volunteers engaged in relief work will have to be provided with PPE kits along with N95 masks. Cyclone-prone states like Odisha have a lot of multi-purpose cyclone shelters. But now we can use them to only one-third capacity because social distancing needs to be maintained. So, states have been asked to identify new shelters and buildings,” said Pavan Kumar Singh, joint advisor, NDMA.“Ministry of Home Affairs holds an annual relief commissioners’ meeting which is scheduled this year for May 20 via video conferencing when more details on monsoon-related disaster preparedness will be discussed,” he added.“We will announce the location of landfall and pinpoint where evacuation will be needed when we gain more confidence on the exact location. This is because evacuation and relief measures will have to be taken with great precaution keeping in mind the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Our models are showing that coastal Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal will be impacted. There will be more impact in West Bengal because the very severe cyclonic storm is expected to cross the Sundarban area,” said Sunita Devi, IMD scientist incharge of cyclones.“Though the cyclone will intensify into an extremely severe cyclonic storm, it may make landfall as a very severe cyclonic storm. There is time to take decisions on where evacuation will be needed. We are tracking the cyclone closely. I am aware that preparatory measures are being taken both in West Bengal and Odisha,” said M Mohapatra, director general of IMD (India Meteorological Department).West Bengal has three coastal districts – East Midnapore, North 24 Paragans and South 24 Parganas. Authorities have come up with detailed micro-level plans keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic and the migrant labourers who are returning and need to be kept in quarantine to prevent any outbreak of the virus. The experience of cyclone Bulbul, which had hit the area in November 2019, have also come in handy in preparing these plans. “At Sagar Island there are 18 multi-purpose cyclone and flood shelters (two to three-storey buildings where both humans and cattle can be kept during disasters). Seven of these cyclone shelters would be used exclusively as quarantine centres, particularly for the migrant labourers who are returning from other states. We are also increasing the number of shelters by roping in school and college buildings so that there is no crowding in one building,” said a senior official of Sagar block.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-likely-to-intensify-hit-bengal-soon/story-nwfhMMbOhrJ2cDSdy2B2fN.html
18-05-2020||India||Govt nod for interstate travel but flights, trains, Metros still halted||Lifting the prohibition on interstate movement of cars and buses after nearly two months, the Centre on Sunday said their movement will now be allowed, as it eased restrictions for the next phase of the lockdown. However, all domestic and international passenger flights, regular passenger trains and Metro services will remain suspended till May 31.The home ministry, in its guidelines for Lockdown 4.0, added that the interstate movement of vehicles will be allowed with the mutual consent of the states and union territories concerned. The interstate movement of all vehicles, except those transporting essential services and goods, had been suspended since March 25 when the lockdown was first imposed. “The interstate movement of vehicles and buses has been allowed with the mutual consent of the States/ UTs concerned,” the guidelines said. Also Read: Centre’s relaxations set to awaken Delhi from its two-month slumberA standard operating procedure (SOP) for bus operations may also be issued by the Centre, a senior official of the home ministry said. Cycle rickshaws, auto-rickshaws, taxis and cab aggregators such as Ola and Uber can also begin to operate, provided the states concerned permit them to do so. The Centre has also put the onus on states to decide the various activities to be allowed across red, orange and green zones. However, strict perimeter control has to be maintained, and no movement of persons can be allowed across containment zones, except for medical emergencies and to maintain the supply of essential goods and services, the order clarified.While the prohibition on air travel continues, there will be exemptions for air transport for domestic medical services, domestic air ambulances, security purposes or purposes as permitted by the home ministry and cargo transport. The director-general of civil aviation (DGCA) also said that foreign and domestic airlines will be “suitably informed about the opening of their operations, whether international to/from India or domestic respectively in due course”.Also Read: Buses, autos and cabs likely to resume; Metro shut till May 31National carrier Air India on Sunday also reiterated that flight bookings for domestic travel will resume only after proper instructions from the Union government. “Keeping in mind the prevailing situation due to Covid-19, it is informed that all domestic scheduled flights stand cancelled till 31st May 2020 excepting the flights operating as Charter and Evacuation Flights [sic],” it said in an internal communication.The railways ministry also clarified there will be no change in railway services from that of the third lockdown. “There is no change in rail service. It will be the same as in Lockdown 3.0, only Shramik Special trains and special passenger trains will continue to run apart from goods and parcel trains,” a ministry official said.The movement of passengers in trains had been permitted earlier by the MHA through an order dated May 11, allowing 15 premium trains to resume operations. The Centre had also said that bookings made for regular trains before and during the lockdown for journeys till June 30 stood cancelled and affected passengers will receive full refunds.Till Sunday, 348,634 passengers had booked tickets worth Rs 69.33 crore for the premium trains, according to the railways ministry.Also Read: Economic package will have multiplier effect: Nirmala Sitharaman“In order to facilitate the movement of persons, various modes of transport have already been opened up. Further, the evacuation of foreign nationals from India, the return of stranded Indian nationals from abroad, the sign-on and sign-off of Indian seafarers, and the intra- and interstate movement of stranded persons by bus and train will continue to be allowed,” the home ministry said. India has launched a concerted repatriation programme, by sea and air, to bring back stranded citizens stuck in various parts of the world, but with a strict set of preconditions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “More than 13,000 stranded Indians have returned on various flights under the Vande Bharat mission,” union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri tweeted. Airports had begun preparing for the resumption of services following the government’s nod. The Airports Authority of India has also issued guidelines for the resumption of flights in a “graded manner” asking passengers to wear a mask and other protective gear and maintain at least four-feet physical distance from co-passengers. Puri has confirmed airport operations are likely to open only in a graded manner with nearly 25-30% of its capacity initially. They will be scaled up to their original level in a gradual manner, according to the government’s plan. According to officials in the know, SOPs for the resumption of the Metro rail have also been prepared by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-nod-for-interstate-travel-but-flights-trains-metros-still-halted/story-EA3beSFTCBQsRqEv2di8kL.html
18-05-2020||India||Funding boost for public health sector; grassroots institutions in focus||The government will increase investments in public health and focus on grass-root health institutions, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Sunday.The government has also decided to create a dedicated block for infectious diseases at hospitals in all districts while boosting surveillance by focusing on strengthening lab networks, according to Sitharaman. To that effect, the government will set up public health labs in villages. Focus will also be on ramping up health and wellness centres in villages and urban areas.“The government will be increasing investments in public health to be absolutely ready for such (Covid-19-like) eventualities in future,” Sitharaman said. In the budget for 2020-21, the government earmarked over Rs 67,484 crore for the health sector out of the total outlay of Rs 30,42,230 crore.A health ministry official who did not want to be named said strengthening of government lab networks in villages will help robust surveillance. The step aims at quick identification of disease clusters in case of future outbreaks and effective containment measures at an early stage. “Increasing testing capacity is the key to manage better any outbreak situation that hinges on ‘test, isolate and treat’ guidelines. This will be a big plus for the public health system,” the official said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will contribute towards building a national platform for health-related research under one umbrella. Also, implementation of a national digital health blueprint will be expedited to make better use of technology in delivering health care services in the country, Saitharaman announced.The health ministry has already released at least Rs 4,113 crore directly for activities to deal with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Centre has allocated Rs 15,000 crore in the health care sector to fight pandemics. Another significant step was providing an insurance cover of ₹50 lakh per person for health professionals under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna announced on April 23.With focus on telemedicine, the government has rolled out e-Sanjeevani Tele-Consultation Services and is building capacity by e-training modules for health care and other workers. “We have also taken great care in protecting our health care workers by increasing the domestic manufacturing industry for personal protection equipment and N-95 masks. We have identified some 300 domestic manufacturers who from zero kits to now are capable of producing 3lakh kits in a day,” Sitharaman said. Experts welcomed the government’s decision.“The announcements regarding Rs 15,000 crore allocated for Covid 19 containment and treatment...is a much needed support… Leveraging of IT services for tele-consultation will help patients with non-Covid-19 issues who were left stranded due to cessation of all non-emergency health services,” Charu Sehgal, partner and leader, Lifesciences and Healthcare, Deloitte India, said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/funding-boost-for-public-health-sector-grassroots-institutions-in-focus/story-qzDjXwU35rigIMbfJH910N.html
18-05-2020||India||Economic package will have multiplier effect, says FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Over five days, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the specific contours of a Rs 20 lakh crore economic package to help the Indian economy overcome the immediate crisis caused by the pandemic and the lockdown imposed to control its spread, as well as lay the foundations for a “self-reliant India”.Shortly after her announcement on Sunday, the finance minister, in a wide-ranging interview to R Sukumar and Shishir Gupta spoke about the rationale behind the measures; emphasised that credit to both businesses and individuals will help provide relief and spur demand; countered the criticism that the package did not have a strong enough fiscal component; acknowledged the crisis faced by migrant workers; and her hopes for the Indian economy in 2021. Edited excerpts:Also Read: ‘Focus on where money is going’, says Nirmala SitharamanNow that the entire package has been announced, what is the status of the budget numbers?One thing we took cognizance of even before we announced the package and that is the borrowing [the government enhanced its borrowing limit for this year by Rs 4.2 lakh crore]. That is why we issued a fresh schedule of borrowing. But the rest of it, I have to wait and see. Because revenue generation and disinvestment – it’s too early for me to make an assessment now. This is only May; we have 10 more months to go in the year, and what an extraordinary year it is already.Have you modelled any revenue estimates?In this Covid era, does any modelling help?Also Read: In lockdown 4.0, Centre allows offices, factories to open with staggered timingsHow about the funding? You have told us about the borrowing; will that be enough to meet any revenue shortfall? Or will you need to borrow even more?We took a comprehensive assessment (of what we would need) and then went with this number (Rs 20,97,053 crore). At the time itself we were conscious that we were looking at this stimulus and also a fall in revenue. We have to see how it goes.If there is a significant shortfall in revenue, which seems very likely now, what happens to the share of the states?The collection is divided between the Centre and the states; that’s the formula. If the collection itself falls, the formula will only give what it can give. Then the GST compensation, the GST based division that happens. I’m committed to give the compensation from the collection that I have. Over and above, if there is a shortfall, the GST Council will have to take a call.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWhat is the kind of fiscal deficit India is looking at this year?It’s too early to comment; I’ll be able to say closer to RE (the time the revised estimates come out).One of the criticisms of the package is the overemphasis on monetary and liquidity components in the package you have announced and that the fiscal cost is just 10-15%It’s amazing that comparisons are made with what other countries have given. At this time, I would request everyone to focus on where the money is going. I think it is important to reach out to those sections (of the population) that need relief to even survive. And not just individuals. If additional money doesn’t reach small units, they can’t pay wages; they can’t buy raw material; and run their units to even 10-15% capacity. So I’m making sure that is where the money goes; wait for the multiplier effect it can create in its immediate ecosystem.Even for small enterprises, which you have rightly said are the most vulnerable, what the package has is largely credit. You have steered clear of income protection and wage support. In the UK, for instance, even middle-class salaried employees who have been furloughed are eligible for three months of payments up to 2500 pounds a month. Why have you not thought of that? Do you think the lower middle class and middle class doesn’t need that support?Is there any section about whom I can say that they don’t need it? Is it my business to even judge? Everyone needs help in this kind of environment – but to different degrees. But what amazes me is that the moment we compare, we compare with advanced economies, which also have the advantage of good data, which also have the advantage of a system that delivers. Now the system that delivers, after Narendra Modi became PM in 2014 created DBT – and so I can deliver cash; I can deliver gas cylinders; I can deliver fertilizer subsidy to farmers.But do I have other data? Did anyone, before this crisis, have data on migrant workers? Has there been any political party or analyst or economist or public thinkers – did anyone know the size of the migrant labour population? In a way, I’m thankful that we are now discussing this in depth. Like we should. Whoever thought that it would take a pandemic like this to tell us that even migrant workers need to be registered? When we talked of wanting to give some insurance to such migrants – when we wanted to do this, the data on such workers from the states… Did anyone give us exhaustive data?When we compare with others, when they have systems to deliver, which we have today, when they have data about workers, both organised and unorganised, and then given the size of that economy — I’m very different. So we have to adapt. I have to make sure taxpayers money has to be spent where it actually means something. This doesn’t mean I’m saying giving it to the poor won’t mean anything, but there’s a limitation. How do I identify the poor? I can give it to Jan Dhan account holders, which is what I tried. But many of these migrants don’t even have a ration card. States now have to go through the grind to see how they cover them all — in PDS, in Jan Dhan. In fact it is becoming clear that these visionary steps of PM Modi that are helping us now.A lot of the reforms that have been announced are significant, even radical; but they will play out over the medium-term or long-term. But in the short-term, the two most important things are cash in the hands of people, to help them overcome the immediate crisis, and ways to revive demand. How do you think this can be done?The term loans and the working capital loans that banks have now been asked to give automatically to everybody — unless the customer says they don’t want it, the banks have to give it. Now when money flows to that little unit, he is obviously taking it to give wages or buy raw material. That is spurring demand. So demand doesn’t just get spurred at the individual level — people getting money and going out and buying bread and milk and other things. It is also companies, however small, getting that extra loan, so that they can open up after the lockdown. Spurring demand can also happen at the institutional level.We are also giving, through NABARD, additional money for small and marginal farmers. That money is going for the pre-kharif (monsoon crop) preparation. Post-rabi (winter crop) harvest, they are feeling the need for money – this will take care of that also. Isn’t that money in the hands of people? I want people to go through every one of the announcements to realise how many of them mean more money in hand — and money in hand will spur demand.Also Read: NREGA outlay, cap on state borrowing hiked in fifth roundThere are some sectors such as aviation, tourism, hospitality, entertainment, where even if you give them money in hand, even a year later, these companies are going to be struggling because there is no demand.They will come under one or the other schemes we have brought in — with the banks (credit). So, nobody is going to be left untouched. But touched the way you want? I may not have done that. But they will have access to resources. And this is after a lot of discussion with banks. Their hesitation to lend is because they are worried that the money won’t come back; what if a business turns genuinely bad? What if a genuine (lending) decision ends up meeting a mala fide intention of the borrower? In order to egg the banks to give more, we have come up with a guarantee.Did a potential downgrade by credit rating agencies hold your hand when it came to more fiscal stimulus, or did you decide to just focus on doing what was needed? We did discuss the rating agencies. But all of us agreed that India wasn’t singly or uniquely facing this problem. It is a global problem. Rating agencies rate you if you alone are not doing well in a world that is otherwise rosy. With a global pandemic, with every economy being affected….Ratings can’t be done in isolation. I’ve thought about it, and it doesn’t worry me. Look at the strengths of India: we are less affected; our foreign exchange reserves and macroeconomy are strong; we have had a six-year tenure of PM Modi who has handled the economy responsibly; our debt to GDP ratio has come down. Why would the rating agencies treat us badly? Rabi (the winter harvest), we have had a wonderful crop; and to the credit of the states, they have managed to get the harvest done, the procurement almost done.A lot of the reforms that have been announced in these packages will need executive orders, notifications. Can we expect them in the next few days?Yes. And some will happen through ordinance.You pointed out in the course of the presentation today that the states are not borrowing enough. Why is this? Is it because they are anticipating very poor revenues? Or do they want the Centre to bail them out?I don’t know. They have been writing to the PM, the chief ministers; and the finance ministers have been writing to me. It also came up with the meeting of the PM with the CMs, that they be allowed to borrow more. So we allowed that, but also put out the factual position on their current borrowings [around 14% of what is permissible].When you look at big business, the formal sector, business has been non-existent. And other than credit, there is not much for them. Some of the companies I’ve spoken to were expecting some sort of scheme — a wage protection one like what France has done for instance. In the absence of this, there will be layoffs even in the formal sector.Again, comparing with France is very different. There are limitations to that approach; but we have ensured that every one of these businesses has access to bank credit. Without new or additional collateral, we have said they should be given term loans and working capital loans — only because they have to tide over this crisis, over this particular problem.Also Read: Lockdown 4.0: Delhi traders welcome Centre’s decision to open marketsWhere do you see the Indian economy in March 2021?I am confident that Indian entrepreneurs, like Indian farmers, can weather any storm. I am not saying I will therefore leave them to their lot. No, I will keep facilitating them. But that spirit in them is giving me hope.The PM Garib Kalyan Yojana you announced in March had measures to provide cash and food to the most vulnerable. Do you think that is adequate? I know you have extended the food scheme to migrant workers, but do they need more?I will have to assess it.And if your assessment is that they do?Of course, we are willing to give more. Nothing is closed.How would you sum up the package in one sentence?In fact, that’s why I quoted the Prime Minister. He said the package would focus on land, labour, liquidity and laws — we have done that. At the same time, every sector has been helped. I think this is a reasonably exhaustive package. And it approaches every section — perhaps in our own way, not in a way people wanted us to. There is hope for everyone to be benefit from this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economic-package-will-have-multiplier-effect-nirmala-sitharaman/story-sqY6cQ7oufUQ6vZgijWNoO.html
18-05-2020||India||Long wait and hope mark rail journeys of migrants to home||In 2001, Chinak Pherai Nishad left home.A resident of Gidhaura village of Siddhartha Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh, the 20-year-old aced his school and college examinations but found no well-paying job in the sparse economy of the Gangetic heartland. With a family of eight to feed and an ageing father, Nishad decided to abandon his dreams and become an agricultural labour.Like millions of young men and women from his state, Nishad found someone from his village working in the fields in Maharashtra’s Thane district and migrated 1,600km west. “I worked as a labourer in Thane along with a person, who belongs to my own village. But soon I realised that this work is not for me,” he said.The next year, he bought a handcart and started a business hawking garments in Mumbai; the first few weeks were tough but in six months, he was earning Rs 600 to 900 a day – almost five times his daily pay as a labourer. “My proud ‘baba’ (father) used to say you are first in the family to start one’s own business,” he said. In 2003, he bought a second handcart. His luck ran out in March this year as fear of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the nationwide lockdown from March 25 shuttered his trade.Undaunted, Nishad felt he could ride out the 21-day lockdown in the city he had called home for 18 years. For 10 days, he and 18 other migrants who shared a small 10x10-room house in Yadav Nagar, Navi Mumbai neighbourhood had enough food and supplies.But problems began soon after. First, the migrants ran out of food and money. Then, as Covid-19 cases mounted and the government indicated it would extend the lockdown, their neighbours started becoming hostile because the workers were seen as virus carriers. Finally, on April 14, when the lockdown was extended, the migrants decided to hit the road and walk down to UP, almost 1,600km away.None of the workers had any movement passes so they were stopped at a police outpost near Nashik on April 16 after two days and 166km of walking.“We were stuffed in a small room at an unknown place and then were taken to a school where we were quarantined for five days,” he said. On April 20, they were moved into a local hostel where they were locked in for 25 days along with 300 other migrants from UP. “We were moved after locals started treating us like infected animals. In all these days, the food provided to us was minimal but we survived somehow,” he said.On May 1, the government announced special trains to ferry back migrants. Later that day, an official visited the hostel to make a list of workers who would be sent back to UP. “Officers said the migrants who can afford to pay the ticket fare of Rs 420 will be allowed to board the train, the rest have to stay for another month or so,” Nishad said. He didn’t have enough money but was able to beg and borrow the required amount, and got his name on the list. The next morning, a bus came to fetch Nishad and 280 migrants to the station. They were checked before they got on to the bus, and before boarding the train – the first Shramik Special to reach UP.On every berth, only two migrants were allowed to maintain social distancing. “But I don’t think it makes much difference as we all were using the same toilets and washbasins frequently,” he said.Though unemployed and penniless, Nishad felt grateful as the train pulled into Lucknow’s Charbagh station on May 3 – 19 days after he had set out from Mumbai. “I have lost everything but I couldn’t believe that I had finally reached my home,” he said. Nishad is one of 564,000 migrants who have been ferried back home to UP by 450 non-stop shramik special trains, many of them waiting for days after registering their names in lists that often run into tens of thousands of names. Speaking to officials, workers, railway staff and local residents, HT pieces together the arduous journey of a migrant worker from her quarantine centre to a berth on the train and finally back home.The process to get into a Shramik Special is both long and depends on chance.Pravin Kumar, a resident of Basti in Uttar Pradesh, along with 25 other people from a Mumbai-based garment unit applied on April 28 to go back to their home state.In Maharashtra, a group of people wanting to travel to a particular state need to visit the nearest police station and are required to fill a form. The form is then submitted to the district collector.At the time, the Maharashtra government required a mandatory medical certificate declaring the migrant worker is fit to commute and had no symptoms, and Kumar had to procure this document from a local medical practitioner he knew. Last week, this regulation was removed and workers are now screened with digital thermometers before boarding the train.“We were a group of people so decided to approach police authorities in the city for helping us to travel back. They informed us that no trains are leaving from Mumbai but asked us to fill forms,” said Kumar.After they filled the form at the Ghatkopar police station, the police informed the district collector about the number of people who had registered. This number was then collated throughout the city and sent to the chief secretary of the state, said a top government official.In each state, migrant workers need to apply on an online portal for travel passes. A second government official said migrants can approach the local police stations, who along with non government organisations (NGO), assist the workers — many of whom are semi-literate and do not have smart phones — in filling the travel requests forms for the Shramik Special trains.In cities, police commissioners are the nodal officers for this work while in rural areas the collectors have been assigned this responsibility, the second official said.After the forms are filled and the numbers collated, the chief secretary of the originating state then speaks to his counterpart in the destination state for permission of train operation and to cross check the names and address of the labourers.Then, the chief minister of the destination state decides on whether to grant permission to the train, and on which day the train should be allowed to enter the state.“We have put nine officers to coordinate the train movement of migrants with the states of the country and the CM reviews the situation daily. He has directed that medical screening be done, they be taken to quarantine centres, their documentation details should be complete and then they should be sent home with proper respect and bagful of rations for 15 days. In the village, they are supposed to be monitored by the village monitoring committees so that home quarantine should be ensured,” said UP additional chief secretary (ACS), home, Awanish Awasthi.After this decision is taken, a no-objection certificate is granted from the destination state, and a permission is sought from the Union home ministry, after which the train schedule is planned. The entire process can take up as few as two days, according to railway officials in Mumbai.In Kumar’s case, it took 10 days. “I got a call on Friday morning saying that a train will be operated towards Uttar Pradesh and we will be allowed to travel. The feeling of being able to go back to my home and be with my family was amazing,” said Kumar, who boarded the train on May 8 from Mumbai.The Indian Railways comes into the process once the clearances are received from the originating and the destination state.Once the permissions are received, the originating state writes to the Union home ministry and the Railways with the request for a train. “After home ministry’s nod comes, the ministry of railways provides the train and the tickets for the total number of passengers to the state government,” a senior railway ministry official said, requesting anonymity.The originating state has to make the arrangements of buses for taking migrants to the railway station.“We then provide them the tickets for the trains, then we take the migrants inside and go through all the social distancing protocols and screening before boarding them on the trains. The nodal officer/ district magistrate of the state has to make arrangement for the buses. For each train, nearly 70-80 buses are required for ferrying the migrants to the station,” the official quoted above said. A similar process is followed once the train reaches the terminating station of the destination state. The local district magistrate arranges for the buses to take the migrants to their villages and then put them under home-quarantine, the official added. The passengers have to be screened by the originating states and only those found asymptomatic are allowed to travel. The originating state will have to bring these persons in batches that can be accommodated in the train to the designated railway station in sanitised buses following social distancing norms and other precautions, the railway ministry’s guidelines stated.But the process of registration – the first step – can be difficult for many migrants, say experts.“The issue is that most of them do not have smart phones, and most who have not been paid have not had the currency to be able to recharge their phones. The government should ensure a paper-based registration in every ward and town,” said Rajendran Narayanan, an assistant professor at Azim Premji University.Currently, the single-destination Shramik Specials are allowed to carry up to 1,700 people. They have 24 coaches, each with 72 seats. The fare for the train is paid in most cases by the state government. To ensure the safety of their staff, the Railways sends their locomotive pilot on leave after every trip. The loco pilots and Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel are screened before the journey and only asymptomatic crew is allowed on the train.“We adhere to safety norms while operating the Shramik special trains. I piloted the Shramik special train from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus(LTT) to Igatpuri. There are no halts to the train and loco pilots are changed on major stations. I operated the train on May 10 and was given leave for two days. I will resume work on May 13,” said Mukesh Meena, the pilot of Shramik train that operated between LTT and Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh on May 10. For most migrants, the ordeal ends once they find their names on the passenger list of a special train. But for some, the long wait can be too much to bear.Kanhaiya Lal realised this the hard way. The 29-year-old painter from Bhavnagar in Gujarat was on his way back home to Baijwari village of Sitapur district in Uttar Pradesh. He spoke to his family when boarding the Basti-bound Shramik Express (09491) on May 8, elated that he was going back home. “He sounded very happy, he said he is going home after 6 month, will have home-cooked food first,” a passenger who was sharing a berth with Kanhaiya said.But that was not to be. His lifeless body was removed the moment the train stopped at Charbagh Railway Station at 3.30pm on May 9. Police recovered an empty wallet, a certificate certifying him as Covid-19-negative, a non-branded mobile and an ID card.“Bhai had called me a few days back, was saying he didn’t have anything for the last five days, we insisted he come back home. On Friday he called saying he managed to board the train and is coming home,” said Pramod Kumar, Kanhaiya’s elder brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/long-wait-and-hope-mark-rail-journeys-of-migrants-to-home/story-ZPAo6FH0QCYhREYim2cbKN.html
18-05-2020||India||Obama tears into US leaders in online commencement speeches||Former President Barack Obama has delivered a searing critique of the US response to Covid-19, telling graduating students in two speeches that “folks in charge” with “fancy titles” appear to be clueless and some “are not even pretending to be in charge”.Obama did not name President Donald Trump, but the speeches were seen as a barely concealed attack on the current administration’s response to the pandemic, which he had earlier denounced as an “absolute chaotic disaster”.His first speech was for the graduating students of Historically Black Colleges and Universities and the second to graduating high-schoolers around the country, both delivered via video link. “This pandemic has fully, finally torn back the curtain on the idea that the folks in charge know what they’re doing,” Obama said in his commencement speech to black colleges students. “A lot of them aren’t even pretending to be in charge.”To graduating high-schoolers, the former president said, “Doing what feels good, what’s convenient, what’s easy, that’s how little kids think. Unfortunately a lot of so-called grownups, including some with fancy titles and important jobs, still think that way, which is why things are so screwed up.”He spoke of economic and social inequalities, school shootings, and the future. “Be alive to one another’s struggles. Stand up for one another’s rights. Leave behind all the old ways of thinking that divide us – sexism, racial prejudice, status, greed – and set the world on a different path.” The US now accounts for nearly a third of all global fatalities and cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obama-tears-into-us-leaders-in-online-commencement-speeches/story-LWjC2QeBuLZOxKsXrPw1VN.html
18-05-2020||India||In Home Ministry’s sharp U-turn, Aarogya Setu not mandatory to resume office||The Union government’s guidelines for the fourth phase of the nationwide curbs to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has eased the requirement for office-goers to mandatorily install the Aarogya Setu mobile application, asking employers instead to ensure “on best effort basis” their staff have the tool.A government official confirmed the rules warranted a rethink on pushing people to use the mobile application, particularly after people began finding workarounds that defeated the purpose of the application.“We want users to feel that they need to download it, and making it mandatory to download was having the opposite effect. There were also some flaws that we were made aware of: in some cases, users kept screenshots of the results of the self-assessment saying they are safe and using it repeatedly; in others, many users deleted the app after downloading it,” said Abhishek Singh, CEO of MyGov and the National e-Governance Division (NeGD).Making Aarogya Setu mandatory was never the government’s plan, he added. The tool has been criticised by independent software researchers for having vulnerabilities and by privacy experts for collecting excess sensitive data that could aid in illegal surveillance. In the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs on Sunday evening, the government said: “With a view to ensure safety in offices and work places, employers on best effort basis should ensure that the application is installed by all employees having compatible mobile phones to put in best efforts to ensure that the contact-tracing app is downloaded.”“District authorities have been asked to advise individuals to install the Aarogya Setu application on compatible mobile phones and regularly update their health status on the app. This will facilitate timely provision of medical attention to those individuals who are at risk,” it added. Singh, however, said that states have the liberty to make the app mandatory. “Some states have stricter norms than what the Centre has spelt out. So, if any state wants to download it, it is within the legal framework to do so,” he said. Till now, the app has been downloaded by 105 million smartphone users. The Internet Freedom Foundation said that while the amended guidelines were an improvement, concerns about mass surveillance and data breaches remained unaddressed. “The manner in which the term “best efforts” is interpreted by the government also remains to be seen and it will determine whether the app is still mandatory for all practical purposes. More detailed statement to follow tomorrow,” the IFF said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-home-ministry-s-sharp-u-turn-aarogya-setu-not-mandatory-to-resume-office/story-R74cgtyOjbqPJ0g13RK9rN.html
18-05-2020||India||‘Transformative impact’: PM Modi praises Sitharaman’s reforms for 7 sectors||Prime minister Narendra Modi has praised the government interventions announced by finance minister Nirmala Sithraman on Sunday while delivering the fifth and final tranche of Rs 20 lakh crore package to revive Indian economy, which is suffering the disastrous impact of the coronavirus pandemic.PM Modi said the announced reforms will have a transformative effect on the country’s health and education sectors.“Measures and reforms announced by the FM today will have a transformative impact on our health and education sectors,” the first part of the prime minister’s tweet said.Sitharaman announced reforms in 7 sectors under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan envisaged by the prime minister. Her measures included increased investments in public health along with other reforms to prepare India for future pandemics. She also spoke of measures to encourage technology-driven education with equity after the worst of Coved-19 is over.On the public health front, she announced that expenditure will be increased for investment in grass-root health institutions and for ramping up health and wellness centres in rural and urban areas. She also said that the government will set up infectious diseases hospital blocks in all districts and strengthen lab network and surveillance through Integrated Public Health Labs in all districts & at block level enabling management of pandemics by labs & public health units.She also spoke about government’s plan for implementation of National Digital Health Blueprint under the National Digital Health Mission.In the sphere of technology-driven education, Sitharaman said PM eVIDYA, a programme for multi-mode access to digital or online education will be launched immediately after the worst presented by coronavirus pandemic is over. She also said that another programme named Manodarpan, aimed for psycho-social support to students, teachers and families will also be launched immediately after the country emerges from the throes of Coved-19 virus. She also partly unveiled plans for a new national curriculum and pedagogical framework for school, early childhood and teachers. She also said the government was committed to the launch of National Foundational Literacy and Numeracy Mission by December 2020 to ensure that every child attains learning levels and outcomes in grade 5 by 2025.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesSpeaking of other reform measures announced today, the prime minister said the measures will boost entrepreneurship among other objectives. “They will boost entrepreneurship, help public sector units and revitalise the village economy. Reform trajectories of the states will also get an impetus,” the second part of PM’s tweet said.PM Modi was referring to the announcement made for enhancement of ease of doing business through IBC related measures, decriminalisation of companies act defaults, public sector enterprise policy for a new, self-reliant India and increasing borrowing limits of states from 3% to 5% for the financial year 2020-21 along with helping in state-level reforms.Also Read: ‘A game changer’: Amit Shah praises PM Modi, Nirmala Sitharamam for stimulus packageThe finance minister’s announcements were earlier welcomed by home minister Amit Shah, who said the steps announced by the government will “greatly boost” our rural economy and infrastructure as well as provide employment to crores of poor people and migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transformative-impact-pm-modi-s-thumps-up-to-sitharaman-s-reforms-for-7-sectors-in-5th-and-final-installment/story-z27c7YBFuRT6sL6Azo2jcK.html
18-05-2020||India||Eye on China, India backs 62-nation coalition’s push for probe into Covid-19 origin||India has backed calls to identify how the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 was transmitted from animals to humans and conduct an ‘impartial’ evaluation of the World Health Organisation’s response to the pandemic, according to a draft resolution proposed for the WHO’s annual meet beginning tomorrow.New Delhi’s decision to sign off on the push for an inquiry led by the European Union and Australia is the first time that India has formally articulated its stand on the Covid-19 outbreak that was detected in central China’s Wuhan city late last year. The disease has, at last count, killed over 300,000 people worldwide and devastated the global economy.But Prime Minister Modi did indicate New Delhi’s stand at the G20 summit in March where he backed WHO reform and referred to the need for transparency and accountability. Also Watch | How China’s loss can become India’s Covid-19 gain: PMEAC member explainsChina, which has been accused of concealing information about the virus in the early days of the outbreak, had later contested that the deadly Sars-CoV-2 pathogen detected in its territory could have originated just about anywhere. Chinese foreign ministry officials even shared conspiracy theories that accused the US military of starting the coronavirus outbreak.World Health Organisation and its director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, on the other hand, have been blamed for playing along with China till the virus reached enough countries and spread rapidly. Ghebreyesus, a former Ethopian minister, was elected with support from China in 2017. The accusations - he has denied them - also led United States President Donald Trump to suspend funding to the UN global health body.Diplomats in Geneva, where the WHO headquarters is located, told Hindustan Times that the draft resolution - supported by 62 countries including Bangladesh, Canada, Russia, Indonesia, South Africa, Turkey, the United Kingdom and Japan - was an effort to bring about transparency and accountability for the spread of the disease that has been widely-acknowledged to be the worst crisis since the second world war.To be sure, the draft resolution does not mention China or its Wuhan city.It asks the WHO director general to work with the World Organisation for Animal Health to conduct “scientific and collaborative field missions” and “identify the zoonotic source of the virus and the route of introduction to the human population, including the possible role of intermediate hosts”.Also Read: China must come clean on Covid-19| OpinionThe seven-page draft resolution seen by Hindustan Times also proposes to ask the WHO chief to start, “at the earliest appropriate moment”, a stepwise “impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation” to review experience gained and lessons learned from the WHO-coordinated international health response to Covid-19.This, the document says, should include an evaluation of the effectiveness of the mechanisms at WHO’s disposal and “the actions of WHO and their timelines pertaining to the COVID-19 pandemic”.Also Read: Early Covid lockdown in China could have reduced cases: StudyThe draft also asks countries to provide WHO “timely, accurate and sufficiently detailed public health information related to the COVID-19 pandemic as required by the international health regulations.It is not clear if, and how the draft resolution would be discussed at the virtual meeting since the WHO leadership opted for a truncated agenda, a move that has been seen as an effort to silence its critics.The showdown on Monday, where countries will push for the draft resolution to be taken up, is largely seen to target China which has come under scrutiny over the pandemic that has devastated the global economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-wants-covid-19-origin-probed-seeks-impartial-review-of-who-response/story-nw3ir6VDPywAwLYs5bOVGO.html
