19-05-2020||India||Shramik Specials:Consent of receiving states no longer required||Consent of states where trains ferrying migrants terminate is not needed to run the special Shramik trains, the government said on Tuesday, reversing an earlier order that called for the mutual agreement of both sending and receiving states in order to transport stranded labourers to their hometowns.The move came on the day the government issued a fresh standard operating procedure (SOP) for operating the services flagged off on May 1, announcing that the movement of these Shramik trains will be permitted by the railway ministry in consultation with the ministry of home affairs (MHA). “Today (Tuesday), MHA has withdrawn the May 1 circular and issued a separate SOP for railways. Now, the implication is this that the consent of receiving state is not mandatory for running Shramik Special trains,” a railway ministry spokesperson said. The move came against the backdrop of differences between the Centre and some states over the running of these trains. Railway minister Piyush Goyal said states such as West Bengal and Chhattisgarh, which have large migrant populations, are not approving enough trains — a charge dismissed by them.In guidelines issued early May, the government said states sending and receiving migrant labourers “may consult each other and mutually agree to the movement”, while railways will run the services based on the requirement communicated by the state where the trains will originate.On Tuesday, the fresh SOP by the home ministry asked all states and Union Territories to “designate nodal authorities and make necessary arrangements”.“Movement of Shramik Special trains shall be permitted by ministry of railways in consultation with ministry of home affairs…“The train schedule including stoppages and destination shall be finalized by the railway ministry based on requirements of states/UTs and shall be communicated by railway ministry to the states/UTs for making suitable arrangements for sending and receiving such stranded workers,” the SOP said. Describing the Centre’s new proposal as “unfair”, West Bengal minster Tapas Roy said: “These are issues that have to be decided by both states (receiving and sending), and the Centre. It is unfair if the Centre decides on its own when and how it will send back the stranded migrant workers.”Shiv Dahariya, urban development and labour minister of Chhattisgarh, said his state never opposed Shramik Special trains. “The central government has always been apathetic towards the common man of the country,” he alleged.According to railway ministry data till Monday, reviewed by HT, Uttar Pradesh has allowed the maximum number of incoming trains (641), followed by Bihar (310), Madhya Pradesh (89) and Jharkhand (56). While West Bengal has allowed nine such trains, the corresponding number for Chhattisgarh stands at 14.Gujarat has flagged off the maximum number of outgoing trains (496), followed by Maharashtra (266) and Punjab. Till Monday, the railways had run about 1,400 Shramik Special trains ferrying over 1.8 million migrants.Railway minister Goyal said that in the next two days, 400 Shramik Special trains will run every day. “All migrants are requested to stay where they are, the Indian Railways will get them back home over the next few days,” he added.“For the last three days, we have been running nearly 150 trains per day. There were some issues with states that were not giving the clearances for running trains. We can run more trains per day, we have the capacity of doubling it,” a senior railway official who did not want to be named said. At present, to run a Shramik Special train after agreement by both states, they seek clearances from the home ministry, and then the railways.“Once the clearance is received (from the home ministry), the ministry of railways provides the train and tickets for the total number of passengers to the state government,” another senior railway ministry official said requesting anonymity. After the necessary clearance, the state sending the migrants has to arrange for buses for taking migrants to a railway station. A similar process is followed after the train reaches the destination station. The local authorities arrange for buses to take the migrants to their villages, and they could be put under home quarantine in accordance with the receiving state’s protocol, the second official added. In separate guidelines issued on May 2, railways said the originating state will indicate the number of passengers travelling in a train, and then railways will print tickets and hand them over to local officials. State authorities shall collect fares after distributing tickets among the migrants, the guidelines said.After Tuesday’s move by the railways, it is not clear if the process of paying for fares will be revised. At present, originating states pay in some cases, while destination states bear the costs on occasions. At times, migrants have to pay for their tickets. According to officials, the payment part was left to the understanding of both states. Facing criticism over charging migrants, the Centre has said it is already paying for 85% of the expenses, and states need to bear the cost of the remaining 15%.“Train schedule; protocols for entry and movement of passengers; services to be provided in coaches; and arrangements with states/UTs for booking tickets shall be publicized by the railway ministry,” the home ministry guidelines issued on Tuesday said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shramik-specials-consent-of-receiving-states-no-longer-required/story-JghHpmgSslVCSZe92ujqvM.html
19-05-2020||India||Cong offer on buses for migrants sparks UP tussle||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s office continued to exchange letterr (over e-mail) and charges related to the latter’s plan to send 1000 buses to help transport migrants in Uttar Pradesh. The offer was made on Saturday, and accepted on Monday. But by Tuesday evening, the state government said only 879 of the 1,000 vehicles were buses, and the rest three-wheelers and other vehicles, triggering angry reactions from the Congress. Late in the evening, police booked Gandhi’s private secretary Sandip Singh and state Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu for allegedly providing ‘misleading’ information about the buses.On Monday, the UP government asked for details of the buses. Gandhi’s office did this by around 8pm on Monday. In response to the list, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi wrote back, at 11.30 pm on Monday night, asked that the buses be provided in Lucknow at 10am on Tuesday. In response, Sandip Singh wrote at 2.10 am on Tuesday: “A large number of migrant labourers are stuck on the Delhi-UP border and a large crowd is seen at registration centres. Under such circumstances, sending 1,000 empty buses to Lucknow is not only a waste of time and resources, it is also inhuman and a creation of anti-poor mindset….” In response, the state government asked the party to provide the buses to the district magistrates of Noida and Ghaziabad by 12 noon on Tuesday. “Please refer to your letter dated May 18, 2020. As per your letter, you have shown your inability to provide buses at Lucknow and want to provide buses at the Noida and Ghaziabad borders…. Under such a situation, please provide 500 buses to the district magistrate, Ghaziabad, at Kaushambi and Sahibabad bus stops by 12pm. In addition, provide 500 buses to the district magistrate, Gautam Buddha Nagar, at Expomart,” said Awasthi in his letter sent to Singh on Tuesday morning.Singh responsed at 12.15 pm: “Some of our buses are coming from Rajasthan while some are coming from Delhi. The process of reissuing them permits is underway. As the number of buses is high, it may take some hours. As asked by you, we will make efforts to take them to the Ghaziabad/Noida border by 5pm.” He requested the state government to keep the list of passengers and route map ready by 5pm to avoid any problem in their operation, saying, “This will be a historic step when the UP government and the Congress party will keep away their political reservations.”Meanwhile, at 12pm, the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday said that the list of 1,000 buses submitted to it for transporting migrant workers included some numbers that were of auto rickshaws. UP government spokesman and minister for MSMEs Sidharth Nath Singh accused the Congress of providing a fake list to the state government. Singh said preliminary inquiry into the Congress list had shown that the list carried registration numbers of three-wheelers. “This is a three-wheeler number… This is the number of a goods career. This is unfortunate. We condemn it. The Congress denied this and said its buses were stranded on the UP-Rajasthan border at Uncha Nagla in Bharatpur and requested permission to move ahead and ensure compliance with the government’s directives of providing the buses to the district magistrates of Noida (Gautam Buddha Nagar) and Ghaziabad at the earliest.“We are standing at UP border at Uncha Nagla with the buses for past three hours. The Agra administration is not allowing us to enter. This is the time to show sensitivity. We request you again to grant permission to allow entry of all our buses immediately so that we can move forward,” Singh said in a letter to Awasthi at 3.45pm on Tuesday.An official spokesman of the state government said out of the list of 1049 vehicles provided by the Congress, 879 were found to be buses while 31 were three-wheelers and 69 registration numbers were of some other vehicles.This enraged the Congress. “In its own statement, the state government has admitted 879 buses in the list have been found alright. Administration (Agra) has stopped our 500 buses for hours while 300 buses are reaching the Delhi border. Allow 879 buses to run,” said Gandhi in a tweet in the evening.“UP government has crossed all the limits. When there is an opportunity to do away with political differences and serve helpless migrant labourers it has caused all the hindrances. @myogiadityanath ji you can use BJP flags and your posters on these buses, but don’t reject our feelings of service,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-offer-on-buses-for-migrants-sparks-up-tussle/story-Ze4fIplSV5aHgzzntNszqN.html
19-05-2020||India||Migrants from Maharashtra give Karnataka single biggest day Covid-19 spike||Karnataka recorded its single biggest day spike in Covid-19 cases with 149 new patients being quarantined. 113 of the 149 new cases have a history of interstate travel with most of them carrying the dreaded virus from Maharashtra to the interiors in Karnataka. For instance, Mandy alone reported 71 new cases today and all of them were returnees from Mumbai, Maharashtra.The education minister of Karnataka Suresh Kumar, while pointing finger at the migrants who had come back from other states for the spike in the number of cases said, “These cases, unfortunately, don’t have any certificate, so they have not gone through any testing before coming.” The minister pointed out that it was in this context that the Karnataka government on Monday decided to restrict entry of people coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu at least till May 31.In spite of the large spike, Suresh Kumar pointed out that Karnataka “is at number 12 in the country in the number of cases.”The state, till now, has 1,395 positive cases registered including 40 deaths and 543 recoveries. Responding to another question on the ability of the state to handle a further increase in the number of cases, the minister said: “Our current bed occupancy rate is 6.09 per cent and fatality rate at 2.8 per cent.”While Karnataka currently has 46 testing labs-- 28 government and 18 private – together capable of testing 8,000 cases per day, it is aiming to increase the capacity to 60 testing facilities by the end of May to be able to test 10,000 people a day.Meanwhile life returned to almost normal in most parts of the state with traffic jams being witnessed in several major cities of the state including capital Bengaluru. Tickets on some inter-district buses like Shivamogga to Bengaluru were sold out in minutes with KSRTC assuring to beef up its services further. Except for shopping malls, theatres and restaurants, most other commercial establishments have restarted operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-from-maharashtra-give-karnataka-single-biggest-day-covid-19-spike/story-VKDRGupCXTMIiqNb3BwCFN.html
19-05-2020||India||50 ventilators donated by US expected soon||New Delhi: The first tranche of 50 ventilators out of 200 ventilators being donated by the US administration to India is expected to arrive soon to bolster the country’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic, American officials said on Tuesday. “This is a donation. The US government plans to donate 200 ventilators to India, and we expect the first tranche of 50 to arrive soon,” Ramona El Hamzaoui, acting director of the US Agency for International Development (USAID), said in a teleconference.US health and human services (HHS) attache Preetha Rajaraman underlined the importance of countries such as India and the US working together to ensure widespread access to medical solutions for Covid-19. “We have to access solutions from different parts of the world. It is important to work together for access [to vaccines and solutions] and to supply chains.” “USAID, on behalf of the US and through the generosity of the American people…is providing access to medical supplies and ventilators to India and other countries,” El Hamzaoui said.She said USAID is working with India’s health ministry, the Indian Red Cross Society, and other stakeholders in both countries to assist in the delivery, transportation, and placement of the ventilators.The equipment will complement India’s efforts to “make the best of care urgently available to those most in need without impacting the availability of these supplies to the American people”, she added.The American officials were unable to state what authorities in the US had meant when they said the ventilators are “repurposed”. El Hamzaoui said the US government, private companies, and non-profit and academic organisations have shared their expertise with partner countries such as India on the production of ventilators and other equipment.People familiar with developments in New Delhi said Trump had made it clear that the ventilators are a donation. The firms providing the equipment will be paid by USAID, they said on condition of anonymity.“As of now, the plan is to deliver 100 ventilators in May and the remainder in June. USAID will give us the final schedule next week,” said one of the people cited above,El Hamzaoui, Rajaraman and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) mission director Meghna Desai underlined the long-standing healthcare cooperation between India and the US that is driving current joint efforts against Covid-19.The search for a vaccine remains one of the highest priorities and the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) has allocated more than $350 million while additional funding of $2.6 billion has been secured through the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA).Referring to these efforts and the 33-year-old Indo-US Vaccine Action Program, Rajaraman said: “One of the things that we do need to be thinking about very carefully is the issue of access and that differs in every case, depending on how the vaccine comes to us.”Desai said the pandemic has “made it crystal clear that we are one world” and countries must unite their efforts to “ensure effective and affordable therapeutics and vaccines that benefit everyone everywhere”.USAID has so far announced $5.9 million in funding for India to combat Covid-19, including $2.9 million to provide care to the affected, disseminate information, contact tracing and surveillance, and $3 million to support a financing facility that can mobilise private sector resources to assist more than 20,000 health facilities enrolled under India’s health insurance scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-ventilators-donated-by-us-expected-soon/story-dGDTcbkLQ3kzFzISg4lvxK.html
19-05-2020||India||IMA flays ‘inhuman treatment’ of suspended doctor by Vizag police||The Indian Medical Association on Tuesday expressed its strong disapproval at the alleged inhuman treatment meted out to Dr K Sudhakar, a suspended anaesthetist by Visakhapatnam police on Saturday.In a letter to Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, IMA national president Dr Rajan Sharma and secretary general Dr R V Asokan said Sudhakar was handled inappropriately by the police, though there were certainly civilised ways of handling the situation by the government.“That he was under suspension for allegedly raising safety issues in the hospital was all the more reason for sensitive handling of the issue,” the IMA representatives said.At the same time, they said the IMA wouldn’t hold a brief for Sudhakar uttering unparliamentary words against the chief minister. “Such public behaviour is unacceptable and a conscientious apology is in order,” they said.Sharma and Asokan, however, said the way a member of the medical profession was handled in public was very disturbing. It had hurt the doctors across the nation. “IMA, Andhra Pradesh unit, rose to the occasion in defending the dignity of the doctor and looking after his health,” they said.On behalf of the doctors of the nation, the IMA expected a fair investigation into the incident and his earlier suspension. Appropriate punishment may be apportioned for the erring police officials, they said.Videos of Sudhakar with his hands tied behind his back being beaten up by the police went viral in the social media triggering protests from the opposition parties.Visakhapatnam police commissioner R K Meena said Sudhakar was creating nuisance on the highway in a drunken state and abusing the chief minister, the state government and others. He was arrested and sent for medical examination immediately.Meena also announced suspension of a constable who allegedly manhandled the doctor.On Sunday, Sudhakar was sent to the Institute of mental health in Visakhapatnam, where superintendent Dr K Radha Rani declared that he was suffering from acute and transient psychosis.The police have registered a case against Dr Sudhakar under IPC sections 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 427 (Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees).Last month, Sudhakar, working in the government hospital at Narsipatnam, was suspended for approaching the media to complain against the government for not providing sufficient number of PPE kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-flays-inhuman-treatment-of-suspended-doctor-by-vizag-police/story-e5bjnFLglA1AqCPWsQhU3L.html
19-05-2020||India||Odisha cop thrashes youth viral video case: Rights panel orders cop’s salary deduction to compensate victim||A day after the video of an Odisha cop thrashing a youth inside the police station went viral, Odisha Human Rights Commission directed a deduction of Rs 10,000 from the salary of the cop to be paid as interim compensation to the youth. The commission also asked the district superintendent of police to submit a detailed report within four weeks.On March 25, the youth named Raju Mahanta of Talasarua village was thrashed and kicked by Sandhyarani Jena, inspector of Patana police station in Keonjhar district. Mahanta had a land dispute with his paternal uncle and had lodged a complaint at the Patana Police Station in this connection on March 25. However, the woman inspector called him to the police station where she assaulted him.The video of the incident had gone viral in social media following which Keonjhar SP Mitrabhanu Mahapatra directed Ghatgaon sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) to probe the matter. He also tweeted to say that the custodial torture will not be tolerated.Also Read: Odisha cop thrashes youth in police station, video goes viralTaking a strong exception to physical torture of a youth by a police officer inside a police station in Keonjhar district, Odisha Human Rights Commission said the DGP who controls a 70,000-strong police force in Odisha, should not let the incident happen again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cop-thrashes-youth-viral-video-case-rights-panel-orders-cop-s-salary-deduction-to-compensate-victim/story-WncN445hAhWAhZ0M4DCqII.html
19-05-2020||India||Western Army commander reviews preparedness on Indo-Pak international border||Amid spike in ceasefire violations by Pakistan on the Line of Control and anti-terror operations in Jammu and Kashmir, Western Army Commander Lieutanant General RP Singh, along with GOC, Rising Star Corps Lieteanant General Upendra Dwivedi, on Tuesday visited the Tiger Division and forward areas along the Indo-Pak international border to review the current security situation and operational readiness of the troops.He was briefed by Major General VB Nair, GOC, Tiger Division on the operational preparedness, upgradation of security infrastructure and measures to combat situation arising from coronavirus pandemic.He also visited the “Isolation Facility” at Army Public School Damana created for the Covid-19 patients and appreciated the efforts of ‘Covid warriors’.He interacted with troops and commended their efforts for taking adequate safety measures against the Covid-19 pandemic and also maintaining high level of operational preparedness.Army Commander was also briefed by Brig YK Ahuja, CE (P) Sampark, on progress of roads and bridges being constructed and maintained by Project Sampark in area of responsibility of Western Command.He appreciated the progress and quality of works executed by Project Sampark and also awarded GOC-in-C’s commendation to OEM Arjun Singh of Project Sampark for his devotion in construction of roads and bridges in the border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/western-army-commander-reviews-preparedness-on-indo-pak-international-border/story-8JFkeIhVvpm9eKnQZsl4tM.html
19-05-2020||India||4 deaths mark highest Covid-19 casualties in Telangana in 50 days||As the lockdown restrictions were relaxed to a large extent across Telangana, barring in 16 containment zones on Tuesday, the state reported four deaths and 42 new cases of Covid-19, officials said.In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, too, two deaths and 57 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours.An official bulletin from the Telangana medical and health department late in the evening said four deaths were reported from different parts of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), taking the overall death toll due to Covid-19 in the state to 38.This is the highest number of casualties reported in the state in a single day in the last 50 days. It was on March 30 that the state had registered six deaths due to the viral disease in a single day.The bulletin, however, did not disclose from which parts of Hyderabad the deaths were reported. However, it said the four deceased – two 70-year old male patients, a 68-year old woman and another 38-year old woman were suffering from co-morbid conditions like hypertension, diabetes, obesity and pneumonia.Among the 42 new Covid-19 cases, 34 were from GHMC area and the remaining four cases were that of migrants belonging to Siricilla, Karimnagar and Yadadri Bhongir districts. These migrants arrived from other states in trains and were admitted in Gandhi Hospital with Covid-19 symptoms.The new cases have taken Telangana’s Covid-19 tally to 1634, including 77 migrants.As on Tuesday, the total number of Covid-19 patients who have recovered and discharged is 1,011 while the number of active cases admitted to Gandhi Hospital is 585.In Andhra Pradesh, two deaths were reported from Kurnool and Chittoor. In all, 57 new Covid-19 cases were reported during the last 24 hours.An official bulletin said a total of 9,739 samples were tested during the 24-hour period. With the fresh cases, the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in the state went up to 2,489, including 150 cases of migrants. Of them, 1,596 patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals. Currently, 691 patients are under treatment, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-deaths-mark-highest-covid-19-casualties-in-telangana-in-50-days/story-EVnjEhVAkuMIKRROvJhrQI.html
19-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Nagpur fights back and moves out of red zone||Amid Maharashtra’s spiraling Covid-19 cases, the state found one bright spot on Tuesday when civic authorities told the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High court that the city has been moved out of the red zone.The Centre’s new guidelines are said to have helped Nagpur district come out of the red zone. In Vidarbha, only Akola and Amravati where 14 and 20 deaths were reported respectively due to Covid-19, continue to remain in the red zone.During a hearing the counsel for Nagpur Municipal Corporation told Justice Rohit Deo that the city would now be an orange zone as only 138 active Covid-19 patients are in the containment zones.The NMC’s submission came right at the moment when the court was about to pass a ruling on petitions challenging the action of the NMC Commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, who issued lockdown guidelines contrary to the Central and State guidelines.On the other hand, in a notification issued by the chief secretary, Ajoy Mehta on Tuesday stated that there will be only red and non-red zones in the state. With only seven deaths and 378 positive cases, of which only 138 remain active, in the last 59 days, Nagpur district has received non-red zone category.This has resulted in more relaxations in lockdown restrictions. The relaxed rules, which will come into effect from May 22, will remain in place till May 31. Various shops dealing in non-essential trades like the salon, spa, private offices, and government offices can open with 100% attendance, RTO registration etc. can resume. Wine shops, which were now giving home delivery, are also likely to open.Referring to the state’s new guidelines, Mundhe and collector Ravindra Thakare will issue guidelines for the city and Nagpur rural, respectively.Meanwhile, 444 Covid-19 patients have recovered in Vidarbha region so far. Among them, 248 are from Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal, Buldhana and Washim in Amravati division while 196 people from Bhandara, Nagpur, Chandrapur and Gondia district of Nagpur division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-nagpur-fights-back-and-moves-out-of-red-zone/story-smQwvSIQCCXLcl6ID8CZSJ.html
19-05-2020||India||Railways non-AC passenger service starts on June 1: Read for all available information||Railway minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday announced part-resumption of regular passenger rail service with 200 non-air conditioned trains restarting operation from June 1 as per the existing time-table. Goyal’s announcement is music to the ears of hundreds of thousands of people who have not been able to undertake important long journeys ever since the national transporter suspended its regular services on March 22, three days before the first phase of the national lockdown was announced. The non-AC train service will be in addition to the Shramik Specials being run for transporting migrant workers and the special Rajdhani service being run on 15 routes. While railways is yet to come out with detailed nitty-gritty’s in the form of a standard operating procedure governing this service, we bring you every piece of relevant information available.1. The non-AC trains will start operation from June 12. 200 trains will be operated daily as per the existing railway time-table3. The schedule and the list of train service to resume operation will be announced soon4. Booking for these trains will only be possible online and not through the reservation counters run by IRCTC or ticket windows at the railway station5. No tickets including platform ticket will be sold at the railway stations, therefore, prospective passengers are advised by railways not to head to the railway stations for the purpose of buying tickets.6. These train services will be in addition to the Shramik specials and special Rajdhani service that is currently in operation.7. The railways is yet to announce any criteria for travel on these non-AC trains.8. Fares and destinations covered by these services are yet to be disclosed by the railways.9. Fresh booking will have to be made for these trains and tickets booked previously even on the same route will not be applicable as railways have cancelled all journey tickets issued till June 30.10. The railways is likely to enforce physical distancing like being applied currently for travel on Shramik and Rajdhani specials.11. All passengers are likely to be screened and only those found asymptomatic for coronavirus may be allowed even on the non-AC service.For Coronavirus Live Updates12. Anyone not allowed to board the train because of Covid-19 symptoms will likely be issued full refund.13. Online cancellation likely to be permitted up to 24 hours before the scheduled departure of the train, as is the case with the special Rajdhani service currently in operation.14. The railways might consider issuing some wait-listed tickets for the non-AC service, too, following the decision to issue around 100 waitlisted tickets for the special air-conditioned service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-non-ac-passenger-service-starts-on-june-1-read-for-all-available-information/story-YidJHx0uEpcsLssHJgokXN.html
19-05-2020||India||Odisha’s Covid tally inches to 1,000 with 84 new cases||Odisha’s Covid-19 tally inched closer to 1,000 as 84 new cases were detected on Tuesday. A 36-year-old police constable in Bhubaneswar also got infected with the virus.The death toll also went up to 5 after a 75-year-old patient with respiratory problems and other comorbidities passed away at AIIMS Bhubaneswar on Sunday within few hours of his admission to the hospital. He was later tested positive for Covid-19.The 36-year-old police personnel in Bhubaneswar was among the two in the city who tested positive today. Incidentally, the two positive cases came a day after Bhubaneswar was declared free of any Covid-19 patients.Officials in Bhubaneswar commissionerate police said the constable had come in contact with a migrant labourer of another state while he was on leave. On returning from leave, he was tested and found positive. The policeman who did not showed any symptoms of the disease has been moved to a Covid-care care facility of the Covid police hospital.Though Ganjam district continued to be the Covid hotspot with 307 cases, Jajpur district reported the highest number of positive cases today with 31 migrant workers testing positive. Of the 31 migrant workers, 30 had returned from West Bengal.Meanwhile, a 72-year-old man died hours after he had checked into a quarantine centre in Odisha’s Bhadrak district. Debendra Rout of Sarasada village had returned from Kolkata on Tuesday and checked into the quarantine centre at Bayabanpur village. He went off to sleep after having light tiffin at 11.15 am. However, he did not respond when the quarantine centre authorities tried to wake him up for lunch. A team of doctors reached the quarantine centre and later declared him dead. Later, officials sent his sample for Covid-19 test.Earlier, a migrant worker of Ganjam had died at a quarantine centre and was later found to be positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-covid-tally-inches-to-1-000-with-84-new-cases/story-uouHstCcRfj89d4JXvtvTK.html
19-05-2020||India||Railways to start 200 non-AC special passenger trains daily from June 1||The Indian railways will begin operating 200 non- AC special passenger trains per day from June 1 onward, in a step aimed at gradually restoring normal services, the railway ministry said on Tuesday.The tickets for these special passengers trains can only be booked online on the IRCTC website or on its app. Ticket booking counters at the railway stations shall remain closed and no counter tickets (including platform tickets) shall be issued. The online ticket booking process will commence soon and the schedule will also be put out shortly, the railway ministry said in a statement.According to officials aware of the development, these passenger trains will be long-distance trains and are likely to connect smaller cities. The move is also aimed at expediting the transport of stranded migrants across states.The Centre had on May 12 made special air conditioned premium trains operational, initially with 15 pairs of trains. These are running as special trains from New Delhi station connecting Dibrugarh (Assam), Agartala (Tripura), Howrah (West Bengal), Patna (Bihar), Bilaspur (Chhattisgarh), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Bhubaneswar (Odisha), Secunderabad (Telangana), Bengaluru (Karnataka), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Thiruvananthapuram (Kerala), Madgaon (Goa), Mumbai Central (Maharashtra), Ahmedabad (Gujarat) and Jammu Tawi (Jammu and Kashmir).To be clear, the national carrier will also continue to run Shramik special trains for migrant workers simultaneously. Union railway minister Piyush Goyal Tuesday said the ministry of railways will run around 400 Shramik trains per day.“Great relief for the workers, about 200 labourers special trains will be able to run on this day, and later these numbers will be increased on a large scale. Apart from this, Indian Railways will run 200 non-AC trains daily as per the time table from June 1, whose online booking will start soon,” he tweeted.Goyal also requested the state governments to help the migrant workers register themselves with the nearest mainline station and give the list to the railways so that the railway workers can run special trains. “Workers are requested to stay in their place, soon Indian Railways will take them to the destination,” he said.According to the railway ministry, the national carrier has so far ferried more than 21.5 lakh migrants to their home states in 19 days on 1600 Shramik Special trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-start-200-non-ac-special-passenger-trains-from-june-1/story-a7nAtYSzUHlQxgUn277yPN.html
19-05-2020||India||Six foreign Tablighi Jamaat members among the eight jailed in MP||As many as six foreigners were among eight Tablighi Jamaat members arrested and jailed in Sehore district of Madhya Pradesh on Monday over allegations of violating the provisions of the foreigners’ act and the disaster management act.The arrested foreigners were identified as Khin Maung Zaw,26, Khin Maung Myint,28, Zaw Oo,30, Ye Lin Phyo,25, Thein Lin,27, and Myo Oo,43, all residents of Myanmar. Two Indians, Masiurr Rehman,31, a resident of Jharkhand and Ahmad Husain,70, a resident of Bihar were also arrested.“These six Jamaat members from Myanmar were in India on a travel visa which was valid for one year from December 2019 to December 2020. They visited Nizamuddin Markaz in February this year, despite the validity of their visa expiring in December 2020 itself,” said Kedar Singh Kaurav, assistant district prosecution officer, Sehore.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe other two from Jharkhand and Bihar accompanied the foreigners during visits to several mosques in Bhopal and Sehore, Kaurav said.He added that all the eight Jamaat members violated the district administration’s instruction to stay in quarantine at the Pukhta mosque in Sehore-- where they were found to be staying--and moved around the district meeting people and preaching their religion.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19All of them were arrested on Monday and produced before a court, which sent them to judicial custody.Several Tablighi Jamaat members were booked for violation of visa conditions and lockdown restrictions after some of them were found to have contracted coronavirus disease while living together in the community headquarters at Nizamuddin, which was also the venue for a large religious congregation held in the middle of March, allegedly in violation of restrictions announced to contain the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-foreign-tablighi-jamaat-members-among-the-eight-jailed-in-mp/story-swNW63Nb24eLluKO69unbK.html
19-05-2020||India||Police have right to beat accused, says Punjab cop, gets court notice||A court in Punjab rapped a police officer on the knuckles on Tuesday for intemperate conduct after he claimed that the men in khaki have the right to beat an accused at the time of arrest.Additional district and sessions judge, Parminder Singh Grewal pulled up assistant sub-inspector Surjit Singh of the the Jalandhar police and issued show cause for intemperate conduct and behaviour in the court after he said in a loud voice that “Police have every right to beat the accused at the time of his arrest in the present case”.ASI Surjit Singh made the statement after he was asked by the court specifically as to whether the police had beaten the main accused (Amol Mehmi) at the time of arrest at the spot or not. The court was hearing the bail plea of Parminder Kumar Mehmi, father of Amol Mehmi, who allegedly dragged Jalandhar police ASI, Mulak Raj on the car bonnet on May 2 during curfew in the state. Amol, the main accused already granted the bail by the court in the case on May 13. The court directed the ASI Surjit Singh (who brought the police file to the court) to file his reply on the next date of hearing on May 21 as to why necessary legal proceedings under Indian penal code and other law should not be initiated against him.The court said ASI Surjit Singh’s arrogance and intemperate behaviour was highly reprehensible which was not expected from the member of a disciplined force like the police.“It also shows that he has no regard for the rule of law and he considered that he as well as the police are law unto themselves,” the judge said. The court also directed the commissioner of police, Jalandhar, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, to depute a responsible police official not below the rank of superintendent of police to assist the court in the case, as a lower rank official like ASI Surjit Singh does not know how to behave in the court.Besides, the court also directed the area assistant commissioner of police (ACP) concerned to produce the entire CCTV footage of alleged place of the scuffle in the court at the next hearing to effectively arrive at the conclusions for deciding the bail plea.Police had registered the case against the father-son duo under 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act at division number 6 police station in Jalandhar on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-have-right-to-beat-accused-says-punjab-cop-gets-court-notice/story-oholuOzfh9snm07LwIhcDO.html
19-05-2020||India||Shops reopen in Rajasthan; business revival unlikely before 2021, say industry leaders||As the state government eased restrictions in the fourth phase of the lockdown, jewellery, garments stores and salons opened tentatively in Rajasthan on Tuesday after almost two months of shutdown necessitated in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Jaipur, which has around 1.25 lakh shops with at least 20,000 are in the walled city, continues to be in the red and since curfew has been imposed in several areas, markets and stores that are reopening will have to function in a more challenging environment.A majority of garment stores, jewellery outlets in Jaipur’s main market, MI Road, reopened on Tuesday, however, there were very few customers. As people are still hesitant to step out due to the outbreak of the coronavirus disease, other markets and shops in the city too waited to welcome customers.Most shops have put notices outside their entrances that read ‘No entry without masks’ and sanitisers have been kept outside for the customers.Sanjay Kala, president of the Jaipur Jewellers Association does not see the jewellery business picking up for the next one year. “People will spend less on jewellery. Incomes have dried up, jobs are being lost so people’s priorities are now different,” he said.“Since jewellery is more for show, with small gatherings and less opulent marriages, spending on jewellery will go down” he added.He said the association will write to chief minister Ashok Gehlot to let jewellery shops in the walled city also open. “Those shops that are not in the containment zone should be allowed to open.”Siddharth Palawat of Textorium, a garments store on MI Road said they were visited by customers on Tuesday. The store is following the regulations such as wearing masks and sanitising hands. Customers are also being scanned with thermal scanners.“We are hopeful that business will pick up in a few months,” he said.Natasha Singh Chauhan, who owns Tangerine salon in the civil lines area, said the response of customers had been very positive. “We had 10-11 customers on the first day. I was getting calls from customers even during the lockdown. Now that we have opened, I am hopeful that business will pick up in a few months.”Chauhan said the salon is following all the guidelines stated by the government. “We have called only 4-5 of our staff members and they are wearing masks, gloves and face shields. We service 5-6 clients at a time so there is no overcrowding,” she said.Om Taneja, owner of Pratapsons store, however, said they had no customers on Tuesday. He does not foresee the business picking up anytime soon. “The effect of the pandemic will last through 2020,” he said, who is also the president of the Rajasthan suits and sarees traders’ association.Arun Agarwal, executive vice president of the Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry, says trade and industry have been hit up to 80% by the Covid-19 pandemic. While factories have reopened, there is scarcity of labour and lack of demand in the market. Businesses won’t pick up till demand is not generated, he said. He did not see businesses reviving before 2021, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shops-reopen-in-rajasthan-business-revival-unlikely-before-2021-say-industry-leaders/story-azjye2ZOGZ6fj0zHS1sROM.html
19-05-2020||India||‘Pregnant women, others waited at tarmac’: Vande Bharat flight passenger||A number of passengers who arrived at the Lucknow Airport by a Vande Bharat flight from Sharjah on May 9 have complained about gross mismanagement causing agony, especially to senior citizens and pregnant women.While a probe has been ordered by the authorities into the allegations that passengers were made to stand at the tarmac for hours, these 182 passengers have been kept in quarantine at different hotels in the city.Director of Lucknow Airport AK Sharma said he had set up an inquiry after the matter was brought to his notice.“It was the duty of the airlines to bring the passengers into the lobby from where they could have gone to their respective quarantine centres. The aim of setting up an inquiry is to see why the passengers suffered and had to wait for hours at the tarmac,” he said.Colonel (retired) Sharad Awasthi, 66, who boarded the flight with his wife Shikha, 62, from Sharjah after a forced extended stay due to the lockdown, said, “Both of us had been touring the Gulf since January 15 but our plans went haywire due to the disruptions caused by Covid-19 pandemic. However, we were able to return to Lucknow on May 9, but were disappointed to see poor preparations, which caused hardship to the passengers.”“The flight landed at Lucknow airport around 9 pm , but instead of taking them to the lobby and offering them seats, or water, the passengers were made to stand at the tarmac itself for over two hours. The tarmac was full of mosquitoes and standing there for such a long time after a four-hour long flight was torturous,” Awasthi said, adding, “there were no senior officials to listen to their woes. They could not even use the washroom.”According to the passengers, there were eight pregnant women, who just couldn’t stand for long and had to sit on the ground. They wanted to use the washroom but were denied permission to leave the tarmac by the security forces manning the area. The security forces, they said, kept saying all the passengers would be allowed to go after they got the requisite instructions.“The passengers were called three hours in advance at the Sharjah airport and they spent a good four hours inside the flight. Thus, most were desperate to reach their quarantine centre at the earliest,” said one of the passengers in quarantine. Col Awasthi said, “The situation was difficult for pregnant women and the aged, some of whom showed signs of illness. We husband and wife were already under distress as we both have age-related ailments. We ran out of our stock of medicines around one-and-a-half month back. So, we were not feeling well and wanted to sit somewhere. We needed a glass of water and some snacks but no official of AAI or district administration was present to listen to our problems. I was so surprised to see a photograph of the district magistrate garlanding a passenger published in a daily, while we kept on searching for any official at the airport.”The passengers alleged that there was no one to guide them.“There were only policemen and paramilitary personnel to greet us. It was 12 am when we started searching for buses for our hotels,” said Col Awasthi.A pregnant woman, resident of Kanpur who came from Sharjah and had chosen Radison hotel for her stay, was refused room by the hotel staff because they were not ready to open their hotel for just one person.Later, the police helped her with another city hotel. However, during all this, no officials of the district administration were seen, Col Awasthi quoted the woman as saying.Director of Lucknow Airport Sharma said, “We had to maintain social distancing according to the protocol and guidelines. It was our first experience and perhaps some mistakes were made. We will surely improve. It was not only the AAI but a lot of other departments like CISF, district administration that were also involved in the process. However, the airlines are bound to make arrangements for the aged people and women in the flight.When the question was put to Lucknow divisional commissioner Mukesh Meshram, he said, “We are not aware of any such incident after the flight landed in Lucknow on May 9. If such complaints are made by any passenger, we will definitely probe the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pregnant-women-others-waited-at-tarmac-vande-bharat-flight-passenger/story-DLCG2utvnSkgy2oXudMKFP.html
19-05-2020||India||Manipur reports 2 new Covid-19 cases, state tally touches 9||As local residents, who were stranded in other states during the Covid-19 lockdown, continue to return to Manipur, the total number of people infected with the coronavirus disease went up to nine on Tuesday. Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, Additional Director and spokesperson of the health department said that there seven active cases of the coronavirus disease in the state, while two people have recovered.A 64-year-old woman and her 23-year-old daughter were found positive on Tuesday after their test was conducted at VRDL (Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory), RIMS (Regional Institute of Medical Sciences), health department’s statement said.Stating that the duo left Delhi on May 14 and reached Imphal on May 16, the health department said, “all necessary precautionary measures are being taken.”Meanwhile, a day after the special train from Gujarat’s Vadodara arrived carrying 593 stranded people, the fifth batch of around 536 people by a special train from Hyderabad at the Jiribam railway station, 220 km west of Imphal on Tuesday, official sources said.According to sources, the returnees left for their respective districts in 24 buses after following necessary medical procedures, sources said.On Sunday afternoon, the third special train from Bengaluru had arrived with 1,450 people, who later left on 43 buses for their respective districts. The first special train from Chennai carrying 1,140 people of the state had arrived on May 13.As on Monday, the total number of people who returned to Manipur via bus stood at 5,785, while 4,237 people returned on trains, according to state’s Covid-19 common control room sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-reports-2-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-touches-9/story-mJ1zKptJHBR4nZYhP5sbRK.html
19-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Over 50% of Delhi’s Covid-19 fatalities are over 60 years of age and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Over 50% of Delhi’s fatalities are over 60 years of ageDelhi currently has 5,638 active Covid-19 cases after 4,750 people were declared recovered out of a tally of 10,554, the state government’s health department said.The death toll in the national capital is now 166 with a fatality rate of 1.57 per cent. Read more. GST rate cut to boost demand may be counterproductive, say finance ministry officialsThe GST exemption will make output tax as zero and thus the input-tax credit would be blocked, which will be added to the cost making the product costlier, the officials with direct knowledge of the matter said requesting anonymity. Read more. 12 fresh cases in Kerala, no community spread, says CM Pinarayi VijayanKerala has reported 12 coronavirus virus cases on Tuesday as stranded expatriates and people stuck in other states started returning in large numbers, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan adding among fresh cases four are Gulf returnees and 8 came from other states. Read more. ‘Quit wildlife trade, get cash’: Chinese provinces to farmers amid pandemic pressureChina is offering to cash to farmers to wean them off breeding exotic and wild animals as global pressure grows on the country to stop illegal trade in wildlife blamed for the ongoing pandemic. Read more. Won’t spar at camp unless there is a solution: Mary KomSparring is an essential part of training for boxers and Mary Kom said boxers would not be comfortable in present circumstances. Read more. The ugly face of Middle IndiaAs of this writing, I have no clue when the lockdown will finally end. The economy is in trouble. The government’s estimates of when we would flatten the Covid curve have been shattered --- we should have turned things around by the middle of May—but the number of infections keeps rising. Read more. Congratulate Moose, the therapy pooch, who just got an honorary dogtorate degreeIt is that time of the year again when students are moving the tassel towards the left and throwing their black caps up in the air to mark their graduation from higher education institutions. Read more. Thousands of migrants gather at Mumbai’s Bandra to board special train to BiharA crowd of more than 2,000 migrant workers gathered near Mumbai’s Bandra Terminus on Tuesday morning. The workers were attempting to board a Shramik special train that was bound for Bihar. The incident occurred at around 11.30 am as a message about a Shramik train headed for Bihar spread among migrant workers. The workers started walking towards the terminus along with their luggage in an attempt to board the train. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-over-50-of-delhi-s-covid-19-fatalities-are-over-60-years-of-age-and-all-the-latest-news/story-npup4tSMqTxkoEMEPFr6XM.html
19-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Over 50% of Delhi’s fatalities are over 60 years of age||Delhi currently has 5,638 active Covid-19 cases after 4,750 people were declared recovered out of a tally of 10,554, the state government’s health department said.The death toll in the national capital is now 166 with a fatality rate of 1.57 per cent.The highest casualty has been in the 60 plus age group with 87 deaths which accounts for 52 per cent of the casualties. There have been 45 casualties in the 50 to 59 years age group while 34 of those who died were less than 50 years old.The Delhi government now has 1,779 Covid hospitals and 648 Covid care centres..Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal who announced a slew of relaxations on Monday, took to Twitter on Tuesday urging citizens to maintain discipline to keep Covid-19 under control.“Some economic activities are starting from today. It is our great responsibility to be fully disciplined and keep the coronavirus under control,” Kejriwal tweeted. Most notably, Kejriwal allowed public transport to ply and shops and marketplaces to open after almost two months of lockdown, But there were no relaxations for containment zones in the capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-over-50-of-delhi-s-fatalities-are-over-60-years-of-age/story-ZGiWkKq0wovJnVTzouS2mI.html
19-05-2020||India||Not up to Centre alone to resume passenger flights, says Hardeep Puri||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday said the Centre alone cannot unilaterally decide on resuming passenger flights unless state governments allow these services “in the spirit of cooperative federalism”.“It is not upto @MoCA_GoI or centre alone to decide on resuming domestic flights. In the spirit of cooperative federalism, the govt of states where these flights will take off & land should be ready to allow civil aviation operations,” Puri said in a tweet.Passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 25 when the first phase of lockdown was imposed to check the spread of coronavirus that has infected more than one lakh people and killed more than 3,100 people in India so far.Only cargo flights, medical evacuation flights and special flights approved by the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) have been allowed to operate during the lockdown.Last month, the DGCA directed airlines to refrain from resuming online ticket bookings after Puri told them to restart the process only after a decision is taken to end the bar on domestic and international flight operations.Earlier this month, the government carried out a massive evacuation exercise to bring back thousands of Indians stranded in foreign countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-up-to-centre-alone-to-resume-passenger-flights-says-hardeep-puri/story-o5ueYSiPaOxG1m5pCwrnwI.html
19-05-2020||India||As Haridwar turns green zone, demand to throw open temples and Ganga aarti to devotees grows||With Haridwar delineated as a green zone district after fifty-six days of lockdown, all the shops in the district were permitted to open on Tuesday, leading to a rush especially in those offering non-essential goods or services.Haridwar was the only designated red zone district in the state for the past few weeks and after all its seven Covid-19 positive patients recovered, the state government took some time before changing its status from red to green zone with the beginning of lockdown 4.0.From core Har-Ki-Pauri mela zone markets to suburban Jwalapur, ancient cluster of Kankhal to the industrial estate market, traders were seen cleaning their shops for opening from early morning hours.Saints and local priests are now exerting pressure on the state government and local administration to allow the participation of pilgrims and tourists at the world-famous Ganga aarti performed on a daily basis at the sanctum sanctorum of Brahmakund, Har-Ki-Pauri.Seers led by Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, the apex body of all Akhadas, and priests have also urged the state government to open up shrines, temples for devotees as it is associated not only with the religious sentiments of the majority but also the livelihood of people in the sacred city.Ganga Sabha, the managing body of Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghat, has demanded a rolling back of the restriction on the presence of pilgrims during the famous Ganga aarti at Brahmakund, Har-Ki-Pauri, performed for the past 104 years on a daily basis.For Coronavirus Live Updates“Religious rituals are an integral part of our daily life and Haridwar being a prominent pilgrimage and spiritual place, the government should allow pilgrims during Ganga aarti with precautionary measures. Performance of other rituals should also be allowed as has been done for ash immersion rites,” said Pradeep Jha, Ganga Sabha president.Last positive patient in Haridwar district was discharged after cure on May 16 from Mela hospital Covid-19 center. No new case has emerged since April 18, when the last two positive cases were detected.“Earlier Central government had earmarked the zones based on varied criteria but now the state government has been given the power to categorize the districts. Health personnel involved in the Covid-19 operations deserve major credit for ensuring all the seven positive patients got cured but we all need to ensure that we adhere to social distancing norms and wear face masks as preventive measures to ensure the green zone tag continues further,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Haridwar Dr Saroj Naithani.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The trader community has hailed the decision to open establishments including saloons, beauty parlours and home delivery service for food and other items. Auto rickshaw and pedal rickshaw services were also resumed with restriction of only 50 per cent passenger capacity.Three-wheeler welfare society has sent a memorandum to transport minister Yashpal Arya demanding six months’ waiver in tax for all Vikram (the popular name for three-wheelers in the region) drivers and financial assistance, since owing to the two-month-long lockdown, the majority of drivers have not been able to meet their daily family expenses.Akash Ohri, the owner of Unique cyber café at Chandracharya square said that he woke up early to ensure he could dust and sanitize his shop and post a message at the entrance declaring ‘only those customers who wear masks are allowed’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-haridwar-turns-green-zone-demand-to-throw-open-temples-and-ganga-aarti-to-devotees-grows/story-wWBVDAn0Csq70BPChZeCTK.html
19-05-2020||India||Harsh Vardhan is India’s nominee for lead role in WHO, takes over on Friday||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who is leading the country’s battle against Covid-19 in the country, will be India’s nominee to be the next WHO Executive Board chairman, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.A senior government official said the health minister would be elected at the World Health Organisation‘s Executive Board’s meeting on 22 May. The election is a procedural formality.“It is not a full time assignment… But Dr Harsh Vardhan will be required to chair the executive board’s bi-annual meetings,” a senior government official told Hindustan Times.The WHO’s South-East Asia group had unanimously decided last year that New Delhi would be elected to the executive board for a three-year-term beginning May. It was also decided at this meeting that New Delhi’s nominee would be the Executive Board chairman for the first year beginning Friday. The chairman’s post is held by rotation for one year among regional groups.On Tuesday, the 194-nation World Health Assembly signed off on the proposal to appoint India’s nominee to the executive board. Former health minister JP Nadda had chaired a similar session of the WHA back in 2016.Harsh Vardhan, an ENT surgeon by training, will replace Dr H Nakatani, who is the advisor for international affairs to Japan’s health minister.As head of the 34-member Executive Board that is mandated to implement the decisions of the World Health Assembly, health minister Harsh Vardhan will have to work closely with Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus who has lately been the punching bag for many countries led by the United States over the WHO’s initial response to Covid-19.Harsh Vardhan, who will continue in the executive board after the one-year term as chairman ends, will also have a say in shortlisting the next WHO director general when Tedros Adhanom’s five-year-tenure ends in May 2021.Earlier, the executive board would select the WHO director general and get its choice vetted by the health assembly. But this procedure was changed before Tedros Adhanom was appointed. The board is now required to shortlist candidates whose candidature is put before the World Health Assembly for election by a secret ballot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-is-india-s-nominee-for-lead-role-in-who-takes-over-on-friday/story-kKuJTbmDveErkC1L0bc68L.html
19-05-2020||India||Govt extends deadline to fulfill contractual obligations by up to 6 months||The Finance Ministry has extended the deadline for fulfillment of contractual obligations of all government projects, including public-private partnerships (PPP), which were due for completion on or after February 20, by up to six months in view of Covid-19 crisis.The Expenditure Department, under the ministry, had in February said that Covid-19 outbreak in China would be considered a ‘force majeure’ situation, which refers to extraordinary events and circumstances beyond human control or a natural calamity, giving relief to companies which have contracts with the central government.In a recent office memorandum, the department said subsequent to this, further disruptions have affected transportation, manufacturing and distribution of goods and services in the country.“Limitations placed on the movement of men and material by the Ministry of Home Affairs.... and the respective state and UT governments from time to time have severely impaired the fulfillment of contractual obligations for supply of goods, works and consultancy services and affected the volume of vehicular traffic,” it said.In view of the restrictions placed on the movement of goods and services and manpower on account of the lockdown situation prevailing overseas and in the country it may not be possible for parties to the contract to fulfil contractual obligations, the department said, adding in respect of public-private partnership (PPP) concession contracts, period of the contract may have become unremunerative.“Therefore after fulfilling due procedure and where-ever applicable, parties to the contract may invoke FMC (force majeure clause) for all construction/works contracts, goods, services contracts and PPP contracts with Government Agencies and in such event, date for completion of contractual obligations which had to be completed on or after February 20, 2020, shall stand extended for a period not less than three months and not more than six months without imposition of any cost or penalty on the contractor/ concessionaire.“Concession period in PPP contracts ending on or after February 20, 2020 shall be extended by not less than three and not more than six months,” it said.It further said that the period of extension (three and six months) may be decided based on the specific circumstances of the case and the period for which performance was affected by the force majeure events.“Invocation of FMC would be held valid only in a situation where the parties to the contract were not in default of a contractual obligations as on February 19, 2020.“The invocation of FMC does not absolve all non-performances of a party to the contract, but only in respect of such non-performance as is attributable to a lockdown situation or restrictions imposed under any Act or executive order of the Government/s on account of Covid-19 global pandemic,” the department added.Covid-19 has led to a nationwide lockdown beginning March 25, which has now got extended till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-extends-deadline-to-fulfill-contractual-obligations-by-up-to-6-months/story-1KbNSBbZrhuQmpYydUNNkN.html
19-05-2020||India||UP Congress president detained for dharna over buses for migrants||Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu was detained on Tuesday for holding a dharna with partymen on the Bharatpur- Agra highway demanding that buses stranded on the border should be allowed to move towards Noida and Ghaziabad to be provided to district administration there.Four policemen, one holding him by his feet and three supporting him at the shoulders, were seen carrying him away to the police car. Lallu is then seen calmly climbing into the waiting car. At this point, he tells his supporters, “Na jhuke hain na jhukenge (We will not bow)”. SSP Agra Babloo Kumar has confirmed that the Congress leader has been detained. Along with Lallu, other party leaders Pradeep Mathur, Vivek Bansal were also detained. The Congress and the Yogi government have been involved in a tussle over the buses that the party proposed to provide in order to send stranded migrant workers home.The Congress has accused the BJP and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of indulging in “cheap politics” by not allowing its buses to ferry migrants stranded at the borders.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala urged Adityanath to come to the aid of migrants and immediately grant permission to 1,000 buses made available by the Congress in this regard and not “create hurdles instead”.“Kindly put a stop on cheap politics and not be insensitive and inhumane towards the plight of migrants. Kindly allow buses to ply migrants home and help them instead of embroiling them in cheap and petty politics,” Surjewala told a press conference through video conferencing.Earlier today, the Uttar Pradesh government said the list of 1,000 buses offered by the Congress to ferry migrant workers contained registration numbers of two-wheelers and cars, fuelling a war of words between the two sides.The Congress, however, challenged the UP government to conduct a “physical verification” of the buses it has brought to the state’s border to take UP’s stranded workers home.Even while accusing the Congress of playing politics over the plight of workers heading home after the coronavirus lockdown, the UP government on Monday formally accepted the offer.It asked the Congress to submit a list of the buses, and its drivers and conductors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-congress-president-taken-in-custody-for-dharna-over-buses-for-migrants/story-zPEwc2wb91JfjQ4NoWWliM.html
19-05-2020||India||At 39, Assam reports its biggest one-day jump in Covid-19 cases||With 39 new cases detected on Tuesday-the single biggest spike in a day-Assam’s tally of Covid-19 positive patients reached 155.The state had reported 15 new cases on Monday, a day after the tally crossed 100 cases. Assam’s list also includes one patient from Nagaland who was tested and treated in Guwahati.The state now has 107 active cases, 42 recoveries and four deaths. Two patients have migrated to West Bengal and Bihar.“Please stay home as much as possible and follow all instructions,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted on Tuesday.Assam has recorded a spurt in cases since inter-state movement of people stranded in other parts of the country was allowed since May 4.In a series of tweets on Tuesday, Sarma revealed that the new cases were from Jorhat, Golaghat, Kokrajhar, Nagaon, Kamrup, Hojai, Biswanath, Nalbari, Karimganj and Kamrup Metro districts.Most of the fresh cases were of people who are already in quarantine because they returned to the state from outside recently or those who had come in contact with persons who tested positive earlier.Two of the new cases detected on Tuesday are the wife and daughter of a 71-year-old positive patient who was also suffering from cancer patient and died in Guwahati on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-26-assam-reports-its-biggest-one-day-jump-in-covid-19-cases/story-a9EUK7ponyYggTB0cINQWM.html
19-05-2020||India||Assam exported agri-products worth Rs 357 crore during lockdown, says CM||Guwahati: Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal claimed on Tuesday that the state had exported agricultural products worth Rs 357 crore, despite the ongoing lockdown restrictions, which were imposed in end-March to contain the spread of raging coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak.Sonowal visited the Maloibari area in Kamrup Metro district on Tuesday where he interacted with farmers and took stock of agricultural activities. State agriculture minister Atul Bora also accompanied him on the field trip.“It gives me great hope to know that nearly Rs 357 crore worth vegetables, fruits, etc. have been exported from Assam during the lockdown period. It’s only through agriculture that we have to overcome all challenges and build an ‘Atma Nirbhar Assam’ (self-sufficient Assam),” he tweeted.No details of the areas to which the products were exported and how much each of the 33 districts in the state earned was disclosed in the press release that was put out about the CM’s visit to Maloibari.“I believe agriculture and animal husbandry sectors have a huge role to play in Assam’s future growth. Our farmers and entrepreneurs need to focus on capturing markets not just in other states, but also in our neighbouring countries,” Sonowal said in an interaction with media persons during the visit.The CM directed the state agriculture department to provide seeds to farmers by October every year in a bid to ramp up their production. Sonowal emphasised that everyone should popularise local products, which will revive the country’s economy, echoing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s thoughts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-exported-agri-products-worth-rs-357-crore-during-lockdown-says-cm/story-LVbtYGSByMcBJwpx5t2WoI.html
19-05-2020||India||Hyderabad crawls back to normalcy after easing curbs on Covid-19 lockdown||Hyderabad: Normalcy was restored in Hyderabad except for 16 containment zones, which are mostly located in the old walled city, after 56 days of lockdown to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus outbreak (Covid-19) outbreak, as the Telangana government eased several restrictions in a bid to open up economic activities in the state capital.Traffic snarls could be seen at several intersections, as people took to the streets in their personal vehicles and two-wheelers. But, state-run buses and metro rail services are yet to resume within the city limits.Auto-rickshaws and private taxis were back on the roads but their numbers were few and far between, as many drivers are still held up at their native places.Automobile showrooms, shops selling spare mechanical parts, hardware, electrical and electronic shops, and mobile phone stores have been operational for the last four days.Other smaller commercial establishments, including garments’ shops, footwear shops, and jewellery showrooms also opened on Tuesday.However, only 50% of the shops opened on the first day, because of the odd-even rule enforced by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) authorities.“The shops will be allowed to open on corresponding alternate days. Those with odd numbers will open on odd days and those with even numbers will open on even-numbered days of the week,” said Lokesh Kumar, commissioner, GHMC“In case of any problem or a dispute between two adjacent shops or cluster of shops, the administration will close down all the shops till the lockdown period,” he added.Most of the commercial establishments, however, did not engage in sales on the first day, as they were busy in a clean-up drive.“We had to hurriedly close our shops on March 22 without making any arrangements for packing and storing the materials kept on display. Many dress materials got damaged,” said Ramesh, owner of a garment boutique in Punjagutta.“It’ll take another couple of days for normal life to be restored in Hyderabad. People are still hesitant to come out because of the growing panic over Covid-19. Besides, shopping malls, multiplexes, and restaurants are still closed. Unless it’s essential, people are unlikely to venture out,” said Satyanarayana, a GHMC official.The state government has not permitted inter-state bus services, including those to neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. However, intra-state bus services resumed their operations from 6 am on Tuesday.State-run buses, which are slated to come to Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station, are barred from entry into the city because they have to pass through containment zones. But Jubilee Bus Station in Secunderabad was thrown open on Tuesday. The state government-run Road Transport Corporation (RTC) authorities have provided masks and hand sanitisers to their staff. “There wasn’t much rush of passengers on the first day, as we resumed our services with 6,000 buses,” said Yadagiri, executive director, RTC, Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-crawls-back-to-normalcy-after-easing-curbs-on-covid-19-lockdown/story-jnAURvtNme5h91rcmqJ2WM.html
19-05-2020||India||12 fresh cases in Kerala, no community spread, says CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala has reported 12 coronavirus virus cases on Tuesday as stranded expatriates and people stuck in other states started returning in large numbers, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan adding among fresh cases four are Gulf returnees and 8 came from other states.The Chief Minister said the state had conducted sentinel testing involving at least 5000 people in worst-affected areas and found only five positive cases. It showed community spread did not take place in the state, he said adding that most of the recent cases are imported ones.“Our vigil helped containing the local spread. Since people started coming in large numbers we have to keep an eye on aged, people suffering from major ailments and children,” he said. He said around 75,000 people have reached the state in last ten days and the state will have to resort to reverse quarantine in a big way.Reserve quarantine is a practice of isolating the most vulnerable people, aged or people with co-morbidity conditions, from the rest and monitor their health conditions closely to protect them from possible infection. Since the state has 30 per cent population above 65 years of age many health experts have suggested reverse quarantine.Meanwhile three Congress MPs--V K Sreekandan, Remya Haridas and T N Prathapan_ who were on house quarantine tested negative. They were asked to go on quarantine after they visited the stranded people along TN-Kerala borders in Walayar. One of the persons came from Chennai was later tested positive. But MPs alleged “political bias” saying they were targeted due to political reasons. They observed a fast on Tuesday seeking quarantine for state minister A C Moideen, who they said, interacted with some of the affected. When asked about this the CM refused to comment.The Chief Minister said a special train from New Delhi will start on Wednesday and a non-AC train will run on Bangaluru-Thiruvananthapuram route daily from Wednesday. He said at least 20 trains are being planned next week to bring stranded in different parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-fresh-cases-in-kerala-no-community-spread-says-cm-pinarayi-vijayan/story-8GIYoU38ASiMYrwGk6bZ5N.html
19-05-2020||India||PMC Bank fraud: Rakesh and Sarang Wadhawan’s interim bail cancelled||A metropolitan magistrate at Mumbai’s Esplanade court on Tuesday allowed the plea of the Economic Offence Wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police for cancellation of interim bail to HDIL promoter Rakesh Wadhawan and his son Sarang, who are accused in the multi-crore Punjab & Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud case.In March, the Wadhawans had obtained interim bail from the magistrate court on the ground of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Soon after the order, EOW sought a stay on the order and moved for cancellation of the bail. The court had immediately stayed order till further direction.Special public prosecutor Ajay Missar said, the court after hearing the plea of the agency, cancelled the bail. The prosecution argued that while obtaining bail, the defence did not inform the agency. It also pointed out that as per the direction of the high-power committee, the accused booked for economic offences are not eligible for interim bail.Rakesh and his son Sarang Wadhawan were arrested on October 3, 2019, by EOW authorities in connection with the PMC fraud case.As per the prosecution, the PMC Bank granted loans to realty group HDIL without following the due process. The principal loan amount of Rs 2,400 crore snowballed into Rs 6,670 crore because HDIL failed to repay multiple loans between 2008 and 2019. Senior management of PMC Bank covered up these irregularities in a bid to avoid scrutiny by the Reserve Bank of India.EOW in their charge sheet claimed that Rakesh is the key accused of the fraud as the ‘patriarch’ of the HDIL’s business. He gradually plotted the fraud and obtained loans from the bank with the help of other accused, the agency alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmc-bank-fraud-rakesh-and-sarang-wadhawan-s-interim-bail-cancelled/story-XRur54lFRAXYibE20SMb6O.html
19-05-2020||India||MP experiments with contactless vegetable-sale after vendors turn Covid-19 superspreaders||Madhya Pradesh is coming to grips with vegetable vendors turning superspreaders of coronavirus, by organising the sale of vegetables and implementing a new guideline for street vendors to cut the chain of transmission of the disease.Of late, Ujjain, one of the major Covid-19 hotspots, has introduced an almost contactless method of vegetable sales at the doorsteps and is even training vendors to accept digital payment instead of letting cash exchange hands. Residents are also being encouraged to purchase baskets of vegetables priced at Rs 50 and Rs 100 instead of choosing, a process conducive to the spread of the contagion.Besides, every vendor is being trained to make customized vegetable packets apart from using sanitisers during the sale. Around 100 vendors have been pressed to service 59 wards in Ujjain and they are packing vegetables in cloth bags instead of plastic ones.Earlier, it was Indore that experimented with the selling of custom-sized vegetable baskets instead of loose items. The baskets were priced at Rs 150 and Rs 200.“administration in several districts of Madhya Pradesh found that a number of vegetable and fruits vendors, too, contributed to spreading of the virus, hence these districts have started taking tough measures against the vendors violating lockdown restrictions,” a health department official said.In the past three days, Bhopal Police has booked at least 20 vegetable vendors for not complying with lockdown restrictions after one of them was found to be positive for Covid-19. Only authorised vendors are authorised to sell vegetables in Bhopal at fixed rates.Earlier, in Ujjain, two vendors were put under treatment after found to be Covid-19 positive and another 65-year-old woman died in RD Gardi Medical College. She was suspected to have picked up the virus from the vegetable market.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIn April third week, the municipal corporation in Indore had seized vegetables from a vendor’s house after he was found operating his shop from his house despite a ban on the direct sale of vegetables and fruits.Rishi Garg, commissioner of Ujjain municipal corporation (UMC) said that the conventional functioning of the supply chain of farmers, whole-sellers at Mandi and vendors, is prone to spreading the infection..The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“The corporation has tied up with vendors who bring vegetables from select farmers from outside the city. Each ward in the city has been allotted one or two loader vehicles. The cell phone numbers of the driver and the nodal officer have been shared in public so that people can call them up for home delivery,” Garg explained how the administration was trying to disrupt the conventional model to break the chain of the virus.He added that in order to minimise the exchange of currency, vendors have also been trained in digital payments using platforms such as Bhim App or Paytm.Similar tactics were being followed in Indore as well. Information officer Dr RR Patel said that certain marriage halls outside the city had been earmarked and allotted to traders who deliver packed vegetables at the doorstep..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-experiments-with-contactless-vegetable-sale-after-vendors-turn-covid-19-superspreaders/story-YaD6vEXkx10q5xzsaLr9uI.html
19-05-2020||India||Infant burnt alive in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district as hut catches fire||In a tragic incident, a six-month-old baby was allegedly burnt alive after the family’s makeshift hut caught fire on Tuesday in Nainital district, police said.According to police, the baby was sleeping inside the hut with his four-year-old sister in Bhawanipur village of Ramnagar area while both their parents were out of the house. While the older girl managed to escape, the baby was burnt alive. Ravi Saini, station house officer, Ramnagar police station said, “At the time of the incident, the boy’s father who works at a mining site as a truck driver was at work while his mother had gone out to fetch drinking water. Only he and his sister were present inside the makeshift hut which caught fire likely due to a beedi or a lantern.”Saini said, “When the hut caught fire, the girl managed to come out. A neighbour informed police which then informed the fire tenders. Both rushed to the spot to douse the fire. By the time the fire was doused, the boy was charred to death.”“After receiving the body, police sent it for post mortem examination at the nearby hospital. We are investigating the matter,” teh officer said.In a similar incident in April last year, a 15-day-old infant died in Halduchaur area in Nainital district. The incident occurred when the child’s mother lit an earther stove and went out to fetch water leaving her three children inside the hut at that time. When the hut caught fire, two older children escaped, while the infant was left behind and was charred to death. The labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand come to work in the mining sector in Kumaon, often mkae temporary huts near their work areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infant-burnt-alive-in-uttarakhand-s-nainital-district-as-hut-catches-fire/story-CXFjuR8FBLAY7US5cWit7K.html
19-05-2020||India||Oral cancer screening suspended due to Covid-19 risk||The Union health ministry has temporarily suspended oral cancer screening under its National Cancer Screening Programme due to high risk associated with the examination of the oral cavity as saliva is high in Sars-Cov-2 viral load that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Due to the high risk associated with the examination of the oral cavity, oral cancer screening under National Cancer Screening program should be deferred until new policy/guidelines are issued,” said health ministry in a directive issued on Tuesday.An official from the government confirmed, on condition of anonymity, said, “The door-to-door screening of people above 30 years of age as part of the national programme has been currently suspended. However, if there is an emergency case requiring biopsy that will be addressed as per protocol. These are temporary guidelines subject to revision depending on change in overall situation.” Dental clinics in the containment zones have also been directed to remain closed, as most dental procedures require close contact with the patient’s oral cavity, saliva, blood, and respiratory tract secretions, increasing the risk for dentists of contracting the viral infection.All routine and elective dental procedures need to be deferred for a later review until new policy or guidelines are issued.“Dental operations should be restricted to emergency and urgent treatment procedures only. However, clinics in containment zone are allowed to provide tele-consultation, and patients in need of emergency treatment can use ambulance services to travel to the nearby Covid hospital providing dental facility,” the directive says.In the red zone, only emergency procedures are allowed, but dental clinics in orange and green zone can remain open for consultation also.Emergency procedures have been classified as those that if not attended to increase the patient’s death risk, and urgent cases are those requiring priority care but do not increase the patient’s death risk.“Urgent procedures should be undertaken only after teleconsultation, tele-triage, consent, and through pre-fixed appointment,” says the directive. The ministry has also issued a detailed list of procedures that fall under emergency dental procedures such as procedures for patients going in for cardiac surgery, radiation therapy or organ transplantation surgery or those patients undergoing treatment in hospital for any acute conditions. If infection in dental pulp has reached a stage wherein painkillers and other medicines are ineffective, then an emergency procedure can be performed to relieve the symptoms. Also, there is a list of dos and don’ts to modify dental clinic setting to minimise risk of infection. Experts say it is good to have these guidelines in place for better clarity on the matter.“There are two things why dentists can be at high risk: one is that saliva is very rich in covid causing virus, and second is that the contact with a patient during dental procedures is comparatively longer and closer. Therefore, it makes sense to put on hold elective, aesthetic or rehabilitative procedures for time being, and concentrate on only life-threatening and urgent procedures,” says Dr Mahesh Verma, former director, Delhi government-run Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oral-cancer-screening-suspended-due-to-covid-19-risk/story-5Qphv2elMSYrQGmpIpybiJ.html
19-05-2020||India||India’s Coronavirus cases cross 100,000, jump at fastest pace in Asia: Report||India’s coronavirus infections crossed the 100,000 mark and are escalating at the fastest pace in Asia, just as Prime Minister Narendra Modi further relaxed the country’s nationwide lockdown to boost economic activities.Infections in the South Asian nation of 1.3 billion people were at 100,328, including 3,156 deaths, as of Tuesday, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. As many as 5,242 new cases were added on Tuesday, according to the health ministry.India is now among the nations worst hit by the epidemic, with a 28% increase in cases since last week according to Bloomberg’s Coronavirus Tracker. Neighbor and nuclear rival Pakistan has 42,125 cases including 903 deaths. Its cases increased by 19% over the same period, the tracker showed.“The challenges are huge, but a two-fold strategy would help reduce infections and flatten the curve,” said Rajmohan Panda, additional professor at the Public Health Foundation of India, adding the rise in infections is expected with the opening of the economy. “The focus should now be prioritized in low income settlements, with an emphasis of sub district level containment measures.”Since Monday, states have further eased restrictions for industries, shops and offices and reopened public transport, while the lockdown in the worst affected areas of the country -- including a ban on interstate and international air travel -- has been extended until May 31. The government is hoping to ease the economic impact of the world’s biggest lockdown, which has crippled business activity and left millions jobless.Still, companies are facing difficulties reopening factories -- primarily because of travel restrictions, conflicting rules, broken supply chains and a shortage of workers. The movement of millions of migrant workers from the cities where they had jobs to their homes in rural villages -- and their reluctance to return -- is one of the key challenges for the economy, which could be heading for its first full-year contraction in more than four decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-coronavirus-cases-cross-100-000-jump-at-fastest-pace-in-asia-report/story-Q8c5jVcEG1dZqtu8o3EvQP.html
19-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan latest updates: Assam govt issues high alert||Cyclone Amphan, set to make landfall on Wednesday, will be an ‘extremely severe cyclonic storm’, top officials National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said on Tuesday. The states of Odisha, West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya are likely to be hit when the second super cyclone will make landfall. The wind speed of the ‘most intense’ cyclone in the sea right now is 200-240 kmph, it is moving towards north northwestward direction, the IMD chief has said.Here are the latest updates: --Assam govt issues ‘high alert’ Assam govt issues ‘high alert’ over Cyclone Amphan and has directed the state disaster management authority to set up control room to deal with the situation. -- Power ministry preps to tackle super cyclone AmphanThe ministry of power has put adequate arrangements to handle power supply in case Cyclone Amphan makes landfall. 24x7 Control Rooms have been set up at Bhubaneswar and Kolkata. Manpower along with vehicle for restoration activities have also been arranged and some more expert gang of skilled workers are being arranged. Manufacturer of various items like poles, transformers cables etc have also been alerted for providing the material on urgent basis as per requirement. -- Cyclone Amphan to cross West Bengal, Bangladesh coasts on May 20The super cyclone Amphan, which is expected to cause to large scale damage, will cross West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts by Wednesday evening, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) chief Mrutyunjay Mohapatra. -- 24 NDRF teams on standbyAs Cyclone Amphan approaches, NDRF Director General SN Pradhan said that there are 24 teams on standby and every battalion that has been deployed has 4 teams. -- Amphan is second super cyclone formed in the Bay of Bengal after 1999Cyclone Amphan intensified into a super cyclonic storm on Monday and is likely to move across the northeast Bay of Bengal, and cross the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts between Digha and the Hatia Island on May 20.Twenty-one years ago, in 1999, another super cyclonic storm had ravaged large parts of Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal. It took Odisha months to overcome the extensive damage that the Super Cyclone had caused back then.-- Bengal, Odisha prep for another Super CycloneOdisha is expected to face extensive damage in the storm that is likely to uproot communication and power poles. It could also disrupt rail and road links in many places in Bengal and Odisha and inflict extensive damage to standing crops, plantations and orchards, the IMD has said. -- Fresh alert for Bengal, OdishaIn a fresh alert for Odisha and West Bengal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday morning said that it is likely to move towards West Bengal and weaken into an extremely severe cyclonic storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-update-super-cyclone-landfall-odisha-west-bengal/story-YiD4hVdnof0k5xDB8qRkPM.html
19-05-2020||India||CBI issues alert to states, UTs on banking phishing software on basis of Interpol input: Officials||On an Interpol input, the CBI has alerted police forces of states and UTs, and central agencies about banking trojan Cerberus that lures smartphone users into downloading malicious links related to Covid-19 and then infects devices to do phishing activities, officials said on Tuesday.The banking trojan known as Cerberus takes advantage of the Covid-19 pandemic and sends SMS to lure a user into downloading the link containing the malicious software, they said.Once deployed, the trojan application spreads, launching phishing attacks, to steal financial data such as credit card numbers. In addition, it can use overlay attacks to trick victims into providing personal information and can capture two-factor authentication details, the agency has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-issues-alert-to-states-uts-on-banking-phishing-software-on-basis-of-interpol-input-officials/story-Wza96gTDEloWRuu4FuSMQO.html
19-05-2020||India||UP govt accuses Congress of submitting ‘fake’ bus list for migrants||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday described as fake the Congress’ list of 1,000 buses submitted to it for transporting migrant workers, and said some of the registration numbers of vehicles given therein were of three-wheelers.However, the Congress claimed its buses were on the UP-Rajasthan border at Uncha Nagla in Bharatpur and requested permission to get them moving.All through the day on Tuesday, both sides exchanged a number of letters over the buses that the Congress proposed to provide in order to send stranded migrant workers home.“We are at the UP border at Uncha Nagla with the buses for the past three hours. The Agra administration is not allowing us to enter. This is the time to show sensitivity. We request you again to grant permission to allow entry of all our buses immediately,” Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s private secretary Sandip Singh said in a letter sent to additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi at 3.45 pm on Tuesday.Earlier in the day, the party had reiterated its commitment of providing all the 1,000 buses at Noida and Ghaziabad by 5pm. “Some of our buses are coming from Rajasthan while some are coming from Delhi. The process of getting permits is underway. As the number of buses is high, it may take some hours. As asked by you, we will make efforts to take them to the Ghaziabad/Noida border by 5pm,” said Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s private secretary in his letter to Awasthi at 12.15pm on Tuesday.He even requested the state government to keep the list of passengers and route map ready by 5pm to avoid any problem in their operation, saying, “This will be a historic step when the UP government and the Congress party will keep away their political reservations.”The Congress response came a few minutes after the state government asked the party to provide the buses to the district magistrates of Noida and Ghaziabad by 12 noon on Tuesday. “Please refer to your letter dated May 18, 2020. As per your letter, you have shown your inability to provide buses at Lucknow and want to provide buses at the Noida and Ghaziabad borders…. Under such a situation, please provide 500 buses to the district magistrate, Ghaziabad, at Kaushambi and Sahibabad bus stops by 12pm. In addition, provide 500 buses to the district magistrate, Gautam Buddha Nagar, at Expomart,” said Awasthi in his letter sent to Priyanka’s private secretary on Tuesday morning.“We are being stopped on the UP border with Rajasthan near Fatehpur Sikri. We are not being allowed to enter. We are trying to reach Noida/Ghaziabad borders now,” said Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu on Tuesday noon.UP government spokesman and minister for MSMEs Sidharth Nath Singh accused the Congress of providing a ‘fake’ list to the state government. Singh said preliminary inquiry into the Congress list had shown that the list carried registration numbers of three-wheelers.He showed to the media some documents, saying the list provided by the Congress had numbers of auto-rickshaws, etc and blamed Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for giving a ‘fake’ list.“This is a three-wheeler number… This is the number of a goods career. This is unfortunate. We condemn it. Congress president Sonia Gandhi should give an explanation for this,” the minister said.The Congress had provided the list through an email to the state government at about 8 pm on Monday.In response to the Congress list, Awasthi at about 11.30pm on Monday had asked the party to provide the buses, along with names of drivers and conductors in Lucknow at 10 am on Tuesday. Taking strong exception to the state government’s directives to provide 1,000 buses in Lucknow, the Congress said there was no point in taking empty buses to Lucknow when the migrant labourers were stranded on the UP-Delhi borders.“A large number of migrant labourers are stuck on the Delhi-UP border and a large crowd is seen at registration centres. Under such circumstances, sending 1,000 empty buses to Lucknow is not only a waste of time and resources, it is also inhuman and a creation of anti-poor mindset…,” said Priyanka’s private secretary in his letter to Awasthi sent at 2.10am on Tuesday.The Congress had on Saturday requested the state government for permission to run 1,000 buses from Noida and Ghaziabad to carry stranded migrant workers home. The state government accepted the Congress proposal on Monday and informed the party the same afternoon, asking for a list of buses at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-accuses-congress-of-submitting-fake-bus-list-for-migrants/story-xk5ZA5WVgslISnhL0UR8ZK.html
19-05-2020||India||‘Amphan’ weakens into extremely severe cyclonic storm, rain lashes several parts of Odisha||Super cyclone ‘Amphan’ weakened into an extremely severe cyclonic storm on Tuesday as it moved closer to the coast, triggering rainfall in several parts of Odisha, where the state government stepped up efforts to evacuate people in vulnerable areas. It lay centred over west-central Bay of Bengal, about 420 km south of Paradip (Odisha), 570 km south-southwest of Digha (West Bengal) and 700 km south-southwest of Khepupara in Bangladesh, said H R Biswas, the director of Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar. The system is likely to move north-northeastwards over Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha and Hatiya Islands during Wednesday afternoon or evening as a very severe cyclonic storm with maximum sustained wind speed of 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph, he said. The cyclone is being continuously tracked by the Doppler Weather Radar (DWR) at Vishakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. Under its impact, light rain was witnessed in several areas of Puri, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur and Khurda districts of Odisha, and the intensity of rainfall and wind speed was likely to increase gradually, a Met official said. IMD Director General Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said since the super cyclone is gradually weakening, its impact is unlikely to be very severe on Odisha. However, coastal districts like Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore are likely to be battered by heavy rain coupled with high velocity winds from Tuesday evening, he said. Several parts of Jajpur and Mayurbhanj districts are also expected to be lashed by torrential rain and high speed winds, he said. Wind speeds will be in the range of 110 kmph to 120 kmph and may even go up to 135 kmph in coastal regions of Odisha from Tuesday night till Wednesday. Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P K Jena said evacuation of people living in low-lying areas, thatched and mud structures in the coastal districts is under progress and the process will be completed by evening. He said the state government has made arrangements for evacuating over 11 lakh people as a precautionary measure. Evacuation exercise is also being undertaken in some areas of Gajapati district in view of a possible landslide, he said. As per IMD forecast, no abnormal storm surge is expected to occur due to the cyclone in Odisha, Jena said. Fifteen units of National Disaster Response Force and 15 teams of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) have been deployed in the districts likely to be hit. “We are in constant touch with the collectors of the 12 districts which have been put under alert in view of the cyclone. We are fully prepared to deal with any eventuality,” Jena said Chief Secretry A K Tripathy said four senior officers with vast experience in handling such calamities have been deputed to different districts on the direction of Chief Minister Navin Patnaik to supervise preparations and guide the local administration. As high velocity winds may damage power infrastructure and roads, necessary equipment and manpower have been mobilised in order to ensure quick restoration in the affected areas, he said. All fishermen along with boats and vessels have already returned from the seas and they have been advised not to venture out for fishing activities till May 21, the SRC said. The cyclone comes a year after ‘Fani’ barrelled through vast areas of Odisha on May 3 last year, claiming at least 64 lives and destroying infrastructure in power, telecom, water supply and other vital sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amphan-weakens-into-extremely-severe-cyclonic-storm-rain-lashes-several-parts-of-odisha/story-RSCEtsrDGm2C8rWrjbwzFM.html
19-05-2020||India||Covid-19 enters two untouched hilly districts, Uttarakhand total crosses 100 mark||So far untouched by Covid-19, Uttarakhand’s hilly districts of Bageshwar and Chamoli on Tuesday reported their first coronavirus cases that also included minors. This coincided with the state crossing the 100-mark with a total of nine new cases taking the Covid-19 infected tally to 105 till the filing of this copy.The new infections recorded have largely been driven by the return of migrant workers, 31 of whom have tested positive in the past one week.The afternoon bulletin released by the state health department had reported eight new cases including two detected last night in Chamoli and Pauri Garhwal. However, by Tuesday evening, chief medical officer of Udham Singh Nagar district said a 46-year-old man with travel history to Mumbai had also tested positive.Since Tuesday morning, seven cases were detected in the state, with two cases each from Nainital and Bageshwar districts and three cases from Udham Singh Nagar district.Two male patients aged 35-years and 20-years tested positive in Bageshwar district, three individuals including a 19-year-old female, a 13-year-old male and a 46-year-old male tested positive in US Nagar and two persons including a 22-year-old male and a 14-year-old male tested positive in Nainital district.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOfficials said Nainital district’s two new cases had a travel history to Rampur in Uttar Pradesh and New Delhi respectively. Dr. Shailaja Bhatt, chief medical officer of US Nagar district said that the two teenagers who tested positive in the district were close contacts of a positive case who returned from Gurugram on May 16. She added that the other case, found positive, had returned from Mumbai and was also suffering from diabetes. The bulletin further mentioned that a patient who tested positive on Tuesday at AIIMS Rishikesh lab was under treatment in Uttarkashi district, but it would still be counted among cases in Dehradun district since his sample was taken there.Uttarakhand Covid latest: Focusing on micro picture is key to recouping lost fortuneAfter the first case from Chamoli was reported on Tuesday, district magistrate Swati Bhadouriya directed that medical examination of every person who came in contact with the Covid-19 positive patient be done.“One person who reached Uttarkashi from Maharashtra was found to be positive. Four people from Chamoli also came with that person in the same bus. Rigorous contact tracing should be done for that Covid-19 positive patient and the four persons should be medically examined and –quarantined,” the DM said.Uttarakhand has so far tested 14,691 samples while results of 1,456 samples are awaited. The disease doubling rate in the state (based on the past seven day’s data) has now reduced to 12 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-enters-two-untouched-hilly-districts-uttarakhand-total-crosses-100-mark/story-s3YkcK9PrqJDa15kjfSErM.html
19-05-2020||India||No time for politics: BJP to KCR after he criticises economic package||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday took strong exception to Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s comments describing the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package announced by the Centre as “bogus” and “hollow.”Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said the Telangana chief minister’s comments were irresponsible and unwarranted, at a time when the states and the Centre were supposed to work together as “Team India,” and overcome the crisis arising out of Covid-19 pandemic.“This is not the time to do politics. It is a challenging time for the Centre and the states to bury their differences and work together to tackle the present crisis. We should focus on bringing the country back to normalcy,” Reddy said in a media interaction through video conference.Explaining the details of the stimulus package announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman, Reddy said KCR should study the package thoroughly before making unwarranted statements.Stating that the tone and tenor of KCR’s comments were highly objectionable, the Union minister wondered what loss the package had caused for Telangana. “It is in fact a wholesome package aimed at benefitting all the states in a big way, cutting across the regions and parties,” he said.He wondered whether Telangana wouldn’t get new hospitals and diagnostic centres under the new package. “Does it not help thousands of small-scale businesses and shop owners get Mudra loans and ensure work for construction labourers? How can KCR call it a bogus package?” Reddy asked.Reacting to the Telangana chief minister’s criticism on linking of relaxation of FRBM norms with certain economic reforms, the Union minister argued that the reforms were only aimed at boosting the economy and attracting new investments into the country.He pointed out that the Telangana government, too, was liking payment of financial assistance to farmers under Rythu Bandhu scheme with reforms in agriculture.“KCR announced that Rythu Bandhu is applicable only if the farmers cultivate the crops listed by the government. Did we oppose your policy on Rythu Bandhu? If what you are doing is correct, how can you blame the Centre for insisting on reforms? You can’t have this double-standard,” Kishan Reddy said.BJP Telangana unit spokesman K Krishna Sagar Rao also condemned KCR’s criticism against the Centre’s stimulus package. “We understand the frustration of KCR, as the Central government has imposed certain conditions for using the increased FRBM limits, demands accountability and fiscal discipline,” he said.Stating that the chief minister’s comments were in bad taste and language was unacceptable, Rao said his party strongly objected to the derogatory language by the CM against the Centre. “He has failed to maintain fiscal discipline, contain corruption and check resource mismanagement, which has bankrupted the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-time-for-politics-bjp-to-kcr-after-he-criticises-economic-package/story-sg5osQQZ4JAwXHEHJhUukK.html
19-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand: Woman who was quarantined on her return from Lucknow commits suicide||A woman (24), who was quarantined at her rented accommodation on her return from Lucknow on May 10, allegedly committed suicide at Tanakpur in Uttarakhand’s Champawat district, police said.“She was admitted to a hospital in Tanakpur on Sunday after she made a suicide attempt. Later, she was shifted to another hospital in Khatima, where she died on early Tuesday morning. The post-mortem examination report will reveal the exact cause of her death,” said Dhirendra Kumar, in-charge, Tanakpur police station.Police said that the deceased got married in April 2019 in Udham Singh Nagar district but the marriage broke within 15 days and she went to Lucknow to look for a job.On May 10, she returned from Lucknow and was put under home quarantine, as a precaution because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. However, she was denied home quarantine at her native place by her parents. Later, she took up a rental accommodation, where she made the suicide bid on Sunday.It appears to be a case of a family dispute, which led to mental stress and ultimately she took the drastic step of taking her own life, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-woman-who-was-quarantined-on-her-return-from-lucknow-commits-suicide/story-fXnlKrszBCdLSis7A9dm0N.html
19-05-2020||India||Over 12,000 people fined in Rajasthan for violating Covid-19 lockdown norms, risking contagion||A total of 12,027 people were fined by the police in Rajasthan in the last six days for violating Covid-19 lockdown norms or engaging in activities that can lead to contamination. Additional director general of police (ADGP), crime, Bhagwan Lal Soni said that on May 12, the policemen ranging from assistant-sub inspector rank and above were given the authority to compound fine from those engaging in activities that can lead to contamination.“Between May 14 and May 19, 8,134 people were fined for not wearing masks in public places and workplaces, 1,201 shopkeepers were fined for selling products without wearing a mask, and 73 for spitting in public places,” said Soni.During the same period, 30 people were fined for drinking liquor in public places, 64 for selling tobacco products and 2,525 were for not maintaining social distance, he said“From all these persons, a fine of Rs 24,50,700 was compounded,” Soni added.Those found selling tobacco products are required to pay a fine of Rs 1,000, those found consuming liquor in public places are to be fined Rs 500, and shopkeepers and vendors selling products without wearing masks are slapped with a fine of Rs 500. While Rs 500 is collected from people seen without masks in public places, those found not maintaining a distance of six feet from another person is fined Rs 100. The highest number of persons fined for not wearing masks were in Baran (1,171), followed by Karauli (548) and Bikaner (514).Similarly, the highest number of fines spitting in public places were collected from Ajmer - 23, 09 each from Banswara and Sirohi and Karauli – 04. Highest number of persons fined for not maintaining safe social distancing norms were from Karauli - 258, Udaipur - 202, Rajsamand - 182According to official data, between March 22 and May 19, the Rajasthan police arrested 4,670 people for violating lockdown and curfew norms while 16,234 preventive arrests were made under section 151 of CrPC and 3,647 people were arrested for risking contagion and 220 for spreading fake messages.A total of 1.32 lakhs vehicles were seized, 3.28 lakhs were booked under MV Act and from them a fine of Rs 6.01 crores was compounded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-12-000-people-fined-in-rajasthan-for-violating-covid-19-lockdown-norms-risking-contagion/story-GnYd28wYHJPUYPtV8lg5cM.html
19-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand Covid latest: Focusing on micro picture is key to recouping lost fortune||Uttarakhand has suffered a revenue loss of about Rs 7,000-8,000 crore due to the lockdown imposed to battle Covid-19 pandemic, with tourism, transport and industries among the worst-affected sectors, said state officials. Due to a near-complete lockdown in the first two phases, the economic activities in the state had largely come to a halt, a situation which improved in the third-phase with the resumption of some industrial activities and the opening of liquor shops. However, the state officials estimate that the revenue loss in the first two phases has been substantial. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said on Monday that it will take about a year for the state to recover. “The state’s economy has definitely suffered due to the lockdown. As per our primary assessment, there has been an estimated revenue loss of about Rs 7,000-8,000 crore during the lockdown period,” said Amit Negi, secretary finance department. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesNegi said, “The major sectors which have been affected hard due to the pandemic are tourism, transport, industry and mining. Except for agriculture, all the major revenue-generating sectors have been largely affected.”The senior bureaucrat, however, said that with certain measures the government can borrow some additional revenue as declared in the economic relief package announced by the centre. “Recently the Centre has increased the Gross State Domestic Product borrowing capacity by 2% taking the total to 5%. Though, only about 0.50% of it is unconditional, it would still mean that the government will be able to borrow an additional Rs 1,200 crore to its existing limit of about Rs 8,000 crore. The remaining percentage of additional borrowing require some conditional reforms, if we manage to do at least two or three of those reforms then our additional borrowing can go up to Rs 2,200 crore, which will help cut down this revenue shortfall,” he said. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Negi also said that the GST compensation would further reduce the revenue gap helping the state economy gradually recover in the coming months.Economic experts, however, believe that the state government needs a three-tier plan and focus on the micro economy for revival. Indu Kumar Pandey, a retired IAS who is chairing a high-level committee constituted by the state government to suggest measures for economic revival said, “A three-tier strategy including a short-term, middle-term and long-term one should be framed. The short-term strategy will comprise plans for a period of six months, followed by plans for six months to two years in middle-term strategy and plans for a period of up to two years and more under the long-term strategy.”Pandey said, “It is also important to focus on the micro-economy till the last level, including that of villages and blocks. Also, a thorough sector-wise analysis of the present situation is needed to frame a comprehensive strategy for economic revival.”The chairman of the committee said, “It is equally vital to analyse the major sectors of the state-- tourism, service and agriculture which are the most affected by this pandemic. While doing so, it is also important to shed light on sub-sectors such as ecotourism, leisure tourism and religious tourism under the tourism sector. We have to touch every aspect of the village and the block level for which the district administrations have to be made responsible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-covid-latest-focusing-on-micro-picture-is-key-to-recouping-lost-fortune/story-yAl3HMKrpw417FLaUWvjTO.html
19-05-2020||India||Hizbul terrorists, including separatist leader’s son, killed in Srinagar encounter||Two Hizbul Mujahideen militants, including divisional commander Junaid Ashraf Khan, were killed in a gun battle with security forces at Nawakadal in Srinagar’s old quarters on Tuesday.Khan is the youngest son of senior separatist leader and Tahreek-e-Hurriyat chairman, Mohammad Ashraf Khan alias Sehrai.This was the first gun battle between security forces and militants in the city’s old quarters in the past two years. The presence of militants in the area is being seen as the re-emergence of militancy in the densely populated part of Srinagar.Police said a joint operation was launched in the area late on Monday night by police and CRPF following a specific tipoff about the presence of militants.The operation, carried out along with the Central Reserve Police Force, began at around midnight when security forces encircled a cluster of houses in the neighbourhood. Local residents said they heard an exchange of fire at around midnight. The exchange of fire resumed on Tuesday morning and the gun battle ended at around 1 pm, when troops recovered two bodies from a house that was blasted during the fighting.Jammu and Kashmir’s director general of police Dilbag Singh said both militants were locals. “We have identified the terrorists as Junaid Ashraf Khan, who is from Srinagar, and Tariq Ashraf Sheikh from Pulwama. Junaid is the younger son of Hurriyat chairman Mohammad Ashraf Khan. He joined militancy two years ago,” he said. Singh told a news conference that Khan was operating in the four districts of Srinagar, Budgam, Pulwama and Shopian. “His associate had joined militancy only in March,” he added. Khan was allegedly involved in more than half a dozen criminal cases, attacks on security forces and issuing threats to civilians, Singh said. “He was operating as the divisional commander of Hizbul Mujahideen for central Kashmir, including Pulwama and Shopian,” he said. Singh said security forces are trying to keep Srinagar as peaceful as possible, but enemies make attempts to disturb the peace. “Most of the grenade attacks in the city have been linked to the Hizbul Mujahideen. We arrested 12 people and busted modules, which were trying to attack the city,” he said. Singh said Khan was being tracked by the security forces for many days and the operation was launched on Monday after officials received a specific input about the presence of militants in the area.Mobile internet services across Srinagar were suspended and voice calls of all service providers other than BSNL were snapped during the operation. Strict restrictions were imposed in the area because of fears that the killing of the militants could trigger clashes in the old quarters of the city.Since the beginning of the Covid-19 lockdown in late March, there has been surge in gun battles and top Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riyaz Ahmad Naikoo was recently killed with an associate at Beighpora Gulzapora. The security forces had described his death as a big success and a setback for the Hizbul Mujahideen. Khan was the second top Hizb commander to be killed in Kashmir in recent days.After the killing of Naikoo, the Hizb had announced the names of three new commanders, including Ghazi Haider, who was named the group’s new operational chief.Khan had joined militancy in March 2018 after he went missing from his house in Srinagar. Later, he posted a picture of himself holding a gun on social media and announced he was joining the Hizbul Mujahideen. The same year, his father Mohammad Ashraf Sehrai, 74, replaced Ali Shah Geelani as the chief of the Tehreek-e-Hurriyat. Khan had done his MBA from Kashmir University before joining militancy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hizbul-terrorists-including-separatist-leader-s-son-killed-in-srinagar-encounter/story-npyD8DdjmrugahKNujoOoL.html
19-05-2020||India||Cambridge IGCSE class 11 and 12 results out||Cambridge International announced the results of its March series examinations for IGCSE (Class 10) and International AS & A (Class 11 and 12) level qualifications. The examinations were held before the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak gripped the country and led to weeks-long lockdown restrictions in a bid to contain the spread of the pandemic.At SVKM JV Parekh International School in Vile Parle the highest score recorded in IGCSE was 97.2%. At Malad’s Witty International school the topper scored 93.8%.The March series is popular with Indian students, as it enables them to get their results in time to meet admission deadlines for local colleges.Cambridge programmes are offered by over 500 schools in the country.This year combined 52,190 entries were submitted for Cambridge IGCSE and Cambridge International AS & A Level by 337 schools. Over 41,000 entries were for Cambridge IGCSE and more than 11,000 were for Cambridge International AS & A Level.Those students, who had registered for the May series of examinations, would receive marks on the basis of their internal assessments as Cambridge has cancelled the tests because of the pandemic. “Students were given two options. Either they could choose to get a score on the basis of their internal evaluation or could opt for November series examinations,” said Dr. G Swaminathan, principal, SVKM JV Parekh International School.Mahesh Srivastava, regional director, South Asia, Cambridge International, said: “These are unprecedented times. I feel these results will give hope and encourage students to plan for their future. We’re doing all we can to allow students to continue their education, despite the viral outbreak.”Mathematics, First Language English, Physics, Chemistry and Biology were the most popular Cambridge IGCSE subjects in the March examination series this year. For Cambridge International AS & A Level, Mathematics, English Language, Physics, Chemistry, and Economics emerged as the most popular subjects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cambridge-igcse-class-11-and-12-results-out/story-ROQcl6q1VyfyIFGDEow41N.html
19-05-2020||India||With over 1 lakh Covid cases, India is still better placed than others. Here’s why||While India acquired the dubious distinction of crossing 100,000 coronavirus cases to break into the top 11 worst Covid-19 affected countries, the central government on Tuesday cited a healthy recovery rate from the disease to highlight some of the successes achieved in this grisly battle with the one of the worst crises the world has ever seen.The ministry of health said that a total of 2,350 Covid19 patients have been cured in the last 24 hours taking the total number of recoveries to close to 40,000 at 39,174.“Thus, so far, a total of 39,174 patients have been cured of COVID-19. This means a recovery rate of 38.73% amongst COVID-19 patients. The recovery rate is improving continuously,” said the ministry. India currently has 58,802 active cases, which are all under active medical supervision and of whom, only around 2.9% are in the intensive care unit (ICU).The ministry had earlier presented data to point out that the country had also managed the contagion’s growth rate much better than several other badly affected countries. On Tuesday, it added that India had seen 0.2 deaths/lakh population compared to approximately 4.1 deaths/lakh population for the rest of the world to back its claim.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAccording to the WHO situation data referenced by the health ministry, USA, UK, Italy, France, Spain, Brazil, Belgium, Germany, Iran, Canada, Netherlands, Mexico, China, Turkey and Sweden had seen more deaths per million. “The relatively low death figures represent timely case identification and clinical management of the cases,” said the ministry highlighting the continuous scale-up in country’s testing capacity.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19According to the latest ministry data, a record number of 1,08,233 samples were tested on May 18 taking the total number of samples tested to 24,25,742.“From one laboratory conducting Covid-19 test in January, India has very rapidly increased its testing capacity by adding over 385 government laboratories and 158 private laboratories for testing in the country. Duly forging partnerships with all central government labs, state’s medical colleges, private medical colleges and private sector, the testing capacity in the country has been expanded. Other testing machines like TrueNAT and CBNAAT have also been mobilized to ramp up testing,” a health ministry communiqué said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-may-be-past-100-000-but-here-s-why-it-is-better-placed-than-several-others/story-6YHVS71Z4aV74SQYlF4qNI.html
19-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 2,000 migrant workers gather at Mumbai’s Bandra to catch train to Bihar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.2,000 migrant workers gather at Mumbai’s Bandra to catch train to BiharIn a repeat incident, a crowd of more than 2,000 migrant workers gathered near Mumbai’s Bandra Terminus on Tuesday morning. The workers were attempting to board a Shramik special train that was bound for Bihar. Read moreIn 4-page stinker to Tedros over China link, Trump opens door to walk out of WHOUS President Donald Trump on Tuesday threatened to walk out of the World Health Organisation, accusing the Tedros Adhanom-led global health body chief of acting at China’s behest and mismanaging the Covid-19 pandemic in the early stages. Read moreFirst tranche of 50 ventilators donated by US expected soon, say officialsThe first tranche of 50 ventilators out of 200 ventilators being donated by the US administration to India is expected to arrive soon to bolster the country’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic, American officials said on Tuesday. Read moreFB, Google, Twitter get court’s notice over removal of groups like Bois Locker roomThe Delhi High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the Centre, Facebook, Google and Twitter over an application seeking removal of groups like ‘Bois locker room’ to protect children, reported news agency ANI. Read moreEvacuate people, stock essential items: Centre tells states as they brace for Cyclone AmphanThe Centre on Tuesday asked state governments to ensure timely and complete evacuation of people from low lying areas in the path of Cyclone Amphan and maintain adequate quantities of essential supplies. Read moreVizag gas leak: 60-yr-old woman arrested for posting objectionable content against LG PolymersAndhra Pradesh Police on Monday arrested a woman (60) in Guntur on charges of creating a fear psychosis among people and inciting hatred against the state government by posting objectionable comments on her Facebook page regarding the toxic styrene gas leak from LG Polymers’ plant at Visakhapatnam on May 7. Read moreUK unemployment claims surge 69% as pandemic takes holdUnemployment claims in Britain jumped 69 per cent in April, as the Covid-19 pandemic took hold and hit the labor market, UK authorities said Tuesday. Read moreRuskin Bond 86th Birthday: Of simplicity, life in the mountains and solitudeRuskin Bond, the storyteller whose words are as uplifting as they are a balm for fatigued souls, has turned 86 today and in a career spanning over six decades, most of his books have been instant bestsellers. Read moreTMC MP counters low testing charge; accuses BJP of politicising Covid fightIn an exclusive conversation with Hindustan Times senior editor Aditi Prasad, TMC Parliamentary party leader in Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien answered a slew of questions on who is politicising the covid battle in the state. Read moreJacqueline Fernandez on shooting with Salman Khan at his farmhouse: ‘Whole experience was fulfilling’Shoots and film releases may be cancelled in Mumbai amid lockdown but Jacqueline Fernandez’s calendar is full. The Kick actor has been stuck at Salman Khan’s farmhouse in Panvel and is waiting to meet her family. Read moreThis cat’s awesome goalkeeping skills could make it world’s next football superstar. We’re not kiddingCats rule the Internet and a recent video on Twitter hints that they may soon rule football grounds too. Shared by YouTuber Chris Dixon, the video shows his cat and how it saves the balls from entering the goalpost. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-2-000-migrant-workers-gather-at-mumbai-s-bandra-to-catch-train-to-bihar-and-all-the-latest-news/story-QNeGQkWBv8xaTYg0lUeChN.html
19-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Kerala concerned as Gulf returnees hiding medical history||Kerala is bracing for a surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases because of the influx of stranded expatriates from West Asian countries, who are being evacuated by the central government, and those stuck in other states are also returning home amid the easing of lockdown restrictions that were imposed in end-March to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The state has reported 97 Covid-19 positive cases in the last five days, taking the total count to 630, including four deaths. Of late, there has been a spike when it appeared that Kerala is on the verge of flattening the curve, as the number of active Covid-19 positive cases has risen to 130 from 16 since the influx of Persian Gulf returnees.Police booked three persons in Kollam under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, on Tuesday on charges of hiding their health condition after they returned to Thiruvananthapuram from Abu Dhabi two days ago. The trio tested Covid-19 positive upon their arrival and had tell-tale symptoms of SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, even before boarding the flight from Abu Dhabi.Now, state health authorities have asked all their co-passengers to undergo tests on an emergency basis.Many complaints have surfaced that people often suppress their fever by popping paracetamol tablets before boarding flights to escape thermal scanners. These three persons had reportedly tested Covid-19 positive during anti-body tests in Abu Dhabi and they were allowed to board the flight at the last moment.State Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had termed their behaviour as “most irresponsible”.“It’s a serious issue. We’ll take it up this with the central government and the diplomatic missions concerned. We’ve been asking for thorough tests before expatriates are allowed to return home,” the CM had said on Monday.A 34-year-old nurse, who had recovered, tested Covid-19 positive again on Monday. She was evacuated from Kuwait on May 13, as she is pregnant. Doctors said her case showed that chances of a Covid-19 relapse are high among recovered patients, whose immunity is weak.“She came back from Kuwait with a cured certificate. She was asked to come back for a re-test and tested positive on Monday. Though it is the first-of-its-kind case in Kerala, this has been reported in other parts of the country,” said Malappuram district medical officer K Sakeena. She said a special medical board has been set up to treat the pregnant nurse.Kerala is likely to report more Covid-19 positive cases, as 38 international flights and 24 trains are expected to arrive in the state over the next two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kerala-concerned-as-gulf-returnees-hiding-medical-history/story-XHnYAwXXSNgmTjq6TEBGwN.html
19-05-2020||India||Consent of destination states not needed: Railways on trains for migrants||The consent of destination states is not required for running Shramik special trains to ferry migrant workers, the ministry of railways said Tuesday revising its earlier order where it was mandatory for both states to mutually agree for running the trains.This comes after the home ministry issued a fresh set of guidelines for running Shramik trains. “Today MHA has withdrawn the May 1 circular and issued a separate SOP for railways. Now the implication is that the consent of the receiving state is not mandatory any more for running Shramik Special trains,” a spokesperson for the ministry of railways said. Officials said the ministry aims to increase the capacity of running Shramik Special trains to 300 trains per day. “The last three days we have been running nearly 150 trains per day. There were some issues with states that were not giving the clearances for running the trains. We can run more trains per day, we have the capacity of doubling it,” a senior official said. In its earlier guidelines the ministry had specified both the originating and terminating state will have to mutually agree before running the Shramik special trains. In guidelines issued on May 2, the railway ministry had said, “The sending and receiving states may consult each other and mutually agree to the movement by rail. The originating state will finalise the requirement of special trains in consultation with receiving states and communicate the requirement of special trains to the nodal officer of railways. Railways will endeavor to plan and run the special trains based on the requirement given by the originating state subject to availability of the rolling stock.”Earlier today, the home ministry also issued a fresh standard operating procedure of the movement of stranded migrant workers by trains. “Movement of Shramik Special trains shall be permitted by the ministry of railways in consultation with the ministry of home affairs. All states/UTs should designate nodal authorities and make necessary arrangements for receiving and send such stranded persons,” the guidelines said. The train schedule, including stoppages and destination shall be finalised by the railway ministry based on requirements of states. There has been a constant tussle between the Centre and states over the issue of running the Shramik Trains. The Centre had complained that some states like West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan - which have a significant migrant population in other states - were not giving permission for the migrant trains. The accusation has been denied by the states. According to railway ministry data, reviewed by Hindustan Times, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have taken the maximum number of trains thus far, 641 and 310, respectively, followed by Madhya Pradesh (89), Jharkhand (56) and Rajasthan (25). Among originating states, where the trains departed from, Gujarat has sent the most (496) followed by Maharashtra (266) and Punjab (188), thus far. The railways till Monday has run more than 1400 Shramik special trains ferrying nearly 18.5 lakh migrants. Officials clarified, states will have to share the requirement for the trains with the railway ministry and make suitable arrangements for sending and receiving people. “Train schedule; protocols for entry and movement of passengers; services to be provided in coaches; and arrangements with states/UTs for booking tickets shall be publicized by the railway ministry,” the MHA guidelines said. At present, to book a Shramik Special train once both states agree, clearance is sought by the ministries of home affairs and then the railways. “Once the clearance is received the ministry of railways provides the train and the tickets for the total number of passengers to the state government,” a senior railway ministry official said requesting anonymity. After the necessary clearance is provided, the sending state has to make arrangements of buses for taking the migrants to the nominated railway station. On an average each train requires nearly 70 to 80 buses to ferry the migrants, the official added. A similar process is followed once the train reaches the terminating station of the receiving state. The local DM arranges for the buses to take the migrants to their villages and then put them under home-quarantine as per the state government’s protocols, the official added. The railways, in its earlier guidelines, had also said the Shramik trains are being run only for those who have been cleared by the originating state in consultation with the receiving state. It had said that the originating state will indicate the number of passengers traveling in the train followed by which the railways will print the tickets and hand them over to the local state government. “The local state government authority shall handover the tickets to the passengers cleared by them and collect the ticket fare and hand over the total amount to the railways,” the guidelines had said. It is not clear yet, if this payment structure decided by the railways will also be revised. The payments for the fares was left to the understanding of both the states to decide, officials said. In some cases, the originating states paid, in others the destination states did, in some it was shared while in some cases the migrants were made to pay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consent-of-destination-states-not-needed-railways-on-running-migrant-trains/story-3Xb6G5BM86UjNywQCgDIxM.html
19-05-2020||India||‘Amphan will be extremely severe cyclonic storm on landfall, 24 teams on standby’: NDRF||Top officials from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) briefed the media over cyclone Amphan on Tuesday and said that Amphan will be ‘extremely severe cyclonic storm’ when it makes landfall on May 20.NDRF Director General SN Pradhan said that there are 24 teams on standby and every battalion that has been deployed has 4 teams. Every Battalion has 4 teams, so there are 24 teams on standby: NDRF Chief SN Pradhan #AmphanCyclone https://t.co/HiaRHlxmHpIMD chief Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said Amphan is the most intense cyclone and the second super cyclone which has been formed in the Bay of Bengal after 1999. Watch | Cyclone Amphan | Expected damage, government preparation: Latest updates“Its wind speed in the sea right now is 200-240 kilometre per hour (kmph). It is moving towards the north-northwestward direction,” Mohapatra said. Also read: Cyclone Amphan and the states likely to be hit by its landfall15 teams are deployed in Odisha. They are carrying out awareness drives, communication drives, and evacuation. 19 teams are deployed in West Bengal, 2 in standby there. We are facing a dual challenge right now - #COVID19 and cyclone: NDRF Chief SN Pradhan #AmphanCyclone pic.twitter.com/usWqxAeghsPradhan informed that 15 teams are deployed in Odisha currently. “They are carrying out awareness drives, communication drives, and evacuation. 19 teams are deployed in West Bengal, 2 in standby there.” he said.The NDRF chief added that the country is facing a dual challenge of Covid-19 and cyclone Amphan.This is the most intense cyclone - the second super cyclone - which has been formed in Bay of Bengal after 1999. Its wind speed in the sea right now is 200-240 kmph. It is moving towards north northwestward direction: IMD chief Mrutyunjay Mohapatra #AmphanCyclone pic.twitter.com/rsEGGb8BT9 Mohapatra said, in West Bengal, the cyclone could affect districts like North and South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore districts. Kolkata, Hooghly, Howrah and West Midnapore districts will face wind speed of 110-120 kmph gusting up to 135 kmph, he added. Telecom secretary Anshu Prakash said that SMS alerts are being generated for people in affected districts for evacuation purposes.“It is up to state governments to decide the frequency of those alerts. It’s free of cost. It’ll be in local languages,” Prakash said. Also read: Cyclone ‘Amphan’ to make landfall tomorrowIt is very likely to move north-northeastwards across northwest Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal – Bangladesh coasts between Digha (West Bengal) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) close to Sundarbans during afternoon to evening hours of 20th May 2020: IMD https://t.co/sUajoAv4KeSuper cyclonic storm Amphan, over west-central Bay of Bengal, moved north-northeastwards with a speed of 17 kmph and lay centred at around 11:30 am on May 19 as an ‘extremely severe cyclonic storm’ over west-central Bay of Bengal.According to the IMD, Amphan is likely to move north-northeastwards across the northwest Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal – Bangladesh coasts between Digha (West Bengal) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) close to Sundarbans during the afternoon to evening hours of May 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-will-be-extremely-severe-cyclonic-storm-when-it-makes-landfall-on-may-20-24-teams-on-standby-ndrf/story-hyGchlKPbpmwgyZ9HJMVoJ.html
19-05-2020||India||‘Cheap politics’: Cong slams UP govt after row over buses to ferry migrant workers||The Congress on Tuesday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of doing cheap politics by stopping 1,000 buses arranged by the party to ferry migrant labourers from entering the state.At a digital press conference, Congress leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala and Rajiv Shukla claimed that the buses are standing at Rajasthan-UP border but are not being allowed to enter the state because the officials on the ground don’t have orders.“The Uttar Pradesh administration wrote a letter to us at 11 in the night (on Monday), asking us to send the buses to Lucknow complete with all the papers - like fitness certificate, PUC certificate, driving license etc - by 10 am on Tuesday. Look at their behaviour - they are asking for papers, and don’t care about the humanitarian crisis unfolding in the state (migrants walking towards their home). We replied within two hours, but got a response at 11.05 am the next day saying bring 500 buses to Ghaziabad and 500 to Noida,” said Surjewala.“We replied saying the buses are coming from far away states like Rajasthan and will reach by 5 pm today. And hundreds of buses are standing at the border, but officials are not allowing them to enter saying they don’t have orders,” Surjewala added.He then called UP government “insensitive” and condemned the state administration’s behaviour.“Mr Adityanath, you said that service to man is service to god. When there is Modiji’s rally, you make all the arrangements like food, transport etc. But today, these buses are not acceptable to you because they have been arranged by Congress? This is cheap politics,” said Surjewala.Rajeev Shukla said around 700 buses are standing at UP border, waiting for order from the state government to enter.“We humbly request you to stop this kind of politics. We want to cooperate, not do politics,” said Surjewala. “This is for a noble cause, our migrant workers need these buses. Don’t take their curse, help us in this endeavour.”The Uttar Pradesh Congress claimed to have submitted the list of 1,000 buses to the Yogi Adityanath government following which the state government sought details of the buses and drivers. On Monday, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had slammed the Congress for not submitting the list of buses and playing ‘petty politics’ on the migrant workers.The Uttar Pradesh government said that the list of buses offered by the Congress to ferry migrant workers contained registration numbers of two-wheelers and cars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cheap-politics-congress-slams-up-govt-after-row-over-buses-to-ferry-migrant-workers/story-wjPzbunsfgr7cPa3DMf2mO.html
19-05-2020||India||Cyclone ‘Amphan’ to make landfall tomorrow with very high wind speed, heavy rains||Super cyclone ‘Amphan’ is likely to make landfall along the West Bengal coast on Wednesday with very high wind speeds ranging up to 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph and heavy rains.This was conveyed to the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC), headed by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, which met here on Tuesday to review the preparedness of the states and central ministries and agencies to deal with the cyclonic storm, an official statement said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has stated that the super cyclone is expected to impact the West Bengal coast by the afternoon or evening of May 20.Very high wind speeds ranging up to 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph are expected, accompanied by heavy rainfall and storm surges of 4-5 metres in the coastal districts of the state.Districts of East Medinipur, South and North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Kolkata are expected to be impacted, the statement said.The damage potential of the cyclone is expected to be higher than that of cyclone ‘Bulbul’, which hit the West Bengal coast on November 9, 2019, it said.  Cyclone ‘Amphan’ will also bring heavy rainfall, squally winds and storm surges in the coastal districts of Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapada, Bhadrak, Jajpur and Balasore in Odisha.Chief Secretary, Odisha and Additional Chief Secretary, West Bengal apprised the NCMC of preparatory measures taken by them. They informed that evacuation of people from the low lying areas is being carried out.All actions have been taken to stock food grains, drinking water and other essential supplies. Teams for maintenance and restoration of Power and Telecom services have also been positioned.Reviewing the preparedness of the States and central agencies, the cabinet secretary asked the state governments to ensure timely and complete evacuation of people from low lying areas in the cyclone’s path and maintain adequate quantities of essential supplies such as food, drinking water and medicines, etc.They were also advised that teams for road clearance and other restoration work be kept ready.A total of 36 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are currently deployed in both the states.Rescue and relief teams of the Army and Navy along with ships and aircrafts of the Navy, Air Force and Coast Guard have been put on standby.Officials from agencies of the Department of Telecommunications and Ministry of Power are also deployed in the states to ensure maintenance of essential services.Chief Secretary, Odisha and Home Secretary, West Bengal participated in the meeting through video conference. Senior officers from the Ministries of Home Affairs, Defence, Shipping, Power, Telecommunications, Health, IMD, NDMA and NDRF also attended the meeting.The NCMC will meet again to take stock of the emerging situation, the statement said.  Cyclone ‘Amphan’ has developed into a super cyclone over the Bay of Bengal on Monday and has the potential to cause extensive damage in the coastal districts of West Bengal when it makes landfall, the government had said.This is the second super cyclone over the Bay of Bengal in two decades.The cyclone is expected to make landfall on the West Bengal coast in the afternoon of May 20 between Digha in West Bengal and Hatia island in Bangladesh as an extremely severe cyclonic storm.The cyclone has the potential to cause extensive damage in the coastal districts of West Bengal, the government said.‘Amphan’ will cause heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of West Bengal, it added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi along with Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday had reviewed the situation arising from the cyclone and assured all possible assistance from the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-to-make-landfall-tomorrow-with-very-high-wind-speed-heavy-rains/story-VWFL8E684fq7ifuJXbMunL.html
19-05-2020||India||‘Large number of Covid-19 cases being observed in migrant workers’: Top Uttar Pradesh health official||A high incidence of coronavirus infection is being observed in migrant labourers returning to Uttar Pradesh, state principal secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters on Tuesday.Prasad said that in such a situation, it is important for village and mohalla monitoring committees to control the infection. “They should ensure home quarantine for those coming from outside,” Prasad said. He also informed that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered for the setting up of a laboratory in every district of the state to check the infectious disease.Also read: Samajwadi Party leader and son, out on walk, shot dead in UP’s SambhalLarge number of cases of infection is being observed in migrant workers returning to the state. So it's very important for village & mohalla monitoring committees to control the infection. They should ensure home quarantine for those coming from outside: Principal Secy(Health),UP pic.twitter.com/Snh7XJleiTLakhs of stranded migrant labourers have returned to their native places in Uttar Pradesh from across the country. The Ministry of Railways, so far, has operated over 1,500 ‘Shramik Special’ trains since May 1 and ferried over 20 lakh migrants back home.“Under the leadership of PM @NarendraModi, more than 20 lakh workers have been sent to their homes by the Railways on 1,565 Shramik Special trains,” Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said in a tweet on Tuesday.Uttar Pradesh allowed 837 trains to ferry migrant labourers back to their native places. Out of the trains that have terminated so far, the maximum has been in Uttar Pradesh at 641, while 73 more are in transit.The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Uttar Pradesh is inching toward the 5,000-mark. The state has reported 4,605 Covid-19 cases so far. While 2,783 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 118 have died from the infection here.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/large-number-of-covid-19-cases-being-observed-in-migrant-workers-top-uttar-pradesh-health-official/story-9yPKobgBXHYr5p4ULtPeoK.html
19-05-2020||India||2,000 migrant workers gather at Mumbai’s Bandra to catch train to Bihar||In a repeat incident, a crowd of more than 2,000 migrant workers gathered near Mumbai’s Bandra Terminus on Tuesday morning. The workers were attempting to board a Shramik special train that was bound for Bihar.The incident occurred at around 11.30 am as a message about a Shramik train headed for Bihar spread among migrant workers. The workers started walking towards the terminus along with their luggage in an attempt to board the train. However, only 1,700 people were permitted to board the train. The rest were not allowed inside the terminus. “My registration and process was complete. I had also received a call from the police informing me about the train timings and that I will be allowed to travel today. When I reached the station, there were many workers and everyone wanted to board. Despite trying to make the authorities understand, I was not allowed to board the train,” said Sanjeev Kumar, a migrant worker from BiharAt around 2 pm, those waiting outside the station were asked to leave by the Mumbai police.“A Shramik special train was scheduled for Purnia from Bandra Terminus for which passengers, registered with the state authorities, were to travel. But many people who were not registered and not called by the state authorities gathered on the bridge and on the road near the station.“The bonafide passengers were checked and allowed to enter the station by state machinery and the train left Bandra Terminus at about 12 pm with 1,700 labourers and their families who were entitled to travel. Later, the crowd was cleared from the area by City Police,” said Ravinder Bhakar, chief public relation officer, western railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-000-migrant-workers-gather-at-mumbai-s-bandra-to-catch-train-to-bihar/story-H3p5B1z7erXL1697AAtxcI.html
19-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: Fishing activities suspended in West Bengal, Odisha till May 20||India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday issued a warning to suspend all fishing activities in West Bengal and Odisha till May 20, in the wake of super cyclone Amphan.Several fishermen at Odisha’s Bhadrak were seen parking their boats at the dock today morning.Notably, Bhadrak is one of the six districts expected to be affected due to the cyclone.Notably, 15 NDRF teams have been deployed in different districts of Odisha. They are already in the field and are creating awareness among public and fishermen on evacuation and safety measures.Also read| Evacuate people, stock essential items: Centre tells states as they brace for Cyclone AmphanFive teams are also ready in Mundali to meet the exigency.Chief Secretary, Odisha and Additional Chief Secretary, West Bengal apprised National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) of preparatory measures taken by them. They informed that evacuation of people from the low lying areas is being carried out, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said in the letter. Also read|Cyclone Amphan: The states likely to be hit by its landfall“36 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams are currently deployed in both states. Rescue & relief teams of Army & Navy along with ships & aircraft of Navy, Air Force & Coast Guard have been put on standby,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-fishing-activities-suspended-in-west-bengal-odisha-till-may-20/story-xea993CLa7thWMzFxf6J1O.html
19-05-2020||India||‘Happy memories’: An 84-year old with comorbidities recalls how he fought off fear and Covid-19||84-year-old Tapan Mitra successfully won a 24-day war against coronavirus despite battling comorbidities and a debilitating fear of being infected by a disease without any known cure and the isolation that it brings with it. He says what helped him apart from the treatment, was a will to live and happy memories to die for.The enormity of odds Mitra faced could be understood from the fact that while having even any one among chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular ailments can be fatal for a Covid-19 patient, Mitra had all four.Over the next 24 days, as the doctors struggled with “a very bad Covid-19 infection” and a secondary infection that developed in his bloodstreams, twice forcing Mitra into the intensive care unit (ICU), the octogenarian banked on “happy memories” to summon the strength to defeat the deadly contagion.“Lying on the bed, I tried to remember happy and good memories. I banked on remembering travels and people. That helped me survive through this unprecedented mental stress,” said Mitra, a former corporate honcho who had served as the managing director of Indian Aluminium, chairman of Haldia Petrochemicals, and eastern region chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry. He is also the president of the prestigious Calcutta Rowing Club.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Mitra was taken to the private hospital after he reported breathing difficulties and admitted to the isolation ward before he tested positive for Covid-19.“Initially, I was damn scared to be in the isolation room. To live in complete isolation looked unbearable. But later, the doctors and nursing staff helped me cope with the situation,” he said after his release from the hospital on Monday.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesTalking to family members over video calls further inspired him to win this Covid-19 battle. He has been advised rest at home for the time being. According to Raja Dhar, a pulmonologist and the director of Fortis Hospital Anandapur where Mitra was admitted, Mitra had “very bad Covid-19 infection”, with his lung getting badly affected, and later a secondary bloodstream infection made things all the more critical. He was put into the ICU twice.“Mitra’s recovery is very pleasing because it was one of the cases when one nears death but still survives. He is mentally very strong, disciplined and motivated and that also helped in the recovery,” Dhar said.In Bengal, as of May 18, a total of 2,825 persons have tested positive for Covid-19 and 1,006 of them have recovered, while 244 persons have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/happy-memories-an-84-year-old-with-comorbidities-recalls-how-he-fought-off-fear-and-covid-19/story-QpcSaqx7fRoaYzFzCHCw9K.html
19-05-2020||India||Govt to further revise criteria for classifying ‘medium’ enterprises under MSME definition: Nitin Gadkari||Days after changing the definition of MSMEs, the government has decided to further revise the criteria for medium units by enhancing the investment and turnover limits to up to Rs 50 crore and Rs 200 crore respectively, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Tuesday.Unveiling the contours of the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had last last week announced a change in the definition of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). As per the revised definition, any firm with investment up to Rs 1 crore and turnover under Rs 5 crore will be classified as “micro”. A company with investment up to Rs 10 crore and turnover up to Rs 50 crore will be classified as “small” and a firm with investment up to Rs 20 crore and turnover under Rs 100 crore will be classified as “medium”.  The previous criteria for classifying enterprises in the “medium” category was investment up to Rs 10 crore and turnover of up to Rs 5 crore.  “We have taken a decision to raise the up to Rs 20 crore investment (criteria) to up to 50 crore and turnover (limit) to up to Rs 200 crore. So we will issue an order for that,” Gadkari said.  The minister for MSME and Road Transport and Highways, Gadkari said he feels the criteria should be based on investment “or” turnover instead of investment and turnover both as announced, adding that the government “will rectify the same”.  The minister said he was also open to considering suggestions regarding enhancing the turnover limit to up to Rs 250 crore for medium enterprises, and will take up the matter with the MSME secretary.Gadkari said the government plans to raise MSMEs contribution to India’s exports to 60 per cent from 48 per cent at present and also boost the sector’s contribution to the country’s GDP from 29 per cent currently to 50 per cent.  “We are planning to create 5 crore new jobs. Until now, we have created 11 crore jobs,” said the minister, adding that he was keen on developing Indian MSMEs of international standards.  Interacting with representatives from an exporters’ body, he urged exporters to take advantage of the “blessing in disguise” posed by the global “hatred against China” through cost reduction and encouraging import substitution.Besides, Gadkari said the government wants to make bus ports and is also planning to build logistics parks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-further-revise-criteria-for-classifying-medium-enterprises-under-msme-definition-nitin-gadkari/story-IU69x1ioPi93CC5zuyfGKN.html
19-05-2020||India||No consent required from destination states to run Shramik Special trains: Railways||The railways on Tuesday said the consent of the destination states is not required to operate Shramik Special trains, hours after the Home Ministry issued a standard operating procedure for the national transporter to run these trains to ferry migrants to their native places.“Consent of terminating state not necessary to run Shramik Special trains,” railway spokesperson Rajesh Bajpai said. “After the new SoP, the implication is that no consent of receiving state is mandatory,” he said.Earlier, a political storm had broken out when Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said that West Bengal, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh were being laggard in approving these trains.Since May 1, the railways has run 1,565 migrant trains and ferried over 20 lakh migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-consent-required-from-destination-states-to-run-shramik-special-trains-railways/story-exBgpkXoVDnh3d1V1BcDvI.html
19-05-2020||India||First tranche of 50 ventilators donated by US expected soon, say officials||The first tranche of 50 ventilators out of 200 ventilators being donated by the US administration to India is expected to arrive soon to bolster the country’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic, American officials said on Tuesday.“This is a donation. The US government plans to donate 200 ventilators to India, and we expect the first tranche of 50 to arrive soon,” said Ramona El Hamzaoui, acting director of the US Agency for International Development (USAID).“USAID, on behalf of the US and through the generosity of the American people…is providing access to medical supplies and ventilators to India and other countries,” El Hamzaoui said.She said USAID is working closely with India’s health ministry and the Indian Red Cross Society and other stakeholders in both countries to assist in the delivery, transportation and placement of the donated ventilators.The equipment will complement India’s efforts to “make the best of care urgently available to those most in need without impacting the availability of these supplies to the American people”, she added.The American officials were unable to state what authorities in the US had meant when they said the ventilators would be “repurposed”.El Hamzaoui said the US government, private companies, and non-profit and academic organisations have shared their expertise with partner countries such as India on the production of ventilators and other equipment.“Some have open source intellectual property and we fully appreciate the urgency and recognise the global constraints,” she added.People familiar with developments in New Delhi said Trump himself had made it clear that the ventilators are a donation. The firms providing the equipment will be paid by USAID, they said on condition of anonymity.“As of now, the plan is to deliver 100 ventilators in May and the remainder in June. USAID will give us the final schedule next week,” said one of the people cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-tranche-of-50-ventilators-donated-by-us-expected-soon-say-officials/story-VYEGaocn7CjNKoHtmkEGVM.html
19-05-2020||India||Samajwadi Party leader, son shot dead while out for walk in Uttar Pradesh||A Samajwadi Party (SP) leader and his son were shot dead in broad daylight in western Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday. The killing took place in Sambhal district, which is a little over 200 kilometres from national capital Delhi.The SP leader Chhote Lal Diwakar and his son were gunned down after a fight broke out over a work being done under MGNREGA scheme of the central government in the area, the police said.“Some work was being carried out under MGNREGA due to which some dispute happened. Two people have been shot dead,” said Yamuna Prasad, Superintendent of Police, Sambhal.News agency IANS quoted the family members of the SP leader as saying that Diwakar and his son had gone for a walk in the fields when the assailants came on a motorbike and after a brief altercation, shot them dead. They fled on foot, leaving their motorbike behind.Samajwadi Party’s district president Firoz Khan said that Diwakar had been the party’s candidate for Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections in 2017. He, however, did not fight the polls as the seat went to some other candidate of the SP-Congress coalition. He claimed some local gang leaders killed the SP leader and his son.“Chhote Lal Diwakar of Sansoi village had some tussle with former pradhan (village head) over MGNREGA work. The father and the son died on the spot in bullet firing. Their bodies have been sent for post-mortem and FIR is being registered. Three teams have been formed, some people have been detained and the probe is on,” said SP Sambhal.Police said that one of the accused has been identified as Savinder, a local strongman. “We have detained four people who are being interrogated,” said SP Yamuna Prasad.A large number of SP workers reached the village soon after the news of the double murder spread. Adequate police force has been deployed at the village to ensure that no untoward incident takes place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-leader-son-shot-dead-in-broad-daylight-in-up/story-QjdkwDGC6cd56fWsheZ70N.html
19-05-2020||India||Evacuate people, stock essential items: Centre tells states as they brace for Cyclone Amphan||The Centre on Tuesday asked state governments to ensure timely and complete evacuation of people from low lying areas in the path of Cyclone Amphan and maintain adequate quantities of essential supplies.West Bengal and Odisha will be worst affected by the cyclone, which is packing in wind speed up to 200kmph.The instructions came as cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba chaired the third meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) to review the preparedness of states and central ministries and agencies to deal with the Cyclone Amphan, which is likely to make landfall on Wednesday.Earlier in the day, Union home minister Amit Shah spoke to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and assured her help to deal with the situation arising due to the cyclone, news agency ANI reported.HR Biswas, the director of Meteorological Centre in Odisha’s Bhubaneswar, said ‘Amphan’ lay centred over the west-central Bay of Bengal, about 520km south of Paradip (Odisha), 670km south-southwest of Digha (West Bengal) and 800km south-southwest of Khepupara in Bangladesh.It is likely to weaken to an extremely severe cyclonic storm, move north-northeastwards over the Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha and Hatiya Islands during Wednesday afternoon or evening as a very severe cyclonic storm with a maximum sustained wind speed of 155-165 kmph gusting to 180 kmph, he said.Such wind speeds, according to weather officials, could make Amphan one of the biggest storms to hit India in about a decade.The cyclone is being continuously tracked by the Doppler Weather Radar (DWR) at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh.IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said its impact is unlikely to be very severe on Odisha since the super cyclone is gradually weakening.However, coastal districts like Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore are likely to be battered by heavy rains coupled with high-velocity winds from Tuesday evening, he said.EvacuationsOdisha and West Bengal were moving families to more than 1,000 shelters in government offices and educational centres and were converting Covid-19 quarantine centres into cyclone shelters.Trains plying thousands of migrant workers from Delhi to Odisha were diverted to avoid the cyclone’s path.Odisha’s special relief commissioner (SRC) PK Jena said the evacuation of people living in low-lying areas, thatched and mud structures in the coastal districts is under progress and the process will be completed by evening.Jena said the state government has made arrangements for evacuating more than 11 lakh people as a precautionary measure.“We are in constant touch with the collectors of the 12 districts which have been put under alert in view of the cyclone. We are fully prepared to deal with any eventuality,” Jena said.Chief secretary AK Tripathy said four senior officers with vast experience in handling such calamities have been deputed to different districts on the direction of chief minister Navin Patnaik to supervise preparations and guide the local administration.As high-velocity winds may damage power infrastructure and roads, necessary equipment and manpower have been mobilised in order to ensure quick restoration in the affected areas, he said.Fourteen units of National Disaster Response Force and 20 teams of Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) have been deployed in the districts likely to be hit.Cyclone Amphan comes as India eased restrictions under the fourth phase of lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease, which has infected more than 100,000 people and killed over 3,000.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evacuate-people-stock-essential-items-centre-tells-states-as-they-brace-for-cyclone-amphan/story-Acox5vjjRnUDdPXjeHtkTL.html
19-05-2020||India||A grim milestone: List of states where Covid-19 cases have breached 10,000-mark||Even as the country has entered the fourth phase of coronavirus lockdown, the number of Covid-19 cases rise unabated across the nation. On Tuesday, Covid-19 cases in India breached the 100,000-mark. So far, more than 3,000 people have lost their lives due to the infection while nearly 40,000 people have been cured or discharged from hospitals. The highest number Covid-19 cases come from Maharashtra where the tally has breached the 35,000-mark, nearly one-third of the national total.Here’s taking a look at states with over 10,000 Covid-19 cases: MaharashtraThe state has reported 35,058 Covid-19 cases so far. Maharashtra has recorded 1,249 deaths while 8,437 patients have recovered across the state. Mumbai, Thane and Pune are the top affected areas in the state. Mumbai alone accounts for more than 21,000 coronavirus cases. Tamil NaduThe southern state has reported 11,760 coronavirus cases and 81 Covid-19 fatalities. More than 4,400 patients have recovered in Tamil Nadu.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally breaches 1 lakh-mark in 78 daysGujaratAs per the Ministry of Health, coronavirus cases in Gujarat stand at 11,745. While 694 people have died due to the coronavirus disease in the state, 4,804 patients have recovered so far. Ahmedabad is the worst-hit district here. DelhiThe national capital reported 500 fresh coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, the Delhi health department stated on Tuesday. With this, the Coviud-19 tally in the national capital has zoomed to  10,554. Over 160 people have died in Delhi while 4,750 patients have recovered. States with over 5,000 coronavirus casesRajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have reported more than 5,000 coronavirus cases till date. Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan touched 5,507 on Tuesday. Jaipur has witnessed a high number of coronavirus cases in the state. In Madhya Pradesh, Covid-19 cases have jumped to 5,236. Indore, Ujjain and Bhopal are the top-affected cities in the state.States with over 3,000 coronavirus casesIn Uttar Pradesh, coronavirus cases are rapidly inching toward the 5,000-mark. As many as 4,605 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. West Bengal nears the 3,000-mark with 2,825 coronavirus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-grim-milestone-list-of-states-where-covid-19-cases-have-breached-10-000-mark/story-6rh5xvX7Qo2AVTNvlR83XK.html
19-05-2020||India||As Cyclone Amphan approaches, BSF moves patrol boats to safe anchor in Sunderbans||The Border Security Force (BSF) has moved its three floating border posts or ships and 45 other patrol boats deployed to guard the India-Bangladesh riverine front in the Sunderbans and Icchamati river in West Bengal to safe anchorage in view of the cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’, officials said.These vessels are used by the south Bengal frontier of the border force to guard about 350 kms of the riverine border in this area.The BSF protects over 930 kms of the International Border under this frontier that includes 110 kms of the Sunderbans, Estuary Point, Icchamati river and Panitar, where the land and riverine borders of the two countries meet.Also read| Cyclone Amphan: The states likely to be hit by its landfallThe three floating border posts or ships, 45 other patrol and mechanised boats have been moved for safe anchorage in view of cyclone ‘Amphan’.BSF Deputy Inspector General (south Bengal frontier) S S Guleria told PTI that the troops who man these vessels will move to land border posts till the activity of the cyclone.A team of experts like electricians, masons and engineering personnel have also been sent to the riverine border fronts so that they can help in reviving the damaged infrastructure as soon as possible, Guleria, who has earlier served in the NDRF, said.He said satellite phones have also been provided to the riverine border posts so that communication links are on, he added.Also read| Cyclone Amphan latest updates: Fresh alert for Bengal, Odisha; landfall on WednesdayA control room has been established for the cyclone related operations at Hasnabad that will be supervised by a senior officer from ground, he added. A senior BSF officer said the force is coordinating with the National Disaster Response Force and local authorities to evacuate locals to safer places and initiate search and rescue operations once the cyclone makes a landfall on May 20, expected to be between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya in Bangladesh.Cyclone ‘Amphan’ has the potential to cause extensive damage in the coastal districts of West Bengal when it makes landfall, the government had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-cyclone-amphan-approaches-bsf-moves-patrol-boats-to-safe-anchor-in-sunderbans/story-50T9bmdvrEwQbFxtRJ8D6I.html
19-05-2020||India||China claims this drug could shorten recovery time for Covid-19 patients||A top Beijing-based university’s specialised research team has said it is developing a drug that could shorten the recovery time for Covid-19 patients and offer short-term immunity from the pathogen.The drug is being developed and tested by the prestigious Peking University’s Beijing Advanced Innovation Centre for Genomics (BAICG), which has successfully tested the experimental drug on animals.“A joint research team led by Sunney Xie has successfully identified multiple highly potent neutralising antibodies against the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, the causative virus of the respiratory disease COVID-19, from convalescent plasma by high-throughput single-cell sequencing,” a Peking University statement said on Monday.According to the research published in the online medical journal Cell, the “potent neutralising antibody could be used to develop drugs for both therapeutic intervention and prophylactic (preventive) protection against SARS-CoV-2”.“If the Covid-19 epidemic reappears in the winter, our neutralising antibody might be available by that time,” Xie said in the statement.“When we injected antibodies into infected mice, after five days the viral load was reduced by a factor of 2,500,” Xie separately told the news agency AFP.“That means this potential drug has (a) therapeutic effect,” he added.The drug uses neutralising antibodies -- produced by the human immune system to prevent the virus infecting cells -- which Xie’s team isolated from the blood of 60 recovered patients.Meanwhile, three Covid-19 vaccines have entered phase II clinical trials in Beijing, a municipal health official has said.Separately, five innovative drugs have also been approved for clinical trials and all of them have entered phase II clinical studies, Xu Qiang, head of the Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission.Beijing, Xu was quoted as saying by Xinhua news agency, will accelerate the research and development of diagnostic reagents, drugs, vaccines and medical equipment and support pharmaceutical and vaccine manufacturers in expanding their capacity to meet the increasing demands.The second phase of the clinical trials is expected to be completed successively beginning in JulyA total of 2,036 volunteer participants have been inoculated for the second phase of clinical trials and researchers are assessing whether or not the vaccines are safe and effective, Xinhua reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-claims-this-drug-could-shorten-recovery-time-for-covid-19-patients/story-KSk7COCCmEG1X1OACSMEIL.html
19-05-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi to chair opposition meet over migrants’ plight on Friday||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will chair a meeting of opposition leaders to discuss the prevailing situation in the country due to the coronavirus pandemic, the impact of nationwide lockdown and the government’s announcement of Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package to revive the Covid-19 hit economy on Friday.The meeting, to be held via video-conferencing, will also discuss the plight of stranded migrant workers walking thousands of kilometers back to their home states, the problems faced by the farmers and the suspension of labour laws in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat.Apart from the Congress, the meeting is expected to be attended by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Trinamool Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party (SP), Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India (CPI), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), Jammu and Kashmir National Conference (JKNC), All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) and Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP).This will be the first meeting of the opposition leaders after the lockdown was enforced across the country on March 25 to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. As on Tuesday, the number of coronavirus cases in India has crossed one lakh mark with over 3,100 deaths. The government on Sunday further extended the lockdown till May 31 while relaxing certain restrictions.A Congress leader familiar with the development said both Gandhi and NCP’s Sharad Pawar were keen to hold the meeting and chalk out the future course of action in terms of putting pressure on the government to accept their demands for announcing adequate relief measures, including direct cash transfer, for the poor, migrant workers, farmers. The issue of travel of stranded migrant workers to their home states has triggered a political slugfest between the Congress and the government. While the Congress has accused the government of being insensitive to the plight of stranded migrant workers, the BJP denied the charge and blamed the opposition party for politicising the issue.The other bone of contention between the two sides is the suspension of labour laws in BJP-ruled states. While former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said the fight against the coronavirus cannot be an excuse to exploit the workers, suppress their voice and crush their human rights, the BJP insisted that labour law reforms are a long-standing demand of trade unions and industries.On Monday, Pawar wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying the Centre’s stimulus package lacked provisions to compensate the losses incurred by farmers during the lockdown period as a result of which they are left with no cash in their hands.He said the package announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is “more of the supply chain-centric”, whose benefits will take longer time to reach the farmers.Pawar also suggested that the procurement price for food grains be decided after taking into consideration the net profit component, which would increase the efficiency of the package for farmers in a true sense.“At the time of determining the prices of food grains, we do not consider the net profit on the final product. Unless we do it, farmers will never get proper rate for their produce,” he added.The NCP chief further said it would take longer to trickle down the benefits of the stimulus package to farmers.“Restructuring of crop loans ahead of the Kharif season is paramount. Farmers have already incurred heavy losses during the lockdown, and they do not have cash in hand to make necessary purchases. No provision is made in the Centre’s package to these farmers for their losses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-to-chair-opposition-meet-over-migrants-plight-on-friday/story-WqTK4IPbmYAuRj4ZFoS6wM.html
19-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Natco Pharma donates chloroquine tablets for global trials||Drug firm Natco Pharma on Tuesday said it has donated chloroquine phosphate tablets through its marketing partner in the US to support a global clinical trial conducted by CROWN Collaborative in the wake of coronavirus pandemic.The trial will examine whether the anti-malarial drug can protect essential healthcare workers from COVID-19 virus.The company has donated the tablets through Rising Pharmaceuticals.  Washington University School of Medicine in St Louis is the clinical coordinating center for this trial, Natco Pharma said in a BSE filing.COVID-19 Research Outcomes Worldwide Network (CROWN) Collaborative, is testing whether the anti-malaria drug chloroquine can prevent COVID-19 infection or decrease its severity in frontline healthcare workers, it added.For the study, chloroquine will be donated to the US arm of the chloroquine repurposing to health-workers for novel coronavirus mitigation clinical trials, Natco Pharma said.The collaborative and the trial are funded by the COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator, an initiative with contributions from an array of public and philanthropic donors, including Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Natco Pharma said.The trial aims to include at least 30,000 subjects across the frontline healthcare workers, it added.Natco has been supplying anti-malarial chloroquine phosphate tablets, a United States Food and  Drug Administrtion (USFDA) approved drug, through its marketing partner to the US since 2011, the filing said.Shares of Natco Pharma were trading at Rs 602.80 per scrip on the BSE, up 2.91 per cent from its previous close.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-natco-pharma-donates-chloroquine-tablets-for-global-trials/story-Es5AiPwupUE2KGlRJUfZgO.html
19-05-2020||India||Assam students, environment activists launch online campaign to stop coal mining in elephant reserve||College students and environment activists in Assam have launched an online campaign against a new National Board of Wild Life (NBWL) recommendation allowing coal mining in the ecologically-fragile Dehing Patkai elephant reserve.The campaign has been launched after NBWL authorities in April recommended that a portion of 98.59 hectares of the reserve forest could be used for opencast coal mining. While the rest of the reserve forest could be used for underground coal mining, they suggested.The move is expected to have an adverse impact on the flora and fauna in Dehing Patkai elephant reserve, which is part of Dehing Patkai wildlife sanctuary spread across 111 square kilometres in Upper Assam’s Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts. The sanctuary is said to be the largest tropical lowland rainforest in the country.“We launched the campaign last week through social media because it was not possible to bring out rallies or hold processions because of the ongoing lockdown restrictions that have been enforced by the government to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19),” said Farny Ahmed, social service secretary of Gauhati University (GU) post-graduate students’ union.Ahmed and a few others, who are part of the university’s Eco Club, have flooded social media platforms with posters, videos, memes, and photographs to spread awareness about the campaign.In the past few days #SAVEDEHINGPATKAI and #IAMDEHINGPATKAI are trending on Facebook and Twitter and many students from other colleges in Assam are putting out graphics, videos, and photographs on social media to highlight the green cause.“Illegal coal mining in Dehing Patkai has been going on for many years, but the NBWL’s move to allow coal mining in the Saleki area will erase the reserve from the country’s map. We won’t allow this to happen,”warned Lakhyajit Das, vice-president of GU students union, in a social media post.According to a report submitted to NBWL authorities, Coal India Limited (CIL) has been carrying out mining in 57.02 hectares of the forest reserve for several years without obtaining any permission.An NBWL’s standing committee meeting, which was presided over by the Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Prakash Javadekar, and conducted via video-conference on April 17 because of the lockdown, recommended new mining activities in the forest reserve. Environmental activities are concerned about the ministry’s move. “The clearance was given hurriedly via video conference without any proper discussion. The Assam government should have objected to the move, but it seems they’re adamant on destroying the state’s environment and forests,” alleged Rohit Choudhury, a Right to Information (RTI) and environment activist.“We’re in such a helpless condition that it has been left to college students to start an online campaign to save Dehing Patkai. The state forest department has gone morally bankrupt and is shielding the coal mafia,” Choudhury further alleged.Ahmed said that they would submit a memorandum to Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal soon, urging him to ensure coal mining activities are stopped in all parts of Dehing Patkai.Besides wild elephants, leopards, hoolock gibbons, pangolins, and bears, Dehing Patkai is also home to over 200 species of birds, reptiles, and several species of butterflies and orchids. Coal mining is likely to disrupt the habitats of these species and foraging routes of wild elephants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-students-environment-activists-launch-online-campaign-to-stop-coal-mining-in-elephant-reserve/story-bvyE8cCGvsfrjnqwJHb0sO.html
19-05-2020||India||RSS-backed Swadeshi Jagran Manch to launch pan-India self-reliance campaign||The Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), that pitches for swadeshi or indigenous production will initiate a pan-India Swadeshi Swavlamban Abhiyan (self-reliance campaign) to promote local production that will in turn generate jobs.A comprehensive plan is being drawn that will involve workers, farmers, small scale entrepreneurs, academicians, technocrats, industry and trade leaders to create awareness about the benefits of promoting swadeshi or local products said Ashwani Mahajan, the national co convenor of the SJM.The SJM’s renewed push for local has picked pace after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India should go vocal about local even as it should be part of global supply chains.The SJM, however, said self-reliance means ‘swadeshi’ only; and it can be achieved by rejuvenating indigenous industry, including small scale industries, small businesses, artisans, rural industries, including food processing industry, and other non-farm activities.Mahajan said there are over 700 MSME clusters in the country, with a long and prosperous history of industrial development, however, many of these industrial clusters suffered because of “unfair competition from China and unfair import policies”.“They have to be supported and strengthened by all means so that they not only create employment opportunities but also produce high quality products at the most economical cost,” Mahajan said.The SJM has made cluster studies to identify problems faced by the local industry and more studies will be carried out in a mission mode to revive domestic industry, he said.Citing examples of how jobs can be generated in the rural areas, he said there are opportunities for agro-based activities, including food processing, poultry, dairy, fishing, mushroom farming, bamboo farming, floriculture, horticulture, among others.“It is unfortunate that policy makers in the past never posed trust in indigenous talent, resources and knowledge and therefore, over emphasised on the public sector and later on foreign capital and MNCs. PM Modi’s recent call that we have to be vocal for local is a pleasant departure from the existing policy on globalisation and liberalisation, especially foreign capital dependent model of development,” Mahajan said.To be sure, union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman last week announced a series of relief measures for the MSME sector as part of the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package.In response to the MSMEs demand for a financial package, the finance minister announced that the government and central public sector enterprises will release all pending MSME payments in 45 days; government will facilitate the provision of Rs 20,000 crore as subordinate debt; infuse Rs 50,000 in equity in MSMEs through a fund of funds and expanded the MSME definition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-backed-swadesh-jagran-manch-to-launch-pan-india-self-reliance-campaign/story-0Xw5EaBsrF5eEMWNNToqrM.html
19-05-2020||India||At 64%, Punjab health minister says state’s Covid-19 recovery rate is ‘best throughout country’||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday told reporters that the recovery rate of coronavirus patients in the state, as of Monday, was recorded at 64% which is the “best throughout the country”.Sidhu, however, said that the fight against coronavirus is not over yet as many people stranded in other parts of the country are returning to Punjab.  “Our cured rate of 64%, as of yesterday, is the best throughout the country. However, the fight is still on as many Non-resident Indians (NRIs) and people who are stranded in other states are returning,” Sidhu told reporters on Tuesday. Also read: 4,970 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours push India’s tally past 1 lakh-markOur cured rate of 64%, as of yesterday, is the best throughout the country. However, the fight is still on as many Non-resident Indians (NRIs) and people who are stranded in other states are returning: Balbir Singh Sidhu, Punjab Health Minister #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/T3KerlscroSo far, Punjab has reported nearly 2,000 coronavirus cases. According to the Ministry of Health, as of Tuesday morning, there are 1,980 coronavirus cases in the state of which 1,547 people have recovered or have been discharged from hospitals. The state has witnessed 37 Covid-19 fatalities. The coronavirus national tally on Tuesday breached the one lakh-mark with India reporting 101,139 Covid-19 infections till date. There are 58,802 active coronavirus cases in the country, 39,173 patients have been cured or discharged while 3,163 people have died from the deadly contagion.Maharashtra continues to bear the brunt of the virus with the highest number of Covid-19 infections in the country. On Tuesday, the coronavirus tally in the state breached the 35,000-mark. Maharashtra has a total of 35,058 Covid-19 cases, 8,437 people have recovered while 1,249 have lost their lives to the virus. Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi continue to struggle with a high incidence of Covid-19 cases. All these states have reported over 10,000 coronavirus cases till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-64-punjab-health-minister-says-state-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-is-best-throughout-country/story-a3B4aIsJB1JK8z9G048F3O.html
19-05-2020||India||2 Hizbul terrorists, including separatist leader’s son, killed in Srinagar encounter||Security forces gunned two terrorists of the Hizbul Mujahideen, including the son of a Kashmiri separatist leader, after an hours-long gunbattle on Tuesday in Nawa Kadal locality of Srinagar in Jammu and Kashmir, police said. Three security force personnel were also injured during the operation, which is still underway, an officer said.The terrorists have been identified as Junaid Ashraf Khan from Srinagar and Tariq Ahmed Sheikh from Pulwama.Watch | Srinagar: 2 terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in Nawa Kadal Khan, the Hizbul’s “divisional commander”, is the younger son of Mohammad Ashraf Khan Sehrai, the chairperson of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat Kashmir. And, Sheikh had joined terrorists in March this year.A senior Kashmir police officer later said: “Today’s successful conduct of joint operation by police and CRPF in downtown Srinagar leading to elimination of two top terrorists should be a clear enough indication to our tongue leashing warriors how our police and security forces work in tandem and shoulder to shoulder here in Jammu & Kashmir even in most demanding and challenging circumstances”.Two weapons and ammunition have been recovered from the encounter site, a police spokesperson said earlier.The operation began around midnight when personnel of the state police and Central Police Reserve Force (CRPF) encircled a cluster of houses in the dense neighbourhood of the city. Local residents said they heard an exchange of fire in the locality around midnight.Mobile internet service in the city has been suspended as a precautionary measure, officials said.“#Encounter has started at #Kanemazar #Nawakadal area of #Srinagar. JKP and CRPF are on the job. Further details shall follow,” Kashmir zone police had tweeted earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hizbul-terrorist-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-srinagar-s-nawa-kadal/story-T1PYcUDBuABzkUnAAIuA9I.html
19-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: The states likely to be hit by its landfall||Cyclone Amphan is all set to make the landfall on Wednesday afternoon. According to the bulletin by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday morning, the cyclone is moving north-northeastwards with a speed of 15 kmph.It lay centred in Westcentral Bay of Bengal, about 480 kilometre south of Paradip in Odisha.The cyclone will cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha (West Bengal) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) close to Sundarbans on Wednesday afternoon with maximum sustained wind speed of 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph.Watch | Cyclone Amphan | Expected damage, government preparation: Latest updates As the cyclone heads towards land, here is a list of states impacted by its movement:Odisha: Rainfall has commenced over coastal Odisha since Tuesday morning, sadi the IMD bulletin. Its intensity is likely to increase gradually and become maximum between Tuesday night and Wednesday afternoon, it further said. Also, the wind speed will gradually increase becoming gale wind speed reaching 75 to 85 kmph gusting to 95 kmph from Wedneday morning. Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Balasore, Cuttack, Mayurbhanj, Khordha and Puri districts will be affected by the cyclone’s movement, according to IMD.West Bengal: Coastal districts of Gangetic West Bengal are likely to experience light to moderate rainfall at many places starting Tuesday. The intensity of the rainfall is likely to increase gradually and reach its peak on Wedneday afternoon. The districts to be affected in West Bengal are: East Medinipur, South & North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Kolkata and adjoining areas. Gale wind speed reaching 155 to 165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph will prevail over the affected districts, the IMD forecast said.Sikkim: According to the IMD, the districts of sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim will witness light to moderate rainfall on May 21 (Thursday).Assam & Meghalaya: Light to moderate rainfall is expected at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at a few places over the western districts of Assam and Meghalaya on May 21 (Thursday), according to IMD.The IMD has warned that fishing activities should be banned in Odisha and West Bengal from May 19 to May 20 as the condition of the sea is phenomenal and is likely to continue for next 12 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-the-states-likely-to-be-hit-by-its-landfall/story-uIiz1fUHdhZjy40DeOpqHL.html
19-05-2020||India||MHA issues new guidelines for stranded migrants’ movement by Shramik trains||The Centre on Tuesday issued new guidelines, including social distancing and schedules, for the movement of stranded migrant labourers by Shramik Special trains during the lockdown put in place because of the coronavirus pandemic.The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) said the standard operating procedure (SOPs) must be strictly implemented by the central ministries and departments as well as states and Union territories.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageUnion home secretary Ajay Bhalla said the movement of Shramik trains shall be permitted by the ministry of railways (MoR) in consultation with MHA.All states and Union territories will have to designate nodal authorities and make necessary arrangements for receiving and sending the stranded worker, Bhalla said.“The train schedule, including stoppages and destination, shall be finalised by the MoR based on the requirements of States/UTs and shall be communicated by MoR to the States/ UTs for making suitable arrangements for sending and receiving such stranded workers,” the top bureaucrat wrote.Train schedule, protocols for entry and movement of passengers, services to be provided in coaches, and arrangements with states and Union territories for booking of tickets shall be publicised by the railways ministry.The states, Union territories and railways ministry shall ensure that all passengers shall be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the trains.All passengers will have to observe social distancing during boarding and the duration of their travel. On arrival at their destination, the passengers will have to adhere to health protocols prescribed by the destination states and Union territories.The new guidelines come a day after MHA directed states to cooperate to help migrant workers walking to their homes from various parts of the country. Bhalla asked the states to coordinate with the railways ministry for running more special trains to ferry the migrants.State administration must make designated rest places on the routes taken by the migrants, the home secretary said as he asked them to ensure sanitation, food and health at these areas. Bhalla added district administration and states should make sure that no migrant worker has to resort to walking on roads or railway track.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-issues-new-guidelines-for-stranded-migrants-movement-by-shramik-trains/story-EZ5Hc86riwRrA3X8MynrZK.html
19-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: With 500 fresh cases in last 24 hours, Delhi’s tally jumps to 10,554||Delhi has reported 500 fresh coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, the Delhi health department stated in its bulletin on Tuesday. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital now stands at 10,554 of which 5,638 are active cases and 166 fatalities. The number of coronavirus patients who have recovered from the infection or have been discharged has jumped to 4,750 in the national capital. Also read: ‘Show discipline’: Kejriwal’s appeal as Delhi reopens amid Covid-19 fears500 more #COVID19 cases reported in Delhi in the last 24 hours. Total cases rise to 10554, including 5638 active cases & 166 deaths: Delhi Health Department pic.twitter.com/lhxvlFEeVyThe Ministry of Health, however, in its morning notification on Covid-19 updated the number of coronavirus fatalities in the national capital at 168.  Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday, in his address, announced major relief in lockdown restrictions. Also read: Complete list of activities that are not allowed in Delhiआज से कुछ आर्थिक गतिविधियाँ शुरू हो रही हैं। हमारी बहुत बड़ी ज़िम्मेदारी है कि पूरे अनुशासन से रहें और करोना को कंट्रोल में रखें। मास्क, सोशल डिस्टन्सिंग और हैंड सैनिटायज़रआप और आपका परिवार स्वस्थ रहें- ऐसी प्रभु से प्रार्थना है।हम अनुशासन से रहेंगे, तो प्रभु हमारी रक्षा करेंगेTaking to Twitter on Tuesday, the chief minister urged the citizens to show discipline to keep coronavirus in control.“Some economic activities are starting from today. It is our great responsibility to be fully disciplined and keep the coronavirus under control,” Kejriwal tweeted. On Monday, the chief minister said that barbershops, spa, saloon and restaurants will remain closed amid the fourth phase of the Covid-19 lockdown while public transport like buses and auto rickshaws will be allowed to operate with conditions. Mass gatherings will not be allowed in the national capital, places of worship and educational institutes will remain shut, Delhi Metro will not resume operations amid lockdown 4.0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-with-500-fresh-cases-in-last-24-hours-delhi-s-tally-jumps-to-10-554/story-uns2Fzv5twr6ft54lLypDP.html
19-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: JP Nadda hails J-K govt’s move to define domicile rules and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. ‘Equality and dignity for all’: JP Nadda hails J&K govt’s move to define domicile rulesBharatiya Janata Party senior leader and party national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Tuesday welcomed the new domicile rules gazetted in Jammu and Kashmir.Nadda said that the move will give “the long due rights to all refugees including those from West Pakistan. Read more.  India reported over 30,000 fresh coronavirus cases in the past weekIndia reported more than 30,000 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past week, a look at Union health ministry data suggests. Last Tuesday, on May 12, the Ministry of Health in its morning update notified the total number of Covid-19 cases in the country at 70,756. Read more. He was India’s first to hit good balls for runs: Manjrekar on Sachin Tendulkar’s impact in the 90sFormer cricketer-turned-commentator Sanjay Manjrekar claims the Indian cricket team of the 1990s was heavily dependent on Sachin Tendulkar. Read more. Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s wife Aaliya wants sole custody of kids, says his brother Shamas ‘was an issue’Actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s wife, Aaliya, has explained why she decided to divorce him and that she expects sole custody of their children. Nawaz was served divorce papers via WhatsApp and email on May 7, according to Aaliya’s lawyer, but is yet to respond. Read more. Realme sells over 70,000 units of Narzo 10: Madhav ShethThe first sale for Realme Narzo 10 took place yesterday in India. Realme India CEO Madhav Sheth later tweeted saying that the company sold over 70,000 units of the phone in less than 128 seconds. Read more. Don’t clam up. Say what’s on your mindFor Geetanjali Kumar, a psychologist in Delhi, the process of examining and getting to know her patients would start before their first consultation. “I often observed them in the waiting area — body language, expressions, gestures can say as much as words,” she says. Read more. Forget Romeo Juliet, this love story between a corgi and a pug has us extremely investedLove can strike at anytime and for these corgi and pug doggos that time may be now. A TikToker has shared the most adorable videos to document her and her pupper’s meeting with the cutest corgi next door. Read more. Bihar Board 10th result 2020: BSEB Bihar matric result expected to be declared tomorrow at biharboard.ac.inBihar School Examination Board (BSEB) is expected to declare the Bihar Board 10th result 2020 anytime soon. The board has been working tirelessly to complete all the procedures on time and declare the results as early as possible. Read more. Watch: Donald Trump threatens to permanently halt funding to WHOUS President threatened to permanently halt funding to the WHO. Donald Trump escalated his threats over WHO’s handling of covid-19. He said he would cut funding if it didn’t commit to improvements within 30 days. Trump wrote a letter to WHO chief which he posted on Twitter. Earlier, responding to media queries Trump hit out at WHO for siding with China. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-jp-nadda-hails-j-k-govt-s-move-to-define-domicile-rules-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4wGoW0LxNJohsqDW9bPY4K.html
19-05-2020||India||Supreme Court rejects Arnab Goswami’s plea seeking CBI probe into FIR against him, extends protection by three weeks||The Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected journalist Arnab Goswami’s petition for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into various cases pertaining to hate speech pertaining to his remarks on the Palghar lynching incident. The court allowed the Mumbai Police to continue with its probe into the case. The bench headed by Justice DY Chandrachud also refused to quash the May 2 FIR registered against Goswami for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by making derogatory remarks against a religious community during the broadcast on migrants gathered in Bandra on his channel Republic TV. It directed Goswami to pursue his remedies before a competent court.The apex court, however, extended protection from arrest to Goswami for another three weeks. It asked the Mumbai Police Commissioner to ensure protection to Goswami. On April 24, on Goswami’s plea, the court had granted him protection from arrest that expired this week. In that order, the court had also stayed multiple FIRs in relation to the same broadcast related to Palghar lynching incident. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court bench maintained its earlier order which clubbed all FIRs pertaining to the broadcast of April 21 to be probed under a single FIR. This FIR registered at Nagpur Sadar police station was transferred to NM Joshi Marg police station in Mumbai.The top court had on May 11 directed that no coercive action should be taken against Goswami in the fresh FIR lodged by Mumbai Police and had reserved its verdict on both of his petitions.Goswami had claimed in the top court that he was interrogated by Mumbai Police for over 12 hours with regard to FIR on alleged defamatory statements and one of the two investigating officers probing the case against him has tested positive for Covid-19. He alleged of being politically victimised for speaking against Congress chief Sonia Gandhi during his broadcast.The Maharashtra government too moved the apex court alleging that Goswami has been misusing protection granted by the top court and “browbeating” the police by “creating fear psychosis”. The state government requested the Supreme Court to insulate its probe from interference by Goswami. The FIR against Goswami pertains to hate speech and promoting enmity between religious groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-arnab-goswami-s-plea-seeking-cbi-probe-into-fir-extends-protection-by-three-weeks/story-wTlSvMVpa9hGpKYEAtm3MI.html
19-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Ludhiana doctors protest poor quality of masks, get assurance from hospital administration||A day after two more of its employees tested positive of coronavirus disease Covid-19, the doctors and the paramedical staff at the civil hospital in Ludhiana staged protest on Tuesday against the poor quality of face masks being provided to them. The protest, however, was called off after assurance from civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga that the masks and the other protective equipments will be replaced and the new material will reach by evening.Dr Bagga summoned the factory owner who had manufactured the masks seeking an explanation.Earlier, the doctors had raised the issue of poor quality of PPE kits. The protesting staff alleged that the N-95 mask was of substandard quality which provides no protection.Dr Milan Verma, who had raised the issue, said that the masks cannot be stitched or stapled especially if it is to be used in Covid-19 facility. He also claimed that the filter of the masks kept falling off. The employees staged protests holding masks in their hands. They refused to join duty till the time they are provided good quality masks and PPE kits.So far, one former doctor and four ward attendants have tested positive for Covid-19.Meanwhile, 22 positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in Ludhiana on Monday.They include two rape accused, six undertrial prisoners lodged in Borstal jail, two railway protection force (RPF) personnel - one a contact of a Covid-19 positive patient - and five other cases from different parts of the district.Meanwhile, 15 nurses working on contract and deployed at isolation centre of the civil hospital, also staged protest and demanded hike in salary. They also accused the authorities of the hospital for not conducting their Covid-19 tests.The protesting nurses said that they have come in contact with infected ward attendants and patients, who could be asymptomatic Covid-19 carriers.Amritsar continued to lead the Covid-19 tally in Punjab with 305 positive cases recorded on Monday, followed by 209 in Jalandhar and 155 in Tarn Taran.A total of 52,955 samples have been taken so far in the state and 48,813 of them have tested negative while reports of 2,162 are still awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-ludhiana-doctors-protest-poor-quality-of-masks/story-6ojLSchAKGw789My3oZgWL.html
19-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally breaches 1 lakh-mark in 78 days:Here’s how other countries fared||The number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India has surged past the 100,000-mark in 78 days since the outbreak started in the country. Though India’s curve is not as steep as most of the 10 countries that have been the worst-hit by the pandemic, but the rate of increase of cases is yet to show a steep drop that nations such as China and Iran have seen.From the day the outbreak started in India, the country took 78 days to reach 100,000 cases. Of the 10 countries in the world that have crossed the 100,000-mark, only two have seen a slower rate of increase in cases than India. The comparisons between different countries have been made keeping Day 1 as the first day each nation reported over 500 cases. China reported an extremely high rate of cases, at times even straying above the ‘doubles everyday’ line. By Day 30, China flattened its curve completely, dropping below the ‘doubles every three days’ line. The United States and Russia, the two countries with the highest number of cases in the world, currently are the only two nations that are above the ‘doubles every week’ line.Here’s a look at days these countries took to report 100,000 cases:Turkey: 44Italy: 60 Spain: 61Brazil: 68 United States: 69 Germany: 70 UK: 77 Iran: 78 India: 78France: 80 Russia: 91(Sources: HT’S Covid-19 dashboard and Worldometer)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-breaches-1-lakh-mark-in-78-days-here-s-how-other-countries-fared/story-VwSLYCiRTAi64KtspC7hfL.html
19-05-2020||India||Covid-19 update: India reported over 30,000 fresh coronavirus cases in the past week||India reported more than 30,000 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past week, a look at Union health ministry data suggests.Last Tuesday, on May 12, the Ministry of Health in its morning update notified the total number of Covid-19 cases in the country at 70,756. As per the health ministry data on the morning of May 12, there were 46,008 active coronavirus cases in the country, 22,454 patients had been cured or discharged while 2,293 people had died from the deadly contagion.A week later, today morning, the ministry announced that the national Covid-19 tally has breached the 100,000-mark. There are 101,139 coronavirus cases in the country - 30,380 more as compared to last Tuesday’s figure (70,756). There are 58,802 active coronavirus cases in the country while 39,173 patients have been cured or discharged. More than 3,000 people in the country ( 3,163 to be precise) have died from the deadly contagion till date in India.Also read: 4,970 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours push India’s tally past 1 lakh-markMaharashtra continues to be the worst-affected state when it comes to coronavirus infection. The Covid-19 tally in the state has breached the 35,000-mark. There are 35,058 Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and 1,249 fatalities. The number of patients who have recovered from the disease or have been discharged from the hospital have climbed to 8,437 in Maharashtra.Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi are the states with the highest incidence of Covid-19 cases.Also read: ‘Show discipline,’ Kejriwal’s appeal as Delhi reopens amid Covid-19 fearsIn Tamil Nadu, Covid-19 cases have soared to 11,760. The Covid-19 tally in Gujarat, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 11,745. Six hundred and ninety-four people have died due to the coronavirus disease here. Gujarat has seen 4,804 recoveries so far.As many as 10,054 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. One hundred and sixty-eight people have died from the infection in Delhi while 4,485 have made a recovery, the health ministry stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-india-reported-over-30-000-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-the-past-week/story-Agehk3DFTejqzE99m4BfqN.html
19-05-2020||India||It’s time to flex the lex: Demystifying new words and top searches in a Covid-19 affected world||This year has been a roller-coaster ride, bringing with it drastic overhauls and dynamic shifts in not just economies and trade, but in language as well. As a result of Covid-19, many new words have become part of the common lexicon. A quick scan through web searches throws up quite a mixed bag of searches in India. At first, the searches brought results for the medical terminology, such as PPE Kits, but as the lockdowns kept getting extended, the searches showed results for the social outcome of the Coronavirus. Searches also show that the most trending words change if there’s a national event, government announcement or celebrity news. Most of this terminology is added to dictionaries including Oxford English Dictionary (OED) and Merriam-Webster in real time and monthly data is released. Here are some words that people searched for the most, since the beginning of 2020:Social Distancing: Remember the assembly meets in school where one-arm-distance was mandatory? It is that, but the negligence of which would have far grave consequences. Tan-Doori, Soshal Distan-Singh, joke all you want, but do not flout the rules.Global Pandemic: A worldwide spread of a new disease, affecting more people than estimated. Did someone say Tik-Tok? Flatten the Curve: Implementing measures to delay the spread of the infection and lower the number of new cases per day, flattening the curve also helps buy time to treat more patients effectively. Lockdown: We have heard enough of this word to not know what it means. X Æ A-12: The name of Elon Musk and his partner, Grimes’ son, there are several theories surrounding it, none of which have to do anything with PAN or Aadhaar numbers.Infodemic: An information overload in times of a pandemic, this portmanteau thrives on messaging apps and chat groups, often leading to unverified news generation and opinion formation. WFH: Work From Home. An alternative to going to work, it is a situation where you can wear a formal shirt with shorts because no one would bother checking over an official video call.Quarantine and Chill: A spin on a pop-culture reference, it means to be comfortable at home while following all rules of social distancing. Do we hear sobs?Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-s-time-to-flex-the-lex-demystifying-new-words-and-top-searches-in-a-covid-19-affected-world/story-MFOvWVh5Lj8chDXLXgP4KP.html
19-05-2020||India||Centre clears appointment of judge to Karnataka HC after delay of more than 3 years||The central government on Monday notified the appointment of judicial officer P Krishna Bhat as a judge of the Karnataka high court judge, almost four years after his name was recommended by the Supreme Court collegium. During the period since Bhat’s name was first recommended on August 23, 2016, the Supreme Court collegium passed resolutions three times recommending his elevation, the latest on October 15, 2019.“In exercise of the power conferred by clause (1) of Article 224 of the Constitution of India, the President is pleased to appoint Sri Panjigadde Krishna Bhat, to be an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court, for a period of two years with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office,” the notification appointing Bhat said, ending the deadlock between the Central government and the collegium. Bhat’s name was recommended by the Karnataka high court’s collegium in February 2016. It was cleared by the Supreme Court collegium in August 2016, but was returned by the Central government, which cited a complaint filed against him by another judge in Karnataka.The Supreme Court collegium stood by its recommendation and reiterated it through a resolution dated April 6, 2017. It was again reiterated on October 15, 2019, when the collegium went to the extent of directing the Central government to process the file on Bhat’s appointment “most expeditiously”.While other Supreme Court collegium recommendations made in October 2019 to the Karnataka high court were processed by the Central government, Bhat’s appointment took another seven months.The episode regarding Bhat’s appointment to the Karnataka high court generated a lot of attention, particularly after Justice Jasti Chelameswar, now retired, wrote a strongly worded letter in March 2018 to then Chief Justice Dipak Misra, objecting to what he considered as interference by the government with the elevation of Bhat. The letter said the executive was trying to impede Bhat’s appointment.Bhat was embroiled in controversy in 2016 when a complaint was filed against him by another judge, MS Shashikala, when Bhat’s elevation was around the corner. The complaint was investigated by the then Karnataka high court chief justice SK Mukherjee, who cleared Bhat and noted that while he was serving as district and sessions judge in 2014, he had sent a report to the high court about the alleged misconduct of Shashikala, who was then a first class judicial magistrate. Mukherjee stated in his report that Shashikala had made allegations against Bhat to malign him.When the collegium recommended Bhat’s elevation to the Karnataka high court, the Central government sought a report from the high court chief justice on Bhat. Justice Chelameswar, in his letter to Chief Justice Dipak Misra, objected to the same, stating there was no such instance in the past he could recollect when the executive bypassed the Supreme Court collegium regarding a recommendation made by the collegium and sought a report from the high court chief justice about the concerned judge, despite the fact that allegations against the judge had already been held to be false.In 2018, the elevation of Justice KM Joseph to the Supreme Court had been delayed for nearly eight months before it was eventually notified in August 2018.Former Chief Justice TS Thakur had broken down during a conference of chief ministers and chief justices in April 2016, citing the delay by the Central government in clearing names recommended by the collegium for appointment as judges.High courts are functioning with only 64% of their sanctioned strength according to the latest figures released by the law ministry. As of May 1, there are only 694 judges in the 25 high courts, as against a sanctioned strength of 1,079, with 385 posts vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-clears-appointment-of-judge-to-karnataka-hc-after-delay-of-more-than-3-years/story-hSe2ADkIxHV2t9m7srUedO.html
19-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: Amit Shah assures help to Bengal, all fishing activities to be suspended||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) asked all fishing activities to be suspended in West Bengal and Odisha till May 20, in the wake of Super Cyclone Amphan. The cyclone is expected to make landfall on Wednesday (May 20).These two states will be worst affected by the cyclone, which is packing in wind speeds upto 200 kmph.Meanwhile, Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and assured her help to deal with situation arising due to the cyclone, news agency ANI reported.The weather department, however, said that Amphan lay centred in west-central Bay of Bengal and is likely to weaken into an ‘extremely severe cyclonic storm’ by noon on Tuesday.The system, which was situated 670 km south-southwest of Digha in West Bengal, is very likely to move north-northeastwards across northwest Bay of Bengal, and cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts in the afternoon or evening of Wednesday as a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’, the IMD said.Also read: Big challenge to tackle Super Cyclone Amphan amid Covid-19 outbreak, says NDRFThe IMD said that Cyclone Amphan is expected to cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya islands in Bangladesh on May 20 as a very severe cyclonic storm, after losing some steam as it approaches landfall.Gale wind speeds reaching 240 to 250 kmph were prevailing over west-central and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal, the Met office said, adding, it will gradually reduce to 200 to 210 kmph gusting to 230 kmph by Tuesday evening.There is also likelihood of massive harm to standing crops, plantations and orchards, the Met office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-amit-shah-assures-help-to-bengal-all-fishing-activity-to-be-suspended/story-wlUtl5f4mOlBk46C5kyIcM.html
19-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: Can you go to salons and parlours in Rajasthan? Here’s the new guideline||The Rajasthan government has issued the guidelines to be followed during lockdown 4.0, easing a lot of restrictions across the state.The state government has classified red, orange and green zones under urban and panchayat samiti categories during the fourth phase of the lockdown. Earlier, the classification of zones was district wise.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“These guidelines are based on twin principles of safety and precautions against community spread of Covid-19 as well as securing livelihood through the resumption of economic activities in the state. They are in the suppression of all previous orders in this regard, unless specifically mentioned,” Rajeeva Swarup, the additional chief secretary, with the home department, said on Monday.The restriction of movement and gathering of five and more people continues. The movement of individuals for all essential activities is prohibited between 7pm to 7am and shops are to close by 6pm.No relaxation of any kind has been given for containment or curfew area. People cannot move in or out of these areas, except for medical emergencies and buying essential goods. Here’s more about lockdown 4.0 guidelines:Which areas are under red zone?The urban areas of Ajmer, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Dungarpur, Jaipur, Jalore, Jodhpur, Kota, Nagaur, Pali, Rajsamand, Sikar, Sirohi, Udaipur are under the red zone.Which places have been categorised as orange zone?The urban areas of Alwar, Banswara, Baran, Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Sawaimadhopur and Tonk.Which areas are under green zone?Bundi, Ganganagar, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Karauli and Pratapgarh are under green zone.What’s allowed as per zones?Red zone: Government departments catering to essential work will function with full strength; 50% staff for remaining government and private offices and rest will work from home. No commercial passenger transport will be allowed.Orange zone: All government and private offices with two-third staff, rest will work from home. Parks will be open from 7am to 6.30pm. Taxis, cabs, auto and cycle rickshaws have been allowed to ply but city buses can’t.Green zone: All vehicles, including city buses, allowed. What are the prohibited activities?Domestic and international air travel, Metro, educational institutes, hospitality services, cinema hall, malls, gyms, pools, bars, large gatherings, religious places, and sale of paan, gutka and tobacco.What will function with restrictions?Salons, barbershops and beauty parlours can open. Sports complexes, stadiums, golf courses, polo grounds will be allowed to open but clubhouses and spectators not allowed.Restaurant, eateries and mithai shops can open but only for takeaway orders. Wedding related gathering will be allowed with prior information to subdivisional magistrates and not more than 50 people.Not more than 20 people will be allowed at funerals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-can-you-go-to-salons-and-parlours-in-rajasthan-here-s-the-new-guideline/story-bL2ngG7BELcrf0RrA7OP9O.html
19-05-2020||India||‘Equality and dignity for all’: JP Nadda hails J&K govt’s move to define domicile rules||Bharatiya Janata Party senior leader and party national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Tuesday welcomed the new domicile rules gazetted in Jammu and Kashmir.Nadda said that the move will give “the long due rights to all refugees including those from West Pakistan.“Equality and dignity for all,” Nadda tweeted.The new domicile rules gazetted in J&K are a welcome step. This will give the long due rights to all refugees incl those from West Pak, SC workers from rest of India settled in J&K for decades,children of KPs living outside J&K to claim domicile now. Equality & Dignity for all. pic.twitter.com/wymWMuvp6lNadda’s reaction comes a day after the Jammu & Kashmir government on Monday notified Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020, which specify the conditions and the process to obtain the documents required tor applying to jobs and avail other privileges restricted to residents in Jammu and Kashmir.As per the new rules and procedure:• West Pakistan Refugees (WPRs), safai karamcharis and children of women married outside Jammu and Kashmir shall also be now eligible for Domicile Certificate.• All migrants and their children who are registered with Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner will be granted domicile certificate.• All people who have resided in the UT for 15 years, or have studied for seven years and appeared in class 10th or 12th examination in an educational institution in the region, and their children, are eligible for grant of domicile. • Kashmiri migrants can get the Domicile certificate on the production of either a PRC or certificate of registration of migrant.• Children of central government, All India service, bank and PSU, statutory body, and central university officials, who have served in Jammu of Kashmir for a total period of 10 years will also be eligible for domicile status. • Children of those residents of Jammu and Kashmir who reside outside the Union territory in connection with their employment of business or other professional or vocational reasons have also become eligible for grant of domicile status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/equality-and-dignity-for-all-jp-nadda-hails-j-k-govt-s-move-to-define-domicile-rules/story-kgj2lwZtDwgJY28H2ozfNN.html
19-05-2020||India||Former SSB jawan, who murdered 3 including wife and son, killed in police firing in Assam||A former Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) jawan, who was absconding after allegedly shooting dead three persons, including his wife and son, was killed in police firing in Upper Assam’s Dibrugarh district early morning on Tuesday.According to the police, Sanjay Das (48), a resident of Hukhanpukhuri, had shot dead his wife Swapna (42) and his son Nabajyoti (20) at their home with his licenced .32 pistol on Monday morning.The accused, who had taken voluntary retirement from SSB a few years ago, then went to the residence of a maternal uncle, Ghanakanta Hazarika, and shot at him as well before fleeing.All three injured were admitted to the Assam Medical College Hospital (AMCH) in Dibrugarh where they succumbed to their injuries.Soon, a manhunt was launched to nab Das, who had fled with his pistol and several rounds of ammunition.“Later, he was found hiding in a deserted building. We negotiated with him for nearly three hours asking him to surrender. But he refused and kept firing at our team intermittently,” said Padmanabh Baruah, additional superintendent of police, Dibrugarh.“When the accused fired five-six shots at us, we retaliated. He got injured and was taken to AMCH early on Tuesday morning, where he was declared brought dead,” he added.In another separate incident, a man, who was under home quarantine, after returning to Assam a few days ago, killed his wife in Dhemaji district on Saturday night. The accused, Lintu Gogoi, has been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-ssb-jawan-who-murdered-3-including-wife-and-son-killed-in-police-firing-in-assam/story-ZcVqYoi0XPzYxx2IZ5FMyH.html
19-05-2020||India||‘Ensure no migrant worker has to walk on road or railway track’: Home ministry to states||The Union Home Ministry has directed all the states to cooperate in order to mitigate the distress of migrant workers, who are walking towards their native places on foot from various parts of the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn his letter to the chief secretaries, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla asked the states to coordinate with the railways ministry for running more special trains to ferry the migrants.Bhalla also asked the state administration to make designated rest places on routes taken by the migrants to reach their homes. These places can be identified with the help of district administration, and NGOs can help in building them, he further said in the letter. Proactive coord between States & @RailMinIndia reqd to run more trains; run more buses for smooth transport of #MigrantWorkers.Create rest places with food etc for people on foot, till they are guided to bus/rail stations.Dispel rumours, give clarity on train/bus departures:MHA pic.twitter.com/EUHZgU5egDThe home secretary also asked the states to take into account the requirement of sanitation, food and health at these rest places and alleviate the notion of long quarantine at these places.Also read:  Stopped from cycling home, migrants wait for hours in buses He also said that district administration and states should make sure that no migrant worker has to resort to walking on roads or railway track.The letter, sent on Monday, was posted on Twitter by the home ministry spokesperson today when three different accidents claimed the lives of more than a dozen migrant workers.Nine labourers were killed in Bihar’s Naugachia in early hours of Tuesday in a head-on collision between a bus carrying migrants and a truck. Five others were injured.The truck fell into a ditch after hitting the bus.In another accident, four migrant workers were killed and 15 others injured after a bus they were travelling in crashed into a truck in Maharashtra’s Yavatmal early on Tuesday. The bus was travelling from Solapur to Jharkhand.Three migrant labourers were killed and more than 12 injured after a vehicle carrying them overturned on a highway late on Monday in Uttar Pradesh’s Mahoba district. About 17 people were travelling in the vehicle when the accident took place on the Jhansi-Mirzapur highway.Earlier on Monday, at least six migrant workers were killed and several others were injured in separate road accidents in Bihar when they were returning home during the ongoing lockdown to combat the coronavirus outbreak. The accidents took at Gopalganj, Bhagalpur, Patna, Bhojpur and Begusarai districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-no-migrant-worker-has-to-talk-on-road-or-railway-track-home-ministry-to-states/story-wdETX5ocEDsByArPq75kgM.html
19-05-2020||India||9 labourers killed, several injured as their truck collides with bus in Bihar’s Bhagalpur||Nine workers were killed in a head-on collision between a bus and a truck at Naugachia early on Tuesday, police officials said. All those killed were travelling in the truck carrying iron pipes. The bus was carrying migrant workers, five of whom sustained minor injuries. The accident occurred on NH-31 as the truck collided with the bus coming from the opposite direction near Kharik. The truck fell into a ditch after hitting the bus.“So far, nine bodies have been extracted. They all died as the truck overturned and they were buried under the iron pipes. The identity cards of the dead men showed some of them belonged to East and West Champaran districts,” said Naugachia’s superintendent of police Nidhi Rani. “It is not clear whether they were migrant labourers. We are trying to contact their families to ascertain other details.” Police officials said the bus was coming from Darbhanga and was on it way to Banka. “These migrant workers had alighted at Darbhanga from a Shramik Special train and were being transported to Banka. Fortunately, a few of them received only minor injuries,” an official said.“The bus later left for Banka,” Rani said.On Monday, at least six migrant workers were killed and several others injured in separate road accidents in Bihar, while they were returning home amid the Covid-19 lockdown. The accidents occurred in Gopalganj, Bhagalpur, Patna, Bhojpur and Begusarai districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-labourers-who-arrived-by-train-killed-in-bihar-accident-during-onward-journey/story-znS5ggjsLRZe4oT10Ya8vK.html
19-05-2020||India||Darul Uloom Deoband issues fatwa, asks Muslims to offer Eid prayers at home||Islamic seminary Darul Uloom Deoband has issued a fatwa asking Muslims to offer their Eid prayers this time at home, instead of congregating at mosques. The directive comes amid a nationwide lockdown to slow down the spread of coronavirus. Despite the relaxations announced in the lockdown, religious and other large gatherings are still banned. The fatwa was issued in response to a query put to the seminary, its spokesman Ashraf Usmani told PTI. The fatwa said the Eid namaz can be offered in the same manner that the Friday prayers are now being read at home. It said not holding the namaz in the usual manner is pardonable in circumstances such as these. Eid falls on May 24 or 25 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darul-uloom-deoband-issues-fatwa-asks-muslims-to-offer-eid-prayers-at-home/story-KKszRt0If39Q0XeS8kVjZM.html
19-05-2020||India||Suspected Covid-19 patient left outside J&K hospital, outrage on social media||A picture of a suspected Covid-19 patient, along with an attendant, lying on the stairs of Jammu and Kashmir’s Chest Diseases (CD) hospital triggered outrage on social media, prompting the authorities to take note.In the heartbreaking picture, a woman is lying on her back on the stairs of the hospital while the attendant is trying to comfort her.The duo was captured in frame by HT’s Waseem Andrabi after they were brought from Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital in an ambulance and left on the stairs. The ambulance driver sped away without caring to help them shift properly. “Patients were disembarked from the ambulance and driver sped away, leaving them in hospital premises unattended, “ Andrabi said. People felt outraged. “It speaks a lot how badly patients are being treated. At this time they need our heping hand not this attitude. Action should be taken against persons for negligence,” said a Srinagar resident Muzaffar Ahmad.Head of Chest Medicine at CD Hospital, Dr Naveed Shah, said that they witnessed rush of patient today.“9 patients were transferred from SMHS to CD hospital in one go. Could not have shifted all pts in one go to the emergency and ward especially positive ones for fear of transmission of infection. Authorities informed to shift at intervals to avoid it in future.. Matter addressed,” Shah said in a tweet. Andrabi said that the patient was later shifted to the ward by the workers of CD Hospital. Three Covid-19 patients died in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, taking the total number of death toll in the union territory to 16. All the deaths happened at CD hospital. Moreover, 102 persons tested positive for the respiratory disease on Monday, 83 of them were tested at CD hospital alone. With this, the total number of cases in the Union territory rose to 1,289.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-covid-19-patient-left-outside-j-k-hospital-outrage-on-social-media/story-ma3WUbyWxZSgnnIS9jaGPM.html
19-05-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: No new cases in Delhi, tally at 10,054; 8 more deaths reported||Coronavirus cases in the country breached the 100,000-mark on Tuesday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 10,1139. There are 58,802 active coronavirus cases in the country, 39,173 patients have been cured or discharged while 3,163 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have crossed the 35,000-mark while in Gujarat, the second worst-affected state, the Covid-19 cases near 12,000.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.MaharashtraWith 35058 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 1249 deaths so far while 8437 patients have recovered.GujaratThe tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 11745. While 694 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 4804 recoveries so far.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 11760 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 4406 recoveries and 81 Covid-19 deaths.Also read: 4,970 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours push India’s tally past 1 lakh-markDelhiAs many as 10054 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. One hundred and sixty-eight people have died from the infection while 4485 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 5507 on Tuesday. The state has reported 138 fatalities, and 3218 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 5236 positive cases of coronavirus. Two hundred and fifty-two people have died from Covid-19 here while 2435 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 4605 in Uttar Pradesh. While 2783 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 118 have died from the infection here.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 2825 on Tuesday. There have been 244 deaths and 1006 recoveries in the state.TelanganaThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 1597 in state so far. Thousand people have made a recovery from the virus while 35 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 2474 positive Covid-19 patients and 1552 cases of recovery. Fifty people have died.Punjab The Covid-19 tally jumped to 1980 on Tuesday. While 37 people have died in Punjab, 1547 patients have recovered. Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 1289. 15 people have died from the infection while 609 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 1246 Covid-19 cases and 37 deaths. As many as 530 people have been cured and discharged.Haryana The state has reported 928 coronavirus cases so far and 14 deaths. Five hundred and ninety-eight people have recovered from Covid-19 in the state.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 630 coronavirus cases on Tuesday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 497 people have successfully recovered.In Bihar, 1391 people have tested positive for coronavirus, nine people have died while 494 patients have recovered. Odisha has 876 Covid-19 positive patients, 220 have recovered while four people have died. Jharkhand has 223 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 113 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 93 coronavirus patients, 52 patients have recovered from the infection, one patient has died. Himachal Pradesh has 90 cases, three patients have died and 44 have recovered. Assam has reported 107 Covid-19 cases, two people have died while 41 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 93 cases of coronavirus and 59 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 196 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 54 have recovered, three people have died. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, all patients have recovered.Ladakh has 43 patients, 41 people have recovered. Goa reported 38 cases of Covid-19 disease, 7 patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported 18 cases, 9 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 13 cases and one death, 11 patients have recovered. One patient has died. Manipur has seven coronavirus cases, two have recovered. Tripura, meanwhile, has 167 cases, 85 patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Dadar Nagar Havel, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. All patients in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-no-new-cases-in-delhi-tally-remains-at-10-054-8-more-deaths/story-U41lKzJigRikDAFKFV5g2M.html
19-05-2020||India||Tripura professor builds robot to help Covid-19 frontline warriors||With the motive to reduce possibilities of contamination of the frontline workers in the hospitals while tackling Covid-19 patients, one young assistant professor in Tripura has made a device that can serve food, medicines and other essential items to the patients without human intervention.If this technique is implemented, Tripura will likely to be the first in the North-Eastern region to use robots in Covid-19 centres during the pandemic.Instead of donating in government relief funds, Harjeet Nath, assistant professor of Tripura University’s Chemical and Polymer Engineering Department, developed this device using mostly available spare parts including three motors, two rechargeable lead acid batteries, transmitter and receiver and USB output. He named it ‘Covid-19 WARBOT’.In the robot, he had installed a two-way communication device in the form of a Wi-Fi-controlled camera with inbuilt microphone and speaker to help both the doctors or nurses and patients to communicate directly and that too, remaining at a safe place. It took him a week to make the device for which he spent nearly Rs 25,000.“This technique can reduce frequent visits of the doctors or nurses to the infected patients. The doctors or nurses can get view of the patients through a mobile phone or computer present with them and make direct communication with them. The patient can only listen to the doctors and act accordingly. I hope this robot can help the doctors and nurses working in Covid-19 centres here. Also I made this choice when the number of Covid-19 patients in Tripura reached 100,” said Nath.Currently, he is doing research in waste to energy utilisation and water purification areas.Explaining the functions of the robot, Nath told that it can carry load of around 10-15 kilograms of materials and its operation range is 15-20 metres. It can work continuously for nearly an hour as the total power of the rechargeable batteries is nearly 135 Watt and it will take three-four hours to get charged.Watching online the utilisation of robots in the Covid-19 hospitals in different countries, Nath got the idea to make such a device in the North-Eastern state. “I am from engineering background and so, making this device was pretty easy on my part. My wife, a former school teacher, also helped me a lot in this case. The only problem I faced that I had to depend on locally available spare parts as Tripura doesn’t have good gadgets to prepare more sophisticated versions of the device,” he said. When asked whether the state government is aware of this technique, Nath told, “I mailed details about the robot on May 15. And I am yet to hear from them. However, I am planning for filing a patent very soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-professor-builds-robot-to-help-covid-19-frontline-warriors/story-Ky0pZwtn0hVOc65iTYJm8M.html
19-05-2020||India||4,970 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours push India’s tally past 1 lakh-mark||India reported 4,970 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 134 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the tally past the 100,000-mark, according to the Union health ministry on Tuesday.The surge in numbers comes after nearly three months after the coronavirus pandemic began in the country and the second day of the fourth phase of the countrywide lockdown.Moreover, the Covid-19 cases in India have doubled to over 100,000 from 50,000 in less than two weeks.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday that India has successfully managed to delay the peaking of the curve by imposing lockdown and other public health measures in a timely manner. “There are several mathematical models which are predicting the course of the pandemic in India, but till now, we have managed to avoid the dramatically high numbers that several models predicted,” Harsh Vardhan said. There were 58,802 active cases in the country and 3,163 people have died of the highly-contagious disease even as the number of recoveries went up to 39,173, according to the Union health ministry.India’s worst-affected state, Maharashtra, now has more than 35,000 cases and 1249 fatalities, while Tamil Nadu and Gujarat have reported their Covid-19 tally is more than 11,000. Delhi has over 10,000 Covid-19 cases so far as 168 people have succumbed to the disease.The national capital has one of the highest testing rates in the country, with 6,919 tests per million population. The national testing rate for India is 1,540 tests per million population, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-970-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-push-india-s-tally-past-1-lakh-mark/story-PtexwEgfx0dFRDPe2TdoIK.html
19-05-2020||India||4 migrant labourers killed in road accident in Maharashtra’s Yavatmal||Four migrant workers were killed and 15 others injured after a bus they were travelling in crashed into a truck in Maharashtra’s Yavatmal early on Tuesday, news agency ANI reported.The bus was travelling from Solapur to Jharkhand, ANI said.More details are awaited.This is the latest in the series of accidents involving migrants labourers in the country as they are making their way home amid the lockdown clamped to reduce the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Before Tuesday’s accident, three migrant labourers were killed and more than 12 injured after a vehicle carrying them overturned on a highway late on Monday in Uttar Pradesh’s Mahoba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-migrant-labourers-killed-in-road-accident-in-maharashtra-s-yavatmal/story-zryC5ethRmcsIYtt3dNTvI.html
19-05-2020||India||India’s case count crosses 100,000, Delhi eases restrictions: Covid-19 news today||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India crossed the 100,000-mark on Monday with 3,081 fatalities. Meanwhile, Delhi eased its lockdown restrictions, allowing public transport after over 50 days and opening all shops in marketplaces except those in malls.Cases exceed 100,000, but low fatality ratio offers hopeThe number of known coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India crossed 100,000 on Monday, two-and-a-half months after the outbreak began taking hold in the country, which then went into an unprecedented lockdown that slowed the outbreak to a significant extent.Read MoreExcept Metro, all public transport thrown open in Delhi Delhi residents can hop into public transport — cab services and buses; not the metro yet — and shop at pretty much any marketplace (malls are still closed), as long as they are not over the age of 65, and the markets are not in Noida or Gurugram, according to the latest guidelines issued by the state government.Read MoreVaccine developers report first positive sign in human trialEarly data from Moderna Inc’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate, the first to be tested in the United States, showed that it produced protective antibodies in a small group of healthy volunteers, the company said on Monday.Read MoreCBSE releases date sheet for Class 10, 12 exams from July 1The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday released its revised timetable for examinations of pending papers of Class 10 and 12 to be conducted between July 1 and 15. The exams had been postponed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic that has swept through the country.Read MoreCovid-19: What you need to know todayAs India enters the next phase of its exit from a complete lockdown – that’s what the next two weeks to May 31 are, more than an extension – testing becomes even more significant. Only widespread testing can show the real extent of the spread of the viral pandemic.Read MoreOffices needn’t be shut after a few cases: GovtThe Union health ministry on Monday issued guidelines on preventive measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease at workplace, recommending distancing norms and rules on reporting of infections and sanitisation among other things.Read MoreStates need to improve coordination: Cabinet SecretaryThe Centre has asked state governments to be more proactive in reaching out to stranded migrant workers and improve last-mile coordination to ensure that the workers reach their destinations safely and aren’t driven by desperation to walk or use unauthorised transport to get home.Read MoreStates can’t dilute guidelines: MHAAs the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown began on Monday, the ministry of home affairs reminded the states and Union territories that they cannot dilute the federal guidelines but are free to make them stricter based on local assessment and health ministry guidelines.Read MoreStimulus package a lost opportunity: Bernstein Global securities research firm Sanford Bernstein termed the ~20 lakh crore economic revival package announced by the Modi government to cope with the coronavirus pandemic and the impact of the lockdown imposed to slow its spread as a “lost opportunity” echoing growing concern about whether it would help revive the economy.Read MoreUP accepts Cong offer of buses for migrantsThe Uttar Pradesh government on Monday accepted Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s offer that the party would run 1,000 buses at its expense to help ease the movement of migrant workers in the state. The decision came a day after chief minister Yogi Adityanath targeted the Congress over the transport of stranded workers as the party lined up buses on the UP-Rajasthan border.Read MoreNo test needed for emergency casesIn a huge relief to patients needing emergency surgeries, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) directed that no emergency procedure (including deliveries) should be delayed for lack of testing—hospitals can simultaneously send samples for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing.Read MoreTN boy 1st case of Covid inflammatory syndromeAn eight-year-old boy from Chennai has become India’s first case of acute illness because of hyper-inflammatory syndrome associated with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This syndrome describes inflammation in the entire body, including vital organs, which leads to multiorgan failure and shock.Read MoreNo saliva, sweat it out to shine the ball: ICC panelPlayers must be barred from using saliva to shine the ball but can continue to use their sweat, the Anil Kumble-headed ICC Cricket Committee recommended on Monday as a major health precaution in the game.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-case-count-crosses-100-000-delhi-eases-restrictions-covid-19-news-today/story-rFf9hpAOpOKoKPF8CKQ99N.html
19-05-2020||India||Youngsters glued to social media amid lockdown, nearly half experience heightened stress: Study||The coronavirus pandemic-induced lockdown is leading youngsters to spend more time on social media with many remaining glued to them for hours at a stretch and this could be leading to increased stress levels in nearly half of them, a study has found.The study conducted by professors from Delhi’s Lady Shri Ram College and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) surveyed youngsters from middle- and upper-middle-class families and found that on an average they spent up to six and a half hours every day on social media platforms.Keeping in view this tendency, the study has stressed the importance of the dissemination of accurate information on these platforms as impressionable youngsters are avidly consuming the content.The study by LSR faculty members Dr Kanika Ahuja, Dr Anisha Juneja and Dr Yatan Pal Singh Balhara of AIIMS is based on data of more than 300 college students in the 18-25 years age group. Of these 185 were females and 123 males; 274 were enrolled in undergraduate courses and 34 in postgraduate courses“The average time being spent on social media (by those surveyed) was found to be 6.75 hours, with a standard deviation of 3.35 hours per day,” according to the study.Another detail that emerged was that 44% of those surveyed agreed that social media increased their stress.“Students are stressed over their studies, exams, placements as they are facing an uncertain future. The final year undergraduate and postgraduate students are worst affected as many companies are rescinding job offers. Our findings suggest that the more they are stressed over Covid, the more they use social media, which in turn lowers their well-being,” said Ahuja.Students in general face stressors like financial problems, academic pressure, adjustment to novel social and geographical environments, relationships, life stage transitions and time management, says the report. These stressors probably get aggravated in lockdown conditions characterised by extreme restrictions, little distractions and low face to face social support, the study says.“Though it was not explored further, it is possible that pandemic related content, sometimes fake videos, increasing reports of infections, deaths and spread of the disease all over the internet could be distressing,” it says.Exploring personality types, the study found that extroverts largely are able to maintain some form of connection through diverse virtual platforms available. The lockdown might have resulted in increased socialisation with family members, playing virtual games with known or unknown people, helping them cope better. Participants high on agreeableness and compassion may have found news related to deprivation and sufferings disturbing.“Students are using social media like Instagram, Twitter and Facebook, for over six and a half hours on an average every day. The abundance of information reported through social media results in social distancing but not mental distancing,” said Ahuja.The study noted that social media platforms are expected to clear ambiguity in uncertain times like Covid-19, like promoting healthy behaviours of hand washing and social distancing. As much as social media is spreading awareness about public health, it is also being used to spread hatred and unrest. There has been trending of hashtags that link spread of corona to a particular religious community and have been watched by millions of users, the study mentions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youngsters-glued-to-social-media-amid-lockdown-nearly-half-experience-heightened-stress-study/story-1qjnXkZkI38cP0yk5GSJ5I.html
19-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand modifies Covid-19 lockdown norms, Haridwar now a green zone||A day after the Centre extended the Covid-19 lockdown till May 31 and issued fresh guidelines, the Uttarakhand government on Monday revealed its strategy for lockdown 4.0 including relaxations and prohibitions for various zones in the state.The Haridwar district, which was earlier a red zone, has now been declared a green zone by the state government. With this, there are no red zones in the state.The announcement was made by chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh on Monday evening.Announcing the relaxations and prohibitions he said, “As per the Centre’s guidelines all the educational institutions, cinema halls, shopping malls, places of worship, shopping malls and theatres will remain closed. Apart from this, all the sports activities and religious congregations will also remain prohibited.”He also announced that with Haridwar delineated to the green zone, “The state has now seven districts in the green zone including Haridwar, Tehri-Garhwal, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar and Champawat while six districts in the orange zone including Dehradun, Almora, Nainital, Pauri Garhwal, US Nagar and Uttarkashi. Apart from this, there are at present seven containment zones in the state.”On the relaxations and prohibitions of activities in green and orange zones, Singh said, “Inter-state and intra-state movement of buses will be allowed with 50% of total occupancy. Barber shops, salons, spas and beauty parlours will be allowed to open. The restaurants will be open for only home delivery service. All shops will also be allowed to open. All these will be allowed to open from 7 am to 4 pm.”“The industrial activities which are already allowed will remain so with half the total workforce while following all the restrictions,” he said, adding all the non-essential activities and movement of people will be completely prohibited from 4 pm to 7 am. On the red zones, he said, “There will be no inter-state or intra-state transport in areas of red zones. Also, no taxis, cab aggregators, cycle rickshaws or auto-rickshaws will be allowed to ply on roads.”“However, the movement of private four-wheelers with three passengers besides the driver will be allowed for permitted activities. No pillion rider will be allowed on two-wheelers. All market places, market complexes and malls shall remain closed except the shops for essential goods. E-commerce will be allowed for only essential goods,” Singh added. Till Monday, the total number of Covid-19 positive patients in the state were 96 with 52 of them already recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-modifies-covid-19-lockdown-norms-haridwar-now-a-green-zone/story-wxW5CkVFOsUU1KMAPVnDcL.html
19-05-2020||India||Odisha cop thrashes youth in police station, video goes viral||At a time when the Odisha Police are trying to turn a new leaf through their people-friendly measures during the Covid-19 lockdown, the video of a woman police inspector thrashing a youth inside the police station has put them in a spot.After the video of Sandhyarani Jena, the inspector at Patana police station in Keonjhar district, kicking and thrashing a youth inside the police station went viral, her superiors order a probe into the matter. The video shot through a mobile phone shows Jena thrashing the youth mercilessly while other staff of the police station remained mute spectators.The youth identified has Raju Mahant of Talasarua village had come to the police station in connection with a land dispute along with three others on March 25. He was thrashed at the police station by the inspector before being forwarded to court.After the video of the torture went viral, Keonjhar SP Mitrabhanu Mahapatra directed Ghatgaon SDPO to probe the matter.Mahant, who is now out on bail said he was tortured by the cop for no fault of his. “The police inspector needs to be taken to task for her high-handedness,” he said.Odisha police chief Abhay, who took charge of the state police force in December last year has been stressing on the need for police officials to show their humane side while dealing with people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cop-thrashes-youth-in-police-station-video-goes-viral/story-gpKJ5saFrGokotx4F3UPWM.html
19-05-2020||India||Bengal containment zones to shrink as Mamata offers more relaxations||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that containment zones in the state would shrink in size to offer relaxation to more people as the government would divide the containment zones into three categories. Banerjee also allowed a slew of new relaxations, paving the path towards restoring normalcy.The containment zones would be split into A, B, and C – referring to the affected area, buffer zone and clean areas, respectively. Lockdown will remain in force in containment zone A, while in B there would be certain restrictions. Normal activities will be allowed in zone C.The chief minister said all shops, except for those in areas classified as Containment Zone A, will open from May 21. These include salons and beauty parlours. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs of May 18, the state had 612 containment zones, 339 of which were in Kolkata alone, with another 114 in North 24-Parganas and 76 in Howrah district.“Masks and gloves are mandatory for every shopkeeper or employee. Specific guidelines will be issued for salons and beauty parlours, where the sitting arrangements and equipment would have to be sanitized after use by every customer,” Mamata Banerjee said at the state secretariat on Monday. She also said that the government was not announcing a curfew from 7pm to 7 am, as has been declared by the Union government, but urged people not to gather after 7 pm.“We are not announcing a curfew because it sounds bad but we urge you to avoid gathering and ensure that the police do not need to slap cases on you. The police will act if gatherings take place,” she said.From May 27, Banerjee plans to allow hawker-run markets to open with 50% shops opening on alternate days. The police and the municipal authorities have been asked to formulate the mechanism for opening hawker-run markets that usually operate on pavements.The state will also allow auto-rickshaws to ply with two passengers. Usually, in Kolkata, auto-rickshaws ply with four passengers and in the district with five passengers.To bring back migrant workers, the state will requisition the railways for 120 more trains, adding the total trains requisitioned to 225, Banerjee announced.The chief minister also described the economic reforms and new economic policies announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman over the last four days as “a big zero.”“The whole thing is a lie. We neither got rosogolla nor rajbhog,” said the chief minister, referring to two popular Bengali sweets that are both spherical in shape. “The FRBM relaxation to 5% actually works out to 0.5%. If we want to avail the whole of it then the state will have to give up its autonomy. There are conditions that say we have to increase the price of goods in municipal areas and give up our control of the public distribution system. We cannot do either. It is better to walk the path alone,” said Banerjee. “We got nothing (from Centre) to fight the Covid pandemic. There are states that imposed additional cess on petrol. We did not do such a thing,” said Banerjee. Banerjee also reacted to the case of more than 350 nurses from private Covid-19 hospitals returning to their home states and said the government would be working with the hospitals to find a solution and see if unskilled people can be taken and trained to do basic jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-containment-zones-to-shrink-as-mamata-offers-more-relaxations/story-5YdHyAYR25N9wACvEkNZLM.html
19-05-2020||India||3 migrant workers killed, 12 injured after vehicle overturns in UP’s Mahoba||Three migrant labourers were killed and more than 12 injured after a vehicle carrying them overturned on a highway late on Monday in Uttar Pradesh’s Mahoba district, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday.About 17 people were travelling in the vehicle when the accident took place on the Jhansi-Mirzapur highway, according to ANI.ML Patidar, Mahoba’s superintendent of police, said the vehicle, which was carrying the people from Delhi, overturned after a tyre burst.The injured have been admitted to hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-migrant-workers-killed-12-injured-after-vehicle-overturns-in-up-s-mahoba/story-N4K4QzH7YTQXGD2A3QPjkK.html
19-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0 guidelines: Here’s what’s allowed and what’s not in UP||Uttar Pradesh has extended the ongoing lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till May 31 and issued new guidelines for lockdown 4.0.The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has given powers to states and Union territories to decide green, orange and red zones and allow activities in these areas except in containment zones.Here’s the complete list of activities that are allowed and that are prohibited in UP during the lockdown 4.0What’s allowed during lockdown 4.0?* The state government has allowed reopening of the vegetable markets (Sabzi Mandi) with proper precautions for three hours from 4am to 7am. Retails vegetables can be sold between 6am to 9pm.* Prohibitory orders will be in place in the state during the night and no vehicles, except on essential services, will be allowed between 7pm and 7am.* Private vehicles have also been allowed with certain restrictions. Three passengers including the driver can travel on a four-wheeler, pillion ride on two-wheelers has been allowed only in case of a woman and three including the driver on a three-wheeler had been allowed.* Street vendors and hawkers have also been permitted to function in the state. * Restaurants have been allowed to operate but only for home delivery option.* Banquet halls have been permitted to open but not more than 20 people can attend a wedding.* Stadiums allowed to reopen as suggested by the Centre but without spectators.* Printing presses, dry cleaners, industrial activities outside containment zones and sweet shops have also been permitted in the new guidelines.* Nursing homes and private hospitals allowed for emergency operations.Lockdown 4.0: What’s not allowed* School, colleges and all other educational institutions will remain closed during lockdown 4.0.* Religious gatherings have been prohibited in the fresh guidelines.* Air services, except emergency/air ambulance, will not be allowed to function during the lockdown period in the state.* Metro services to remain suspended during the fourth phase of the lockdown.* Hospitality services, except for Covid-19 frontline workers, will remain shut.* Cinema halls, malls and gyms can’t open during lockdown 4.0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-guidelines-here-s-what-s-allowed-and-what-s-not-in-uttar-pradesh/story-PX37UMUdOuGs5bdVoLEQeP.html
19-05-2020||India||Man’s family face crisis after Odisha govt says he died due to Covid-19, but then denies it||The faux pas of Odisha government in first declaring Covid-19 as the cause of death of a Surat-returned youth and then subsequent denial few hours later has led to social ostracism of the family of the deceased.Purna Chandra Gouda of Haripur village in Jagannathprasad block of Ganjam district had returned home from Surat on March 11 when his son was born. Though he had come from Surat much before the lockdown was announced, he had to spend 14 days in home quarantine and did not develop any symptoms of Covid-19.On May 11, Gouda suddenly developed breathing problems following which his family admitted him to Maharaja Krushna Chandra Gajapati medical college and hospital in Berhampur town of Ganjam. On May 12, he was shifted to the Covid-19 hospital at Shitalapalli area of town following recommendation of the doctors.He died on May 16 at the Covid-19 hospital, the cause of death is not yet known. On May 17, the state government declared him to have died of Covid-19. However, a couple of hours after his death, the state government backtracked saying his test reports have come negative for the virus. The same day another youth in Ganjam district, who had returned from Surat, succumbed to the virus.The flip-flop over Gouda’s death, however, triggered a major crisis for his family after villagers refused to allow the body to enter the village for cremation over fears that he succumbed to the virus. With people of Haripur village not agreeing to allow Gouda’s body enter the village, his wife has been visiting the mortuary for last 2 days.“The villagers think my husband died of coronavirus which is not true. Why should I suffer for mistakes of the government,” asked Gouda’s wife Rosy.Ganjam district collector Vijay Amrita Kulange said the Surat returnee was shifted to Covid hospital as per the standard operating procedure for anyone having respiratory troubles. “As he was Surat returnee, it was done. He was later tested negative for the virus,” he said.So far 4 persons in Odisha have succumbed to Covid-19 while 896 have tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-declares-covid-19-as-man-s-cause-of-death-then-denies-it/story-JGgR5JODoF3UXkMDrkGzYM.html
19-05-2020||India||MHA withdraws order directing companies to pay full wages to employees during lockdown||The government has withdrawn its order directing companies and commercial units to pay full wages to workers even when they are not in operation during the Covid-19-induced nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25.The lockdown, imposed to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, entered its fourth phase on Monday.The government’s move is expected to bring relief to a large number of industries and companies which were unable to pay full wages to their employees.While issuing guidelines for the lockdown’s fourth phase, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla’s order on Sunday said, “Whereas, save as otherwise provided in the guidelines annexed to this order, all orders issued by National Executive Committee (NEC) under Section 10(2)(1) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, shall cease to have effect from 18.05.2020.” The Sunday’s guidelines mentioned six sets of standard operating protocols, mostly related to movement of people, which will continue to remain in force. But it does not include the March 29 order issued by the Union home secretary that directed all employers to pay wages to workers on due date without any deduction even if the commercial unit was closed during the lockdown period.The March 29 order had said: “All employers, be it in the industry or in shops and commercial establishments, shall make payment of wages of their workers, at their workplaces, on the due date, without any deduction, for the period their establishments are under closure during the lockdown.” Bhalla, while issuing fourth phase’s guidelines, had said he, as chairperson of the NEC under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, “has issued orders on lockdown measures on March 24, March 29, April 14, April 15 and May 1 specifying various issues related to implementation of the lockdown and the exemptions given to various people and services from the curbs”.Interestingly, the Supreme Court on May 15 had asked the central government not to take any coercive action for a week against companies and employers who are unable to pay full wages to their employees during the nationwide lockdown. There may be small companies which are not earning and therefore unable to pay, the top court had observed.A bench of justices L N Rao, S K Kaul and B R Gavai, hearing multiple petitions on the issue through video conferencing, observed that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) circular of March 29, directing companies to make payment of full wages to workers, was an omnibus order and there was a larger question involved which needs to be answered.The top court issued notice on a plea of the Hand Tools Manufactures Association, comprising of MSMEs seeking quashing of the order asking private establishments to pay full wages to their workers during the lockdown.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said that he had a conference on the issue and needs to file a detailed response on the pleas.The bench said there may be small industries, which are affected due to the lockdown as they can sustain for say 15 odd days but not more and if they cannot earn, how are they going to pay their workers.This is an omnibus order (March 29). There is a larger question involved and government has to find an answer to it, the bench observed and posted the matter for this week.It added that if the government does not help these small companies, then they will not be able to pay to their workers.Senior advocate Jamshed Cama, appearing for the association, said the companies are going out of work as they do not have orders for production of goods and they are being prosecuted due to the government circular.He said the government must hold hands of these companies and help them but they cannot be prosecuted.The bench said there shall be no coercive action against any of these companies for failing to pay full wages to its employees till next week.The Association of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) said in its plea that the Ministry of Home Affairs had passed orders without due care and deliberation on the financial implications for employers.The small industrial units warned that making full payments will lead to their closure, which, in turn, will cause permanent unemployment and adversely affect the economy.They have said that such a blanket direction for payment of full salaries is arbitrary, unconstitutional and unsustainable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-withdraws-order-directing-companies-to-pay-full-wages-to-employees-during-lockdown/story-gZWjhY6oIRvFrZZUqODWCL.html
19-05-2020||India||Found effective drug combination to cure Covid-19 patients: Bangladeshi doctors||A Bangladeshi medical team led by a senior doctor has claimed that their research on the combination of two widely used drugs has yielded “astounding” results in curing the patients with acute symptoms of the coronavirus that has created havoc worldwide and claimed the lives of over 312,000 people globally.The claim by the Bangladeshi medical team, which includes prominent physicians from the country, comes amidst the desperate global attempts for a remedy to the deadly coronavirus.“We have got astounding results. Out of 60 Covid-19 patients, all recovered as the combination of the two drugs were applied,” said Professor Dr Md Tarek Alam, the head of medicine department at private Bangladesh Medical College Hospital (BMCH).Alam, a reputed clinician in Bangladesh, said a frequently used antiprotozoal medicine called Ivermectin in a single dose with Doxycycline, an antibiotic, yielded virtually the near-miraculous result in curing the patients with Covid-19.“My team was prescribing the two medicines only for coronavirus patients, most of them initially reporting with respiratory problems with related complaints, later to be tested Covid-19 positive,” he said.Bangladesh has so far reported 20,995 coronavirus cases. A total of 314 people have lost their lives in the country due to the disease.Claiming that the efficacy of the drug developed by them was such that patients recovered from the virus within 4 days, he said, adding that there were no side effects of it.“We first ask them to be tested for Covid-19 and when found coronavirus positive we apply the drugs . . . they are recovering within four days”.“The repeated or second tests, in line with the procedure, reconfirmed them Covid-19 negative in all the cases under the research which found the combination to have no side effects on patients either,” he said.“We are hundred per cent hopeful” about the effectiveness of the combination, he said, adding they by now contacted the concerned government regulators and preparing to exhaust international procedures for acknowledgement of the drugs for the Covid-19 treatment.Alam said his team was preparing a paper on the development of the drug for an international journal, as required for scientific review and acknowledgement.Alam’s associate Dr Rabiul Morshed said despite being a non-Covid-19 facility a huge number of patients “directly and indirectly end up in BMCH, the country’s premier private general hospital.“But all of them have shown remarkable recovery being (Covid-19) negative in four days and 50 per cent reduction of symptoms in 3 days,” he said.The coronavirus, which broke out initially in China, has claimed the lives of 312,115 people while infected over 4,650,793, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/found-effective-drug-combination-to-cure-covid-19-patients-bangladeshi-doctors/story-K8z0YQD43b2KbptPQAwLdO.html
19-05-2020||India||Encounter breaks out in Srinagar’s Nawakadal; search operation on||An encounter broke out in Srinagar’s Nawakadal area late Monday night after police and CRPF launched a joint search operation in the locality.The operation began around midnight when security forces encircled a cluster of houses in the dense neighbourhood of the city. The locals said that they heard an exchange of fire in the locality around midnight.The mobile internet service in the city has been suspended. Of late, this is the first encounter between forces and militants.Police spokesman confirmed that the encounter had started at Kanemazar Nawakadal area of Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-in-srinagar-s-nawakadal-search-operation-on/story-m2ZIq6nxfoZkoVZgrZ3QOP.html
19-05-2020||India||Delhi HC tells police to speed up probe in ‘Bois Locker Room’ case||The Delhi high court on Monday directed the city police to speed up its investigation of Bois Locker Room -- a social media group in which obscene messages and morphed pictures of underage girls were allegedly shared. The police have arrested an adult and a minor for allegedly morphing photographs and circulating obscene messages on an Instagram chat group. The members of the group are allegedly students of at least five prominent schools in the city. A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh was on Monday hearing a plea seeking probe by an SIT or CBI. Judges said the cyber crime cell was already investigating the case; it disposed of the petition.Petitioner Dev Ashish Dubey also sought protection for the girls and women who brought the matter to light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-tells-police-to-speed-up-probe-in-bois-locker-room-case/story-gNwTPZtHOcQqCbcG7IhWoI.html
19-05-2020||India||On 86th birthday, Ruskin Bond says ‘lockdown has given time to reflect on bond with nature’||Ruskin Bond, who will be celebrating his 86th birthday on Tuesday, says the idea of death doesn’t scare him as he has lived a simple, contented and fulfilling life, written books and stories over the last seven decades, through which he will keep living in the hearts of his readers.“Recently one kid asked me when I die, what I would like to be reborn as. I told him that I want to be reborn as a parrot on a mango tree...”, says Ruskin Bond in a telephonic interview with HT on the eve of his 86th birthday, busy as ever, writing his next book, this time his lockdown diary, which, he says, may likely be titled ‘It is a Wonderful Life’. On the question that it is difficult to ask him about death as his books and stories are filled with positivity, optimism, life-affirmative themes, celebration of ordinary life around, understated humour and his tremendous zest for continuing to look at life from his famous hillside window and keep spinning tales, Bond says, “Well I wrote a poem the other day. Its last line is ‘until death comes, all is life...’. So death comes to all of us... I consider myself extremely fortunate to have lived so long and to have been, for the greater part of my life, a fairly contented person; contentment more than happiness. We don’t know what comes next, what I will miss on the other side, but I feel some people here might miss me...” On the feel-good-factor and freshness in his writings, Bond says, “People say this is my writing style; that I have a calming influence (on readers). People say even when I write a ghost story they don’t get frightened. The ghosts are too friendly... I guess, by and large, though I have my low moments, and I sometimes do feel a bit depressed, I have a cheerful nature and I try to see the best in human beings and bring it out.”“I have been writing since the age of 16-17 and a lot of work has accumulated over the years. As I have got older, my readers have also increased. So I am very fortunate that way. I take one day at a time. So at this stage, no point planning too far ahead. I write when I want to write...,” says Bond, whose book about his boyhood days in Dehradun in the 1950s is about to be released.When asked what has changed during the lockdown when he looks out from his window, which over the decades has itself become a character and theme for many of his writings, Bond says, “Well these days from my window, I can see Dehradun and the distant Himalayan peaks very clearly. First I thought my eyesight was improving (he laughs). But it is cleaner air, due to almost no traffic and tourist influx these days”.“Also, in the morning I see more birds these days. Perhaps due to too much traffic and tourists, they were avoiding coming down here. And I must tell you, whenever I run out of ideas to write about, there is always this window that I can write about...Everybody should have a window to look at this beautiful world,” says Bond, who was born on May 19, 1934, in Kasauli to a British couple. On how the lockdown has changed his daily routine, Bond says, “Well honeymoon couples are not coming to seek my blessings these days (he laughs). Letters from readers have also stopped these days. Though I am not a great TV watcher, I loved to watch sports. But these days all sports activities have stopped. Earlier I used to take long walks. But now I mostly go on drives on the hill roads here. That has stopped these days”.“I am used to working from home for long hours. But occasional outings or a walk helps. I wake up in the morning. Write for a few hours. Then after breakfast, I read something-mostly old favourites like The Story of My Heart written by Richard Jefferies, detective fiction by Agatha Christie- and Indian writers like Amitav Ghosh, RK Narayan, Mulk Raj Anand, whom I knew. In the afternoon, I take a siesta and in the evenings I watch TV these days to catch up on what is happening in the world,” says Bond who came to live in Mussoorie in 1964. Asked whether Coronovirus epidemic should make people across the globe rethink and contemplate about their relationship with Nature, Bond says, “I think all this has been possibly caused by too much interference and overexploitation of Nature, fuelled by our over-consumerism, materialism and soaring population. See what has happened with Amazon forests in Brazil. Lockdown has given people enough time to be in solitude and reflect on their lives and their relation with Nature..”.“But I am hopeful that children and youngsters, who are increasingly becoming aware of what is being done with Nature and the environment, will make a difference in the coming time. Youngsters were not so aware in the past, say 40 to 50 years ago. And I think, ultimately it is people who have to change their mindset, you can’t blame the government all the time,” says Bond, who is perhaps the most loved writer by children and regularly interacts with his young readers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-86th-birthday-ruskin-bond-says-lockdown-has-given-time-to-reflect-on-bond-with-nature/story-gC3jTEDU7i36TIevDvCcRM.html
19-05-2020||India||Covid-19 suspect dies at quarantine centre in Uttarakhand’s Pauri Garwal||A 35-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient in Uttarakhand who was staying at a quarantine centre in Pauri Garhwal district died on Monday morning, said health officials. The man had returned from Faridabad last week, informed officials.The man died two days after a 77-year-old woman suspected to be infected with Covid-19 died at a quarantine centre at the Rikhnikhal block of the district.Manoj Bahukhandi, chief medical officer of Pauri Garhwal district, said the man has been quarantined at a centre in Birgana village of the district after he returned from Faridabad.“The man was already suffering from asthma and chest related ailments, which seems to be the cause of the death however nothing can be said for sure till the post-mortem examination report is received. If doctors feel the need then his samples will be taken for Covid-19 testing also,” said Bahukhandi.Officials said that two more people have been isolated at a hospital who stayed with the man. On Saturday, a 77-year-old woman who had been suffering from bronchitis and hypertension had died at a quarantine center in Rikhnikhal of the district.“The woman was quite old and did not show any symptoms similar to that of coronavirus, but as per protocol, she had been quarantined at a center in the block. She had been suffering from bronchitis and hypertension, but did not show any Covid-19 symptoms,” the chief medical officer had said. The woman was not tested for COVID-19 said the senior medical official.In April, two suspected Covid-19 patients had died in Government Doon Medical College Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-suspect-dies-at-quarantine-centre-in-uttarakhand-s-pauri-garwal/story-kKEoh7jg0GKxCOVf3QuBLK.html
19-05-2020||India||Bodies of two teenagers found in UP’s Saharanpur; suicide suspected||Bodies of two teenagers, a girl and a boy, was recovered from an agriculture field under Nangal police station area of Saharanpur on Sunday, said police.Police also recovered a country-made pistol and two empty cartridges lying near the bodies. Police suspects that both of them were lovers who committed suicide. While complaint had not been registered by the families of either of the victims, an investigation has begun and the bodies had been sent for the post-mortem examination, said Jitendra Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Nangal police station area.The bodies were identified as that of Chetan alias Ujjawal, 17, son of Jitendra of Tajpur village and Nisha, 17, daughter of Rajesh Saini of Garhi village.” “Prima facie it appears that the boy shot at the girl first and then shot himself,” said the SHO.He said a country-made pistol and two bullet shells were also recovered from the spot.On connection between the two victims, villagers said girl’s father, Rajesh Saini, had taken the land from boy’s family on contract basis in Tajpur village.Both the victims used to meet each other and had reportedly started liking each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-of-two-teenagers-found-in-up-s-saharanpur-suicide-suspected/story-EaixS1AyJ4QQx7SZhA2XLO.html
19-05-2020||India||Woman who returned from Mumbai tests positive for Covid-19 in Dehradun, state tally increases to 93||A 60-year-old woman from Dehradun who had returned from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 late on Sunday night, taking the tally of cases to 93 in Uttarakhand.The bulletin released by the state health department on Monday confirmed the case.The health bulletin said, “On May 17 at 11:25 pm a sample was tested positive for Covid-19 in district Dehradun, as per the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh lab report. The 60-year-old female patient had returned from Mumbai on May 14 and was in home quarantine at the time of taking the sample.”With this, 46 cases have been reported from Dehradun with 17 active cases in the state. The rate of doubling of cases in Dehradun stands at 17.75 days.Uttarakhand has so far tested 13,870 samples of which results of 1087 are awaited. With the latest case, 21 people who returned to the state in the past one week have tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand.On Saturday night, a 27-year-old man who had returned from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 in Dehradun district. Harish Mohan Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS, Rishikesh, said that the patient who tested positive on Saturday night worked in a luxury hotel in Mumbai and was asymptomatic when he had returned.“The patient worked as a hotel receptionist in a high-end hotel in Mumbai for the past five-six years and had recently returned home after a few positive cases surfaced in the same hotel though he had tested negative when his samples were taken there,” Thapliyal said. “He was asymptomatic and stayed in home quarantine in Rishikesh. He came to our screening OPD on Saturday with self-intention for sampling since his hotel co-workers were positive and he had travelled a long distance. We took his samples on Saturday morning, which tested positive.”After the patient tested positive, officials are now doing a detailed contact tracing and taking other necessary actions, Thapliyal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-who-returned-from-mumbai-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-dehradun-state-tally-increases-to-93/story-rxJHZr15AhE1lnYUy1J21N.html
19-05-2020||India||2 months after its first Covid-19 case, Bhubaneswar has no coronavirus positive patients||More than two months after it reported its first case of Covid-19, Odisha’s capital city Bhubaneswar on Monday, was declared free of any Covid-19 patients after the last 3 patients tested negative for the virus, a first state capital to attain this status.Odisha chief secretary Asit Tripathy said with the recovery of 3 people who had tested positive on May 8, all the 57 people in Bhubaneswar who had tested positive have recovered. The 57 cases in the city had led to Bhubaneswar being tagged as a red zone in the MHA guidelines leading to several restrictions earlier.Bhubaneswar had reported Odisha’s first Covid-19 case on March 15, when a 33-year-old student arrived in Odisha from Milan after spending 9 days in Delhi. Soon after, a 19-year-old youth studying in UK tested positive after his return to Bhubaneswar followed by a retired bank official. The cases then increased last month when 15 people in the city who came in contact with another person with travel history to Nizamuddin Markaz tested positive. Soon after a 60-year-old man in the city with no travel history tested positive followed by 6 members in his family and his tenant’s family.Though Jagatsinghpur district was declared free of any Covid-19 cases with the recovery of 5 patients, but soon after 20 new people of the district, all migrant workers tested Covid-19 positive. As of now, Odisha has 615 active cases in Covid-19 hospitals.During a special briefing, the chief secretary said Odisha has excelled and scored highly in several parameters as compared to the numbers at the national level in its fight against the pandemic. While India reported 712.7 Covid-19 positive cases per 1 crore population, Odisha reported 190.4 positive cases per 1 crore population. While 1,706 tests are conducted in India per million people, Odisha conducted 2,082 tests per million. The fatality ratio (deaths per 100 cases) for India was 3.15 while for Odisha it is 0.46, one of the lowest in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-months-after-its-first-covid-19-case-bhubaneswar-has-no-coronavirus-positive-patients/story-6I7rWd2majhNa5EO5DPPtI.html
19-05-2020||India||Massive lockdown relaxations in Telangana barring containment zones in Hyderabad||The Telangana government on Monday announced relaxations in lockdown restrictions to a large extent with effect from Tuesday, while extending the general lockdown till May 31, in sync with the Centre.A decision to this effect was taken by the state cabinet at its meeting on Monday evening.Later, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said the entire state had been declared a green zone, except for a few containment areas in Hyderabad covering 1,452 families, as identified by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation.“The lockdown restrictions will be strictly implemented in these containment areas and people won’t be allowed to come out under any circumstances,” KCR said.The Cabinet decided that except in Hyderabad, in all other parts of Telangana, all shops would be allowed to open from Tuesday. In Hyderabad, 50 per cent of shops and commercial establishments would be opened on alternate days on an odd-even basis.State-run RTC buses will start running with effect from 6 am on Tuesday all over the state. “However, no city buses would be allowed to run in Hyderabad and there will be no inter-state bus services. Similarly, metro rail services will also remain shut till May 31,” the chief minister said.Similarly, all auto rickshaws with a maximum of two passengers apart from driver and all cab services with a maximum of three passengers would be permitted to run. All these passenger services should have to strictly follow Covid-19 rules, he said.“Haircutting salons can be opened in all parts of the state including Hyderabad, except in containment areas. All e-commerce activities will be allowed. All government offices can resume functioning with 100 per cent attendance. So can industries, factories and manufacturing units,” he said.However, as per the Central guidelines, places of worships, malls, cinema theatres, function halls, bars, restaurants, pubs, clubs, sports stadia, swimming pools, educational institutions, coaching centres, gyms, amusement parks and other such places of public gatherings, would not be allowed under any circumstances. “No religious gatherings, meetings and rallies would be allowed,” he said.The chief minister said curfew would be strictly in force from 7 pm to 7 am. “People should maintain self-restraint. They should compulsorily wear masks and follow Covid-19 rules. Please don’t come out unless it is essential. Similarly, please don’t allow elderly people above 65 years of age to come out during the lockdown period,” he appealed to citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-lockdown-relaxations-in-telangana-barring-containment-zones-in-hyderabad/story-AzpCNmy1Yknw26KUJpurrK.html
19-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India looks set to cross the 100,000 mark, in terms of number of Covid-19 infections, as this column is being written on Monday afternoon. The country touched 95,656 cases on Sunday night, adding 5,084 cases to Saturday’s total. The number of deaths was 2,951 on Sunday night, so that number looks set to cross 3,000. The number of tests per million of its population, according to worldometers.info, was 1,671. The fatality rate (number of dead expressed as a percentage of number of cases) in India is 3.08%, which would put the country between Turkey (149,435 cases; 4,140 deaths; fatality rate of 2.77%) and Germany (176,651 cases; 8,049 deaths; fatality rate of 4.56%). The Turkey and Germany data is also from worldometers.info. But there is one big difference.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia’s 1,671 tests per million of its population is dwarfed by the number of tests done by Turkey and Germany. The comparable number for Turkey is 19,293; for Germany, 37,584. India is 11th on the list of countries in terms of number of cases – and not one country in the top 10 has tested fewer people per million of the population than India has. Indeed, only two countries have tested fewer than 10,000 per million – Iran (No.10 with 120,198 cases and 6,988 deaths), which has tested 8,191 per million; and Brazil (No. 5 with 241080 cases and 16,122 deaths), which has tested 3,462.As India enters the next phase of its exit from a complete lockdown – that’s what the next two weeks to May 31 are, more than an extension – testing becomes even more significant. Only widespread testing can show the real extent of the spread of the viral pandemic. Apart from continuing to use the gold standard RT-PCR (reverse transcriptase, polymerase chain reaction) test, India should also use antibody blood tests because these are a good measure of who is immune, who isn’t, and how prevalent the disease is. Sure, there are problems (not just in India, but everywhere else; even in the US) with most antibody tests, but some are better than others – and the new generation ones will be even better because that’s how such tests evolve.This writer’s hypothesis is that roughly 10% of the Indian population is already infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease. Many people who get infected by the virus, we know, are asymptomatic; and many of the infections are mild. The beauty of the 10% number is that it would immediately take down India’s fatality rate by a tenth (which is more like viruses we know). To be sure, this wouldn’t apply just to India. The US, for instance, probably has far more cases than the 1,527,664 it has recorded (90,978 deaths). That would bring down its fatality rate from the current 5.9%. Limited antibody tests in parts of the US have shown 10-20% of the sample tested being infected (or having been infected), although these studies have been too small.India can open up fully by testing enough people; if it doesn’t want to do that, it can still open up by treating anyone with even the mildest symptom as a Covid-19 patient and assuming that a certain proportion of the population (say 5%, though 10% would be better) already has Covid-19. If it tests more it will find more cases – which is what is happening in Tamil Nadu (639 cases on Sunday; 11,224 cases in all; and 4,590 tests per million); Delhi (422 cases on Sunday; 9,755 cases in all; and 7,147 tests per million); and perhaps even in Maharashtra (2,347 cases on Sunday; 33,053 cases in all; and 2,393 tests per million), Gujarat (391 cases on Sunday; 11,380 in all; and 2,291 tests per million), and Rajasthan (278 cases on Sunday; 5,202 cases in all; and 3,366 tests per million). These five states accounted for 80% of the new cases on Sunday.If this is true – this writer’s opinion is that it is – then the low number of cases on Sunday in West Bengal (101), Uttar Pradesh (206), and Madhya Pradesh (187) are likely misleading. The number of tests per million in these states are only 952, 843, and 1,418 respectively. Interestingly, it is only 1,293 in Kerala. While there is a lot to be said for the state’s aggressive contact tracing and quarantining protocols, and also for its quality of health care, Kerala too, I believe, will discover more cases of Covid-19 if it tests more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-QJMQdUlXBoYNwe6Hb2CylK.html
19-05-2020||India||Except Metro, all public transport thrown open||Delhi residents can hop into public transport — cab services and buses; not the metro yet — and shop at pretty much any marketplace (malls are still closed), as long as they are not over the age of 65, and the markets are not in Noida or Gurugram (crossing the borders will still require a pass), according to the latest guidelines issued by the state government. This comes after 55 days of a lockdown imposed in March-end to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). To be sure, the lockdown continues till May 31, but Monday’s announcement by the state, coming on the back of Sunday’s by the Union home ministry, marks the second phase of a gradual exit from it. On Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal allowed auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws with one passenger in every vehicle; green-lighted the resumption of all industries with staggered timings; and said all government and private offices would be open in the city-state where life has come to a standstill due to unprecedented restrictions on movement and activities.“The coronavirus is here to stay. We need to live our lives with corona now. And the lockdown cannot be permanent. So far we have used the lockdown period to prepare ourselves — hospital beds, ventilators, PPE (personal protective equipment), testing kits, etc…Now is the time to revive the economy,” Kejriwal said in a digital press briefing.Delhi’s guidelines were broadly in line with that issued by the central government, incorporating most of the major relaxations in order to bring life and economic activities back on track.However, Kejriwal did not mention any measure on interstate travel, which the Centre has allowed in its fresh order. Also, barber shops, spas and salons, which too have been permitted, will not open in the national capital immediately. On Monday night, Delhi’s coronavirus dashboard stood at 10,054 cases, of which 5,409 are active, and 160 deaths. Thus far, 4,485 people have recovered from the disease in Delhi. All relaxations announced by Kejriwal will be applicable across Delhi, except in containment zones which will allow the movement of essential personnel alone and have stricter perimeter control. At present, Delhi has 73 containment zones, which can broadly be defined as the epicentre of an infection. Kejriwal said taxis and cab operators, such as Ola and Uber, are allowed to function with each vehicle carrying a maximum of two passengers and a driver. The same rule will be applicable for private cars. Pillion-riding will not be allowed in case of two-wheelers and carpooling/shared services will continue to be prohibited.Buses will be allowed with a maximum of 20 passengers in each vehicle, and all people boarding the buses will be screened. “Drivers will be instructed to sanitise the seats after each passenger deboards the bus,” Kejriwal said.“Grameen Sewa vehicles can operate with a maximum two of passengers, maxi cabs with a maximum of five passengers, and rural transport vehicles (smaller buses) with a maximum of 11 passengers,” he said.While Sunday’s federal guidelines permitted interstate movement of passenger vehicles and buses with “mutual consent” of the states and the Union Territories (UTs) involved, confusion prevailed on Monday at Delhi’s borders with Gautam Budh Nagar (Noida) and Gurugram that have been sealed. Authorities in both satellite towns later clarified that stringent restrictions at their borders will continue, and people — except health care personnel — will need passes like before to cross over. In addition to the announcement on public transport, another significant step announced by Kejriwal was the opening of marketplaces and all shops, a move that is expected to bolster stalled economic activities. In line with central guidelines, the chief minister allowed stores in marketplaces, but they will have to follow an odd-even rule.Under the standard operating procedure prepared by the Delhi government, shops will open on alternate days on the basis of shop numbers, according to officials who did not want to be named. It will ensure that half the shops will open on one day, and the other half the next day and so on. However, no such rule will be applicable to shops selling essential items such as medicines, fruits and vegetables, groceries, dairy products, books and stationery. Also, standalone shops, neighbourhood stores and shops in residential areas will be exempt.Kejriwal approved the functioning of industries, albeit with staggered timings, and allowed all government and private offices to begin operations. His government did away with the curbs asking private offices to function with just 33% of their staff from office. But at the same time, he advised firms to encourage employees to work from home to the extent possible.“Industrial firms whose name starts with M/S A to M/S L may function from 7.30 am to 5.30 pm, whereas firms whose registered name starts with M/S M to M/S Z may function from 8.30 am to 6.30 pm,” said the Delhi government order issued late on Monday night.Kejriwal also allowed construction activities, but said workers must be from Delhi. Earlier, the government allowed resumption of work for projects in which labourers were available on site.The chief minister announced that weddings (with a maximum of 50 people in attendance) and funerals (with a maximum of 20 people in attendance) will be allowed in the city, in another move that is in line with the Centre’s guidelines.“Social distancing is a must. Complaints of violation can force us to take strict measures and scale up restrictions…Wearing of masks is also mandatory for individuals when they are outdoors and in workplaces…All workplaces must have provision for sanitizer and hand wash,” Kejriwal said.Activities and services, which are banned across the country, will continue to be prohibited in Delhi. These include metro services, educational institutes, hotels and bars, shopping malls and theatres, and social and political gatherings, and gyms and swimming pools, among others. The restriction on non-essential travel between 7pm and 7am will continue.“Prohibition on outdoor movement of people aged 65 and above, children aged 10 or less, pregnant women and people with health ailments...will continue,” Kejriwal said.The Delhi government order asked Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) not to prevent any person from “performing their services and duties which have been permitted” under the fresh guidelines.“All other activities will be permitted (industrial/commercial) except those which are specifically prohibited... However, in containment zones, only essential activities shall be allowed,” the order said.Just as the central guidelines, the Delhi government’s order too asked employers to put in their “best efforts” to ensure that the contact-tracing Aarogya Setu app was “installed by employees having compatible mobile phones”. It also asked district magistrates to “advise” individuals to install the application, which was previously mandatory for all government and private sector employees.The order did not specifically mention e-commerce, but central guidelines say e-commerce players are allowed to deliver both essential and non-essential items across the country, barring containment zones. Plumbers, electricians, and AC service providers, house helps, cooks and laundry service providers will be allowed to operate in Delhi, adhering to an earlier order, despite finding no mention in the fresh guidelines, a senior government official said on condition of anonymity. Gautam Gambhir, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s East Delhi parliamentarian, criticised the Delhi government’s move. He tweeted: “The decision to open up almost everything in one go can act as a DEATH WARRANT for Delhiites! I urge Delhi Govt to think again & again! One wrong move & everything will be over!!”On March 25, when the lockdown was first imposed for 21 days, Delhi had 31 cases and one death. On Monday, when the fourth phase began, the case count crossed the 10,000-mark. In the meanwhile, the nationwide lockdown was extended thrice. The second and the third phases —beginning April 15 and May 4 — lasted 19 days and 14 days, respectively. The fourth phase will continue till the end of this month.Experts said relaxations of the lockdown guidelines were the need of the hour, though some feared that infections could increase.“There is definitely going to be a spike (in cases) with the relaxations, but they will also ease a bit the vast sufferings of the people...,” said Jayati Ghosh, a professor of economics at Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University.Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said the purpose of the lockdown was to flatten the curve. “To think that infections will stop with an indefinite lockdown is wrong. Phased relaxation of the lockdown is necessary now. What we need now is more cooperation from people when it comes to adhering to social-distancing and isolation norms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/except-metro-all-public-transport-thrown-open/story-9SPm0kIlmk1LAz02G03NjJ.html
19-05-2020||India||Guidelines silent on workers’ wages||Has the ministry of home affairs (MHA) walked back a March 29 order asking all employers to pay wages to workers even during the lockdown? The union home ministry’s latest Covid management guidelines doesn’t mention this provision. Crucially, the third paragraph of the guideline issued on Sunday, said that all other orders issued under Section 10(2)(I) of the Disaster Management (DM) Act, 2005—except those issued in the latest guideline—“shall cease to have effect from 18.05.2020.”The March 29 order also said there would be action taken against house owners who evicted migrants or students during the lockdown. The part of the order on wages was challenged by some companies in the Supreme Court in early May. Both MHA and the labour ministry refused to comment on the issue. “All employers, be it in the industry or in the shops and commercial establishments, shall make payment of wages of their workers, at their workplaces, on the due date, without any deduction, for the period their establishments are under closure during the lockdown,” said the March 29 order .In the latest guideline, the government has issued specific orders on standard operating procedures for movement of stranded people; working from home; and the opening of offices. But there is no mention of its previous order, asking employers to pay salaries.On May 8, Indian industry bodies asked for suspension of many labour laws and to treat the ongoing lockdown period as lay-off (a furlough) and payment of wages to workers during this period as “expenses under CSR funds”. The Industrial Disputes Act of 1947 terms a lay off as the inability of a factory to operate normally on account of shortage of raw material or power or a natural calamity. It stipulates compensation for such lay-offs at 50% of the “basic and dearness allowance that would have been payable”. And it adds that if the furlough extends beyond 45 days no additional compensation need be paid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guidelines-silent-on-workers-wages/story-Z0RGysUrQQN2nkX6VeSjIK.html
19-05-2020||India||Cases exceed 100,000, but low fatality ratio offers hope||The number of known coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India crosses 100,000 on Monday, two-and-a-half months after the outbreak began taking hold in the country, which then went into an unprecedented lockdown that slowed the outbreak to a significant extent. The milestone was a grim reminder of the challenge India, which has the second highest population in the world, faces as it rolls back some of the curbs in place since March 25 to allow economic activity to resume. In the 78 days since the outbreak began, total infections were at 100,311 and 3,081 people succumbed to the disease till Monday, but the trend indicates the situation may be less serious than the global scenario, where the proportion of deaths is double what has been seen in the country on an average. “We have successfully managed to delay the peaking of the curve by imposing lockdown and other public health measures in a timely manner. There are several mathematical models which are predicting the course of the pandemic in India, but till now, we have managed to avoid the dramatically high numbers that several models predicted,” said Union Health minister Harsh Vardhan. “It is difficult to predict numbers as they will depend on the adherence of restrictions on mobility and inter-mingling, personal hygiene, and prevention of exposure to infection by people in different areas. Additionally, it will also depend on the proportion of those infected among migrants and travellers from outside and within.” he added.In the national capital, 299 new cases pushed Delhi’s tally above the 10,000 mark. As on Monday, Delhi has 10,054 cases and 160 deaths, putting the mortality rate close to 1.6%, which is roughly half of the national average of 3.09%.Delhi has one of the highest testing rates in the country, with 6,919 tests per million population. The national testing rate for India is 1,540 tests per million population, according to Indian Council of Medical Research.Based on data reported till Monday evening, India’s case fatality rate stood at 3.07%. Across the world, where 4.8 million infections have led to at least 317,000 deaths, the fatality rate is at 6.57%. In United States, the country now hardest hit, the fatality stood at 6%. For China, where the virus first began spreading, the figure is 5.56%, “The Covid-19 outbreak in India could have been far worse. If you look at the number of deaths we have averted, India has done remarkably well. This is mainly because of early measures like the nationwide lockdown,” said Dr Giridhar R Babu, professor and head of life course epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India.As India relaxes some more of the curbs that were put in place on March 25, experts said the coming weeks will be crucial to determine whether the country can hold onto these gains. “Lockdown helped reduce the rate of transmission, but what we do now will be of utmost importance. The focus should be on problem states like West Bengal, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, particularly Mumbai,” Babu added.A weekly tracker of Covid-19 infection trends by disease modeling experts at Imperial College London indicated that the rate of transmission of the disease in India came down to below 1 (the authors identified it as 0.98), a threshold that is key to stop the virus from growing exponentially. On May 11, the model predicted there would be 801 deaths in India for the week ending on Sunday. Reported deaths for the week, based on HT’s dashboard of cases, stood at 812. In the week till Sunday, the speed at which the outbreak grew would take India 13.7 days to double its number of cases. But that could change for the worse as the country allows more offices to reopen and public transport to resume. New infections among the hundreds of thousands of migrants returning to their villages and hometowns from urban centres is also feared to seed cases in rural parts of the country that had till now been largely free of infections.A second expert said that India’s aggressive measures need to continue. “Careful risk assessments should identify hotspots and clusters, and continued efforts should be made to further strengthen capacities to respond, especially at sub-national levels. The core public health measures for Covid-19 response remain, rapidly detect, test, isolate, treat and trace all contacts. That’s the only way to overcome this pandemic,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, World Health Organisation South East Asia Region, of which India is a part.Detecting cases will be determined by who and how many people India tests, which could help head-off new clusters. The Indian Council for Medical Research indicated on Monday that more people will be brought under the coverage, including all frontline workers deployed in containment and mitigation duties (such as health care workers and contact tracers) if they show symptoms of a flu. “This category is equally vulnerable as they are directly coming in contact with the suspected or even confirmed cases as part of door-to-door surveys, screening etc. It is good that they people have been also included in the testing list as you don’t want these people to be moving around as carriers of the disease,” said a senior public health expert, requesting not to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-exceed-100-000-but-low-fatality-ratio-offers-hope/story-7zk8OErvCBSpPMSaE4Ho6L.html
19-05-2020||India||Ministers’ panel led by Javadekar to fine-tune outreach strategy||The Centre has formed a panel of ministers to address the problem of fake news and to fine-tune its communication strategy to ensure accurate dissemination of information related to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials aware of the matter said on Monday. Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar will lead the panel that will also include Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Hardeep Singh Puri, Kiren Rijiju, and Babul Supriyo. They will spearhead efforts to spread more awareness about the pandemic.Officials said the panel was constituted around a week back and has held meetings and discussed important aspects, including the exodus of migrants, left jobless by the Covid-19 lockdown, from big cities to their homes.“The government is quite clear and focused that the battle against the pandemic cannot be won unless there is clear and accurate communication. The Prime Minister [Narendra Modi] has spearheaded efforts to disseminate information on this unprecedented pandemic. And it is important that this communication should reach every person in his or her own language. Naturally, this requires a lot of aspects to be looked at on a daily and even hourly basis that is if you factor in the menace of fake news. Basically, the purpose of this panel is to spread better awareness,” said an official on condition of anonymity.The official said that awareness levels related to the Covid-19 lockdown and even the pandemic were reasonably good but there could be specific areas where the communication needs to be improved. For instance, there could be misconceptions about the use of masks, the official added. The panel will examine all the areas and then form plans and strategies. “In addition, fake news needs to be constantly kept in check,” the official said.The information and broadcasting ministry has formed a special unit to curb fake news and public broadcasters Doordarshan and All India Radio have also been making efforts to ensure the spread of correct information. The government is also likely to plan more information campaigns, especially at local levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-panel-to-fine-tune-outreach-strategy/story-00HZpnM4wI5VRZqA6uQxYJ.html
19-05-2020||India||States can’t dilute guidelines: MHA||As the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown began on Monday, the ministry of home affairs reminded the states and union territories that they cannot dilute the federal guidelines but are free to make them stricter based on local assessment and health ministry guidelines. Several states have already allowed certain activities on Monday after the Centre came up with new guidelines allowing public transport, inter state travel and opening of shops, offices and industries. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has reiterated in his letter to states that the guidelines of fourth phase of the lockdown were issued after taking into consideration the views of the states, following a video conference held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers ministers on May 11.“As emphasised in my earlier letters, I would like to reiterate again that States and Union Territories cannot dilute restrictions imposed vide the aforesaid guidelines issued by MHA. States and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain other activities in various zones, or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary. I would urge you to ensure compliance of the new guidelines and direct all concerned authorities for their strict implementation,” Bhalla said in his letter. Officials familiar with developments said that if any state allows running of schools, colleges, or gyms, swimming pools, movement of people during the night (7 pm to 7am), which have been prohibited, this would be treated as “dilution”. The states have been given the freedom to categorise areas into “red”, “orange” and “green” zones taking into consideration the revised guidelines issued by health ministry. Inside the “red” and “orange” zones, containment and buffer zones will be identified by the district administration and local urban bodies with technical inputs at the local level and by taking into consideration the health ministry guidelines. Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control shall be maintained and no movement of persons will be allowed across the zones, except for medical emergencies and maintaining the supply of essential goods and services, the letter said.Response from statesIndependent comment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-can-t-dilute-guidelines-mha/story-LJ36O6yf6NYhogfnABAc8N.html
19-05-2020||India||Rahul takes a dig at PM on additional NREGS outlay||New Delhi: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “U-turn” on the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) citing his initial opposition to it and thanked him for allocating an additional Rs 40,000 crore for the flagship programme on Sunday.He tweeted a video clip of Modi’s speech in Parliament in 2015 in which the Prime Minister called the scheme an example of the Congress’s failures. “Do you think I will disband the scheme? My political wisdom does not allow me to do it. This is a living monument of your [Congress] failures to tackle poverty in 60 years,” Modi had said about MGNREGS in the speech and added the Congress had to send people to “dig up ditches and pay them” even after 60 years of the independence.The Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government introduced the scheme in 2005 to provide 100 days of unskilled manual work annually to at least one member of every rural household.The additional allocation has come as the demand for work has surged as millions of migrant workers, left jobless by the Covid-19 lockdown imposed in late March, have returned to their homes from big cities.“The Prime Minister has approved an additional budget of Rs 40,000 crore for MNREGA scheme created during the UPA era. We express our gratitude to him for understanding the vision of MNREGA and promoting it.”Former Union finance minister P Chidambaram separately called the Centre’s Covid-19 economic package “hopelessly inadequate” and said it has “left high and dry” several sections, including 130 million families at the bottom half of the population, migrant workers and farmers.“We express our thorough disappointment and request the government to reconsider the stimulus package and announce a revised and comprehensive fiscal stimulus package of not less than Rs 10 lakh crore of real additional expenditure equivalent to 10% of the GDP,” he said.He said the package only amounts to Rs 1,86,650 crore, which is barely 0.91% of the GDP. Chidambaram added already budgeted expenditure, regulatory measures, and proposed reforms have been also included in the package.He called the package inadequate given the gravity of the economic crisis. “Most analysts, rating agencies and banks have placed the size of the fiscal stimulus at between 0.8 to 1.5% [of the GDP].”Modi announced the package last week to help individuals and businesses deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown enforced to combat its spread.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has announced details of the package, which the government has said is equivalent of a little below 10% of the GDP. Chidambaram said Sitharaman has acknowledged that additional expenditure must be financed by additional borrowing. He said the true value of the fiscal stimulus package “will, therefore, be known when we know what is the additional borrowing in 2020-21 to finance the additional expenditure over and above the expenditure budget of Rs 30,42,230 crore. The truth cannot be hidden for long”.Gopal Agarwal : “The details about the total stimulus given by FM in her press briefing yesterday was about Rs 20 lakh and 90 thousand crores.The spin master wants it to restrict it to some portions only. The total package includes monetary stimulus by RBI and Pradhan mantri garib kalyan yojna, announced earlier and reform package also. The size of total package being 10 % of GDP is well comparable globally with regard to size and content and is much above most of them. This will also kick start Indian economy and bring happiness to all of us, as it has something for everyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-takes-a-dig-at-pm-on-additional-nregs-outlay/story-9A6s62PZH7Qd9Cz2tUjyKM.html
19-05-2020||India||50% staff to attend govt office, HoDs to prepare roster: DoPT||New Delhi: The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) on Monday issued fresh guidelines saying 50% of staff below the deputy secretary level will attend offices on alternate days. It has instructed the department heads to prepare rosters to ensure staggered timings for the junior staffers. Since last month, officers of the deputy secretary rank and above have been attending offices daily. The DoPT, the Centre’s coordinating agency, had last month allowed only 33% junior staffers to return to work. The government on Sunday extended the nationwide lockdown imposed in late March to stop the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic until May 31. It has also eased curbs on private offices that were previously allowed to function with 33% staff strength while making the wearing of mask mandatory along with social distancing norms.Officials said the Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions Ministry was also planning a work from the home framework for which feedback has been sought from the Union ministries. Extension of the virtual private network has been recommended to section-level officers to make work from home more convenient, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-staff-to-attend-govt-office-hods-to-prepare-roster-dopt/story-1274ZtAXhA282wmRLC3UMM.html
19-05-2020||India||GoM meets to take stock of relief work, stimulus package||A group of senior ministers that included home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, railways minister Piyush Goyal, and aviation minister Hardeep Puri met on Monday to review Covid 19-related relief work, the stimulus package announced by the Modi government , and the opening up of the economy, two officials said on condition of anonymity.The officials added that the ministers also discussed relief to migrant workers returning to villages. “There was no specific issue and there had not been any specific decision taken,” one of the officials said. A finance ministry spokesperson declined comments. According to the second official, the meeting started at noon and went on for about an hour. The broad theme of the meeting was the road ahead for the country, the official said.“Now that the stimulus package is out, there was a freewheeling discussion on the economy and the road ahead. The steps to be taken, what the ministers see as the immediate future, and broad themes,” the official added.Over the past five days the finance minister has announced the government’s five-part policy reform and fiscal incentive package worth a total of Rs 20,97,053 crore under the Atamnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Initiative). This also includes the Rs 1.7 lakh crore welfare package under Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) and Rs 8,01,603 crore monetary measures announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).According to the second official, there will be another meeting of this group of ministers by the end of this week and the Prime Minister will also be briefed about its outcome.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gom-meets-to-take-stock-of-relief-work-stimulus-package/story-9aD0jS2NyISk03shqTv43N.html
19-05-2020||India||Kabul dismisses Taliban claims of India’s ‘negative role’ in Afghanistan||New Delhi: The Afghan government on Monday rejected a senior Taliban leader’s remarks that India has been playing a “negative role” in Afghanistan, saying India has been cooperating in development and is expected to contribute to the peace process.Sher Muhammad Abbas Stanikzai, the Taliban’s chief negotiator and head of its political office in Qatar, had been quoted by the media on Sunday as saying that India has been playing a negative role in Afghanistan for the past 40 years.Stanikzai, a former military officer who once trained at the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun, also said India should reconsider its policy on Afghanistan. If the Indian government reconsiders its policy and wants an active role in peace, reconciliation and reconstruction, the Taliban will welcome it and look at it positively, he said.The Afghan foreign ministry said on Monday that Afghanistan’s ties with India are “within international frameworks and based on mutual respect”. India has very good relations with Afghanistan and is one of the biggest donor countries, the ministry said.Afghan foreign ministry spokesperson Gran Hewad told the US-backed Radio Azadi: “India one of the biggest donor countries and has helped Afghanistan in development and reconstruction areas. We appreciate their cooperation. We expect India and other neighbouring countries [will] play a significant role in [the] Afghan peace process.”There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Stanikzai’s remarks.Stanikzai had also claimed that India has only cooperated with “those who are corrupt and have been put in power by foreigners not elected by Afghan people”.These developments have come days after the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, discussed the Afghan peace process with external affairs minister S Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval during a trip to New Delhi. He also said India should directly engage with the Taliban.People familiar with developments have said India is yet to take a call on engaging with the Taliban in any way.Khalid Sadaat, a political analyst, told Radio Azadi that the Taliban are making such assertions on Pakistan’s demand. He said, “The Taliban should not give themselves this liberty to make county and state-level remarks, as it will have negative consequences for Afghanistan in future.“The other thing is that India and Pakistan are having historical enmity and Pakistan is playing a proxy role in Afghanistan, and Taliban are being accused of playing Pakistan’s proxy role in Afghanistan and are backed by Pakistan. I believe Taliban [are making] these assertions on Pakistan’s demand.”The US has also stepped up efforts to implement its troubled deal with the Taliban, which has run into problems because of several issues, including the release of prisoners. India has also called for a cessation of hostilities so that authorities can focus on the Covid-19 pandemic.Over the past few days, a fake document about the Taliban calling for the launch of jihad in India went viral on social media. The Taliban denied the reports and a spokesman clarified the group’s policy does not allow interference in the affairs of any other country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kabul-dismisses-taliban-claims-of-india-s-negative-role-in-afghanistan/story-daVhxH6VPzSmiXEIM2FliL.html
19-05-2020||India||Vijay Mallya return a shot in the arm for probe of bankers, officials||Businessman Vijay Mallya’s return to India from the UK, inevitable now that he has exhausted his legal options against India’s extradition request, is set to provide impetus to a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) of a larger conspiracy involving public sector bankers who lent him money, two CBI officials said.Bankers cleared loans worth Rs.6,027 crore to Mallya’s Kingfisher Airlines (KFA), ignoring false representations and the fact that the airline was in the red, said the officials, who requested anonymity. Mallya fled to the UK in March 2016 as banks closed in on him to recover loans given to the company, which was grounded in 2012.CBI registered a separate case against Mallya and unknown others in August 2016 to probe the alleged conspiracy in the loans extended to Kingfisher by a consortium of 17 banks led by State Bank of India between 2005 and 2010. A chargesheet is yet to be filed in the case because Mallya hasn’t yet been questioned in connection with the suspected conspiracy.On his return from the UK, the CBI may take Mallya into custody and interrogate him about the role played by senior bank executives who may have influenced the decision by banks to extend loans to Kingfisher Airlines, the two CBI officials cited above said. Several managing directors and executive directors of the public sector banks, who approved these loans could face the heat, one of the officials said.Some of the MDs and senior officials from top banks – including SBI, Punjab National Bank (PNB) and Central Bank of India – were questioned by a CBI special investigation team (SIT) in mid-2018. Kingfisher Airlines’ total outstanding loans, including interest that piled up, amounted to a little over Rs 10,000 crore.The first official cited above said Mallya had met one bank MD on a Sunday. As banks are closed on Sundays, this is being seen as a move to influence the decision of loan approval. Talking about the role of bankers, judge Emma Arbuthnot of the Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London, ordering Mallya’s extradition to India on December 11, 2018, said:“Conspiracies are very rarely proved with direct evidence and there is none in this case but there is evidence that the GOI [government of India] relies on from which it says the court can draw inferences that the bankers were involved in a conspiracy with KFA”.“If the criteria for lending to KFA had been applied, if the background checks had been carried out, the loans should not have been granted. If the end-use certificates and all the other post sanction conditions applied, the loans would not have been misapplied in the way they were,” the judge noted.The UK high court on Thursday rejected Mallya’s plea to approach the UK Supreme Court for appealing against the extradition.Mallya’ extradition to India is based on a first information report filed by the CBI in July 2015 in connection with a Rs 900 crore loan sanctioned by IDBI Bank to KFA. The Enforcement Directorate has charge-sheeted Mallya in both cases, alleging that he diverted most of the money into foreign assets, the Indian Premier League (IPL) team and F1 motorsport firm Formula One. Mallya’s assets worth Rs 13,000 crore have already been attached by ED.The second CBI officer cited above said “documents pertaining to loans given by 17 banks have already been scrutinized and several bank officials have been examined in last four years. A chargesheet will be filed soon”.Mallya has repeatedly said that he is ready to pay his creditors in full for the loans he owes.He tweeted on Thursday - “Congratulations to the government for a Covid-19 relief package. They can print as much currency as they want BUT should a small contributor like me who offers 100 percent payback of state-owned bank loans be constantly ignored? Please take my money unconditionally and close”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mallya-return-a-shot-in-the-arm-for-probe-of-bankers-officials/story-rDuD8Z99RYFDa4SKSQZlsM.html
19-05-2020||India||Amid border row with India, Nepal to publish new maps||New Delhi: The Nepal government decided on Monday to publish new maps showing Lipulekh and Kalapani, the subject of disputes with India, as part of Nepalese territory amid an escalating border row between the two countries.The decision to show Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani was made at a meeting of the council of ministers chaired by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli.Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali tweeted in Nepali that the council of ministers had decided to publish a new map of the country showing the seven provinces, 77 districts and 753 local administrative divisions, including “Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani”.The official map will be published soon by the land management ministry, he said.Culture and tourism minister Yogesh Bhattarai, in a tweet, thanked Oli and said the council of ministers’ decision “will be written in golden letters in the pages of history”.There was no immediate response from Indian officials. The external affairs ministry has already said Lipulekh, at the centre of a border row over the construction of a road to the border with China, is “completely within the territory of India”.Defence minister Rajnath Singh recently opened the 80-km road that ends at Lipulekh Pass. It was built so that pilgrims going to Kailash-Mansarovar can avoid dangerous high-altitude routes through Sikkim and Nepal.Nepal has also been irked by Indian Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane’s remarks last week that Nepal’s protest against the border road was at the behest of “someone else” – a veiled reference to China. The Indian Army chief is also the honorary chief of the Nepal Army.Monday’s development came barely a day after Gyawali thanked the Indian government for providing medical logistics and kits for 30,000 tests as part of cooperation to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Kathmandu has contending the new road “passes through Nepali territory” and the government summoned the Indian envoy last week to lodge a protest. The border row erupted months after Nepal was irked by the depiction of Kalapani as part of Uttarakhand in new Indian maps showing the union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh.India has said both sides can resolve such boundary issues through dialogue, though such talks would be held after they have dealt with the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-border-row-with-india-nepal-to-publish-new-maps/story-0HSeKDe0nDavkf3aAVGwcM.html
19-05-2020||India||Bengal and Odisha brace for super cyclone Amphan, PM Modi takes stock||Super cyclone Amphan will make landfall in West Bengal between Digha and Hatiya Island in Bangladesh on Wednesday afternoon and is likely to have a devastating impact on the biodiverse Sundarbans mangrove forest region, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. This is the first super cyclonic storm in the Bay of Bengal since 1999 when over 9,000 people were killed in Odisha.The wind speed is expected to be around 110 to 120 km per hour when Amphan crosses and is feared to lead to extensive damage even in Kolkata. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday chaired a high-level meeting to review the response measures to deal with Amphan and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF)’s evacuation plan. Officials said NDRF has deployed 25 teams, kept 12 others ready in reserve and 24 on the standby.In a social media discussion organised by Union earth sciences ministry, IMD director general M Mohapatra said the cyclone can lead to the uprooting of trees, electric poles, damage to makeshift houses and old structures besides extensive flooding in densely-populated areas with poor drainage.“All kinds of adverse weather can be expected as this is an extremely intense storm. I am making it very clear that it will be very intense,” said Mohapatra. He added Amphan intensified rapidly from a cyclonic storm on Saturday to a super cyclone by Monday afternoon with a wind speed of 220 to 230 km per hour. Amphan was expected to maintain its super cyclone status and intensity over the next 24 hours. Amphan is a massive cyclone, 700 km in extent and 15 km in height, as it rotates around its centre in the central Bay of Bengal. The wind speed during landfall in the North and South 24 Pargana districts of West Bengal is likely to be around 165 to 175 km per hour gusting to 195 km per hour. Extremely heavy rainfall and severe winds are expected in East Medinipur, South and North 24 Parganas, Hooghly and Kolkata. Four to six-metre and three to four-metre high tidal waves above the astronomical tide are likely to inundate low lying areas of South and North 24 Parganas and East Medinipur during the landfall.According to a statement by the ministry of home affairs, the Indian Coast Guard and the Navy have deployed ships and helicopters for relief and rescue operations. Army and Air Force units are also on standby in West Bengal and Odisha. Mohapatra said the cyclone is also expected to extensively damage the biodiversity of Sunderbans. In north coastal Odisha also, wind speed can go up to 135 km per hour during landfall, but major damage is not expected as the cyclone is expected to cross parallel to the state’s coast.“WB [West Bengal] coast is very shallow in nature... normal tidal waves go much inland. This can go up to 25 km along the rivers,” said Mohapatra. He added Amphan is meeting all favourable conditions for a rapid increase of intensity, including high sea surface temperatures, atmospheric instability, high humidity vorticity.IMD said this is the first time that super cyclones will be recorded in two consecutive years—Kyarr (2019) and now Amphan--and could be linked to higher sea surface temperatures. Kyarr was formed in the Arabian Sea but was concentrated there and caused no fatalities. The last severe cyclone Fani hit Odisha in May 2019 and killed over 80 people.“All conditions are currently favourable for the development of a super cyclone. The sea surface temperature is in the range of 30 to 31 degree Celsius, as compared to an expected temperature of 28 degree Celsius. There is vertical wind shear (change in wind speed with altitude), sufficient moisture, convective environment etc,” said Sunita Devi, who is in charge of cyclones at IMD.Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, said Amphan has intensified extremely rapidly compared to other cyclones. “Since satellite data is available, such rapid intensification has not been seen. Cyclones draw energy from the ocean surface. So, sea surface temperature is an important factor. We are seeing record temperatures in some parts of the Bay of Bengal. Some buoys of the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services have recorded maximum temperature 32 to 34 degree Celsius during the first two weeks of May. That is linked to climate change surely and is one element which makes sure rapid intensification.”Koll further said, “Amphan, with a wind speed of 145 knots, is now the strongest cyclone to have ever occurred in the Bay of Bengal (ever since 1982 when monitoring began) beating Phailin, the Odisha super cyclone of 1999. Also, this is the strongest cyclone to have occurred in the north Indian Ocean since 1982 (when monitoring began), equalling cyclne Gonu (occurring in the Arabian Sea in 2007) with wind speed of 145 knots. But the 1999 Odisha super cyclone is the strongest cyclone to make landfall over India till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-and-odisha-brace-for-cyclone-pm-modi-takes-stock/story-XfLIGsg9OMIUXl8iIIWvQN.html
19-05-2020||India||Smaller districts new hot spots in Madhya Pradesh||Khandwa city in Nimad region, 271 kilometres north west of Bhopal, with a population of about 2 lakh as per 2011 census, witnessed as many as 90 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, most of them from a colony inhabited by trading community members whereas in the same period, Indore known as the commercial capital of Madhya Pradesh, with a population of about 20 lakh (as per 2011 census), added 92 new patients, as per heath department data.Khandwa is among the smaller districts emerging as a new Covid hot spot in the state.Burhanpur, the neighbouring district of Khandwa, and situated, like Khandwa, on the Maharashtra border, is another district which is, of late, witnessing a spurt in new Covid-19 cases in the city. On April 28, the city with a population of about 2.10 lakh had its first Covid patient. In the past 20 days the city has registered as many as 195 positive cases; 11 people died from the infection.Whereas Indore, which reported its first Covid patient on March 25, has a Covid-19 positive case for about every 800 people, a small town like Burhanpur now has a Covid-19 positive case for every 1100 people. Khandwa has one Covid-19 patient for 1100 persons.The other smaller districts worrying the government include Khargone, Dhar, Raisen, Dewas, Mandsaur and Neemuch.As many as 45 of 52 districts have been affected by the disease, which has claimed 248 lives so far among 4977 cases.Dr Yogesh Sharma, an epidemiologist in Khandwa, said, “The sudden spurt in positive cases is because of a particular locality reporting most of the cases. Now, we are tracing those who came in contact with these people. We are yet to know how these people contracted the virus.”Burhapur collector Praveen Singh, said, “Initially some of those who tested positive for coronavirus happened to be public figures like two ex-corporators and a few doctors. Our contact tracing suggested that many contracted the virus from them. I have instructed authorities to ensure strict compliance of curfew restrictions in the city.” However, public health experts and social activists said that had the state government paid attention to these districts right from the beginning, they would not have become new hot spots.A health official from Burhanpur, who didn’t want to be named , said, “We suggested to the then collector that there should be more and more sampling and testing but he turned down our suggestions. However, the new collector has asked us to go for a massive survey and screening.”Prakash, a social activist from Khandwa, said, “An alarming increase in Covid cases is quite unfortunate. Had the administration been alert this situation would have been averted.”Public health expert, Amulya Nidhi, said, “Lockdown has failed and so have the state government’s other strategies as announced so far in containing the virus. The situation remains that even after two months of lockdown the government is not able to control the disease. It is high time the government should chalk out specific plans for every district, ward and block and also involve representatives of all the sections of society including health experts in this exercise.”A health department official who didn’t want to be named said, “Since districts in Nimad region are situated on MP-Maharashtra border, travel of people from MP to Maharashtra and vice versa appears to be one of the main reasons. Testing of samples has been increased in these districts from an average 50 per day to more than 200 per day.” He said, “We have identified at least 10 districts which were added to the list of Covid-19 patients in the past fortnight due to migrant labourers testing positive. On humanitarian grounds, we can’t stop the influx of the migrant labourers but the system is being strengthened at village and panchayat level to ensure quarantine of labourers strictly to ensure that these districts don’t emerge as further hot spots in the state.”Health minister Narottam Mishra said, “The situation is much under control in the state. More and more people are recovering from the disease and are being discharged from hospitals. The recovery rate has gone up to more than 46%. However, we are taking all the precautions and measures for further improvement in the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smaller-districts-new-hot-spots-in-mp/story-DVtPrHZJmkbzw6ReD7l0VM.html
19-05-2020||India||Maharashtra records 2,005 new cases, tally crosses 35,000||Maharashtra recorded 2,005 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Monday, the second consecutive day the state reported over 2,000 fresh infections, taking the total cases to 35,058, even as Mumbai averaged close to 1,000 daily cases over the past week, according to official data.Fifty-one more deaths across the state took the toll in the state to 1,249, according to the state’s health bulletin. The tally of 2,005 new Covid-19 cases is the second highest single-day count after 2,347 infections recorded on May 17.The total cases in Maharashtra crossed the 35,000 mark 18 days after the infections surpassed 10,000. Of the total cases, 25,392 were active infections, a health official said. Mumbai, the worst hit city in the country, recorded its second-highest daily spike with 1185 cases. It also crossed the 21,000 mark and the case count in the financial hub now stands at 21,335. On Sunday, the city recorded 1,595 cases.Of the 51 fresh deaths, 23 were reported from Mumbai, eight each from Navi Mumbai and Pune, three from Jalgaon, two each from Aurangabad, Ahmednagar and Nagpur, one each from Bhiwandi and Palghar. One person from Bihar also died of Covid-19 on Monday in the state, the official added.Pune, another Covid-19 hot spot, has so far reported 3,707 cases and 196 deaths, an official said, adding that the entire Pune division has reported a total of 4,640 cases and 232 deaths.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday sought to understand the Kerala model of fighting the outbreak and underlined the challenge of ensuring social distancing in congested places such as Dharavi, believed to be Asia’s biggest slum.Kerala health minister KK Shailaja tweeted: “Tope was eager to understand our standard operating protocol, guidelines, treatment and testing methods that Kerala has successfully implemented to fight Covid-19.”Sharing details of the interaction along with a couple of photographs, Tope said he interacted with Shailaja and tried to find out additional measures to be undertaken for curbing the outbreak in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-records-2-005-new-cases-tally-crosses-35k/story-fHjXU0WQ3IptsmYlmumTLI.html
19-05-2020||India||Telangana tests only 225 samples daily; Andhra 9,000||At a time when Andhra Pradesh has been conducting an average of 9,000 tests for Covid-19 every day, the number of samples being tested in the neighbouring Telugu state of Telangana has been only an average of 225 samples a day. Telengana tests 664 per million while the country tests 1660 per million. This came to light on Sunday night when the Telangana medical and health department officials disclosed the data analytics of testing as on May 16 to explain the gender and age distribution among the positive cases for Covid-19.According to G Srinivasa Rao, director of medical and health, Telangana government, the cumulative number of samples tested as on May 16 was 23,388, including that of 947 male positive, 14,256 male negative, 566 female positive and 7619 female negative cases.Among the positive cases, both male and female, 218 cases belong to the age group of 0-15 years, 434 are from the age group of 16-30 years, 406 are from age group of 31-45 years, 301 cases are from the age group of 46-60 and 151 cases are of above 60 years of age.The last time the department released the figures of cumulative number of tests done in the state was on April 28, when the health minister addressed a press conference and disclosed that 19,303 tests were conducted till that date.Taking into account the latest figures of 23,388 samples tested, the total number of tests conducted between April 28 and May 16 was 4085 – an average of 226 cases per day.A statement from the office of Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender said the total number of tests conducted in the state as on May 14 was 22,842. It does mean 546 tests were done in a span of 48 hours – an average of 273 per day, showing that the testing has slightly improved in the last three days.The first Covid-19 cases was reported in Telangana on March 2 and it was only after March 15 that the government released figures about the number of samples tested – 22 samples on March 15 and 764 on March 24, when Tablighi Jamaat episode pushed the number up. After that the Telangana government stopped releasing the data pertaining to number of samples tested for Covid-19.The health minister has been refusing to divulge the data stating that the number of positive cases that were detected in the testing, rather than the number of samples being tested, was a parameter for the spread of the virus.As on Sunday evening, 1551 positive cases and 34 deaths were reported in Telangana; of them, 525 cases are still active and others have recovered.“We do not want to do indiscriminate testing of people just for the sake of figures. We have been conducting tests as per the ICMR guidelines only on those having genuine symptoms and also with comorbid conditions, apart from those who had been the primary contacts of the positive cases,” Rajender said.He further said thought there are private labs that have got permission from ICMR to conduct the tests for Covid-19, the state government did not give the clearance because it would lead to these labs fleecing people even if they had mild symptoms. “Each test costs around Rs 5,000 and we do not want the people to be fleeced,” he said.In Andhra Pradesh, however, the testing of samples for Covid-19 has been stepped up in the last one month, after the state health department began using Trunat rapid testing kits, besides RT-PCR testing. The AP government has also imported two lakh rapid test kits from South Korea, which are also being used for random testing during the door-to-door survey.According to state nodal officer for Covid-19, Arja Sreekanth, 2,48,711 samples have been tested as on Monday. In all, the state reported 2432 positive cases, including 150 those of migrant labourers, besides 50 deaths.Meanwhile, Telangana high court, which was hearing a public interest litigation petition, on Monday observed that the number of tests in the state was too low. It suggested to the government to step up testing by introducing mobile testing as is being done in Kerala.It asked the state government to submit the details of testing for Covid-19 being done in the state and posted the case to May 26 for further hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-tests-only-225-samples-daily-andhra-9k/story-rhDi6jAtUsvVhp7cP14A5K.html
19-05-2020||India||29 cases in Kerala, highest in 2 months||Kerala on Monday reported the highest Covid-19 cases in two months as 29 people, including 21 who have recently returned from abroad and seven from other states, were diagnosed with the disease, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The spike came even as the state government announced a series of measures to ease the lockdown imposed in late March to check the pandemic spread. The measures include the reopening of liquor shops from Wednesday.Kerala, which was the first in the country to report a Covid-19 case in January and was the worst-hit in early March, has earned praise for controlling the spread of the disease. The state’s active cases dipped to 16 last week. They have since gone up to 130 while thousands are under observation with symptoms. Kerala has over the last five days reported 97 cases. It is now bracing for a major surge in the Covid-19 cases as 38 flights from abroad and 24 trains from other states are expected to arrive over the next two weeks. Over 2.5 million people from Kerala live abroad mostly in West Asian countries.Vijayan said they have announced some concessions but it does not mean that the restrictions are over. “We have to keep in mind the rising number of cases,” he said. Vijayan said they were a major concern. All liquor shops as well hotel bars will be allowed to sell alcohol for the first time since the lockdown was enforced on March 25. Vijayan said customers will have to register online to buy liquor and they will be allotted particular time slots. The state had earlier refused to open liquor outlets fearing a rush.Prohibition activists have asked the government not to allow selling of liquor, which is one of the main sources of revenue for it. The opposition Congress, too, criticised the move to allow the sale of liquor through bars. The state will also resume bus services within districts with increased fares. For inter-district travel, passes will be mandatory while only half-filled buses will be allowed to ply, said Vijayan. Auto-rickshaws and taxis will also be allowed but with restricted number of passengers.At barbershops, only cutting of hair will be allowed while beauty parlours and spas will remain shut along with shopping complexes and malls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/29-cases-in-kerala-highest-in-2-months/story-VIgo2YnJYyfkyqbfcfTprM.html
19-05-2020||India||Goa sees biggest 1-day spike with 10 new cases, state tally reaches 39||Goa on Monday reported its biggest spike in Covid-19 cases as 14 people, who have recently returned to the state, were diagnosed with the disease to take its tally to 43, officials said and added 36 of them are active cases detected over the last three days. A 100-bed hospital set up for Covid-19 patients in the state was until late last week empty as all the seven patients had been discharged after recovering. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said 20 of the active cases involve those who arrived by a train from New Delhi after having alighted at Panvel in Maharashtra. He added eight people found Covid-19 positive arrived by train on Saturday while 12 on Sunday.The number of cases in Goa has risen since the weekend and involve largely those who have tested upon their arrival in the state. Officials said a family of five and their driver, two lorry drivers, and a cleaner, two people who returned from West Bengal, two industrial workers, and a seafarer are among those tested positive. “Of the active cases, 33 have come from Maharashtra [the worst-hit state by the pandemic],” Sawant said. He said Goa is the only state which is testing every passenger alighting in Goa. “On our request, the next Rajdhani [train] will not be coming to Goa. It is only the Kerala-bound trains that will continue to stop in Goa,” Sawant said. Around 414 Goans stranded in Italy are being flown in next week on chartered flights arranged by a cruise ship company they worked with. Officials said they will screen and test them at the airport before sending them for quarantine as per the protocol. Officials said 1.5 lakh migrants have registered with the Goa government seeking their return to their home states. Around 10,200 have returned or are scheduled to be sent to their respective states this week. Sawant said states like Bihar, West Bengal, and Orissa are yet to arrange trains for the migrant workers from these states. Special trains carrying migrants have so far been sent to places like Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Jammu & Kashmir. Trains to Uttar Pradesh and Chattisgarh have been planned over the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-sees-biggest-1-day-spike-with-10-new-cases-state-tally-reaches-39/story-xG27OzZJV7hnbg236eLRBI.html
19-05-2020||India||Stimulus package a lost opportunity: Bernstein||Global securities research firm Sanford Bernstein termed the Rs 20 lakh crore economic revival package announced by the Modi government to cope with the coronavirus disease and the impact of the lockdown imposed to slow its spread as a “lost opportunity” echoing growing concern about whether it would help revive the economy. “While the package started on important aspects but the need to announce measures that add up to this top down number, made the entire package aimless, with several generic announcements which should ideally, have been a part of a normal economic agenda. Overall, we see it as a lost opportunity,” the May 17 report on Asia-Pacific Equity Strategy said.India’s desire to announce a large economic package, something that shows the world that it cares about the economy and is willing to match global stimulus numbers, was perhaps the driver for the claim of a large package (USD 280bn, 10% of GDP), the firm said. The finance ministry did not respond to an email seeking comment on the report.Earlier, in an interview with Hindustan Times (published on Monday), finance minister said the government has taken an informed decision on the package . “Every sector has been helped. I think this is a reasonably exhaustive package. And it approaches every section — perhaps in our own way, not in a way people wanted us to. There is hope for everyone to be benefit from this.” The report, however, said, “Broader reforms lack the spark.” Not much was discussed on land, labour reforms, tax rationalization or on any coherent plan to invite foreign manufacturing, it added. “The government’s defence indigenization plan is not new and has been poorly executed in the past and that is also the case with commercial mining for coal. APMC (amendment) plans are good but also need support from states. The discom plan is insufficient,”the firm pointed out. Analysing the proportion of fiscal and monetary measures in the stimulus package, the report said of the overall $280 billion, credit guarantees were around $62billion and liquidity support from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) around $108 billion. Government programs of $173 billion includes $132 billion of loans, $24billion of fiscal support (0.9% of GDP) and rest largely for food grains etc, which is from Food Corporation of India (FCI) stock and other schemes.“India does not have fiscal buffers hence a large fiscal stimulus would have been a bold bet – as that could have impacted ratings and currency, if not executed properly.Government has hence taken an easier path,” it said.Sitharaman addressed this question in Sunday’s interview with HT. “Rating agencies rate you (badly) f you alone are not doing well in a world that is otherwise rosy. With a global pandemic, with every economy being affected….ratings can’t be done in isolation.”“I’ve thought about it, and it doesn’t worry me. Look at the strengths of India: we are less affected; our foreign exchange reserves and macroeconomy are strong; we have had a six year tenure of PM Modi who has handled the economy responsibly; our debt to GDP ratio has come down. Why would the rating agencies treat us badly?,” she added.The Bernstein report, however, appreciated measures taken for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) such as credit guarantees for fresh credit to support a sector that employs large workforce. It gave a thumbs up to package supporting the poor and migrants. “The expansion of MGNREGA, has a negative aspect, as it could impact labour availability, as rural migrants may not rush back for jobs (construction, transport most impacted),” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stimulus-package-a-lost-opportunity-bernstein/story-dedaae4OQjenIjk9oLjm7H.html
19-05-2020||India||J&K notifies domicile rules for jobs, other privileges||The Jammu & Kashmir government on Monday notified Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020, which specify the conditions and the process to obtain the documents required tor applying to jobs and avail other privileges restricted to residents. All people who have resided in the UT for 15 years, or have studied for seven years and appeared in class 10th or 12th examination in an educational institution in the region, and their children, are eligible for grant of domicile. Children of central government, All India service, bank and PSU, statutory body , and central university officials , who have served in Jammu of Kashmir for a total period of 10 years will also be eligible for domicile status. Besides, all migrants and their children who are registered with Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner will be granted domicile certificate. Children of those residents of Jammu and Kashmir who reside outside the Union territory in connection with their employment of business or other professional or vocational reasons have also become eligible for grant of domicile status.The rules provide a simple procedure for the issuance of the Domicile Certificate. There shall be a timeline of 15 days for issuance of the certificate after which the applicant shall be free to approach an Appellate Authority.The decision of the Appellate Authority shall be binding upon the issuing authority and the orders of the Appellate Authority are to be complied within seven days, failing which the defaulting officer shall be liable for a penalty of Rs 50,000 out of his salary.The Appellate Authority will also have revisional powers. It can, either suo moto or on through an application made, call for records, check the legality of any proceedings and pass appropriate orders in reference.The rules have a provision that applications for grant of Domicile Certificate can be submitted either physically or electronically. Permanent Residents of the erstwhile State of J&K in whose favour Permanent Resident Certificate (PRC) has been issued by the competent authority before October 31, 2019 shall be eligible for receiving their Domicile Certificates on the basis of PRCs alone and no other additional document shall be required for such residents.Kashmiri migrants can get the Domicile certificate on production of either a PRC or certificate of registration of migrant.As a result of the new rules and procedure, West Pakistan Refugees (WPRs), safai karamcharis and children of women married outside Jammu and Kashmir shall also be now eligible for Domicile Certificate. A simple and easily available set of documents such as Ration Card, Immovable Property record, verified Education certificates, Electricity Bills or verified Labour Card/Employer Certificate, have been prescribed for obtaining the Domicile Certificate.The Government has also constituted a committee to accelerate recruitment to government vacancies and to ensure transparency, inclusiveness and speed and that the committee has been asked to identify the vacancies for being filled up on immediate basis with priority to Class IV vacancies. The Committee will also ensure that necessary sanctions are obtained, rules are notified and any hitches in the recruitment process are removed.A comment from the UT administration or the opposition could not be sought by the time this story went to print.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-notifies-domicile-rules-for-jobs-other-privileges/story-tmHdlqrruRKUFoo5KWdHCP.html
19-05-2020||India||‘200k people with basic phones took health test via tele-survey’||Health assessment of around two lakh people has been taken as part of a tele-survey launched last month for those who have feature phones and cannot access contact tracing Aarogya Setu app, officials aware of the matter said. The Aarogya Setu Interactive Voice Response System was launched on April 21 to reach 900 million feature phone users across the country after a successful pilot in Tamil Nadu. Union Information Technology ministry officials said 6 lakh people called on the toll-free number for the survey. “A few people have been identified as unwell through the survey and the data has been given to the respective state officials,” said a ministry official, without specifying the number of people identified as unwell or those who have been tested after the assessment.The official said data collected from the survey has helped in finding some hotspots through a variety of data sets. “...the inputs from the system are forwarded to states,” said the official on condition of anonymity without elaborating. As per the ministry’s estimates, there are 1.2 billion mobile phone users in India, but only 350 million have smartphones. The remaining 900 million are feature phone users.A user has to place a call on the number ‘1921’ which then prompts a survey. People are asked if they have come in contact with anyone tested positive for Covid-19 as part of the survey under which details like gender, age, and symptoms are sought. They later receive messages telling them if they are safe or not and are also advised to download the Aarogya Setu app if they have smartphones. The helpline and survey is managed by a team from the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme and the National Informatics Centre in 11 regional languages. V Kamakoti, a professor at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras, led a team in Tamil Nadu to pilot the tele-survey in March. The team screened 15,000 people over the phone and helped the state detect suspected Covid-19 patients, as well as indications of the hotspots. As many as 115 million people have downloaded the Aarogya Setu app till now.The government on Sunday eased the requirement for office-goers to mandatorily install the Aarogya Setu app, asking employers instead to ensure “on best effort basis” their staff have the tool.The app is still mandatory for those taking the special trains or arriving from abroad by the repatriation flights.Independent software researchers and privacy experts have criticised the app for having vulnerabilities and for collecting excess sensitive data that could aid in illegal surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200k-people-with-basic-phones-took-health-test-via-tele-survey/story-ZIfcQmehXDJ7eq3D8wRUUO.html
19-05-2020||India||TN boy 1st case of Covid inflammatory syndrome||An eight-year-old boy from Chennai has become India’s first case of acute illness because of hyper-inflammatory syndrome associated with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This syndrome describes inflammation in the entire body, including vital organs, which leads to multiorgan failure and shock.The Covid-19 positive child was brought in a critical condition to Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital, Chennai, and was admitted into the intensive care unit, with overlapping features of toxic shock syndrome (toxins produced in body due to overgrowth of a microbe leading to shock) and Kawasaki disease (that leads to inflamed blood vessels), according to the pre-print paper published in the journal of Indian Paediatrics on May 10.“…The initial differential diagnoses were pneumonia with septic shock, COVID-19 penumonitis, Kawasaki Disease and Toxic Shock Syndrome.,” said the paper titled, “Hyper-inflammatory syndrome in a child with Covid-19 treated successfully with intravenous immunoglobulin and tocilizumab”.The boy was given intensive care, and recovered completely after two weeks, says the paper.A paper published in The Lancet on May 7 documented having found a cluster of eight children with similar symptoms in South Thames Retrieval Service in London during a period of 10 days in mid-April. There have also been reports of similar cases from the US.Available data says the disease is generally milder in children and adolescents compared with adults. The World Health Organization (WHO) has created a working group of experts from all over the world to begin investigating cases to establish evidence on whether Covid-19 can lead to multiorgan failure also in this age group. Dr Rakesh Lodha, department of pediatrics, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, is one of the 10 experts from five countries that are a part of the newly constituted working group.The United Nations body has formed the working group to have a protocol in place for collection, collation and analysis of data from around the world, and India is likely to be one of the countries selected as surveillance sites.“The group has just been formed to look into evidence to ascertain whether these clusters that are being reported from various countries of inflammatory shock syndrome in kids and adolescents are in context with Covid or not because these symptoms can also be seen in other infections. The idea is to know whether Covid can lead to this or not since so far it was believed that the disease is largely milder in children,” says Lodha, who is a professor in the paediatrics department.“India could also be selected as one of the sites as there is a case documented from within the country that fits into the case definition that the WHO has defined for selecting children as case studies. WHO will be collecting and analysing data but right now the next step will be to form data sharing protocols as it would relevant permissions from local authorities,” he says. Children up to 19 years of age who are either in the intensive care unit or have severe symptoms will be studied.“It is essential to characterize this syndrome and its risk factors, to understand causality, and describe treatment interventions. It is not yet clear the full spectrum of disease, and whether the geographical distribution in Europe and North America reflects a true pattern, or if the condition has simply not been recognized elsewhere. There is therefore an urgent need for collection of standardized data describing clinical presentations, severity, outcomes, and epidemiology..,” says WHO in its scientific brief.The case definition to be eligible for the surveillance will be a child having persistent fever (more than three days), inflammation, and evidence of single or multiorgan dysfunction (shock, cardiac, respiratory, renal, gastrointestinal or neurological disorder).“Since it is to see its corelation with Covid, preference will be to cases associated with Covid in any way including a positive case either with RT-PCR or rapid testing, direct contact of a lab confirmed case or cases from high risk areas,” says Dr Lodha.The researchers in the Indian paper believe that there may be a rise in these symptoms in children across India in the coming weeks. “It is clear from Europe and the USA that appearance of this syndrome in children follows the peak of infections in affected areas... We believe that children across India may present with this inflammatory syndrome related to Covid-19 in the weeks ahead…,” the paper says.Paediatricians say the number is very small, and shouldn’t cause an alarm at the moment.“Multisystem inflammatory syndrome can be seen in any child with any viral infection. It starts a sort of inflammatory chain reaction that affects one organ after another in a short span of time. However, how it happens and why, it is still not very clear. Many of these children succumb because the deterioration happens fast. It is also seen in children with Covid but it shouldn’t cause any panic in general public as the number of children who develop this kind of complication is small,” says Dr Rahul Nagpal, head of department of paediatrics, Fortis Healthcare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-boy-1st-case-of-covid-inflammatory-syndrome/story-n1cRSjXxxmO7AV0a9J6VMK.html
19-05-2020||India||No test needed for emergency cases||In a huge relief to patients needing emergency surgeries, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) directed that no emergency procedure (including deliveries) should be delayed for lack of testing—hospitals can simultaneously send samples for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing.The directive was a part of the revised Covid-19 testing guidelines that the research body released on Monday.“No emergency procedure (including deliveries) should be delayed for lack of test. However, sample can be sent for testing (of eligible patients) simultaneously…[sic],” read the ICMR advisory.“It was reported that some hospitals had been admitting patients only after making them undergo Covid-19 tests; more so in cases of chemo, dialysis or even surgeries. This was much-required clarity from ICMR,” said a senior public health expert, requesting not to be identified.However, all hospitalised patients, who develop influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms should be tested for the disease. According to the guidelines, cases of ILI are defined as those with “acute respiratory infection with fever ≥ 38◦C and cough”.In its fifth revised guidelines on Covid-19 testing, ICMR allowed testing to be expanded to include frontline workers involved in the containment and mitigation of the disease, apart from the health care workers who were already included in its previous guidelines.“This category is equally vulnerable as they are directly in contact with suspected or confirmed cases as part of door-to-door surveys, screening, etc. You don’t want them to be moving around as carriers of the disease,” the senior public health expert said. Covid-19 testing is now also allowed for all symptomatic ILI cases who have returned from abroad as well as for migrants within seven days of display of symptoms, according to the ICMR.Testing among asymptomatic cases is allowed only if a person is a direct and high-risk contact of a laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 case. “…to be tested once between day 5 and day 10 of coming into contact,” said the revised guidelines. This is a shift from the earlier guidelines which stated an asymptomatic case can be tested only between day 5 and 14.India has scaled up its Covid-19 testing capacity to one lakh samples a day. To date, 2,30,2792 samples have been tested, with 90,094 samples tested in the past 24 hours in about 373 government laboratories and 152 private laboratories approved by ICMR.“The more you test, the more you will be able to track and treat. It helps to know the numbers to formulate containment strategies accordingly,” said Dr T Jacob John, senior virologist, former head, virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore.As of now, there are 916 dedicated Covid hospitals with 1,80,473 beds (isolation beds- 1,61,169 and ICU beds- 19,304) and 2,044 dedicated Covid Health Centres with 1,28,304 beds (isolation beds- 1,17,775 and ICU beds-10,529) along with 9,536 quarantine centres and 6,309 Covid Care Centres with 5,64,632 beds now available to combat Covid-19 in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-test-needed-for-emergency-cases/story-V8U3Jj4JRNmbC9dDJodzVL.html
19-05-2020||India||Kashmir is India’s internal matter, says Taliban; denies plan to target Delhi||The Taliban on Monday denied claims on social media that it could join Pakistan-sponsored terrorism in Kashmir, underlining that the Taliban was clear that it “does not interfere in internal affairs of other countries”.“The statement published in the media about Taaliban joining Jihad in Kashmir is wrong…. The policy of the Islamic Emirate is clear that it does not interfere in the internal affairs of other countries.” Suhail Shaheen, the spokesperson for the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, as the political wing of Taliban calls itself, tweeted on Monday evening.The strong clarification comes a day after officials monitoring social media noted a spike in posts around claims that a Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said it was impossible to be friends with India unless the Kashmir dispute is resolved. The spokesperson was also claimed to have said that the Taliban would, after capturing power in Kabul, “capture Kashmir from infidels also”.Diplomats based in Kabul and Delhi told Hindustan Times that the Taliban spokesperson’s clarification came after India worked the backchannels to confirm reports about the group’s approach to India, and on Jammu and Kashmir.Also Watch | Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riyaz Naikoo eliminated: All the key details New Delhi was told that the social media posts were fake and did not reflect Taliban’s position.But analysts have also underlined that the Taliban wasn’t a monolithic body and comprises people holding different beliefs. For example, while the group has deep linkages with the Pakistani deep state, there are also some who favour an independent line.Since the Afghan Taliban’s top decision-making body Shura is based in Quetta and its sword arm, the Haqqani network based in Peshawar, both in Pakistan, an Af-Pak watcher said, one should not be surprised if there is a tweak in this stance under pressure from Pakistan.Already, political equations are changing rapidly in Afghanistan with the US all set to withdraw from Kabul. Unlike in the past where Islamabad for decades acted as a proxy for the US during the Soviet-Afghan war, this time Pakistan is riding on China, who in turn has close partners in Russia and Iran. This time, Washington is the common enemy.While the US has ensured that Ashraf Gani and Abdullah Abdullah have joined hands in power sharing, it hopes that the Tajik-Pashtun leader may sign an agreement with the Taliban as the former has refused to be any party to it.The Indian initiative in Afghanistan is also at cross-roads as Pakistan based terrorists groups will use Taliban-ruled Kabul to target India without fear of any Balakot. For all the main players, Afghanistan is turning full circle with Pakistan strategically placed in the great game.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-is-india-s-internal-matter-says-taliban-denies-plan-to-target-delhi/story-sOgG3yPsMenP4nZDKRbygL.html
19-05-2020||India||Rajasthan reports 173 new Covid-19 cases, count breaches 5000-mark; tally at 5,375||Rajasthan on Monday reported 173 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths, taking the total number of coronavirus positive cases to 5,375 in the state.At least 133 people have succumbed to the deadly infection till date in Rajasthan. There are 2,170 active Covid-19 cases currently, according to the state health department. On Sunday, Rajasthan had recorded the highest single-day spike of 242 new Covid-19 cases and five fatalities.ALSO READ | 45% of Rajasthan’s coronavirus patients in 21-40 age group: GovtOn Sunday, two more deaths were reported from Jaipur and one each from Bharatpur, Bikaner and Kota. Of the 242 fresh Covid-19 cases, Jaipur had recorded the maximum of 60, followed by Jodhpur 43, Dungarpur 18, Udaipur 17, Pali 14, Churu 13, Sikar 12, Nagaur 11, Rajsamand and Sirohi 10 each, Bhilwara, Kota and Bikaner five each, Barmer four, Jalore three, Alwar, Chittorgarh and Jhunjhunu two each, Ajmer, Dausa, Jhalawar, Karauli, Pratapgarh and Sawaimadhopur one each.In the state, a total of 3,055 Covid-19 patients have recovered.Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has directed officials to form a separate team for intensive monitoring of the coronavirus infection, which would provide thorough feedback on its spread and other aspects. Based on this, the state government will formulate its strategy, a senior government official said.Gehlot said that a large number of migrants from other states have reached villages. Special attention should be given in rural areas as there may be a risk of the infection spreading in such areas, the chief minister cautioned.The Rajasthan government will soon be running Shramik Special buses for migrants heading home on foot through national highways after Sunday’s lockdown 4.0 guidelines permitted inter-state travel through buses and other vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-reports-3-new-covid-19-cases-count-breaches-5000-mark-tally-at-5-375/story-IhkbcOLziorqVt8TFqxA6J.html
19-05-2020||India||Trump’s 200 ventilators for India cost $2.6 million, reaching in 3 weeks||The United States will airlift 200 mobile ventilators, each estimated to cost about Rs 1 million, to help Indians combat Covid-19, people familiar with the developments told Hindustan Times.“It has been indicated that the consignment will arrive by the end of this month or latest, early June,” a government official said. Each of these mobile ventilators is estimated to cost the US administration $ 13,000 (Rs 9.6 lakh at current exchange rates) without accounting for the transportation costs. In all, the ventilators will be worth about $ 2.6 million (or Rs 192 million) plus freight charges.US President Donald Trump had announced the decision to donate the ventilators on Twitter to underline close relations between the two countries. The gesture coincides with reports of India’s 85,700 coronavirus cases surpassing the tally of China (82,933), the country where the outbreak began.“We stand with India and @narendramodi during this pandemic. We’re also cooperating on vaccine development. Together we will beat the invisible enemy!” President Trump tweeted.Trump reiterated the point at his Press conference moments later, referring to his India visit in February, the role played by Indian expatriates in the US and describing Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a “good friend of mine”.“We are working closely with India,” he told reporters.Trump also said the US and India were cooperating to develop a vaccine for coronavirus that has claimed over 307,000 lives and infected more than 4.5 million people globally since it emerged in China in December last year.PM Modi thanked him in a tweet and highlighted the India-US relationship. “In such times, it’s always important for nations to work together and do as much as possible to make our world healthier and free from Covid-19,” he said. Thank you @POTUS @realDonaldTrump. This pandemic is being fought collectively by all of us. In such times, it’s always important for nations to work together and do as much as possible to make our world healthier and free from COVID-19. More power to 🇮🇳 - 🇺🇸 friendship! https://t.co/GRrgWFhYzRThe US move comes weeks after Prime Minister Modi acted on Trump’s request to reverse a ban on export of hydroxychloroquine, a malaria drug that was championed by the US President as a “game changer” in the fight against the coronavirus. Hydroxychloroquine, or HCQ, is being used in India as a prophylaxis for health workers at the frontline of the country’s response to the epidemic.Diplomats in Washington and New Delhi said Trump’s offer to send the ventilators and his public statements were an indicator of the deepening ties between the two countries and close contact between the two countries at different levels.It also comes against the backdrop of growing congruence of views between the two countries on accountability and transparency on the origin of the coronavirus, reforms in the World Health Organisation led by Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and even strategic issues such as terrorism and the situation in the Indo Pacific.For weeks, Trump has roasted the WHO for allowing itself to be led by China’s assessment of the virus when the disease was detected in central China’s Wuhan city last year. There have also been accusations from Washington that the Sars-CoV-2 virus may not be natural and may have been created in a laboratory, a possibility that was echoed this week by PM Modi’s cabinet colleague Nitin Gadkari in a media interview.That the two sides are on the same page on China and WHO also came across at a seven-nation video conference initiated by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. There was broad agreement on the need to stress on transparency and accountability for the spread of the disease that has killed over 3 lakh people worldwide. The emphasis on transparency and accountability at this meeting attended by Foreign Minister S Jaishankar is seen to be aimed at China and the WHO that is due to hold its annual meet on Monday.(Editor’s note: The story has been updated)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trump-s-200-ventilators-for-india-cost-2-6-million-reaching-in-3-weeks/story-bO7s9Ng4thj6HuvkcA6DGM.html
