20-05-2020||India||Don’t want buses? Will take them back: Priyanka to UP govt||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Wednesday that the party would summon back the hundreds of buses it had sent to Utfar Pradesh’s borders to carry stranded migrant workers home after a confrontation with the state government, which refused to accept the vehicles .“If you don’t want to use them, it doesn’t matter. We will send them back,” Priyanka Gandhi said in a message posted on social media after repeated appeals to allow the buses, parked on UP’s borders with Delhi and Rajasthan, failed to move the Yogi Adityanath government.She said her party had arranged the buses in a humanitarian gesture to UP migrants stranded by the lockdown imposed in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic. “It doesn’t matter whether these are our buses or yours. We only wanted to help to serve the people,” the Congress general secretary said in the 10-minute messageUttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said earlier Wednesday that a list of buses sent to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state government by the Congress was fake and alleged that many were unfit for use as public transport.“How can we take theses private buses mentioned in the Congress list? It’s fake, 460 on the list do not have requisite fitness. How can we deploy them? The state government cannot play with the lives of migrant labourers by using unfit buses. The state government is duty-bound to ensure a safe journey to the migrant workers,” Sharma said.The Congress claimed that 900 buses the party had dispatched to UP’s borders with Delhi and Rajasthan had been stranded there for 24 hours.“I want to request the chief minister -- our buses are there on the borders till 4pm. Do permit us to run these buses to help the migrants,” Priyanka Gandhi said. “We will complete 24 hours at 4pm. Use them, if you want to. If you want to put on BJP flags or BJP stickers on them, do so. If you want to claim these are your buses, do so. But allow these buses to run,” she said.She said the time wasted in pointing the alleged flaws in the Congress list could have been used in transporting migrant workers instead.“I want to say that on May 16-17, we made 500 buses available on the Ghaziabad borders. If these buses had been allowed to run, about 20,000 persons could have reached their homes. On Tuesday, we provided 900 buses. These included about 500 buses on the UP-Rajasthan borders and more than 300 buses remained present on the Delhi-Ghaziabad borders. About 36,000 migrant workers would have reached their home on Tuesday if these buses had been allowed to run. Another 36,000 would have reached their home safe on Wednesday. By now, 92,000 migrant labourers would have been transported,” she said.“I want to tell our migrant brothers and sisters that each and every worker and leader of the Congress is with you. You will find our workers in every district on the way to provide food and water or look into other problems of yours. We will continue to help you with all our capability in this hour of crisis,” she added.The Congress made the offer of providing the buses at its expense on Saturday after many migrant workers were killed in road accidents; the offer was accepted on Monday. On Tuesday evening, the state government said only 879 of the 1,000 vehicles were buses, and the rest three-wheelers and other vehicles.Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said the Congress party’s move was a stunt aimed at deriving some political mileage.“There are no buses of the Congress party. These buses belong to the Rajasthan government. Doing politics in times of such an intense crisis was never ever done by a major political party,” he said in Lucknow.“Can any political party use the buses of the Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation for its own? On what basis are these buses being run?” he asked.Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi alleged the state government was obstructing efforts to help migrant workers.“One is astounded, one cannot understand - if it were not tragic for humanity, it would be comic. How is it that you will not allow to ferry the migrant workers of UP and Bihar? This is the cheapest form of politics. Will the Uttar Pradesh government stand up and explain to the nation,” he told reporters via a video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-want-buses-will-take-them-back-priyanka-to-up-govt/story-zBZaukKAvJJ1SFeNW63fKP.html
20-05-2020||India||Food stalls at railway stations can now reopen||The Railway Board on Wednesday advised zonal railways and the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) to take necessary action for opening of all static catering and vending units at railway stations with immediate effect.“Zonal Railways and IRCTS are advised to take necessary action for opening of all static catering and vending units (MPS,Bookstalls, Misc./Chemist stalls, etc) at railway stations with immediate effect. In case of food plaza and refreshment rooms etc, cooked items may be served as take away only with no sit-down eating arrangements in place,” the Railway Board said in an order.The Board said the zonal railways have been seeking necessary directions/guidelines for opening of catering units at railway stations which were closed in view of the lockdown on account of the Covid-19 pandemic.The order came a day after the government announced 200 new trains a day from June 1 in addition to the Shramik Specials for migrant workers and the premium passenger trains connecting Delhi with 15 cities.The new non-AC trains are expected to cater to small towns, in a fresh step to boost connectivity that has been thrown off track by the lockdown.Earlier this month, the Centre allowed rail travel but restricted ticket bookings only to online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-stalls-at-railway-stations-can-now-reopen/story-F4Q2MWPKSb6PJqnvxTkckJ.html
20-05-2020||India||Rajasthan farmer allegedly dies of heatstroke waiting for token to sell wheat||A farmer standing in queue in a village of Chhipabarod region of Baran district for procuring a token for selling his wheat at minimum support price (MSP) allegedly fainted in the scorching heat and died on Wednesday.The BJP’s Pratap Singh Singhvi who is the local MLA has alleged administrative mismanagement in the arrangements for government purchase of wheat led to farmer’s death.Amritlal Meena (55), a farmer from Paroliya village in Chhipabarod tehsil of Baran district had gone to the Rajeev Gandhi Sevva Kendra in nearby Nipania village for procure a token for government purchase of his wheat at MSP.“My brother was standing in the queue when he fainted due to the scorching heat. He was taken to nearby hospital by locals where he was declared dead,” saidMohan Meena, the younger brother of Amritlal.Mohan has sought compensation for his brother’s family.“I have written to the MLA, Chhipabarod, Pratap Singh Singhvi seeking financial assistance from the government for Amritlal’s family,” he said.Farmers are being given token prior government purchase of wheat on MSP in Rajasthan these days.Baran’s District Collector, Inder Singh Rao said that he has sought a report from the officials of Chhipabarod in the matter and anything about the cause of death can be said after the autopsy report.On the issue of arrangements of shade and water at the token distribution center, Rao said that the Krishi upaj mandi makes arrangements for shade and drinking water and such measures must have been done there also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-farmer-dies-of-heatstroke-while-waiting-for-token-to-sell-wheat/story-zrA3KDl3r2wRW44ufOtKqK.html
20-05-2020||India||Trains to run from June 1 with AC, non-AC coaches, booking from tomorrow 10 am: Railways||The Railways on Wednesday issued a list of 100 pairs of trains that it will operate from June 1, putting in operation popular trains such as Durontos, Sampark Krantis, Jan Shatabdis and Poorva Express. While in a statement issued earlier, the Railways had said that these trains will be fully non-air conditioned, on Wednesday it said that these will have both AC and non-AC classes and fully reserved coaches. It said the general (GS) coaches shall also have reserved seats for sitting, meaning there will be no unreserved coach in these trains.Fare shall be as normal, it said. But second seating(2S) fare shall be charged for General (GS) coaches being reserved.Seats will be provided to all passengers, the Railways said, adding these trains shall run from June 1 and booking will commence at 10 am on May 21.Only online e-ticketing will be done through IRCTC website or through Mobile App, and no tickets will be booked across the reservation counter on any railway station, the Railways said. The ARP (advance reservation period) shall be maximum 30 days and RAC and wait list will be generated as per extant rules, however, waiting list ticket-holders shall not be permitted to board the train, it said.No unreserved (UTS) tickets will be issued and no tickets will be issued onboard to any passenger during the journey, it said, adding no tatkal and premium tatkal booking shall be permitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trains-to-run-from-june-1-with-ac-non-ac-coaches-booking-from-tomorrow-10-am-railways/story-rRv44djYEZ8GvCqk3ahmaK.html
20-05-2020||India||US says Covid-19 crisis gives India chance to become key part of new supply chain||The Covid-19 crisis has presented an opportunity for India to become a key part of new trusted supply chain relationships but it will have to reduce tariffs and adopt more welcoming policies for foreign players, a top US diplomat said on Wednesday.Alice Wells, the outgoing head of the state department’s South and Central Asia bureau, said bilateral trade had totalled almost a record $150 billion in 2019 but the US continues to have concerns about India’s “protected market that can be difficult and sometimes not provide a level playing field for foreign companies”.India and the US had made concerted efforts to finalise a limited trade deal ahead of President Donald Trump’s visit to the country in February but were unable to reach common ground on a range of issues. Before winding up the visit, Trump had held out hope for trade deal by the end of 2020.During an online briefing for journalists, Wells said she couldn’t predict whether the US Trade Representative and the Indian government would be able to finalise an agreement this year, but noted that the “impetus for achieving a trade deal is very much present”.Instead, Wells suggested that the Covid-19 crisis and the move by countries to carry out “a little bit of de-globalisation and of onshoring more of the critical production” could present an opportunity for India to become a bigger player in global supply chains.“I think there’s a very vigorous effort to diversify supply chains. This is a real moment of opportunity for India, by adopting more open and welcoming policies, by reducing tariffs that allow manufacturing companies inside of India to be part of a global supply chain – it’s a real moment of opportunity for us to create trusted supply chain relationships with one another,” she said.India, as one of the world’s foremost producers of pharmaceuticals, generic drugs and vaccines, can also play a “critically important role in the treatment and health of the world as we move out of the pandemic”, Wells said.In recent weeks, India has supplied hydroxychloroquine and other drugs to dozens of countries, including the US, both through commercial sales and grants. It has also sent medical rapid response teams to several countries, including the Maldives and Kuwait.On the other hand, Wells was very critical of China’s Belt and Road Initiative and the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, saying they were exposing countries such as Pakistan to “predatory loans”. The US is concerned about the lack of transparency in CPEC projects, unfair rates of profits guaranteed to Chinese state-owned organisations and distortions the project has caused in Pakistan’s economy, including a massive imbalance in trade with China, she said.“I think at a time of crisis like Covid, when the world is reeling from the economic consequences of having shut down parts of the economy, it is really incumbent on China to take steps to alleviate the burden that this predatory, unsustainable and unfair lending is going to cause Pakistan,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-says-covid-19-crisis-gives-india-chance-to-become-key-part-of-new-supply-chain/story-8ExH7LTezQOfozfk6T6R9H.html
20-05-2020||India||Odisha crosses 1,000-mark in Covid cases, infection spreads to 25 districts||With 74 new cases, Odisha today breached the mark of 1,000 Covid-19 cases as the infection spread around 25 of the 30 districts.After reporting its first case on March 5, the state took 70 days to cross the 1,000-mark. The state which registered its first 100 Covid cases in 42 days, has added up close to 900 cases in last 15 days, most of whom are migrant workers from Gujarat, West Bengal, Telangana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Of the 74 who tested positive, majority are migrant workers who returned to the state.While the infection have spread through 25 of the 30 districts, Ganjam has the highest number of cases at 313 followed by Jajpur with 174 cases. In Ganjam, almost all the cases have been reported at quarantine centres populated by migrant workers from Surat while in Jajpur district, the cases have been reported among migrant workers who have returned from West Bengal.11 new cases were reported in Kalahandi where two Covid-19 patients had earlier recovered.Meanwhile, the state reported its sixth Covid death with a 70-year-man of Khurda district with history of comorbidity of hypertension, testing positive a day after he died in AIIMS Bhubaneswar.In a separate development, a youth who had returned from Surat and checked into a quarantine centre under Nuagaon block of Nayagarh district a week ago, passed away today. Brajakrushna Behera, a 31-year-old man of Jaypur village in Nayagarh district was kept under quarantine at Bahadajhola area of Nayagarh district after his arrival from Surat on May 13. The man was applying oil to his body before taking a bath when he suddenly collapsed and died. This is the first death of a quarantinee reported from Nayagarh district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-crosses-1-000-mark-in-covid-cases-infection-spreads-to-25-districts/story-paoox0ySDHTGRZFLEVbeUL.html
20-05-2020||India||Amid #SaveDehingPatkai campaign, Assam CM commits to save environment||Amid an online campaign to stop proposed coal mining in Assam’s Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Wednesday committed to save state’s environment. “The Assam government is committed to protect the environment and biodiversity of the state and will not compromise with its stand in the name of development initiatives,” Sonowal said in a statement.In view of the online campaign and public opposition to the coal mining move, the CM instructed forest and environment minister Parimal Suklabaidya to visit the reserve forest and take stock of the ground situation there. He instructed the minister to conduct a field study of the present situation in the reserve and apprise the government. Sonowal stressed that the government is always in favour of sustainable development which is in sync with ecology. The CM’s statement comes at a time when students and environment activists in Assam have launched an online campaign with the hashtag #SaveDehingPatkai to stop coal mining in the elephant reserve.The campaign follows a recommendation by the National Board of Wild Life (NBWL) last month that part of 98.59 hectares of the reserve forest be used for opencast coal mining. The rest of the area could be considered for underground coal mining, the body said.The move is expected to have a negative effect on flora and fauna in Dehing Patkai elephant reserve, which is part of Dehing Patkai wildlife sanctuary spread across 111 sq km in Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts. It is said to be the largest tropical lowland rainforest in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-savedehingpatkai-campaign-assam-cm-commits-to-save-environment/story-10SoNG2BcKu69tHUuSTVuL.html
20-05-2020||India||Flying won’t be the same as domestic air travel resumes from May 25. Here’s what to expect||The civil aviation minister has announced a gradual resumption of domestic flights from May 25 following the easing of restrictions on interstate travel in the fourth phase of nationwide lockdown. Flying, however, will not be the same while the fight against coronavirus continues. Here is a list of possible changes governing domestic flying that may come into force once the new flying protocol is notified by the civil aviation ministry. 1. Physical distancing measures and screening are likely to be followed at the airports. Wearing of masks and maintenance of at least four-feet physical distance from co-passengers is likely to be enforced.2. Passengers will be required to wash or sanitise their hands frequently. The bureau of civil aviation has already issued guidelines for the enhancement of admissible limit of hand sanitisers to be carried in cabin baggage.3. A system for contact-less check-in, including web check-in, is likely to be followed.4. The stamping of boarding passes may be suspended to reduce contact between passengers and the security staff.5. In a draft standard operating procedures (SOPs) proposed by the civil aviation ministry for passengers, airlines and airport operators, it was suggested that cabin luggage should be barred.For Coronavirus Live Updates6. The draft SOPs had also suggested suspending passenger ID checks to minimise crowding at terminal gates.7. Inside the plane, the middle seats may not be left vacant as was mooted earlier, since it may lead to an unreasonable escalation in the cost of tickets.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-198. The government may also introduce a cap on airfares to protect the consumers as a temporary measure, officials said.9. The domestic flights are likely to resume operation to major tier-I cities initially. 10. Senior citizens aged above 80 years may not be given the nod for air travel yet.11. Passengers may have to be quarantined as per the state government’s protocols. 12. Fliers may be advised to download the Aarogya Setu app on mobile phones 13. Guidelines facilitating the movement of passengers to the airport from different zones including containment areas are likely to be issued by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flying-won-t-be-the-same-as-domestic-air-travel-resumes-from-may-25-here-s-what-to-expect/story-OksvOF3C2SiKDSNY3CAM8I.html
20-05-2020||India||Real targets of Nepal PM Oli’s new political map are in Kathmandu||Nepal prime minister KP Sharma Oli’s push to fast-track release of a new political map on Wednesday is linked to his huge climbdown last month when he had to cancel an ordinance within five days, people familiar with the development said.There is a concerted effort by the Oli government in recent days to play the anti-India card to whip up ultra-nationalistic emotions to settle domestic scores, sources told Hindustan Times.“By raising an ultra-nationalistic sentiment, Oli has left his comrades - former PMs, Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda” and Madhav Kumar Nepal - with no option but to side with him and make India the casualty in the cross-firing between the two groups, a second person, a Kathmandu watcher, said.Nepal’s new political map that claims the Lipulekh Pass, Limpiyadhura and Kalapani in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh as its own is only one part of this exercise. PM Oli’s statement in parliament on Tuesday that claimed the coronavirus infection coming from India is “more lethal” than those from China and Italy is another.The two former prime ministers, who have been accused of destabilising the KP Sharma Oli-led government, are seen to have played a lead role in the tug-of-war that played out in Nepal’s power politics.At a time when Nepal, like the rest of the world was battling Covid-19, the prime minister had surprised his country when he got twin ordinances notified.These two made it easier for parties to split and register a new faction and were widely perceived to be part of an exercise by PM Oli to strengthen himself in the party and the government.But he had to stand down on April 23 and scrap the ordinances within five days to buy peace with his prime detractors. Energy minister Barsaman Pun told the Kathmandu Post that the Cabinet scrapped the ordinance following what he described as “excessive criticism”.According to reports from Nepal, the Communist Party of China’s international liaison department also stepped up efforts to broker peace between the comrades in Nepal.It was this shade of domestic power play at work when land management minister Padma Kumari Aryal on Wednesday held up a new map of Nepal. According to a report in the Kathmandu Post on her Press conference, she hoped India would take Nepal’s decision to publish the new map in a “positive way”. She didn’t elaborate.The 80-km stretch of road that New Delhi built Uttarakhand’s Dharchula to Lipulekh to make it easier for pilgrims to reach Kailash Mansarovar in the Tibet Autonomous Region offered the perfect opportunity.Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane brushed aside the shrill voices from Kathmandu, underlining that there was no dispute over the land on which the road had been built. Gen Naravane went on to suggest that the protests could be at the behest of “someone else” – a veiled reference to China.Prime Minister Oli, who is seen to be heavily tilting towards China, has described Gen Naravane’s comment as “inappropriate”.KALAPANIKalapani is a 35 square kilometre area in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district. Nepal claims this area as part of its Darchula district.The tri-junction point of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura in Nepal’s northwest separates China and the Tibet Autonomous Region to the north and India’s Kumaon to the south. The Mahakali river has been considered as a natural demarcation line to separate the borders.Indian security officials say China has tacitly recognised India’s claim over the Kalapani area when it agreed to open a border trade post at Lipulekh in 2015.India reacts to Nepal’s mapThe external affairs ministry described the new political map as an “artificial enlargement of territorial claims” and asked Kathmandu to refrain from “unjustified cartographic assertion”.“This unilateral act is not based on historical facts and evidence. It is contrary to the bilateral understanding to resolve the outstanding boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue,” External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/real-targets-of-nepal-pm-oli-s-new-political-map-are-in-kathmandu/story-mVL7k2tDorroQRwxjl2L3O.html
20-05-2020||India||Coast guard officer who arrived from Mumbai tests Covid-19 positive in Goa||An officer of the Coast Guard who arrived in Goa from Mumbai has tested positive for the coronavirus on Wednesday, being one among four people who tested positive over the last 24-hours in Goa. “The officer who arrived with a team of others has been admitted to the Covid-19 Hospital in South Goa while his co-travellers have been quarantined,” Health Secretary Nila Mohanan told a news conference.Goa’s Covid-19 total tally touched 50 on Wednesday evening with the number expected to climb higher as the test results of 471 people who arrived on a chartered flight are awaited. “We have ramped up the capacity of the Covid-19 hospital from 100 to 170 and the number of beds will be increased to 220 over the next few days,” Mohanan said. Barring two people, all the others admitted in the hospital are asymptomatic, she added. Among the others who tested Covid-19 positive is a passenger who arrived by train and two others who arrived by road. Goa has put in place Covid-19 testing protocols for all people arriving in the state by rail, air or road, which on the flip side has led to long waiting tenures for people who disembark as swab samples are collected before they are taken to quarantine centres. If found negative, the travellers are discharged and sent on home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coast-guard-officer-who-arrived-from-mumbai-tests-covid-19-positive-in-goa/story-50t2x46JKbVFkfFSIM3QmN.html
20-05-2020||India||‘Reminder of threat posed by Beijing’: US backs India amid border tensions with China||The US on Wednesday strongly backed India amid its simmering border tensions with China, with the Trump administration’s pointperson for South Asia saying such disputes are a “reminder of the threat posed by China”.Alice Wells, the outgoing head of the state department’s South and Central Asia bureau, said there like-minded nations such as the US, India, Australia and Asean states have rallied together in the face of China’s “provocations and disturbing behaviour”.The remarks, made in the course of an online briefing for journalists, came against the backdrop of simmering tensions in Ladakh and Sikkim sectors of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), where India and China have deployed additional troops. China on Tuesday also accused Indian forces of crossing into Chinese territory.The top US diplomat also addressed India’s role as a critical player in Afghanistan, saying it was for New Delhi to decide whether it wants to directly engage with the Taliban. However, she suggested that with the Taliban set to join the emerging governing structure in Kabul, it would be necessary for India and any future Afghan government to have a “healthy relationship”.Answering a question on the recent India-China tensions, Wells replied: “The flare-ups on the border, I think, are a reminder that Chinese aggression is not always just rhetorical. And so whether it’s in the South China Sea or whether it’s along the border with India, we continue to see provocations and disturbing behaviour by China that raises questions about how China seeks to use its growing power.”She added, “What we want to see is an international system that provides benefit to everyone and not a system in which there is suzerainty to China. And so I think in this instance, the border disputes are a reminder of the threat posed by China.”China’s actions have led to a “rallying of like-minded nations, whether it’s through Asean or through other diplomatic groupings – the trilateral that the US has with Japan and India or the quadrilateral with Australia – and conversations that are taking place globally”, Wells said.India is and will remain a “critical player” in Afghanistan and this was reflected in US special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad’s decision to travel to New Delhi amid the Covid-19 lockdown for consultations with the Indian leadership last week, Wells said.Khalilzad had said in an interview that India should engage with the Taliban. Asked about the issue, Wells replied: “We defer to India as to whether it wants to engage directly with the Taliban.“But in a situation where we are seeking through a negotiated political settlement to have the Taliban as part of that political governing structure, that government’s relationship with India should be close, and we believe that a healthy Afghanistan is going to need to have a healthy relationship with India.”Wells was less forthcoming on a question about the US-Taliban agreement signed in February having no guarantees about Afghan soil being used by anti-India terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed that are known to have links with the Taliban.The Taliban, she said, have made commitments against international terrorism, and the US is committed to ensuring that Afghan soil is never used as a base for “terrorism directed against us, the region and our friends and partners”. Noting the $3 billion in aid and political and diplomatic support provided by New Delhi to Kabul, she added, “Obviously, it’s up to India to determine how best to support the peace process.”Wells also noted that the core principles of President Donald Trump’s South Asia Strategy of 2107 remain in place – that Pakistan must take “decisive action against militant groups” and that India is “an important partner in Afghanistan’s development”. Trump’s suspension of security assistance to Pakistan in January 2018 “demonstrated our resolve”, she said.The South Asia Strategy also marked a major change by seeking to hold Pakistan accountable for the presence of terrorist groups on its soil. Pakistan has taken “initial steps” to curtail terror groups that threaten the region, such as arresting and prosecuting LeT leader Hafiz Saeed and beginning to dismantle terrorist financing structures, she said.With the formation of an inclusive government by President Ashraf Ghani and his rival Abdullah Abdullah, Wells said, the time has come to “double down” in Afghanistan and take forward the peace process and to root out the Islamic State, which has committed despicable acts of violence such as the attack on a maternity hospital in Kabul.“It is against groups like ISIS that we believe the Afghan government and Taliban should make common cause and you’re only going to be able to defeat the most vicious of these terrorists by reaching a peace agreement that allows a unified and total response to the threat posed by these terrorist organisations,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reminder-of-threat-posed-by-beijing-us-backs-india-amid-border-tensions-with-china/story-MYLVZr5sna0awWvhGsxulO.html
20-05-2020||India||Bengal’s Covid-19 confirmation rate decreases even as testing triples||Bengal’s Covid-19 positive confirmation rate – percentage of persons testing positive for every 100 samples tested – is recording a significant decrease despite a sharp rise in the number of tests, a trend that stands in contrast of those in its neighbouring states and some other major states. Over the past fortnight, while Bengal’s average daily testing increased by over 227%, the average number of persons testing positive on day increased by only 33%. This has resulted in a sharp decline in the state’s positive confirmation rate, from 4.87% on May 5 to 3.11% on May 19, helping Bengal to improve its position.As on May 20, India’s positive confirmation rate stood at 4.2%, with 105,750 people testing positive for 2,512,388 samples tested. This was slightly lower than 4.5% on April 22. In the first month of the lockdown, India’s testing had increased 24 times whereas the number of new positive cases grew by 16 times, chairman of India’s Covid-19 Empowered Group 2 had said on April 23. In contrast, Bengal’s improvement is sharper. Between May 5 and 7, the state tested 7,637 samples, averaging 2,545 per day. In those three days, 289 people tested positive, with an average of 96 people daily. However, between May 17 and 19, the state tested 24,994 samples, with 8,331 tests daily on an average. During these three days, 385 people tested positive, with an average of 128 people per day.This trend stands in contrast to those observed in neighbouring Bihar and Odisha, and the large states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Maharashtra, where positive confirmation rate increased with the number of average daily tests, even if slightly. In Tamil Nadu, number of tests remained below 10,000 per day till May 4 and the state had a positive confirmation rate of 2.32% (4,058 positive of 174,232 samples tested). After testing another 173,055 samples between May 6 and May 19, with an average of 12,363 tests per day, the state’s positive confirmation rate stood at 3.58% (12,448 positives out of 347,287 samples tested). In Bihar, as the number of tests increased, the positive confirmation rate rose from 1% on May 6 to 2.9% on May 19. In Odisha, the positive confirmation rate increased from .38% on May 5 to .97% on May 18.The positive confirmation rate in Rajasthan remained almost the same – 2.31% on May 6 (3,177 people testing positive for 137,287 tests) to 2.33% on May 19 (5,845 people testing positive for 250,800 tests). The state’s increase in daily number of new cases has been in parity with the increase in the number of tests.Between May 7 and 9, a total 18,717 tests were conducted, averaging 6,239 tests per day, with 531 persons testing positive, averaging 177 persons per day. Between May 17 and 19, a total 32,455 tests were conducted averaging 10,815 tests per day, and 885 people tested positive, with an average of 295 people daily.Maharashtra’s ratio in increase in number of tests and the number of people testing positive rose almost in parity. It tested 28,428 samples during May 6-8, with an average of 9,476 samples daily, and altogether 3,538 people tested positive, averaging 1,779 people per day. During May 16-18, the state tested 32,457 samples averaging 10,819 tests per day, during which 5,958 people tested positive, or 1,986 people daily on an average.In Karnataka, too, number of people testing positive increased with the number of tests. Between May 5 and 7, Karnataka tested 14,342 people, with a daily average of 4,780 tests and overall 54 people testing positive. Between May 16 and May 18, when it tested 17,939 samples with a daily average of 5,979 tests, the state recorded 190 new cases.Bengal’s ruling party, Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC), claimed that this was because of the state’s success in containing the spread of the diseases. “The data reflects the state’s success in containing the diseases by enforcing a successful lockdown. People’s cooperation made every containment zone a success story,” said Santanu Sen, TMC Rajya Sabha MP and a doctor by qualification. Sen has been one of the important persons in chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Covid-19 management team.Public health experts Rezaul Karim and Punyabrata Goon, too, felt that Bengal may have managed to contain the spread to some extent. Koushik Chaki, secretary of West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, however, was of the opinion that the figures may be a reflection of large number of tests conducted in relatively lesser affected areas. “Some pool testing has been conducted in north Bengal. A large number of tests have been conducted in the eight north Bengal districts and Murshidabad in south Bengal, where the virus’ spread has been nominal,” Chaki said. A total of 74,711 tests were conducted in the state between May 5 and 19, of which 27,358 were conducted in the eight districts of north Bengal and Murshidabad. These nine districts have reported only 93 of the state’s 2,961 positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-covid-19-confirmation-rate-decreases-even-as-testing-triples/story-XzH9gKATXVkhV8m1U35CyJ.html
20-05-2020||India||Cabinet decisions will help several citizens: PM Modi||The decisions taken by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday were focused on welfare of migrant workers, senior citizens, easier availability of credit and harnessing opportunities in the fisheries sector, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said. “During today’s Cabinet meeting, important decisions were taken which are focused on welfare of migrants, senior citizens, easier availability of credit, harnessing opportunities in the fisheries sector,” he wrote on Twitter. The decisions, he said, will benefit several citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-decisions-will-help-several-citizens-pm-modi/story-sXiPZbQMJH8zCC4768HkfP.html
20-05-2020||India||CAA threatens Assamese culture and identity, says plea in Supreme Court||The Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) poses hindrance to the protection and preservation of the culture and identity of the Assamese people, a petition filed by a Guwahati-based organization of Assamese law students told the Supreme Court.The petitioner, All Assam Law Students Union, submitted that the CAA dilutes the constitutional and legal safeguards given to the Assamese people by various laws and the Assam Accord of 1985.“The Clause 6 of the Assam Accord specifically mandates the union government and also the State of Assam to protect the Constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards of the Assamese people and also provides protection, preservation and promotion of the culture, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people. As such under no circumstances, the Union Government could have come up with the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, which dilutes the constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards of the Assamese people,” the plea said.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, issued notice to the central and Assam governments on Wednesday and tagged the matter to be heard with other petitions challenging the CAA.The CAA which was passed in December 2019 amends Section 2 of the Citizenship Act, 1955, which defines “illegal migrants”. According to change in definition, any person belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi or Christian communities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh or Pakistan, and who have been exempted by the Central Government under the Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920 or the Foreigners Act, 1946, shall not be treated as “illegal migrant”. Consequently, such persons shall be eligible to apply for citizenship by naturalisation, which is laid down under Section 6 of the 1955 act.The exclusion of Muslim community from the benefits of CAA had led to widespread protests across the country, as did the linking of citizenship with religion. There have also been protests against a proposed all-India National Register of Citizens (NRC).Over 150 petitions were filed in the Supreme Court challenging the law based on the alleged discrimination against Muslims.However, the challenge mounted by All Assam Law Students Union is based on the impact the CAA could have on the Assamese identity and how it violates various laws and agreements enacted by the union government to identify and deport illegal migrants and preserve Assamese identity.The central government had enacted Immigration (Expulsion from Assam) act in 1950 to protect the indigenous people of Assam. This was done after the influx of Bengali speaking people into Assam from East Pakistan after the partition of the country in 1947.There was a further exodus of Bengalis to Assam during the liberation of East Pakistan by India in 1971 and the formation of Bangladesh.This eventually culminated in an agitation by the Assamese people and the Assam Accord was signed between the central government, All Assam Students Union (AASU) and the All Assam Gana Sangram Parished (AAGSP) in 1985.The Assam Accord mandated that foreigners who came to Assam on or after March 25, 1971 shall be detected, deleted and practical steps shall be taken to expel such foreigners.Pursuant to the Assam Accord, the central government in 1985 inserted section 6A in the Citizenship Act. As per the same, illegal migrants who entered Assam from Bangladesh up to March 24, 1971 were granted citizenship of India but a specific assurance was also given that illegal migrants entering the state of Assam on or after March 25, 1971 would be deported back to Bangladesh.The petitioner claimed that the CAA makes section 6A of the Citizenship Act and the Assam Accord meaningless. It would enable illegal immigrants to become Indian citizens and the entire process set up by the Assam Accord and section 6A would be diluted.“Bringing outsiders or including the illegal immigrants as citizens shall worsen the situation and cause serious after-effects in the cultural, economical, social and political genre of Assam,” the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caa-threatens-assamese-culture-and-identity-says-plea-in-supreme-court/story-oR4pEDhaszORdtAURr8EjK.html
20-05-2020||India||Telangana HC asks govt to allow private labs to conduct Covid-19 tests||The Telangana high court on Wednesday directed the state government to allow authorised private labs in the state to conduct Covid-19 tests and private hospitals to treat such patients.A division bench of the high court comprising Justice M S Ramachandra Rao and Justice K Lakshman found fault with the Telangana government headed by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for insisting that people should get tested for Covid-19 only in state-authorised labs at Gandhi Hospital and Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) and go for treatment only in government hospitals.“This is highly unconstitutional. People have every right to get tested and treated at private labs and hospitals respectively at their own cost. The government cannot bring pressure on anyone to go only to the state-run hospitals,” the bench observed, while dealing with a public interest litigation petition filed by one Ganta Jaya Kumar of Hyderabad.However, the court ruled that only those private hospitals and labs which are authorised by the Indian Council of Medical Research could admit patients and conduct tests for Covid-19.“Those private labs and hospitals willing to deal with Covid-19 cases should apply for permission from ICMR. Experts from ICMR would assess the capacity of the labs and facilities available in the hospitals before giving permission. The ICMR will also fix rates for the tests and treatment,” the bench said.The high court wondered how the government could alone tackle the Covid-19 which was rapidly spreading in the country without the support of private institutions. “At present, government labs are conducting tests only for those who have symptoms of Covid-19. What about asymptomatic patients? What is the objection by the government if those asymptomatic patients go to private labs to get tested for Covid-19 at their own cost? Does it not reduce the burden on the government?” the court asked.The court did not agree with the contention of the state government that the private hospitals, if given permission, might misuse the same and hide the actual figures. “If the government has no faith on the private hospitals, why is it allowing them to treat patients under Arogya Sri scheme?” it questioned.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, in the past, had ruled out giving permission to private labs and hospitals to deal with Covid-19 cases on the pretext that they would fleece the people in the name of tests and treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-hc-asks-govt-to-allow-private-labs-to-conduct-covid-19-tests/story-ZeELdCjppSYON2cEaXpRHO.html
20-05-2020||India||‘Artificial enlargement of territorial claims’: India on Nepal’s new map||India on Wednesday said Nepal’s new political map, which depicts Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepalese territory, amounts to “artificial enlargement of territorial claims” that won’t be accepted by New Delhi.The external affairs ministry’s sharply worded response came hours after Nepal’s land management minister Padma Kumari Aryal unveiled the map at a function in Kathmandu attended by political leaders and officials. The three territories were shown as part of Byas rural municipality in Sudurpaschim province.Aryal said she hoped India will take Nepal’s decision to publish the new map in a “positive way”.But external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Nepal’s revised official map “includes parts of Indian territory”. He said in a statement: “This unilateral act is not based on historical facts and evidence.“It is contrary to the bilateral understanding to resolve the outstanding boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue. Such artificial enlargement of territorial claims will not be accepted by India.”Nepal is aware of India’s consistent position on this issue and the government should “refrain from such unjustified cartographic assertion and respect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity”, Srivastava said. India hopes the Nepalese leadership will “create a positive atmosphere for diplomatic dialogue” to resolve boundary issues, he added.Kathmandu’s move came little more than six months after New Delhi published new maps of the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh that showed Kalapani as part of Uttarakhand state.Nepal’s council of ministers had approved the new map during a meeting chaired by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Monday.“The map will come into use immediately…The areas of Gunji, Navi and Kuti, near Kalapani, which had been left out in earlier maps, are also included in the new map,” Aryal was quoted as saying by The Kathmandu Post.Unnamed Nepalese officials were quoted by the Post as saying that the country’s total area has increased from 147,181 sq km to 147,516 sq km after the addition of “disputed land that is currently occupied by India”.The diplomatic row began on May 8 after defence minister Rajnath Singh opened an 80-km road that ends at Lipulekh Pass on the border with China. The road was built so that pilgrims going to Kailash-Mansarovar in the Tibet Autonomous Region can avoid dangerous high-altitude routes through Sikkim and Nepal.Nepal’s foreign ministry summoned the Indian envoy last week to protest against the construction of the road. New Delhi had rejected Kathmandu’s protest, saying Lipulekh is “completely within the territory of India”.While addressing Nepal’s Parliament on Tuesday, Oli said the decision to include the three territories in Nepal’s map was made after India inaugurated “a road link through Nepali territory”. He contended that people coming from India “through illegal channels” were spreading the Coronavirus in Nepal.India and Nepal share a 1,800-km open border. Nepal claims all territories east of the Kali river, including Limpiyadhura, Kalapani and Lipulekh, under the Treaty of Sugauli that it signed with the erstwhile British administration in 1816.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/artificial-enlargement-of-territorial-claims-india-on-nepal-s-new-map/story-0r4CZo2h1UX4hnolDvbkxO.html
20-05-2020||India||Gujarat Covid-19 tally at 12,539; recovery rate at 41.62%||Gujarat on Wednesday recorded 398 new Covid-19 cases and 30 deaths, taking the case count to 12,539 and the number of fatalities to 749, an official said.Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health), said out of these 30 deaths, 26 were reported from Ahmedabad. Also, 176 people were discharged in last 24 hours.“As of now 5219 people have been discharged, 47 people are on ventilator. A total 160772 tests have been done so far,” Ravi said.The principal secretary said it is to be noted that the state government was on its toes in the last two months and is still working 24 hours to curb the crisis.“Gujarat led India from the front in the maximum number of Covid-19 tests. At the same time, the state accounts for the highest discharge rate among all the states. The recovery rate of Gujarat is 41.62%. The discharge rate of Gujarat is also higher than the national average which is 39.62%,” said Ravi.She said that chief minister came up with dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and thousands of patients are still availing free of cost treatment till date.Chief minister of Gujarat Vijay Rupani on Wednesday also launched the Hu Pan Corona Warrior’ (‘Even I am a Corona Warrior’) campaign.Ashwani Kumar, secretary to chief minister said that we were safe within the four walls of our houses till today. But now, we have to step out and realise that Covid-19 will stay with us till a permanent cure is found. The fight is a long drawn process. Small mistakes can prove fatal. We must learn to live with COVID-19. Fear is not an alternative. We must inculcate the mantra of ‘Tread cautiously, but without fear”.“The aim of this campaign is to keep us keep the elders and children of the family indoors. People don’t step out without a mask. At the same time, we must ensure to not step out without a concrete reason. Also, to follow social distancing at all points of time,” said Kumar.He added that the state government has kept a number of interesting tasks under this campaign. Everyone must upload a selfie with their grandparents on May 22 with the #hupancoronawarrior on their social media. We ought to take care of the elderly and we must create awareness about the same.The officer further told that the chief minister is indebted to the selfless government employees, doctors, paramedical forces, police personnel, health and sanitation workers who have proved their mettle in this scenario. “They were termed them as Corona Warriors till today. But now that relaxations have been provided based on terms and conditions, the Chief Minister has appealed everyone to be a ‘corona warrior’,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-covid-19-tally-at-12-539-recovery-rate-at-41-62/story-IdafGjI5JuqDtvrBZFeYxO.html
20-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Noida follows Delhi, adopts odd-even system for opening shops and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Noida follows Delhi, adopts odd-even system for opening shopsThe Gautam Budh Nagar district administration took a leaf out of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s book as it issued an advisory on opening markets in the different localities and said shops will have to follow an odd-even system to open like the one in the national capital. Read more. Wrong to blame expatriates for rising Covid-19 numbers, says Kerala CMKerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said it was wrong to blame expatriates and people who came from other states for the spurt in Covid-19 cases but conceded that the rising numbers pose a fresh challenge to the state. Read more. Omar Abdullah appeals to PM Modi for release of J&K politicians ahead of EidFormer J&K chief minister and National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah on Wednesday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for release of detained politicians ahead of the Eid festival. Read more. IPL possible with international stars after monsoon: BCCI CEO Rahul JohriRahul Johri, CEO of the Indian cricket board, confirmed what this paper reported in April: plans are on to hold the Indian Premier League (IPL) with Indian and international players after monsoon. Read more. Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s wife Aaliya claims his brother hit her: ‘His family has mentally and physically tortured me a lot’Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s wife Aaliya aka Anjana Kishor Pandey has alleged that she was subjected to domestic violence. She claimed that though her husband never raised his hand on her, his brother Shamas Siddiqui hit her. The actor has not replied to the allegations. Read more. Lockdown story time: Oscar-winning filmmaker Taika Waititi leads Roald Dahl’s James and the Giant Peach Covid-19 fundraiserOscar-winning New Zealand filmmaker Taika Waititi, director of Jojo Rabbit and Thor: Ragnarok, is leading the Covid-19 fundraiser project to read Roald Dahl’s 1961 children’s novel James and the Giant Peach along with his Hollywood friends chiming in, voicing characters and having fun. Read more. Cat shuts hooman singing in the rudest way. Thank god he’s not a reality TV judgeIf you thought the judges on singing reality shows were tough, wait till you see this cat who is a rather mean critic of his hooman’s singing. This video shows the kitty rudely shutting a woman mid-performance even though she sounds great. Read more. Kerala SSLC and plus two exams will be conducted as per schedule, says CM Pinarayi Vijayan Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said the state government got the permission from the union government to conduct SSLC and Plus Two as per scheduled. The examinations will be conducted as per the schedule from May 26 to 31. Read more. Only 18% Indian homes have tap water, washing hands a luxury? | On The RecordIn an interview with Hindustan Times’ National Political Editor Sunetra Choudhury, Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat admitted that washing hands is a challenge in some areas. “Looking towards the challenge itself, PM Modi had envisaged this programme,” Shekhawat added. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-noida-follows-delhi-adopts-odd-even-system-for-opening-shops-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NMYsVVXfuhrz0CmSABrucP.html
20-05-2020||India||Record 1.12 lakh migrants arrive in Bihar on Wednesday, this is only the beginning||Close to 1.12 lakh migrants arrived in different parts of Bihar on Wednesday onboard 70 Shramik special trains, leaving the state with the daunting task of quarantining them to contain Covid-19, which has already spread to all 38 districts. The migrant inflow on Wednesday was the single largest so far.Government sources said this was just the beginning as more than a lakh migrants will return daily to the state for the next four days with a maximum of 1.23 lakh workers expected to arrive on Thursday, May 21.“A record 77 Shramik special trains will run on Thursday,” said a government official.“In the next nine days, 574 more trains carrying close to 9.18 lakh people will be reaching the state. Till May 19, 6.10 lakh migrants/people have arrived in the state through 427 special / Shramik special trains and buses. This means, that Bihar by May end would have received 15.28 lakh migrants/people,” IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAnother official summed it up as “the biggest ever” evacuation drive.East Central Railway (ECR) officials say that though the number of arriving migrants is less than the daily average footfall of passengers, yet it is quite huge.“Before the lockdown on March 23, approximately 7.76 lakh passengers travelled by 165 pairs of mail/express trains either originating or passing through Bihar. Similarly, 388 passenger trains serviced Bihar, including 108 running in Bihar alone,” said chief public relation officer (CPRO), ECR, Rajesh Kumar.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19In addition to the migrant special trains, the state government is also running 4,500 buses to ferry migrants.Railway sources said that most of these trains are running to full capacity. “Earlier, 54 passengers were travelling in 72 berth sleeper coaches as we were not allowing the use of middle berths. Similarly, in LHB coaches, only 60 passengers were allowed against 80 berths. But now, all seats are being utilized,” said the CPRO, raising questions over the absence of physical distancing.The influx has alarmed the Bihar government since many asymptomatic migrant labourers returning by the trainloads are testing positive, necessitating quarantine.The state government has created 7,840 block quarantine centres where 5.45 lakh migrants are staying, said the IPRD secretary.“In addition to this, 76,500 people are also living in 151 disaster relief centres being run by the disaster management department,” he added.Chief minister Nitish Kumar has directed officials to conduct random testing and strengthen isolation wards at the block level with more beds and facilities, as the number of arrivals is only going to grow.The focus has now shifted to panchayat and block levels, where the migrants will spend their mandatory 14 days at the isolation centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-1-12-lakh-migrants-arrive-in-bihar-on-wednesday-this-is-only-the-beginning/story-IbH47N25hTT1niehduJnPL.html
20-05-2020||India||Wrong to blame expatriates for rising Covid-19 numbers, says Kerala CM||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said it was wrong to blame expatriates and people who came from other states for the spurt in Covid-19 cases but conceded that the rising numbers pose a fresh challenge to the state.“Some people are giving a different interpretation to the tough procedure being adopted by the government. We are only trying to identify the source to equip ourselves to combat the disease. They have every right to come back to their state. Due to the peculiar situation some restrictions are there,” he said. Vijayan’s comment came in the wake of a campaign in social media alleging the government was very harsh towards NRIs after positive cases of Covid-19 went up.“The state’s progress is because of the contributions of the expatriates. We really salute our brethren. Some people are trying to create an ill-feeling and we hope expatriates will realise this,” he said adding the whole state must unite to combat the virus and it was not the responsibility of health workers alone. In view of rising cases the government will have to strengthen its surveillance in coming days, he said.The state reported 24 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday out of which 12 had returned from Persian Gulf countries, 11 came from other states and one contracted the disease from an infected person, he said.The recovery of five persons turned out to be a big relief for the state which has been witnessing a spurt in cases with more than 150 cases surfacing the last eight days. Kerala’s tally now stands at 666 out of 161 are active while the rest have been discharged from hospitals.The CM said some people who are in home quarantine are interacting with other family members and it poses a serious threat. “Home quarantine means room quarantine. Only one person in the family is allowed to interact with the person in quarantine, that too after keeping distance and other norms. But we came to know some are not following this,” he said adding they are endangering the lives of their family members.After much confusion, Vijayan said the state government will conduct remaining examinations of Class X (SSLC) and Plus Two from May 26 to May 30 and all arrangements were made for this. Three pending examinations of the SSLC will be conducted from May 26-28. The lockdown came while the examinations were on and later three of them were postponed indefinitely. At least 4.2 lakh candidates will appear for these examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wrong-to-blame-expatriates-for-rising-covid-19-numbers-says-kerala-cm/story-zbUPN8suuemS3Jz8KKGKNM.html
20-05-2020||India||Migrants fall from Ganga bridge in Amroha, one dead, another injured||One of the two migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh, who fell from a bridge over the Ganga at Amroha-Hapur border on Tuesday, died and the other is critical.Sanjeev Kumar from Mohaddinpur village of Shahjahanpur and his companion Pyarelaal from Samaspur village of Bareilly were rushed to the Meerut medical college where Sanjeev died during the treatment. Pyarelaal is currently battling for his life.Both the migrant labourers worked in Delhi and were returning to their native places along with their family members in a shared taxi. The incident took place when hundreds of labourers coming from Delhi and Haryana swarmed the Ganga Bridge. The crowd swelled as the police had barricaded the road preventing their entry into Amroha’s Gajraula. This led to a jam.Eyewitnesses said the police resorted to a mild force to restore order which resulted in a melee on the bridge following which the two labourers jumped into the river. They fell on one of the pillars of the bridge instead of landing in water.The police, however, denied using force to disperse the crowd on the bridge.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAmroha superintendent of police Vipin Tada said, “There was no stampede on the bridge. During the investigation, we found that they were trying to jump from one bridge to the other running parallel and fell down. Their family members did not know of the accident. They had reached their destination when we contacted them. The victim’s body was handed over to his relatives after the postmortem.”The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Following several such incidents of migrant labourers trying to enter the state by crossing river Ganga, the local administration has deployed police on the river’s banks and its tributaries and canals to keep migrants from entering without proper registration.According to officials, registration of incoming migrant labourers is mandatory along with screening and subsequent quarantine.A large number of migrant labourers have been entering UP from Uttarakhand and Haryana while on the way to their native places in eastern UP and Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-fall-from-ganga-bridge-in-amroha-one-dead-another-injured/story-E19mUllnAcTjtJN0lW6fKL.html
20-05-2020||India||6.39% of total active Covid-19 cases needed hospital support: Health ministry||About 6.39 per cent of the total number of active Covid-19 cases in the country needed hospital support, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday.During a briefing on the COVID-19 situation, joint secretary in the ministry Lav Agarwal also said about 2.94% of the active COVID-19 cases needed oxygen support, 3% needed intensive care units (ICU) and 0.45% required ventilator support.“Only around 6.39% of COVID-19 cases need either oxygen support or ICU or ventilator support; many people are recovering due to early identification. At the same time, we are also upgrading our healthcare infrastructure,” he said.“During lockdown, we have upgraded our hospital infrastructure, including oxygen supported beds, ICU beds and ventilators. Our efforts give us confidence that we are ready and equipped, along with states, to manage COVID-19 cases,” he added.Agarwal said the health ministry analysed the data from the recently released WHO situation report and found that while cases per lakh of world population stand at 62, in India, it was found that 7.9 people per lakh population were affected.“Despite similar population, total cases of COVID-19 in top 15 countries is 34 times that of India and despite similar population, total deaths due to COVID-19 in top 15 countries is 83 times that of India,” the joint secretary said.He further said so far, India has about 0.2 COVID-19 deaths per lakh population as against the global figure of 4.1.Among the countries with high COVID-19 casualties, the US with 87,180 fatalities has 26.6 deaths per lakh population. The UK has reported 34,636 deaths and has approximately 52.1 deaths per lakh population.“While our deaths are a matter of grief, we find that six countries have reported more than 10,000 COVID-19 deaths, together with states and citizens. We have relatively been able to manage the situation, though the challenge still continues,” Agarwal said.When the lockdown started, the COVID-19 recovery rate was 7.1 per cent which gradually improved to 39.62%, he said.He said the government’s focus will be on stringent containment measures, hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene, environmental sanitation and conversion of physical distancing into a life norm.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), responding to a question on whether the government is planning to drop hydroxychloroquine from the COVID-19 treatment plan, said a review of its efficacy will be held to decide on its prophylaxis.Head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR Raman R Gangakhedkar said 25.36 lakh COVID-19 tests have been done till 12.30 pm on Tuesday. For the second time, more than one lakh tests were conducted within a span of 24 hours.“There are 555 testing laboratories and 89,466 tests (were) done in ICMR labs yesterday (Tuesday),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-39-of-total-active-covid-19-cases-needed-hospital-support-health-ministry/story-sNxlnXCiOtFl6T4oPs8D1N.html
20-05-2020||India||Nine Covid-19 positive cases reported from Uttarakhand, tally rises to 120||Nine new Covid-19 cases were detected in Uttarakhand including in districts like Haridwar, recently found to be Covid-free, taking the state tally to 120 by Wednesday late afternoon.According to the health bulletin released in the afternoon, two Covid-19 positive cases were detected in Haridwar and Uttarkashi on Tuesday. The two had travelled to disease hotspots of Mumbai and Delhi respectively.According to chief medical officer of Haridwar, Dr. Saroj Naithani, a medical team is putting the relatives and others who came in contact with the positive person in quarantine and taking their samples for testing.“After a month’s gap, a Covid-19 case has been confirmed in the district and we are tracing the travel history as well as primary contacts. All the migrants arriving in the district are being randomly sampled, with senior citizens and children being tested mandatorily,” Dr Saroj Naithani said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesSince Wednesday morning, seven positive cases were detected from Almora, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar.As per the VRDL Haldwani lab report, two patients from Nainital, a 29-year-old female, who lives in the former containment zone of Banbhulpura and a 21-year-old male, who recently returned from Delhi, tested positive. A 19-year-old man from Civil Hospital in Ranikhet, Almora also tested positive.From Udham Singh Nagar, four new cases, including two 21-year-old males from a health center in Jaspur, a 35-year-old man from Kichha and a 29-year-old man from Rudrapur, tested positive.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19With 22 active cases, Udham Singh Nagar has most cases in the state, followed by 17 in Dehradun and 15 in Nainital. The state has a total of 66 active cases and has seen 53 successful recoveries so far.The doubling rate of cases stands at 10.3 days in Uttarakhand as of Wednesday with 44.17 % total recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-from-uttarakhand-tally-rises-to-120/story-c5fHhsv9YdciZqLXo3Gz4J.html
20-05-2020||India||Assam issues fresh guidelines for flood relief camps in view of Covid-19||The Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) has issued a fresh set of guidelines for the management of flood relief camps in the state this year because of the unforeseen coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Floods during monsoon affect a majority of Assam’s 33 districts each year and displace several lakhs of people. Most of the displaced spend weeks in schools or temporary relief camps till the time the floodwaters subside.“This year the challenge to support those who might get affected due to annual flood menace will be even tougher due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic across the globe, which has also affected our state,” said Pankaj Chakrabarty, state project coordinator, ASDMA.The new guidelines have urged the district authorities to identify additional relief camps as per population density of villages to earmark space for social distancing norms. Earlier, 3.5 square metres of space in relief camps were earmarked for each person at a relief camp. However, the allotted space will be doubled this year to ensure the mandatory one-metre social distancing is maintained between two inmates at a relief camp.All arrangements have been made, including the availability of face masks and hand sanitisers, at relief camps, which have been notified as no-spitting and no-tobacco zones.“Daily monitoring (in place of weekly) of the health condition of inmates will be done by medical teams, who will be equipped with personal protective equipment (PPE) units for conducting special screening during the registration process,” said the guidelines.“If an inmate is found to be sneezing and suffering from common cold immediate medical supervision will be made. The patient must be isolated as per Covid-19 norms and regulations,” it added.The district authorities have been asked to prepare standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the distribution of relief items and cooked food complying with precautionary measures.“Quarantine isolation facilities have to be identified on higher altitudes by the district administration for transfer of Covid-19 suspect cases,” the guidelines said.To ensure proper management of livestock, the district authorities have been asked to identify highland areas such as tea gardens with grasses “for the arrangement of the green fodder for livestock of the farmers/camp inmates”.Assam has reported 158 Covid-19 positive cases till Tuesday. While four Covid-19 patients have died so far, 42 have recovered, 110 patients are still undergoing treatment in hospitals and another two have left for their native places in West Bengal and Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-issues-fresh-guidelines-for-flood-relief-camps-in-view-of-covid-19/story-Gb8uaZ7dGgkhDwW8IILNFO.html
20-05-2020||India||Devotees donate Rs 2 cr to India’s richest temple in April under e-Hundi||For almost two months now, devotees have not been able to pay obeisance at the Lord Venkateshwara temple at Tirumala in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district due to the nationwide lockdown.But that hasn’t stopped the devotees from donating money to the deity through electronic transfer.Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) trust board chairman Y V Subba Reddy told reporters on Wednesday that despite the closure for darshans for such a long period, for the first time in its history, the temple had collected Rs 1.97 crore in April 2020 through “electronic hundi’ (e-hundi), a system to transfer cash offering to the deity through electronic methods.“This was Rs 18 lakh more than the e-hundi collections made in the same month last year – the temple received Rs 1.79 crore in April 2019,” Reddy said.The concept of e-Hundi was started by the TTD in January 2014 with the support of nationalised banks to enable devotees belonging to far-off places to make cash offering to Lord Venkateswara through electronic transfer methods including mobile applications like e-wallet, Paytm or Google Pay etc., without visiting the temple.The temple maintains a separate account for e-hundi for which no service charge is collected. This facility is also available at Shirdi Sai Samsthan in Shirdi, Maharashtra and Siddhi Vinayak temple (Mumbai).Subba Reddy said it was heartening to note that despite the lockdown restrictions, the devotees were generously offering money through e-hundi and displaying their devotion though they did not get to see the Lord for over 60 days as of now.He said in view of the tremendous response to the e-hundi from devotees, the TTD had decided to resume sale of the famous “Laddu Prasadam of Tirumala” in two or three days at a discount of 50%.“Instead of the regular price of Rs 50 per laddu weighing 175 grams, it will now be sold at Rs 25 per laddu. This discount will continue till the darshan of the Lord resumes after the lifting of lockdown,” he said.The sale of laddu would be done at all TTD Kalyana Mandapams (Wedding halls) and information centres present in all 13 district headquarters in Andhra Pradesh, apart from those at Hyderabad, Chennai and Bengaluru state shortly”, he said.Stating that there was still uncertainty over resumption of the darshan of Lord Venkateshwara, the TTD chairman it would depend on the central government’s decision to lift the lockdown. “We have been receiving several calls and mails from the devotees regularly on reopening of the temple for darshan, but we can’t take a decision until the Centre decides on the lockdown,” he said.Reddy refuted the reports that the TTD was facing such a severe cash crunch that it had no money to maintain the temple administration and also pay staff salaries.“There is no scarcity of funds and there will not be any problem to pay salaries and pensions to our employees as well for maintenance. We have paid salaries to the employees for March and April and have enough money to pay May salaries as well,” he asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devotees-donate-rs-2-cr-to-india-s-richest-temple-in-april-under-e-hundi/story-X5uJpGltnC3k28ZhqThNFO.html
20-05-2020||India||NIA takes custody of Hizbul man wanted for multiple murders||The Jammu and Kashmir police said Wednesday that they have arrested a wanted Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist from Kishtwar who was allegedly involved in the killing of BJP leader Anil Parihar and his brother and an RSS functionary Chandrakant Sharma and his body guard in the last two years.Police said Rustam Ali was arrested on Tuesday and handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) which is investigating the murders.Kishtwar’s Senior Superintendent of Police Dr Harmeet Singh Mehta said, “Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Rustam Ali was involved in the killing of Parihar brothers, RSS leader Chandrakant Sharma and his bodyguard. He was arrested on Tuesday and handed over to the NIA, which has now shifted him to Jammu.”Sources said Rustam Ali was a close associate of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riyaz Naikoo who was killed in an encounter with security forces earlier this month.The Parihar brothers were shot from point blank range in November 2018 and RSS leader Chandrakant Sharma and his body guard were killed in April 2019. All the murders took place in Kishtwar town.Rustam’s arrest came two days after the killing of another Hizbul Mujahideen militant, Tahir Bhat, by security forces in Doda district.While Tahir was said to have been assigned the task of recruiting local youth into militant ranks in Doda district, Rustam had allegedly been recruiting youth in adjoining Kishtwar district.Tahir was also allegedly involved in the killing of RSS leader and his bodyguard.After eliminating Tahir, security forces have now launched a manhunt to nab the oldest surviving terrorist, Jehangir Saroori aka Mohammad Amin Bhat as the crackdown against the terror outfit continues in Jammu and Kashmir.“This militant is hiding in the upper reaches of Marwah and Dachhan belt in Kishtwar district adjoining Doda district. He is the oldest surviving terrorist in J&K and carries an award of around Rs 50 lakh on his head that was announced by the police and NIA,” said a senior police officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-takes-custody-of-hizbul-man-wanted-for-multiple-murders/story-pwLEfJ3vxntjfUW2c3xZTO.html
20-05-2020||India||Congress arranged buses for migrants’ return from Rajasthan-UP border||Buses arranged by the Congress for the migrant workers started turning back from the Rajasthan-Uttar Pradesh border on Wednesday, a police official said. “The buses are returning now after the Uttar Pradesh government denied entry,” said Sarvan Pathak, the incharge of the Chiksana police station in Bharatpur. “There are nearly 400 buses.” The buses were arranged by the Congress for the migrant labourers wanting to return to Uttar Pradesh, but the state government denied permission for the vehicles to enter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-arranged-buses-for-migrants-return-from-rajasthan-up-border/story-N8Q8vgmV4U2mWaBOL0gXjI.html
20-05-2020||India||Omar Abdullah appeals to PM Modi for release of J&K politicians ahead of Eid||Former J&K chief minister and National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah on Wednesday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for release of detained politicians ahead of the Eid festival.Since his release, Omar Abdullah has made frequent appeals for the release of detained political leaders and those under house arrest.“We are days away from Eid. @narendramodi ji should order the release of all detained politicians in J&K, whether under formal detention orders or informal house arrest. They have done nothing to deserve being locked away for as long as they’ve been,” tweeted Omar.Omar Abdullah also questioned the J&K government for not replying to the petition challenging the slapping of the Public Safety Act (PSA) on NC general secretary Ali Mohammad Sager, who is under detention since August 5.“The J&K govt has had since the 3rd of April to file its reply to the petition challenging the PSA detention of Ali Mohd Sagar Sb & today again failed to do so. The court is happy to let the govt play for time & gave them till 1st June. Clearly they have no suitable reply to give,” NC vice president said in another tweet.Ahead of August 5, most of the Jammu and Kashmir mainstream politicians including Srinagar MP and former J&K chief minister Farooq Abdullah, his son Omar Abdullah and PDP president and former CM Mehbooba Mufti were detained.While most were released after their preventive detentions ended, five to six top politicians including NC general secretary Ali Mohammad Sager, former ministers, Nayeem Akthar, Sartaj Madni, Hilal Akbar Lone, Peer Mansoor and former IAS officer Shah Faesal were detained afresh under the PSA. Recently, PSA against Shah Faesal was extended by another three months by the J&K government.PSA was withdrawn against several politicians including Mehbooba Mufti and Peoples Conference chairman Sajjad Lone, but they have been put under house arrest at their official accommodation.The recently launched Apni party had also demanded the release of political leaders detained inside and outside the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omar-abdullah-appeals-to-pm-modi-for-release-of-j-k-politicians-ahead-of-eid/story-cre8kfeyIYJ2DH69P5Ft7L.html
20-05-2020||India||Measures in stimulus package aimed at greater multiplier effect: Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said that the Central government’s measures in the special economic package to deal with the impact of coronavirus crisis were aimed at “greater multiplier effect” and it should be through banks for meeting the fixed cost expenditure and for working capital.Sitharaman told ANI in an interview on Wednesday that the Central government has given some cash transfer in the PM Garib Kalyan scheme announced after the first coronavirus induced lockdown.“It was important to give stimulus for businesses to start off. In the PM Garib Kalyan scheme -- introduced after lockdown, we gave some cash transfer. With that done, we weren’t closing the option,” Sitharaman said when asked if the government considered more immediate measure while deciding economic package.“For cash transfer, we thought it was far more effective because the way in which we’ve planned it, we thought there will be a greater multiplier effect, and therefore, it should be through banks, businesses for meeting the fixed cost expenditure; it should be money which is given for working capital; it should also money for loans so that they can buy raw materials,” she added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had earlier this month announced Rs 20 lakh crore special economic package to deal with the situation created by the coronavirus and to make the country self-reliant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/measures-in-stimulus-package-aimed-at-greater-multiplier-effect-sitharaman/story-QbFw9Y4eoQRgRKCBbhnlUL.html
20-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan batters Bengal, winds over 120 kmph in Kolkata||Cyclone Amphan  completely entered land by 7 pm on Wednesday evening and reached West Bengal capital Kolkata and its adjoining districts accompanied by strong winds with an intensity of 110-120 kilometres per hour, IMD Director General Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said on Wednesday as the cyclonic storm continued its landfall. “The extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan will completely enter land by 7 pm. The cyclone is currently moving at a speed of 25-30 kilometres per hour. Winds with a speed of 155-165 kilometres per hour have been blowing in South and North 24 Parganas and East Medinipur districts of Bengal,” the IMD DG said.ALSO READ | Cyclone Amphan is expected to reach Kolkata by this evening: IMD chief“The first arm of Cyclone Amphan has touched land. The eye of the cyclone is expected to touch land anytime soon,” he said.“The width of the wall cloud of the cyclone is around 120 kilometres and the diameter of the eye is about 40 kilometres. The rear side is also about 120 kilometres. West Bengal’s South and North 24 Parganas will witness a lull as the eye of the cyclone passes through, but heavy rains, strong winds will resume in the next 30 minutes, as the second arm of the cyclone hits the area,” Mohapatra cautioned.More than 5 lakh people have been evacuated from nearby coastal areas in the state and another 1,58,640 people have been removed to safer areas in neighbouring Odisha, with both states being hit by the cyclonic storm. The landfall process began near Sunderbans in West Bengal at 2.30 pm this afternoon with the entry of the front sector of the wall cloud region.Mohapatra also asserted that the forecast of the cyclone by the IMD had been accurate.India has also been issuing a cyclone warning to Bangladesh, he informed.So far, two deaths have been reported in Kendrapara and Bhadrak and 2 deaths have been reported in Bengal during the cyclone, government officials said.The severe cyclonic storm will reach Assam and Meghalaya on May 21 and it will bring heavy to very heavy rainfall in these two northeastern districts, according to IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-to-completely-enter-land-by-7-pm-strong-winds-to-continue-after-lull-imd/story-fL13qjLaJsnaJ02APDDcQK.html
20-05-2020||India||RSS-backed Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh protests against changes to labour laws, petitions President||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), the labour arm of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), on Wednesday organised a nationwide protest against what it called was the “black ordinance brought by the governments of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat” and the “unilateral” changes in labour laws by 11 other states.Workers associated with the BMS held a demonstration and submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind, urging him to put a halt to the changes announced by the states.The protests were carried out in small groups with the members maintaining social distancing norms, the BMS said.“The protest is against-not making proper facilities for migrant labourers; non payment of wages for the lockdown period; irregularities in providing Covid-19 benefits; not making travel arrangement for migrant labourers to return to their home states; increasing working hours from 8-12 hours and unbridled privatisation,” BMS general secretary Vrijesh Upadhaya said.The BMS has also criticised several state governments, including the BJP-ruled Gujarat for failing to address the concerns of the migrant workers, pointing out that while the union government has issued directive to all states to provide transport facilities, workers are continuing to walk back home.Among those who participated in the demonstrations were the uranium mine workers in Jaduguda (Jharkhand); copper mine workers of Malajkhand (MP), workers in the coal belt, marine fish workers of Kerala, migrant workers in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Bengal, Odisha, Electricity employees of Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan, NHM workers of Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Beedi workers of Telangana, industrial workers of Rajasthan, Punjab, MP, Jharkhand and Delhi and several PSU workers.Trade unions allied to the Congress and Left parties and other non-affiliated organisations have also called a nationwide hunger strike on May 22 to protest against the dilution of labour laws.Unions such as the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), a frontal organisation of the Congress, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), which is affiliated to the Communist Party of India-Marxist(CPI-M), the Self Employed Women’s Association (SEWA) and the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) have joined hands against the move by state governments to amend laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-backed-bharatiya-mazdoor-sangh-protests-against-changes-to-labour-laws-petitions-president/story-8DEdU1VUlFvSjNg4Eg3iWI.html
20-05-2020||India||Two Uttarakhand jail wardens caught demanding extortion money on behalf of a jailed gangster||Two jail wardens posted at a jail in Roorkee town of Haridwar district were arrested for allegedly trying to extort money from a mobile phone shop owner on Tuesday evening. A day later on Wednesday, the state jail department suspended one of the two and terminated the other after conducting a departmental inquiry into the matter. According to the police, the accused were identified as one Nitin Nagar and Satyendra Rana. Rana was serving on a contractual basis and therefore his job was terminated while Nagar was suspended till further departmental inquiry. “On Tuesday, the two accused had gone to a mobile phone shop in the Civil Lines area of Roorkee. After reaching there, the two threatened the shop owner (name withheld) saying they had been sent by a gangster named Sabir lodged in Roorkee jail and demanded money,” said a police officer privy to the investigations on the condition of anonymity. The officer quoted above added that the two even doled out a death threat to the shopkeeper by claiming that Sabir would get him killed if the extortion money was not paid.“Meanwhile, the shop owner discreetly called the police, which reached there and nabbed the two. They along with Sabir were later booked for extortion and intimidation. The two jail staffers were then arrested,” the officer added.Confirming the incident, PVK Prasad, inspector general of the Jail department said that immediate action had been taken in the case.“We have terminated Rana with immediate effect as he was on a contract basis. Nagar has been suspended followed by the initiation of a departmental inquiry against him. Further action will be taken according to the findings of the inquiry against him,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-uttarakhand-jail-wardens-caught-demanding-extortion-money-on-behalf-of-a-jailed-gangster/story-IBaCKgZxjrSDNrZuZi5yCK.html
20-05-2020||India||2 BSF troopers killed in terror attack in Srinagar’s Pandach||Two Border Security Force (BSF) troopers were killed when terrorists fired upon them in Pandach area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar on Wednesday. The jawans were on duty in the Pandach area, 17 km from Srinagar in the outskirts of the city, when they were attacked by unidentified motorcycle-borne terrorists. The terrorists escaped with the weapons of the soldiers, the BSF said in a statement. The injured jawans, identified as CT Rana Mondol and CT Jiaul Haque of C’ Company of 37 Battalion BSF, were shifted to SKIMS hospital in Soura district, about 11 km north of Srinagar’s Lal Chowk. According to officials, one of the jawans was declared brought dead by the doctors at the hospital while the other succumbed to injuries. A search operation has been launched to track the attackers and the area has been cordoned off.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-bsf-troopers-killed-in-terror-attack-in-srinagar-s-pandech/story-HREi8CpYgqnnTEEDW9Y0KI.html
20-05-2020||India||‘On CM’s direction, Covid-19 testing and treatment to be done free of cost’: Top UP health official||Uttar Pradesh principal secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad on Wednesday said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed testing and treatment for Covid-19 to be done free of cost.“Anyone having a symptom of Covid-19 can contact any government district hospital for a test. If your reports come positive then your treatment will be done without any charges,” Prasad told reporters on Wednesday.In the last 24 hours, Uttar Pradesh reported 269 new positive cases of coronavirus. Active cases of coronavirus in the state stand at 1,955 while 123 deaths have occurred due to Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh. Nearly 3,000 people, 2,918 to be precise, have been cured till now, Prasad stated. Also read: Covid-19 recovery rate in India at 39.62 percentAnyone having symptom of #COVID19 can contact any govt district hospital for a test. If your reports come positive then your treatment will be done without any charges. CM has given directive that testing&treatment will be done free of cost:Principal Secy(Health)Amit Mohan Prasad https://t.co/D09hGA4LSW pic.twitter.com/zD8My4WcedThe coronavirus tally in India has breached the one-lakh mark. The country has reported 106,750 positive cases of coronavirus till date. While 42,297 patients have recovered from the deadly contagion or have been discharged from hospitals, 3,303 patients have succumbed to death. Maharashtra continues to lead the national tally with more than 35,000 people infected from coronavirus in the state. On Wednesday, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally stood at 37,136. Mumbai alone has reported more than 22,000 cases. The state has witnessed 1,325 coronavirus fatalities while more than 9,500 people have recovered from the disease. Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi are states with a high incidence of coronavirus cases. The cases here have crossed the 10,000 mark.    Union Health Ministry, joint secretary on Wednesday said that the rate of recovery in Covid-19 patients across the country is improving.“When the first lockdown started, the recovery rate was around 7.1%. The recovery rate during the second lockdown was 11.42%, it then rose to 26.59%. Today, the recovery rate is 39.62%,” Agarwal said during a briefing today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-cm-s-direction-covid-19-testing-and-treatment-to-be-done-free-of-cost-top-up-health-official/story-Gy5DRO9Bpi79cgQD7hM0QP.html
20-05-2020||India||Covid-19 latest figures: Govt offers 4 reasons to show India is better placed, has data to back up claim||The central government on Wednesday presented statistics comparing India with 15 other worst coronavirus affected countries to highlight how the country had fared better on several key indices like the ratio of positive cases to the total population and similarly, the ratio of Covid-19 deaths to the combined population of these countries.According to data presented by a health ministry official, the combined population of 15 worst affected countries, including USA, Russia, Spain, Brazil, UK, Italy, France, Germany, Turkey, Iran, Peru, Canada, Saudi Arabia, Belgium and Mexico was around 142.6 crore and these countries together accounted for 36.45 lakh positive cases, while India, with an estimated 137 crore citizens had a comparable population to this amalgamation, but had registered only a little over one lakh cases as on May 19.A further look at the data showed that these countries had a combined death toll of 2.73 lakh as against 3,303 casualties due to coronavirus in India.“These combined population of these countries is similar to that of India’s, yet they have recorded 34 times more cases and 83 times more deaths than India,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.“This statistic is not about a satisfactory situation for India. How we medically manage a positive case, how we are able to save a patient’s life and focus on good health care decides if we are doing a satisfactory job,” added Agarwal.Agarwal said that in another relatively-positive news, the recovery rate of coronavirus patients in the country, which stood at 7.1% at the beginning of the lockdown on March 25, increased to 11.42% at the beginning of the second phase of the lockdown and further to 26.59 % before reaching 39.62% as of May 19.Agarwal said that India had around 61,000 cases of Coved-19 under active treatment and only 2.94% of these were on oxygen support, 3% on ICU support and 0.4% on ventilator support.For Coronavirus Live Updates“This data is very important to us since it shows that because of our focus on early detection and surveillance leading to timely identification of cases, a very few percentages of infected patients need serious hospital management,” Agarwal said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Giving an update on the scaling up of the health infrastructure in the view of the pandemic, Agarwal said India currently had 1.5 lakh hospital beds available for treating coronavirus patients. He said that this capacity was built over the last two months during the lockdown. He added that the country’s focus should be on preventive action as long as a vaccine to prevent the spread of the disease is found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-figures-govt-offers-4-reasons-to-show-india-is-better-placed-has-data-to-back-up-claim/story-cApuge9ot9WTZSqo4T5s9K.html
20-05-2020||India||Rajasthan battles locust invasion in 16 of 33 districts||Locusts that have crossed into Rajasthan from Pakistan are travelling far and wide across the state because of favourable wind conditions and lack of crops in the fields, officials said Wednesday.Locust swarms were reported from Bundi, Sikar, Pratapgarh and Chittorgarh districts, they said.“There’s no crop in the fields. Unable to find settling grounds and crops to devour, locust swarms are travelling far in search of food. The insects have also become irritable and fly at the sound of tractors or at sight of light when we launch control operations at night,” said Dr Om Prakash, agriculture commissioner.Rajasthan had reported a locust invasion in May last year after a gap of 26 years and the attack continued until February this year, damaging crop across 670,000 hectares in 12 districts. The state put the loss due to the locust invasion at about Rs 1,000 crore.In 2019, the swarms were first spotted in Jaisalmer.The Locust Warning Organization (LWO) of the Union ministry of agriculture and farmer welfare warned of another attack in May-June this year. The first locust attack this year was reported in Ganganagar, a north Rajasthan district bordering Pakistan, on May 11.LWO deputy director KL Gurjar said the Jodhpur-based organization feared last year that yellow matured adults may lay eggs in some places in Pakistan, leading to an outbreak in May-June this year.The agriculture commissioner said locusts generally settle on vegetation after sunset and fly again at around 9-10 am the next day, giving control teams enough time to spray pesticides at them.“This year, we are able to launch control efforts only around midnight because they are settling late. The current breed of locusts scuttles on hearing the sound of tractors, making our job more difficult. An unsettled swarm is highly mobile and can travel as much as 150 km a day if winds are favourable. These swarms can devour large quantity of vegetation and crops. The saving grace is, there’s no crop so there’s no damage,” he said.Many districts that did not report swarms last year such as Sirohi, Ajmer, Bhilwara, Pali, Pratapgarh, Sikar and Jhunjhunu, are reporting them this year. So far, locusts have been reported from more than half of Rajasthan, covering 16 out of 33 districts.Officials say that the desert locust has always been a major threat to man’s well-being. Just one small swarm of desert locust can eat the same quantity of crops in one day as 35,000 people. This year, there’s no damage so far. “Currently, they are settling on babool and khejdi trees,” Dr Om Prakash said.Meanwhile, the state agriculture department has controlled the outbreak on around 40,000 hectares, he added.Agriculture minister Lal Chand Kataria said the state government had provided 45 pickup vehicles to the LWO for their sprayers and deployed 70 vehicles for survey in fields. He said 600 tractor-mounted sprayers were also involved in control operations. “We have also invited bids for drones to spray pesticides in areas inaccessible to the vehicles,” he said.LWO sprayers can reach up to 7-8 feet, and those on tractors go up to 15-20 feet. The department has engaged fire tenders for greater heights. “Around 150 teams are working in 14 districts to identify places where control operations need to be launched,” the minister said.He said the department has provisioned Rs 5 crore for vehicles and Rs 10 crore for providing plant protection chemicals to farmers at 100% grant.Meanwhile, according to a status report by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), hopper groups, bands, and adult groups are present on the Indo-Pakistan border in Punjab of both countries.“Migration from the spring breeding areas in Baluchistan has commenced, and several immature adult groups and swarms have appeared in Rajasthan,” it said.The FAO has also released a global forecast according to which in addition to the current outbreak, locust swarms from new areas can also enter the Indian border from June 22.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 24 and May 11 to seek Centre’s help in dealing with locust attacks. The CM also told the PM about the outbreak in the state during a video conference on May 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-battles-locust-invasion-in-16-of-33-districts/story-JigOjx43MpwlWfdaPAqz9I.html
20-05-2020||India||As Amphan begins landfall, here’s how to track the super cyclone in 3 simple steps||Super Cyclone Amphan began making landfall near the Sunderbans in West Bengal on Wednesday afternoon. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said that Amphan’s landfall process will begin in the afternoon hours of Wednesday and is expected to continue till the evening. With wind speed of 155 to 165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph, Amphan will cross the West Bengal-Bangladesh coast between Digha in West Bengal’s East Midnapore district and Hatiya island in Bangladesh today.Also read: Amphan expected to cause damage to these districts in Bengal and OdishaThe super cyclone can be tracked live in simple steps. Here’s how to monitor Amphan’s live location:1. Visit IMD’s website mausam.imd.gov.in. 2. Click on ‘Cyclone’ under ‘Our services’ option on the website. 3. From the new page, click on the fourth option ‘track cyclonic disturbance’ on the menu displayed on the left side to get all the latest updates on Amphan. • Another website developed by the IMD can be visited to track the live location of the super cyclone today. The Regional Specialized Meteorological Centre for Typical Cyclone Over North Indian Ocean has a website that shows all real-time updates of the cyclone. Visit rsmcnewdelhi.imd.gov.in and the live updates related to the cyclone will be displayed on the homepage. The website is easy to browse.• Besides this, cyclone Amphan’s movement can also be tracked with the help of the government-owned Umang app. The mobile application is available for iOS and Android.Cyclone Amphan is expected to cause considerable damage to districts in Odisha and West Bengal upon landfall. In West Bengal, East Midnapore, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hoogli and Kolkata districts are expected to witness some damage due to cyclone Amphan. Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, Jhajpur, Mayurbhanj and Kendrapara are the districts that are expected to bear the brunt of cyclone Amphan.After landfallIt is very likely to continue to move north-northeastwards across Gangetic West Bengal and Bangladesh after making landfall today evening.“Amphan is likely to maintain the intensity of cyclonic storm till the morning of May 21,” the weather department said in its bulletin. Thereafter, Amphan will weaken into a Deep Depression over Bangladesh, the IMD stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-amphan-begins-landfall-here-how-to-track-the-super-cyclone-in-3-simple-steps/story-iANjaBHNejQa0ngIhzEk9O.html
20-05-2020||India||Atmanirbhar Bharat package for food grains to migrants gets cabinet nod||The union cabinet, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday gave its nod to the atmanirbhar Bharat package for providing foodgrains to stranded migrants for the next two months. According to an official statement released after the cabinet meeting, ex-post facto approval was given for allocation of foodgrains from the central pool to approximately eight crore migrants at 5 kg per person per month for May and June free of cost. It would entail an estimated food subsidy of about Rs 2,982.27 crore. Further, the expenditure towards intra-state transportation and handling charges and dealer’s margin will account for about 127.25 crore. Accordingly, the total subsidy from the Centre is estimated at about Rs 3,109.52 crore, the statement said.The cabinet also approved a new Special Liquidity Scheme for Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) and Housing Finance Companies (HFCs) to improve their liquidity position.The cabinet also approved additional funding of up to Rs 3 lakh crore at a concessional rate of 9.25 per cent through the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) for the MSME sector hit hard by the coronavirus crisis.The Cabinet also approved a finance ministry proposal to launch a new Special Liquidity Scheme for NBFCs and HFCs.The direct financial implication for the government is Rs 5 crore, which may be the equity contribution to the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV).An SPV would be set up to manage a Stressed Asset Fund (SAF) whose special securities would be guaranteed by the government Government of India and purchased by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) only. The proceeds of sale of such securities would be used by the SPV to acquire short-term debt of NBFCs/HFCs.The Scheme will be administered by the Department of Financial Services, which will issue the detailed guidelines, the statement said.The SPV would issue securities as per requirement subject to the total amount of securities outstanding not exceeding Rs. 30,000 crore to be extended by the amount required as per the need. The securities issued by the SPV would be purchased by RBI and proceeds thereof would be used by the SPV to acquire the debt of at least investment grade of short duration (residual maturity of upto 3 months) of eligible NBFCs / HFCs, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atmanirbhar-bharat-package-for-food-grains-to-migrants-gets-cabinet-nod/story-OW3SpU9c4v7GnOvm9PrZgM.html
20-05-2020||India||Rajasthan reports 107 new Covid-19 cases, total tally now at 5,952||Rajasthan reported 107 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases on Wednesday, as the total count rose to 5,952. Two fresh Covid-19 related deaths were also reported and the toll now stands at 143.At least 946 migrant workers, who have returned from other states amid the easing of lockdown restrictions, have tested Covid-19 positive.The state health department data till 2 pm on Wednesday showed that both Dungarpur and Jalore districts have reported a dip in Covid-19 positive cases since Tuesday.Dungarpur, which reported 87 cases on Tuesday, recorded 22 more the following day. While Jalore that reported 97 cases on Tuesday, reported another 11 the next day. Nagaur reported 17 cases, Chittorgarh (7), Jodhpur (10), Sikar (9), Jhunjhunu, and Kota eight and six, respectively. Jaipur and Sirohi reported three cases each. Ajmer and Udaipur reported three cases each.Jhalawar and Baran reported one case each. A resident from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh also tested Covid-19 positive.So far, 3,373 patients have recovered and 2,436 Covid-19 cases are still active. The state health authorities have collected swab samples from 265,555 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-reports-107-new-covid-19-cases-total-tally-now-at-5-952/story-E64YsfdRrx5YwuU9lYPYPL.html
20-05-2020||India||Domestic flights to resume ops in ‘calibrated manner’ from May 25, SOPs soon||Domestic flights in the country will resume operations from May 25, two months after the services were suspended following the nationwide lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri on Wednesday announced that operations will recommence in a “calibrated manner” from Monday. “All airports and air carriers are being informed to be ready for operations from 25th May.Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for passenger movement are also being separately issued by civil aviation ministry,” he tweeted. The domestic flights that will be allowed to operate are likely to connect all major tier-I cities. Airports will facilitate limited domestic flights in phases and may be at 30% capacity to facilitate social distancing, the Airport Authority of India had stated in a set of guidelines for resumption of service post-lockdown, Hindustan Times had reported on April 30. India has also launched a concerted repatriation programme, by sea and air, to bring back stranded citizens stuck in various parts of the world, but with a strict set of preconditions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.All measures for social distancing and screening will be followed at the airports, officials said. Middle seats inside the plans may not be left vacant, an idea that was being considered earlier by the ministry, officials aware of the development said. The government may also not allow senior citizens aged above 80 years to board the flights. Passengers may have to be quarantined as per the state government’s protocols. The government may also introduce a cap on airfares, this is being done to protect the consumers and airlines as a temporary measure, officials said. In its guidelines for the fourth phase of lockdown, the home ministry had said all domestic and international passenger flights will remain suspended till May 31. Both domestic and international cargo flight operations have remained operational since the lockdown. The revised set of guidelines and SOP for the domestic flight operation will be issued on Wednesday, officials involved in the process said. A meeting with all airlines’ Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) is also scheduled to be held on Wednesday evening after which the SOP would be finalised, the official added.“We have been preparing for resuming domestic flights since a while and have made all the necessary arrangements but the states had expressed some reservations on resuming the operations in a meeting held a day before the home ministry guidelines were issued,” another official said. On Tuesday, Puri had said the state governments should be ready to allow civil aviation operations “in the spirit of cooperative federalism.”“It is not up to civil aviation ministry or centre alone to decide on resuming domestic flights,” he had said. Passengers will have to wear a mask and other protective gear and maintain at least four-feet physical distance from co-passengers, according to guidelines issued by the Airports Authority of India, and also may have to download the Aarogya Setu app on mobile phones. They will also be required to wash or sanitise their hands frequently, the AAI said. On Thursday the bureau of civil aviation issued guidelines for enhancement of admissible limit of hand sanitisers to be carried in cabin baggage.Those travelling will also have to do a web check-in before the journey. The stamping of boarding passes has also been suspended to reduce contact between passengers and security staff. There has been no word yet on resumption of international flights. “This resumption will go a long way in lifting the overall economic sentiment in the country. While the SOP for resumption of operations and details of flights to be operated is still awaited, we are sure that this much awaited move will help a large number of passengers by providing them access to the safest and quickest means of transport… We will strictly adhere to social distancing norms and SOPs laid down by the Government to ensure the best, the cleanest and the most sanitised flying experience,” said Ajay Singh, Chairman and Managing Director, SpiceJet. In a draft standard operating procedures (SOPs) proposed by the civil aviation ministry, it was suggested that cabin luggage be disallowed. The SOP had also suggested passenger ID checks will not be required so as to minimise the crowd at terminal gates.The Centre will also issue guidelines for the movement of passengers for reaching the airport from different zones including containment areas, similar to the rules for passengers travelling in trains, officials said. “As per the government announcement made today, we will be resuming flight operations from Monday, May 25, 2020 in a phased manner. We are fully prepared with safety measures w.r.t. Covid-19 across all our passenger and CarGo interfaces during their journey with us. We will share further details and guidelines for passengers, in line with the advisory from the authorities over the next few days,” IndiGo said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flights-to-begin-operations-from-may-25-guidelines-to-follow/story-QtGOILBEMSDvW03WK3YNsO.html
20-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Atmanirbhar Bharat package for food grains to migrants gets cabinet nod and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Atmanirbhar Bharat package for food grains to migrants gets cabinet nodThe union cabinet, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday gave its nod to the atmanirbhar Bharat package for providing foodgrains to stranded migrants for the next two months. Read more Cyclone Amphan begins landfall near Sunderbans in West Bengal as extremely severe cyclonic stormSuper Cyclone Amphan has begun making landfall near the Sunderbans in West Bengal with a wind speed of 155 to 165kmph gusting to 185kmph as an extremely severe cyclonic storm. Read more‘No time for politics’: Priyanka Gandhi targets CM Adityanath over migrantsCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday targeted the Uttar Pradesh government for not allowing the buses arranged by the party to ferry migrants enter the state. Read more2,000 under treatment, 3,000 tested free for Covid-19 under Ayushman Bharat schemeIn a month-and-a-half since coronavirus (Covid-19) treatment was made free under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY), at least 2,000 people were either treated or have been currently undergoing treatment for the viral disease. This is when the total number of people having been treated under the world’s largest public health insurance scheme reached 10 million since its launch in September 2018. Read moreLoud boom heard in Bengaluru; police say they are probingA loud, booming sound was heard across several areas in eastern Bengaluru on Wednesday afternoon, prompting the police to launch a probe. Read moreInfant becomes cyclone Amphan’s first victim as it barrels through OdishaA two-month-old infant became Odisha’s first casualty of cyclone Amphan after the wall of the family’s kutcha house collapsed in coastal Bhadrak district as the super cyclone barreled along the state’s coast at 80-90 km per hour early Wednesday morning. Read moreChina’s new outbreak shows signs Covid-19 could be changingChinese doctors are seeing the coronavirus manifest differently among patients in its new cluster of cases in the northeast region compared to the original outbreak in Wuhan, suggesting that the pathogen may be changing in unknown ways and complicating efforts to stamp it out. Read moreMHA allows holding of Class 10th, 12th board exams, issues guidelinesUnion Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said that the government has decided to grant exemption from the lockdown measures to conduct Board examination for classes 10th and 12th. He further said that a few conditions, like social distancing, face mask etc have been imposed, for safety of all. Read moreWhat Are The Odds movie review: Abhay Deol, Yashaswini Dayama’s ode to Wes Anderson is cute but not crazy enoughThere is something to be said about a filmmaker who attempts to emulate a Hollywood genius in her very first film. Meghna Ramaswamy gets the aesthetic right but not quite the whimsical heart of Wes Anderson and his glorious movies in her debut, What Are The Odds? Read more‘Experience of playing international cricket not enough,’ Gautam Gambhir lists qualities of successful coachGautam Gambhir believes that in order to become a successful coach, a person needs to fulfil criterias other than playing international cricket. The former opener, who represented India in 58 Tests, 147 ODIs and 37 T20Is, feels one of the primary roles of a coach, especially in the 20-over format should be to instil a positive mindset among cricketers. Read moreStones pelted at police at Delhi-Gurugram border over movement restrictionA group of people pelted stones at police at Delhi-Gurugram border near Palam Vihar. The incident took place allegedly after they were not allowed to cross the border. The stone-pelters, said to be migrant workers, were trying to cross border and enter Gurugram. On Tuesday, Haryana government has ordered for strict implementation of Centre’s guidelines during lockdown 4.0. MHA has allowed resumption of economic and other activities with restrictions, except in containment zones. Read moreTenant’s petty revenge video after being ‘forced’ out is a gem. It has got over 7.2 million viewsWhat do you do when your landlord “forces” you to move out but also asks you to record a walkthrough video of the place before leaving? You can either walk off from the situation or do what Scottish actor Sandy Batchelor did and get your petty revenge – and in the process make millions of netizens laugh out loud too. Read moreOf beauty, survival, criticism, love and pain: Why Susan Sontag will always be relevantSusan Sontag dwelled between two worlds. One that was there and the one that could have been in all fairness and evolution. The iconic essayist and writer who passed away in 2004 intrigued many across cultures and communities with her set of beliefs and disbeliefs and she disturbed many with how perenially relevant she can be. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cabinet-approves-rs-3-110-cr-foodgrain-package-under-aatma-nirbhar-bharat-package-and-all-the-latest-news/story-PP3D1LkTr04GaP7NOExnpI.html
20-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand: Covid-19 cases surge as stranded migrant workers return||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases are rising for the first time in the remote hilly districts of Uttarakhand, as stranded migrant workers have started returning home amid the easing of lockdown restrictions.State health officials are worried about the spike after 13 Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the hilly districts of Almora (3), Bageshwar (2), Chamoli (1), Pauri Garhwal (4), and Uttarkashi (3).On Tuesday, Bageshwar and Chamoli districts reported their first cases of the viral outbreak.Uttarakhand authorities have collected 15,503 swab samples to date, of which 1,443 were collected from the state’s nine hilly districts.Dr. SK Gupta, director, state medical and health department, said the trend has become a matter of concern.“We cannot stop people from returning to their native places during this pandemic. However, we’re trying to adopt new strategies such as bringing about a change in the testing pattern and putting in place a more effective mechanism for migrant returnees to be kept under institutional quarantine,” said Dr. Gupta.In the past week, testing has gradually increased in the state, and pool testing also started in a few places. On May 17, 575 samples were tested, and 792 and 754 were tested on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively.“Pool testing helps to increase the number of samples tested during a day. We’re looking at a sample size between 1,200 and 1,500 for a daily pool testing,” Dr. Gupta added.Under pool testing, all the samples of people in a certain batch are tested together. If the result comes negative, then it means none of the people has contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. But, if the result turns out to be positive, then all the people of that batch are required to undergo individual tests.“If a person tests Covid-19 positive during pool testing, then more attention needs to be paid through contact tracing and conducting more tests on the other people that the infected person came in contact with,” said the senior health official.Over the past 48 hours, more Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from the hilly districts such as Uttarkashi, Almora, Chamoli, Bageshwar, and Pauri Garhwal.Earlier, Covid-19 positive cases were mostly restricted to the four main plain districts of Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar, and Nainital.Uttarakhand has reported 120 Covid-19 positive cases till Wednesday, an increase of nine cases from the previous day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-covid-19-cases-surge-as-stranded-migrant-workers-return/story-sIBO4xjQEGwEM4zFPJaZ6N.html
20-05-2020||India||Leopard found dead in Uttarakhand’s Almora, third to die in a fortnight||The carcass of a leopard was found near a roadside in Almora district’s Chaukhutiya area Tuesday evening making it the third big cat casualty in Uttarakhand in the last fortnight, forest officials said Wednesday.The carcass was spotted by local people who informed the forest department about it. Forest officials rushed to the spot and sent the carcass for post-mortem.Vinod Chandra, Deputy Ranger Chaukhutiya range in Almora forest division said, “Some people informed us that the carcass of a leopard was lying on the roadside near the forest on Godi Motor road in Chaukhutiya area in Almora”.“The leopard seems to be around 3 years old. There were no injury marks on its body but the rear part of the body was swollen. It is likely that the carcass is around seven to eight days old. The exact cause of death will be known after the post mortem,” Chandra said.The villagers in the area are in panic and have urged the forest department to start night patrol in the area.On May 12, two leopards were found dead in Uttarakhand within 24 hours. A carcass of a five-year leopard was found in Jyolikot area of Nainital stuck in a trap wire. In another incident, a ten-year-old leopard was found dead in Pithoragarh district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-found-dead-in-uttarakhand-s-almora-third-to-die-in-a-fortnight/story-hmMognc1vbH6UA4V3idHSI.html
20-05-2020||India||Nepal releases new political map showing Lipulekh and Kalapani as part of its territory||The Nepal government on Wednesday unveiled a new political map of the country that depicts Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepalese territory amid a diplomatic row with India.The move came little more than six months after India published new maps of the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh that showed Kalapani as part of Uttarakhand state.The new map was released by land management minister Padma Kumari Aryal at a function in Kathmandu attended by political leaders and officials. The three territories were shown as part of Byas rural municipality in Darchula district of Sudurpaschim province.Aryal said she hoped India will take Nepal’s decision to publish the new map in a “positive way”.There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials.Nepal’s council of ministers had approved the map showing Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepalese territory during a meeting chaired by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Monday.“The map will come into use immediately…The areas of Gunji, Navi and Kuti, near Kalapani, which had been left out in earlier maps, are also included in the new map,” Aryal was quoted as saying by The Kathmandu Post.Unnamed Nepalese officials were quoted by the Post as saying that the country’s total area has increased from 147,181 sq km to 147,516 sq km after the addition of “disputed land that is currently occupied by India”.The diplomatic row began on May 8 after defence minister Rajnath Singh opened an 80-km road that ends at Lipulekh Pass on the border with China. The road was built so that pilgrims going to Kailash-Mansarovar in the Tibet Autonomous Region can avoid dangerous high-altitude routes through Sikkim and Nepal.Nepal’s foreign ministry summoned the Indian envoy last week to protest against the construction of the road. New Delhi has rejected Kathmandu’s protest, saying the Lipulekh region is “completely within the territory of India” and that both sides could resolve such boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue.While addressing Nepal’s Parliament on Tuesday, Oli said the decision to include the three territories in the map of Nepal was made after India inaugurated “a road link through Nepali territory”. He also contended that people coming from India “through illegal channels” were spreading the Coronavirus in Nepal.India and Nepal share a 1,800-km open border. Nepal claims all territories east of the Kali river, including Limpiyadhura, Kalapani and Lipulekh, under the Treaty of Sugauli that it signed with the erstwhile British administration in 1816.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-releases-new-political-map-showing-lipulekh-and-kalapani-as-part-of-its-territory/story-a1WJ5ctHvy010Ss1Y6jt4O.html
20-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan is expected to reach Kolkata by this evening: IMD chief||With severe cyclonic storm Amphan beginning landfall on Wednesday afternoon near Sunderbans in West Bengal, more than 5 lakh people have been evacuated from nearby coastal areas in the state and another 1,58,640 people have been removed to safer areas in neighbouring Odisha, NDRF Director General SN Pradhan said. The severe cyclonic storm is expected to reach Kolkata by this evening, according to IMD.“Based on experiences during Cyclone Fani, all NDRF teams are equipped with tree cutters/pole cutters for post landfall restoration, if need arises. We have deployed at least 20 teams in Odisha and 19 teams in West Bengal and 2 in stand-by have been pre-positioned in consultation with state authorities. These NDRF teams will shortly begin restoration work. All teams have wireless and satellite communications,” Pradhan said at a news briefing.“Keeping in mind the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, all NDRF teams have been equipped with PPE kits. We are not dependent on any communication system. It is another form of new normal, we have to handle disasters considering the Covid-19 pandemic too,” the NDRF chief added.ALSO READ | Cyclone Amphan begins landfall near Sunderbans in West Bengal as extremely severe cyclonic stormCyclone Amphan’s landfall process has triggered intense rain and gusty winds in West Bengal and Odisha and will continue for about four hours, according to IMD. “Cyclone Amphan has touched land. The eye of the cyclone is expected to touch land anytime now. Cyclone Amphan is expected to reach Kolkata by this evening,” IMD chief Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said.“The forward sector of the wall cloud region has entered into land in West Bengal. The intensity of the cyclone near its centre as the landfall process began was recorded at 160-170 kmph, increasing to about 190 kmph,” according to IMD data.In Odisha too, heavy rainfall and strong winds are lashing Chandipur in Balasore district and Jagatsinghpur. Heavy rainfall and strong winds have affected several districts as of noon in Gangetic West Bengal increasing in intensity with each passing hour after landfall.At 3:05 pm, the wind speed at Kolkata airport was recorded at 76 km per hour, the meteorological office said.Pradhan said all 20 teams present in Odisha have been deployed, leaving none in reserve, while in West Bengal 19 teams have been deployed, while two have been kept in reserve.“The situation is fast-transforming. Our duty becomes even more now and after the cyclone. It is a long haul,” he said, adding that the NDRF is keeping a close watch on Cyclone Amphan. Pradhan said deployment is more in districts which are facing more pressure due to intense weather triggered by the cyclonic storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-ndrf-teams-ready-to-tackle-damage-as-cyclone-amphan-continues-landfall-in-bengal/story-eIeFQVBWp2Xyl0j87m7ZfP.html
20-05-2020||India||Cabinet approves Rs 3,110 crore foodgrain package under Aatma Nirbhar Bharat package, 8 crore migrants to benefit||The union cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday approved the allocation of free foodgrains for approximately 8 crore migrants for the month of May and June as part of the relief announced by the centre under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Package. The economic package worth nearly Rs 21 lakh crore was announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman over five days last week and it contained monetary and policy interventions to revive the Indian economy as it battles the economic doom spelt by coronavirus pandemic.On May 14, while delivering the second chunk of the economic relief package, Sitharaman had announced that the central government had decided to extend the free foodgrain distribution scheme to migrants who were neither beneficiaries under the NFSA (National Food Security Act) or holders of state cards. She had valued the total cost of this intervention to about Rs 3,500 crore.The scheme involves the grant of foodgrain from the central pool to approximately 8 crore migrant labourers who are either stranded or have reached their homes. Every migrant will be eligible for receiving 5 kg of foodgrain a month for two months of May and June 2020. Centre said the cost of this subsidy will be in excess of Rs 3100 crore.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“It would entail an estimated food subsidy of about Rs 2,982.27 crore. Further, the expenditure towards intra-state transportation and handling charges and dealer’s margin/additional dealer margin will account for about Rs 127.25 crore, which will be borne fully by the Central Government. Accordingly, the total subsidy from the Government of India is estimated at about of Rs.3,109.52 crore,” an official cabinet press document said.Migrant workers are among the worst-hit due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. The pandemic and its resultant economic and social impact has not only cost migrants their jobs and money, but also forced them to retreat to their home states in one of the largest workforce exodus seen in the recent times.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesSeveral migrant workers have even ended up losing their lives in accidents as they make a desperate dash to their homes in the absence of adequate public transport.The central government said the allocation will ease the hardships faced by the migrant workforce due to economic disruptions caused by Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-rs-3-110-crore-foodgrain-package-under-aatma-nirbhar-bharat-package-8-crore-migrants-to-benefit/story-IGnFqGIAzeA7jHw9nAZvKO.html
20-05-2020||India||Goa: HC allows state board to conduct 10th and 12th exams||The high court (HC) of Bombay at Goa on Wednesday allowed the state board to conduct class X and XII examinations from Thursday, ending the examinees’ uncertainty and anxiety about their future prospects amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The HC disposed of a bunch of petitions that were filed seeking to defer the examinations because of the pandemic.Pravin Faldessai, Assistant Solicitor General, Goa, submitted in the court a written communication received from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) late Tuesday night granting exemption to the state to conduct Class X and XII examinations from Thursday subject to certain conditions. On Tuesday, the court had directed the MHA to inform whether the board examinations could be conducted under the fresh guidelines issued by the ministry last Sunday about lockdown 4:0, which came into effect from Monday and will be in place till May 31 to contain the spread of the pandemic.Earlier, advocate General Devidas Pangam had told the court that “had the Central Government intended to prohibit the holding of examinations, then, it would have clearly stated that in its orders. No prohibition was ever intended, as there’s no specific bar.”However, late on Tuesday night, state chief secretary Parimal Rai wrote to the MHA, seeking an exemption from the lockdown to hold the board examinations, and the relief was given shortly.“The matter has been examined by the MHA taking into consideration the factual position. Goa doesn’t have a single local active case of Covid-19 (except for 39 positive cases of the people who had travelled from outside) and the onset of monsoon season during which the state will have difficulties in holding the examinations.“After taking into account these factors and the assurance given by the state government in ensuring all safety precautions, Goa is allowed to conduct board examinations for Classes 10 and 12,” the MHA said. The MHA stipulated that no examination centre would be permitted in the containment zone. Besides, teachers, students, and invigilators have to compulsorily wear face masks, provisions of thermal scanning facility and hand sanitisers to be made available at examination centres and social distancing norms must be strictly enforced.“The HC has permitted the state board to conduct class X and XII examinations on the basis of the MHA’s letter. There’s no legal impediment in holding the examinations,” said Advocate General Pangam. State chief minister Pramod Sawant welcomed the move to end the uncertainty for anxious board students.“The board examinations will start on Thursday. I hope people will cooperate to successfully conduct the examinations. At the end of the day, this exercise involves the future of our children. It’s important that everybody cooperates amid the viral outbreak,” the CM said.Altogether, 19,680 students will appear for the secondary school certificate (SSC) examinations, which will be held across 1,612 centres in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-hc-allows-state-board-to-conduct-10th-and-12th-exams/story-EspmxNFcRwi1as82t7sTxM.html
20-05-2020||India||India extends anti-dumping duty on Chinese sodium citrate used by pharma industry||The government has extended duty protection on sodium citrate -- a key pharmaceutical ingredient – imported from China for another five years after an investigation found that there has been continued dumping of the Chinese product in India hampering the domestic industry, the finance ministry said.“There is continued dumping of the subject goods from subject country and the imports are likely to enter the Indian market at dumped prices in the event of expiry of duty,” an order issued by the ministry said on Tuesday.The duty protection, which was imposed by the department of revenue on May 20, 2015 was to expire on Tuesday.Dumping, an unfair trade practice that entails export of a product at a price lower than its normal value, is countered by a punitive anti-dumping duty. A safeguard duty is also imposed to check an unexpected import surge that poses a threat the domestic industry.After a thorough investigation, the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) on April 30 recommended to extend the anti-dumping duty on imports of sodium citrate from China for another five years. The DGTR, earlier known as the Directorate General of Anti-dumping and Allied Duties, is an integrated single window agency for providing comprehensive and swift trade defence mechanism in India.On May 11, HT reported that India may extend anti-dumping duties and safeguards on more than two dozen Chinese goods ranging from sodium citrate to solar cells amid concern that a flood of imports would kill domestic manufacturers who will lose duty protection soon against such products in the current calendar year. Anti-dumping duty against 25 Chinese products would expire in 2020.Chinese imports under review include sodium citrate, USB flash drives, calculators, hot-rolled flat products of stainless steel, Vitamin C and E, nylon tyre cord, measuring tapes, compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs), flax fabrics, caustic soda, float glass, tableware, kitchenware, plastic processing machinery and solar cells.Sodium citrate is a key chemical compound that comes in the form of monosodium citrate, disodium citrate and tri sodium citrate. It is mainly used as an expectorant and a urine alkanizer. It is also used as a pharmaceutical aid and as a food additive in dairy industries for manufacturing of cheese and beverages. It is a water treatment chemical and is used as a laboratory reagent. It is also used as an acidity regulator in drinks and as an emulsifier for oils when making cheese. Sodium Citrate is also used as an antioxidant in food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-extends-anti-dumping-duty-on-chinese-sodium-citrate-used-by-pharma-industry/story-TddJAneSEeL6U2mDmgWccL.html
20-05-2020||India||Rajasthan reports 107 new Covid-19 cases, count close to 6000-mark; tally at 5,952||Rajasthan on Wednesday reported 107 new Covid-19 cases and no deaths till afternoon, taking the total number of coronavirus positive cases to 5,952 and closer to the 6000-mark in the state.At least 143 people have succumbed to the deadly infection till date in Rajasthan. There are 2,436 active Covid-19 cases currently in the north-western state, according to the health department. Earlier, last week, Rajasthan had recorded the highest single-day spike of 242 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday.At least 36 coronavirus positive patients have recovered and been discharged on Wednesday. A total of 3,373 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the state till date.Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has directed state government officials to form a separate team for intensive monitoring of the coronavirus infection, which would provide thorough feedback on its spread and other aspects. Based on this, the state government will formulate its strategy, a senior government official said.Gehlot said that a large number of migrants from other states have reached villages. Special attention should be given in rural areas as there may be a risk of the infection spreading in such areas, the chief minister cautioned.After several relaxations were announced by the Centre as part of lockdown 4.0, the Rajasthan government has decided to run Shramik Special buses for migrants heading home on foot through national highways. The Centre’s lockdown 4.0 guidelines also permitted inter-state travel through buses and other vehicles, subject to consent from states involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-reports-107-new-covid-19-cases-count-close-to-6000-mark-tally-at-5-952/story-UYVZ41czp9pN2WLnOuHa5M.html
20-05-2020||India||‘No time for politics’: Priyanka Gandhi targets CM Adityanath over migrants||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday targeted the Uttar Pradesh government for not allowing the buses arranged by the party to ferry migrants enter the state.She said that the Yogi Adityath government insisted on producing the papers of the vehicles, and delayed the initiative by wasting time in communication.“If you had allowed these buses to run, around 72,000 people would have been home by now. But they were engaged in politics. The buses were are standing at the Rajasthan-Uttar Pradesh border since yesterday and are not being of any help,” Gandhi said at a digital press conference.Watch | ‘If you had allowed…’: Priyanka Gandhi targets UP govt over buses for migrants She said that the Congress wants to help in a positive way and doesn’t want to indulge in politics.“I request you to let these buses enter Uttar Pradesh,” she said addressing the chief minister. “This is not a time to play politics, all parties should set aside politics and help people.”She also said that the buses will remain at the Uttar Pradesh border till 4 pm on Wednesday.Priyanka Gandhi and the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh are at loggerheads over her plan to send 1,000 buses to help transport migrants in Uttar Pradesh.The offer was made on Saturday, and accepted on Monday. But by Tuesday evening, the state government said only 879 of the 1,000 vehicles were buses, and the rest three-wheelers and other vehicles, triggering angry reactions from the Congress.“UP government has crossed all the limits. When there is an opportunity to do away with political differences and serve helpless migrant labourers it has caused all the hindrances. @myogiadityanath ji you can use BJP flags and your posters on these buses, but don’t reject our feelings of service,” she had said in a tweet on Tuesday.The Congress had on Tuesday accused the BJP and Adityanath of indulging in “cheap politics” and “doublespeak” by not letting in its buses to ferry migrants.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala held a press conference on Tuesday where he said that the chief minister was “insensitive as he was embroiling migrants in cheap and petty politics”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-not-time-to-play-politics-priyanka-gandhi-targets-yogi-adityanath-over-migrant-issue/story-ZOmATBtHg4TswtqnPpC8qJ.html
20-05-2020||India||Landfall process of cyclone ‘Amphan’ begins||The landfall process of cyclone ‘Amphan’ commenced at 2.30 pm on Wednesday between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya island in Bangladesh, the Met department said.The landfall process will continue for about four hours, it said.Click here for Cyclone Amphan LIVE updates“The forward sector of the wall cloud region is entering into land in West Bengal,” the Met said.The intensity of the cyclone near its centre as the landfall process started was recorded at 160-170 kmph, gusting to 190 kmph, it said.Heavy rain and gale wind have affected several districts in the Gangetic West Bengal since morning and the intensity of the downpour and wind increased gradually with every passing hour.At 3.05 pm, wind speed at Dum Dum airport was recorded at 76 km per hour, the Met said.The system is likely to move north-northeastwards after landfall and pass close to Kolkata in its eastern side causing extensive damage and flooding of low-lying areas of the city, the Met department warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landfall-process-of-cyclone-amphan-begins/story-LzWTKfijiXhFIvXyTq3V4J.html
20-05-2020||India||‘They are India’s backbone, everyone’s responsibility’: Priyanka Gandhi on migrant labourers||Congress leader and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday spoke on the crisis involving migrant labourers amid the coronavirus lockdown in the country and said that the time is not to indulge in politics. Gandhi said that these migrant labourers, who are the backbone of the country, have been bearing great pain during the Covid-19 crisis, walking for hundreds of kilometres to reach their native places. “We’ll have to understand our responsibilities. They (migrant labourers walking to return to their native states) aren’t just Indians but India’s backbone. The country runs on their blood and sweat. It’s everyone’s responsibility. It’s not the time for politics,” she said in her online address.Gandhi attacked the Uttar Pradesh government and said that at 4 pm it will be 24 hours since the buses were made available by the Congress party for migrant labourers. Also read: UP govt obstructing help to stranded migrant workers, says Congress“If you want to use it, do it. Give us permission. If you want to use BJP party flags and stickers on buses then do it. If you want to say that you made those buses available, do it. But let the buses run,” she said. Gandhi said that right after the lockdown was announced in the country, Congress party in Uttar Pradesh set up volunteer groups in every district and launched helplines. So far, the party has reached out to over 60 lakh people amid the coronavirus crisis.“We have been providing food, ration to the needy with the help of these groups in the state,” Gandhi said. “A task force was created to help those on the highways amid the lockdown. Many initiatives like these were taken from our side,” she said. Gandhi said that the party had proposed to run buses from Ghaziabad, Noida to ferry migrant labourers from Delhi/NCR to their native places in Uttar Pradesh. “On May 17, 500 buses were there at the Ghaziabad border. If they were allowed to run, at least 20,000 migrant labourers could have reached home,” Gandhi said. Gandhi urged the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government to grant necessary permits and let the buses run for the benefit of the migrant labourers.“We must get over this political tussle and work for the benefit of these migrants. We just want to help with a positive intent,” Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-are-india-s-spinal-cord-everyone-s-responsibility-priyanka-gandhi-on-migrant-labourers/story-FcYHFza3qkGTtZ8FwALnyM.html
20-05-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 hotspot Indore inches towards 3,000-mark||Madhya Pradesh Covid-19 hotspot Indore registered 78 more positive cases on Wednesday, taking its total tally to 2,715, health department officials said. The death toll in the district has reached 105, they said.Till Tuesday, the district had reported 2,637 Covid-19 cases.Nearly 50 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh have been found in Indore alone.The Covid-19 outbreak was first reported in Indore on March 24, when four people tested positive for the infection. Since then, it has seen the number of cases rising rapidly.Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday reported 229 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths, taking the total case count to 5,465 and fatalities to 258.A total of 2,630 people have recovered so far from the viral infection, said officials.Rajgarh and Singrauli, which were so far untouched by the disease, reported first Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. With this, 47 of madhya Pradesh’s 52 districts are now affected by the coronavirus pandemic.Giving break-up of the statewise spread of the disease, officials said on Tuesday that 42 new patients were detected in Burhanpur, followed by 21 in Khandwa, 19 in Ujjain, 16 in Bhopal, 15 in Khargone, seven in Gwalior, six each in Bhind and Betul, four each in Morena and Jhabua, two each in Jabalpur, Raisen, Barwani, Dindori and Sagar and one each in Dhar, Satna, Tikamgarh, Sheopur and Sidhi.Apart from Indore, higher death toll was reported from Ujjain (48), Bhopal (39) and Burhanpur (11). Covid-19 deaths were also reported from Jabalpur, Khandwa, Khargone, Khandwa, Dewas, Mandsaur, Raisen, Hoshangabad, Dhar, Gwalior, Agar Malwa, Sagar, Shajapur, Neemuch, Chhindwara, Satna, Ashok Nagar, Jhabua and Sehore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-s-covid-19-hotspot-indore-inches-towards-3-000-mark/story-z3Uig1ptLD451IrSwtS75I.html
20-05-2020||India||Loud boom heard in Bengaluru; police say they are probing||A loud, booming sound was heard across several areas in eastern Bengaluru on Wednesday afternoon, prompting the police to launch a probe.The noise was heard in areas like Old Madras Road, Ulsoor, Kundanahalli, HAL, Kammanahalli, Cooke Town, Vivek Nagar, Ramamurthy Nagar, Koramangala, Hosur Road, CV Raman Nagar, Whitefield and HSR Layout of Karnataka’s capital city.“We are trying to ascertain the source of the sound. We have conducted searches on the ground in the Whitefield area but so far there is no damage to anything,” MN Anucheth, deputy commissioner of police of Whitefield Division, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Several residents took to social media, saying they felt tremor-like vibrations and others said it could be a sonic boom created by a fighter aircraft. “Wth just happened in Bangalore, did it happen everywhere in Bangalore? Whole house just shook for seconds…(sic)” a user posted on Twitter.“Sounds of explosion or a sudden jolt of tremor being reported from all parts of #Bangalore. Could this be an #earthquake Did you guys feel this too?” tweeted another.There has been no official statement from the Indian Air Force (IAF) yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loud-boom-heard-in-bengaluru-police-say-they-are-probing/story-oEmLLE5YuwKdq7vg2kgWCK.html
20-05-2020||India||BMC rejecting private lab tests, private hospital overcharging Covid-19 patients, alleges PIL in Mumbai High Court||The Bombay High Court has asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to be made a party to the public interest litigation (PIL) that accuses the influential civic body of putting people through unnecessary hardship by not accepting coronavirus tests conducted at private labs.The PIL also seeks the court’s intervention alleging some private hospital was not admitting Covid-19 patients and or overcharging them for treatment.Hearing the petition, the Bombay High Court asked the petitioner to implead the municipal commissioner, Iqbal Chahal into the case. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice S S Shinde was of the opinion that the presence of the civic chief was necessary to adjudicate such matters.The PIL filed by Sarika Singh, a resident of Kurla, cited the case of a police constable who was allegedly asked to deposit Rs 2 lakh by a private hospital in Vashi for admission when he approached them with Covid-19 like symptoms.According to the petition, the constable was made to wait for around five hours since he couldn’t arrange for the hefty sum. It was only after the local police station allegedly threatened to file an FIR against the hospital authorities for refusing a suspected coronavirus case that they admitted him with a reduced deposit of Rs 20,000. The PIL also points out that police personnel are covered by the Aarogya Kutumb Yojana, an insurance cover provided by the centre and therefore private hospitals had no business refusing them admission.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The high court directed the state and the BMC to respond to the grievances raised and posted the PIL for further hearing on May 22.The BMC will also have to explain if it was forcing people cleared by private labs to take fresh Covid-19 tests as alleged by the petitioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-rejecting-private-lab-tests-private-hospital-overcharging-covid-19-patients-alleges-pil-in-mumbai-high-court/story-giHlWhPddfeNhpB0QFD5JP.html
20-05-2020||India||This phase has brought my family even closer: Vivek Prakash||For singer-composer Vivek Prakash, this lockdown brought a series of woes. The Lucknowite, now settled in Mumbai, was alone at his residence while his singer-wife Roli was stuck in Singapore. He fell ill to viral fever with no one around to take care of him. Thankfully his wife is back but is still in quarantine and he is looking forward to see her again after months now, shares the singer over phone.“I am much at peace now as I know that Roli will be out of quarantine soon. I am thankful to God, that the phase is over and together we will brave this extraordinary situation the world is facing. But, this phase has brought the family even closer despite we not being together,” said Vivek.For him it’s a matter of great pride that legend like Jagjit Singh has sung his composition, ‘Gudiya tujh par ik pal hasna, ik pal rona aaye’ for a movie. Also likes of Kumar Sanu, Alka Yagnik, Anup Jalota, Udit Narain, Sadhna Sargam and Vinod Rathod amongst others have rendered their voice to his compositions.Narrating his story, he tells, “After getting Sangeet Natak Academy Award in Lucknow in February, I came back for two concerts around Holi and returned on March 13. We were supposed to go to Singapore, Jakarta, Kuala Lampur for concerts. Roli left for Singapore on March 16 with our son. I was scheduled to fly on March 25 as I had to perform at an award function on the same day.”It was during those dates that the lockdown was imposed. “As all the flights were cancelled and I was stuck in Mumbai and my family in Singapore. I literally had a panic attack and then I fell severely ill. I was alone in my house managing food, taking telemedical consultation but my condition worsened. It was only when my brother came over that I got proper treatment. I was also tested for Covid-19. That was truly scary, I somehow survived the worst phase of my life when I was ill, alone and helpless.” Vivek used all his contacts and by ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ rescue flight his wife and son were brought to India. “It’s only technology that has kept us together. I think the phase has made us understand the importance of families. We have always been known as a ‘singing jodi’ but our real bond was realized in this period,” he said.The singer feels that the coming months are going to be very tough, “March, April and May had concerts lined-up. But, now we don’t performances happening anytime soon. It’s going to be a very tough time for middle-class artistes like us who are dependent on shows for their bread and butter. Hope, something good happens soon as expenses remain intact but inflow has stopped. I wish artistes too are given some minimum support. I am trying to remain positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/this-phase-has-brought-my-family-even-closer-vivek-prakash/story-e3oGV1fddMmMDL8LIAOASP.html
20-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan begins landfall near Sunderbans in West Bengal as extremely severe cyclonic storm||Super Cyclone Amphan has begun making landfall near the Sunderbans in West Bengal with a wind speed of 155 to 165kmph gusting to 185kmph as an extremely severe cyclonic storm.It will cross the West Bengal-Bangladesh coast between Digha in West Bengal’s East Midnapore district and Hatiya Island in Bangladesh.“Yes it has begun landfall as an extremely severe cyclonic storm. Its trajectory is being tracked,” said M Rajeevan Nair, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.Watch | Super cyclone Amphan to hit West Bengal today, landfall likely near Sunderbans According to IMD’s glossary an extremely severe cyclonic storm is considered when wind speed is between 167 to 221kmph and a super cyclone is considered when wind speed is more than 222kmph.After the landfall the system is very likely to continue to move north-northeastwards, across Gangetic West Bengal & Bangladesh and weaken gradually. It is likely to maintain the intensity of Cyclonic Storm till the morning of 21st May and thereafter it will weaken into a Deep Depression over Bangladesh. Under its influence gale wind speed reaching 70-80kmph gusting to 90kmph likely over interior districts (Murshidabad & Nadia) of gangetic West Bengal during 20th night to 21st morning.As of 1pm, the super cyclone was lying 150km east-northeast of Paradip; 95km south-southeast of Digha, 90km nearly south of Sagar island and 260km west-southwest of Khepupara in Bangladesh, the IMD said.During landfall near Sagar Island, the intensity of the cyclone is likely to be 155 to 165kmph gusting up to 185kmph.The storm surge is expected to inundate low-lying areas of south and north 24 Parganas and parts of East Midnapore districts during landfall.Wind speed in Kolkata, and adjoining Hooghly and Howrah districts are likely to range between 110kmph to 120kmph gusting to 130kmph that may cause extensive damage in urban areas as well.Gale wind of 75 to 85kmph gusting to 95kmph is also likely to impact the north Odisha coast, including Jagatsignghpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, and Kendrapara districts, among others.The cyclone is expected to cause heavy to extremely heavy rainfall over Gangetic West Bengal and heavy to very heavy rainfall over north coastal Odisha on Wednesday. It will also cause heavy to very falls over sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on Wednesday and Thursday and Meghalaya on Thursday.IMD is expecting extensive damage to all types of kutcha houses, some damage to old badly managed pucca structures; the potential threat from flying objects; uprooting of communication and power poles, disruption of rail/road link at several places, extensive damage to standing crops, plantations, orchards, falling of palm and coconut trees, uprooting of large bushy trees and large boats and ships may get torn from their moorings.National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) director-general SN Pradhan said on Tuesday that all precautionary measures have been taken and people from low-lying areas evacuated.“The biggest challenge is that we are facing two disasters together — coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and cyclone Amphan. We’ve been spreading awareness about both Covid-19 and the cyclone while evacuating people. If a cyclone shelter has a capacity of 1,000, we can only accommodate half of that in a bid to maintain social distancing norms,” he added.“One of the most important factors is the storm surge that comes with the landfall. IMD and Indian National Centre for Ocean Information have forecasted a storm surge of about 4-6 metres above the tidal level. This could have an impact on the coastal areas and also raise the river levels,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, Climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-begins-landfall-as-extremely-severe-cyclonic-storm-bordering-on-very-severe/story-80DAZFsYHC5zJhvg9SWKyL.html
20-05-2020||India||2,000 under treatment, 3,000 tested free for Covid-19 under Ayushman Bharat scheme||In a month-and-a-half since coronavirus (Covid-19) treatment was made free under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY), at least 2,000 people were either treated or have been currently undergoing treatment for the viral disease. This is when the total number of people having been treated under the world’s largest public health insurance scheme reached 10 million since its launch in September 2018.  At least 3,000 persons have also been tested cashless for Covid-19 under the scheme.The National Health Authority (NHA), which is the implementing authority of the scheme, has empanelled about 1,500 additional hospitals under the scheme in the past month to meet the load of Covid-19 patients, the authority announced on Wednesday.Also read: Maharashtra reports highest single-day recovery of Covid-19 patients“We want to be prepared in case there is a surge in cases. As of now, the public sector is taking care of much of the load but if there’s an unusual increase then we would need private sector hospitals also to chip in. We are currently on a drive to add more hospitals to the list. We have created separate Covid-19 treatment packages also as treating these patients requires isolation, PPE kits, extra manpower etc,” said Indu Bhushan, chief executive officer, NHA (Ayushman Bharat).    The authority is in the process of also adding private laboratories for Covid-19 testing that have been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research. The rate packages are being used from the already existing category related to respiratory illnesses, severe acute respiratory infection, influenza-like illness with aggravated symptoms etc. India currently has 61,149 active Covid-19 cases.Also read: PM Modi lauds Ayushman Bharat scheme as beneficiaries cross 1 crore-mark“Responding to the outbreak of Covid-19, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has made the testing and treatment for Covid-19 free of cost under the AB PMJAY scheme for all its 53 crore beneficiaries. 2,132 people have availed the treatment or are currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 under AB PMJAY in the country,” read the National Health Authority (NHA) statement.    The NHA teams are also reaching out to its elderly (above 60 years of age) and other high-risk category beneficiaries (who recently received treatment) to check if any of them has Covid-19 symptoms and needs testing through its call entre that is handled by about 700 dedicated operators. Close to 30 million calls have already been made to the scheme beneficiaries through this call centre.“Our aim was to call up all of the beneficiaries who are above 60 years, recently received treatment and those who have co-morbidities because these are the people at high risk. Our call centre is running 24x7,” said Bhushan.The call centre is also being used to get in touch with people identified at potential risk of contracting the infection by the Aarogya Setu mobile application, to caution them so that they strictly follow the preventive measures. Close to 6 lakh people have been contacted and 15,000 teleconsultations have been facilitated with doctors in the past couple of months.The NHA has empanelled 21,565 hospitals under the scheme, of which 1,385 hospitals have been empanelled across the country since April 1. A total of 1,310 hospitals are through the regular empanelment route and remaining 75 under express empanelment. Of the total hospitals on board, nearly 58% per cent are private hospitals.“To increase the number of hospitals providing Covid-19 treatment and to ensure continued treatment such as haemodialysis, cardiovascular procedures, and chemotherapy for non-Covid-19 critical illnesses, the NHA has started an express empanelment mechanism.”The NHA is also launching a hospital ranking dashboard to rank empanelled hospitals on the basis of beneficiaries’ feedback. “The ranking will help the NHA to take evidence-based decision-making for enhancing the quality measures and indicators of healthcare delivery across all empanelled facilities to further improve the beneficiaries’ experience,” it said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-000-under-treatment-3-000-tested-free-for-covid-19-under-ayushman-bharat-scheme/story-ROgYn2caqy6gnMMaYDdxQL.html
20-05-2020||India||Infant becomes cyclone Amphan’s first victim as it barrels through Odisha||A two-month-old infant became Odisha’s first casualty of cyclone Amphan after the wall of the family’s kutcha house collapsed in coastal Bhadrak district as the super cyclone barreled along the state’s coast at 80-90 km per hour early Wednesday morning,The baby boy of farmer Balaram Das in Kannada village of Bhadrak’s Tihidi block was sleeping when the mud wall of the house collapsed on him following overnight rain, officials said.A 57-yr-old woman of Satbhaya in Kendrapara district who stayed back at home passed away when the cyclone hit the Odisha coast, but her death was not related to the storm.Amphan, the strongest storm since the 1999 supercyclone is expected to hit hardest somewhere between Digha in West Bengal and Bangladesh’s Hatia islands later on Wednesday afternoon.The cyclone has uprooted trees and bent electric poles in coastal Odisha districts of Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak and Balasore.IMD officials said cyclone Amphan was heading further north resulting with increase in wind speed in Balasore and Bhadrak districts. At 12.30 pm, the cyclone was 95 km south-southeast of Digha in Bengal with sustained windspeed of 160-170 kmph and gusts reaching 190 kmph.Paradip faced Amphan’s fury as gale force wind of over 100 kmph uprooted scores of trees, electric poles, blew away asbestos and tin roofs of several houses accompanied by over 200 mm rains. At Paradip port, over 100 truck drivers have taken shelter inside their vehicles, waiting for the storm to blow over. Heavy rain lashed Balasore and Bhadrak district with wind speed reaching 100-110 kmph.Officials had evacuated over 1.5 lakh people from the coastal and adjoining districts into cyclone shelters till Tuesday evening. Around 1,575 pregnant women were also brought to safety by authorities in the coastal districts.In a village of Kendrapara district, a woman delivered her baby in the fire service vehicle while being taken to a government hospital. The woman and her newborn girl were later admitted to the hospital and were said to be out of danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infant-becomes-cyclone-amphan-s-first-victim-as-it-barrels-through-odisha/story-PbnCIE5jQGaa80pedR92AP.html
20-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan barrels along Odisha’s coast, claims infant as first victim||A two-month-old infant became Odisha’s first casualty of cyclone Amphan after the wall of the family’s kutcha house collapsed in coastal Bhadrak district as the super cyclone barreled along the state’s coast at 80-90 km per hour early Wednesday morning,The baby boy of farmer Balaram Das in Kannada village of Bhadrak’s Tihidi block was sleeping when the mud wall of the house collapsed on him following overnight rain, officials said.A 57-yr-old woman of Satbhaya in Kendrapara district who stayed back at home passed away when the cyclone hit the Odisha coast, but her death was not related to the storm.Amphan, the strongest storm since the 1999 supercyclone is expected to hit hardest somewhere between Digha in West Bengal and Bangladesh’s Hatia islands later on Wednesday afternoon.The cyclone has uprooted trees and bent electric poles in coastal Odisha districts of Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak and Balasore.IMD officials said cyclone Amphan was heading further north resulting with increase in wind speed in Balasore and Bhadrak districts. At 12.30 pm, the cyclone was 95 km south-southeast of Digha in Bengal with sustained windspeed of 160-170 kmph and gusts reaching 190 kmph.Paradip faced Amphan’s fury as gale force wind of over 100 kmph uprooted scores of trees, electric poles, blew away asbestos and tin roofs of several houses accompanied by over 200 mm rains. At Paradip port, over 100 truck drivers have taken shelter inside their vehicles, waiting for the storm to blow over. Heavy rain lashed Balasore and Bhadrak district with wind speed reaching 100-110 kmph.Officials had evacuated over 1.5 lakh people from the coastal and adjoining districts into cyclone shelters till Tuesday evening. Around 1,575 pregnant women were also brought to safety by authorities in the coastal districts.In a village of Kendrapara district, a woman delivered her baby in the fire service vehicle while being taken to a government hospital. The woman and her newborn girl were later admitted to the hospital and were said to be out of danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-barrels-along-odisha-s-coast-claims-infant-as-first-victim/story-TtFf9gcCD8VmGGz26YoZPN.html
20-05-2020||India||Tungnath dham, lord Kedar’s 3rd abode in pristine Uttarakhand hills opens with first prayer offered in PM Modi’s name||The portals of Tungnath shrine, the third temple of Lord Kedar, opened in Rudraprayag district at 11:30 am on Wednesday with priests maintaining physical distancing. Soon after the opening rituals, first prayers at the shrine were offered on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Tungnath shrine is considered to be the world’s highest temple dedicated to Lord Shiva, located at a height of 12,070 feet above the sea level.The palanquin carrying the deity reached the shrine from Chopta in Rudraprayag at 9 am on Wednesday after it left from Makkumath village, the winter abode of the deity on May 18, following an Utsav Doli.All priests and temple workers wore masks and ensured proper physical distancing during the opening ceremony in the presence of officials from the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board.As soon as the shrine’s portals were opened, rituals like Samadhi Puja, Rudrabhishek and Jalabhishek were carried out.With the opening of the portals of Tungnath shrine, all five temples of Lord Shiva in the state have been opened for the summer season. However, given the coronavirus pandemic, Char Dham Yatra has not started in the state this year. Satpal Maharaj, tourism and culture minister in Uttarakhand, said the Char Dham yatra is expected to begin soon after the epidemic situation is brought under control.Harish Gaur, media in-charge of Chardham Devasthanam Management Board said that all the shrines including the four holy shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri have been opened successfully in the state, with all priests strictly following physical distancing norms and wearing masks at all times.Tungnath temple is not only popular with devotees but also a major tourist attraction as it is surrounded by the lush green alpine meadows.Tungnath, 3 km uphill from Chopta, the last motorable road, is a beautiful and popular tourist destination.On a steep climb of about 2 km from Tungnath temple, lies Chandrashila, a famous tourist attraction that commands a breathtaking view of snow-clad peaks of Nanda Devi, Chaukhamba, Panchachuli, Bandarpoonch, Kedarnath and Neelkanth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tungnath-dham-lord-kedar-s-3rd-abode-in-pristine-uttarakhand-hills-opens-with-first-prayer-offered-in-pm-modi-s-name/story-2jKbrBZim0fpVncIRQNcQK.html
20-05-2020||India||Ladakh sector’s Galwan Valley and its history in Sino-India relations||The Chinese government often says the border dispute with India is a legacy of history. The dispute has influenced bilateral ties between New Delhi and Beijing for nearly 70 years despite dozens of rounds of negotiations over the years.Archival documents from 1962 reveal tit-for-tat allegations by India and China on soldiers trespassing in Ladakh sector’s Galwan Valley -- where the most recent standoff took place. The Galwan Valley region, which China claims is part of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, is part of the 3,488 km long border dispute.Through the summer of 1962, barely weeks before the two neighbours fought a war, India and China went back-and-forth on their troops trespassing across the border in the Galwan Valley region.Several letters were exchanged between the foreign ministries through embassies in New Delhi and Beijing.The rhetoric flew thick-and-fast and within months both countries were fighting the border war of 1962.The language in those letters exchanged remain almost identical to official exchanges now.In a letter from the Chinese foreign ministry handed over to the Indian embassy in Beijing on July 23, 1962, Beijing laid out its allegations.“According to frontier guards in Sinkiang, (Xinjiang) China, there occurred recently another two serious cases of Indian troops intruding into Chinese territory and firing provocatively at Chinese frontier guards,” excerpts from the letter said.It continued: “Several dozens of Indian troops intruded recently into Chinese territory south of the Galwan river had reached a place…where they attempted to entrench themselves permanently. At 17:35 hours on July 19, the said Indian troops unwarrantedly fired provocatively at Chinese patrol nearby. The Chinese patrol took no action against the provocation”.“If the Chinese guards had not remained cool and exercised self-restrain, the above two new cases of provocation would most probably have led to armed clashes. The Chinese Government hereby lodges a serious protest with the Government of India against the two cases,” the letter said.The Indian government responded swiftly.In a letter to the Chinese embassy, August 3, 1962, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) rejected the allegations.“The Government of India has carefully investigated all the three allegations and has found them to be without any basis whatsoever…The GOI notes in this connection that all the three areas referred to by the Chinese government lie well within India territory. It is clear from this that such intrusions as have occurred, have in fact been committed by Chinese forces and not by Indian troops.”The Indian border defence forces have, despite provocation by Chinese forces throughout shown considerable patience and self-restraint.”“While rejecting the Chinese note, the Government of India would once again press upon the Chinese Government the urgent necessity of issuing immediate instructions to all Chinese forces to desist from provocative action of any kind and to withdraw from Indian territory”.The very next day, on August 4, 1962, China shot off another dispatch to India.“In disregard of the repeated protests of the Chinese government, the Indian side has not only refused to withdraw its troops which have intruded into the Galwan river valley in Sinkiang, China, and menacingly surrounded the Chinese frontier guards there but set up another military strongpoint on Chinese territory south of Galwan river…,” excerpt from the letter said.India dismissed the allegations on August 8 in a letter to the Chinese embassy. “...There is no truth whatsoever in these allegations. On the contrary whenever an instance of this nature has arisen, it has invariably been due to Chinese forces intruding in Indian territory and shooting at Indian border forces. The Government of India has protested about two such incidents…On both occasions the Indian forces exercises great self-restrain and did not return the Chinese fire,” said part of the letter.Similar exchanges continued for weeks until the 1962 Sino-Indian war, the legacy of which will continue to shadow ties for a long time to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-india-and-china-clashed-in-ladakh-s-galwan-valley-weeks-before-1962-war/story-kjcsT7ILMvbizrOriFuI7L.html
20-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan will carry winds with speed greater than Vande Bharat Express, say experts||The extent of devastation that Cyclone Amphan is likely to cause in the coastal blocks and riverine areas of West Bengal will depend much on the landfall time and its synchronisation with the tidal timings, experts have warned.With the new moon scheduled on May 22, scientists said that the ‘spring tide’ phase - when average tidal ranges are higher - has already started. Then there is going to be the diurnal high tide that occurs approximately every 12 hours. Over and above these, there would be storm surge that would be triggered by Amphan itself.“Together these three could trigger huge waves in the rivers and sea that could create massive destruction. Mud embankments could collapse and sea water could gush in. Large areas could get inundated,” said KJ Ramesh, former director general of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The IMD has warned that extremely severe cyclone Amphan, located less than 100 km south of the Bengal coast around 12:30 pm, could hit the coast somewhere between Digha in south Bengal and Hatiya Island in Bangladesh with wind speed gusting up to 185 km per hour - the top speed of Vande Bharat Express, India’s fastest train.“Storm surge of about 4-5 metres above the astronomical tide (spring tide and neap tide coinciding with new moon and full moon) is likely to inundate the low lying areas of South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas,” the IMD has warned in its bulletin.On Wednesday, the first high tide at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas was recorded around 10 am. The next high tide will peak around 10:18 pm. The low tide is around 5:36 pm. The IMD has said that the storm is expected to hit in the afternoon or evening. Rain and gusty winds have already started battering the coast. “When the storm makes a landfall, the winds will blow in a north to south direction. If at that time there is high tide, then water will gush in from south to north and there would be head-on collision between the water and wind. This will bring more devastation,” said Kalyan Rudra, chairman of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board and a noted expert on rivers.West Bengal had witnessed this phenomenon during cyclone Aila, which had hit the Sunderbans in May 2009. It was high tide at that time. There were massive waves, the river embankments got damaged and sea water gushed into the villages resulting in heavy loss of life and property.“Bulbul, which struck in November 2019, also created damage because of its wind power. But the damage caused by waves was not much and the embankments didn’t break because there was low tide at that time. On Wednesday I heard that despite there was a low tide in the early morning the river water didn’t go down much in the Sunderbans because storm water was gushing in with the approaching storm,” said Tuhin Ghosh, director of School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-will-carry-winds-with-speed-greater-than-vande-bharat-express-say-experts/story-VeDoqrKwIwQrVkxPG2JrKL.html
20-05-2020||India||UP govt obstructing help to stranded migrant workers: Congress||The Congress alleged on Wednesday the Uttar Pradesh government is obstructing efforts to help migrant workers by not allowing in 500 buses, and urged chief minister Yogi Adityanath to enable the labourers to safely reach their homes.The party said the buses, which have been standing at the Uttar Pradesh border for the past six days, will remain till 4 pm on Wednesday.The issue has triggered a war of words between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, with both sides accusing each other of playing politics with the plight of migrant workers.“One is astounded, one cannot understand - if it were not tragic for humanity, it would be comic. How is it that the state government is sitting and doing nothing and not letting anyone else do something, and also obstructing any help for the migrant workers,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi told reporters via video conference.“Will the Uttar Pradesh government stand up and explain to the nation? For the last six days, especially the last two days and even as we speak, about 500 buses are standing at the Uttar Pradesh border. How is it that you will not allow to ferry the migrant workers of UP and Bihar? This is the cheapest form of politics,” he said.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and the BJP government are at loggerheads over her plan to send 1,000 buses to help transport migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh to other states. The offer was made on Saturday, and accepted on Monday. But by Tuesday evening, the Uttar Pradesh government said only 879 of the 1,000 vehicles were buses, and the rest three-wheelers and other vehicles, triggering angry reactions from the Congress.“In its own statement, the state government has admitted 879 buses in the list have been found alright. The administration (Agra) has stopped our 500 buses for hours, while 300 buses are reaching the Delhi border. Allow the 879 buses to run,” Priyanka Gandhi tweeted.“UP government has crossed all the limits. When there is an opportunity to do away with political differences and serve helpless migrant labourers it has caused all the hindrances. @myogiadityanath ji you can use BJP flags and your posters on these buses, but don’t reject our feelings of service,” she said in another tweet.Late on Tuesday evening, Uttar Pradesh Police booked Priyanka Gandhi’s private secretary Sandip Singh and state Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu for allegedly providing “misleading” information about the buses.“It is still not too late and I beseech with folded hands, like Priyankaji said, if you are so concerned about politics, please put your name or party banner but at least use the help we are providing,” Singhvi said.“I beseech with folded hands, if the Adityanath government cannot help the migrants, let Priyankaji and the Congress party help the migrants,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-obstructing-help-to-stranded-migrant-workers-congress/story-aJsL3AtpTmpsFNaOSpshHN.html
20-05-2020||India||Ola to layoff 1,400 employees as Covid-19 pandemic hits revenues, says CEO||Cab aggregator Ola is laying off 1,400 staff from rides, financial services and food business as revenues declined by 95 per cent in the last two months due to coronavirus pandemic, a note by CEO Bhavish Aggarwal said.In an email to employees, Aggarwal made it clear that the prognosis ahead for the business is “very unclear and uncertain” and the impact of this crisis is “definitely going to be long-drawn for us”.“The fallout of the virus has been very tough for our industry in particular. Our revenue has come down 95 per cent over the past 2 months. Most importantly, this crisis has affected the livelihoods of millions of our drivers and their families across India and our international geographies,” he said.The company has decided to downsize and “let go” of 1,400 employees, Aggarwal added. He said this will be a one-time exercise and will be complete by the end of this week for the India Mobility business, and by the end of next week for Ola foods and Ola Financial Services.“No more COVID-related cuts will be done after this exercise,” he noted.Aggarwal explained that more companies are expected to have a large number of employees work from home, air travel will be limited to essential trips and vacations being put off for better times.“...the impact of this crisis is definitely going to be long-drawn for us. The world is not going to revert to the pre-COVID era anytime soon. Social distancing, anxiety, and an abundance of caution will be the operating principles for everyone,” he said.In the past few weeks, a number of tech-led businesses like Uber, Zomato and Swiggy have announced layoffs as the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown dried up demand and ravaged businesses.Zomato has laid off 13 per cent of its 4,000-staff, while Swiggy said it will let go off 1,100 employees. Uber is laying off 3,000 people globally and the move is expected to impact India operations as well.Last year, Ola had undertaken a restructuring exercise of its 4,500-workforce that resulted in about 350 employees being laid off.Aggarwal, in his mail, said the crisis necessitated the need to conserve cash aggressively so that it is able to invest in opportunities in the future.“While we restructure our organisation to the new realities of our business, we are also going to recommit ourselves to strengthening our operational excellence.“We are increasing our investments and adding people capabilities in R&D as a group, through this crisis to double down on innovation and engineering...This crisis is accelerating macro trends of digital commerce and clean mobility, and our businesses are well-positioned to leverage these macro trends well,” he said.The company has, in the past, spoken of its aim to turn profitable and go public in the next few years.Aggarwal said the impacted employees will receive a minimum financial payout of 3 months of their fixed salary, irrespective of the notice period. “Employees who have spent significantly more time with us will be eligible for higher payouts depending on tenure,” he said.Also, all eligible ESOPs will vest forward to the closest quarter and for those who may not have completed a year, as an exception, Ola will enable pro-rated vesting for the period of time spent with the company, he added.“All affected employees will be able to continue using their medical, life and accident insurance cover for themselves and their families up to December 31, 2020 or the start of their next job whichever is earlier, to help minimise the financial burden of health and other risks in a time like this,” Aggarwal said.The company has also decided to offer medical insurance for up to 2 parents (or in-laws) to each employee. This insurance will cover parents for all pre-existing ailments up to the age of 90, for a sum of Rs 2 lakhs.“While we have made every possible effort to accommodate as many affected team members in open roles in our other group companies, we are rallying the support of the Ola Talent Acquisition team to help with outplacement support for as many people and in helping find suitable roles for them outside of Ola,” he said.In addition to this, we are also allowing all company-issued laptops (primary work devices) to be retained by affected employees, he added.Aggarwal said all members of Ola’s extended leadership team have taken significant salary cuts.“We had all hoped in the beginning that this would be a short-lived crisis and that its impact would be temporary.“Over the past couple of months, all members of our extended leadership team have taken significant salary cuts to be able to help the organisation delay tougher people decisions as we waited for the situation to evolve. But unfortunately, it’s not been a short crisis,” he said. Aggarwal said economic activity returns, so will the need for mobility.“Formats will evolve depending on context - personal, shared, public transit, or the niches in between. This pandemic has only highlighted the need for each of us to have safe and reliable mobility solutions. As economic activity returns, so will the need for mobility, but the paradigm will have changed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ola-to-layoff-1-400-employees-as-covid-19-pandemic-hits-revenues-says-ceo/story-AI809A5X5Q9RbKYgAxLhbN.html
20-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan to hit Bengal at 4 pm, CM Mamata to monitor from secretariat||Cyclone ‘Amphan’, one of the worst cyclones over the Bay of Bengal, lay centred about 170 km south of West Bengal’s Digha on Wednesday. About 4.5 lakh people have been evacuated from vulnerable areas in West Bengal and Odisha ahead of the its landfall.‘Amphan’, termed as an extremely severe cyclonic storm, is expected to make a landfall at 4pm near Sunderbans in West Bengal. It is likely to move north-northeastwards after landfall and pass close to Kolkata in its eastern side, causing extensive damage and flooding of low-lying areas in the city, the Met department said. It has issued an “orange message” for West Bengal, warning of extensive damage in Kolkata, Hooghly, Howrah, South and North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore districts.Watch | Super cyclone Amphan to hit West Bengal today, landfall likely near Sunderbans Click here for Cyclone Amphan LIVE updatesThere is also likelihood of extensive damage to standing crops, plantations and orchards, the MeT department added.Also read: Woman delivers baby in fire service vehicle as cyclone ‘Amphan’ pounds OdishaHere are the top developments:* Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee said that she, along with senior government officials, would directly monitor the situation in the state and would herself stay put at the state secretariat on Wednesday.* The Bengal government has also formed rapid response teams to ensure that tigers from Sundarbans in South 24 Parganas district do not stray into nearby human settlements after the landfall.* A team of Indian Navy divers has been stationed at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district with specialised equipment and can be rushed for rescue missions as and when required, a defence spokesman said.Also read: Amphan likely to maintain intensity of cyclonic storm till May 21 morning* Storm surge of 4 to 5 metres above astronomical tide is likely to inundate low lying areas of South and North 24 Parganas and about 3 to 4 metres over low lying areas of East Midnapore district of West Bengal during the time of landfall, said officials.* The Indian Coast Guard has deployed 20 disaster relief teams (DRT) along the eastern coast in view of cyclone ‘Amphan’. These teams will help in relief operations at short notice, the coast guard said.* Cargo and evacuation flight operations at the Kolkata airport have been suspended till 5 am on Thursday due to the cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’, airport officials said.* West Bengal on Tuesday mounted one of its biggest evacuation exercises by moving more than three lakh people to safer places as the extremely severe cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ roared towards the coastal areas of the state, officials said.* Heavy downpour coupled with high velocity winds pounded coastal Odisha, uprooting trees and flattening fragile structures, officials said on Wednesday.* A Bhubaneswar report said the cyclonic system is being continuously monitored with the help of Doppler Weather Radar (DWR) at Vishakhapatnam, Paradip and Gopalpur.* Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Tuesday spoke to more than a dozen MPs from Odisha and West Bengal, and urged them to ensure all possible help to people in coastal districts in view of the impending super cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-to-hit-bengal-today-cm-mamata-to-monitor-from-secretariat/story-IJI1hoFwOCjnXOdVow4SiI.html
20-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan to begin landfall at 4pm in Sunderbans||Super Cyclone Amphan will start making landfall at 4pm near Sunderbans in West Bengal. It will cross the West Bengal-Bangladesh coast between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya Island in Bangladesh.“We can only say now that the landfall process is likely to start around 4pm,” said Sunita Devi, scientist in charge of cyclones at IMD adding that Amphan continues to be an extremely severe cyclonic storm with an intensity of 160-170kmph gusting to 190kmph.As of 1pm, the super cyclone was 150km east-northeast of Paradip; 95km south-southeast of Digha’ 90km nearly south of Sagar island and 260km west-southwest of Khepupara in Bangladesh.Watch | Super cyclone Amphan to hit West Bengal today, landfall likely near Sunderbans During landfall near Sagar Island, the intensity of cyclone is likely to be 155 to 165kmph gusting to 185kmph.The storm surge is expected to inundate low lying areas of South and North 24 Parganas and parts of East Medinipur district during landfall. Wind speed in Kolkata, Hooghly and Howrah is likely to range between 110kmph to 120kmph gusting to 130kmph which may cause extensive damage in urban areas also.Gale wind of 75 to 85kmph gusting to 95kmph is also likely to impact the north Odisha coast including Jagatsignghpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, Kendrapara and others.The cyclone is expected to cause heavy to extremely heavy rainfall over Gangetic West Bengal and heavy to very heavy rainfall over north coastal Odisha on May 19 and 20. It will also cause heavy to very falls over Sub Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on May 20 and 21 and Assam and Meghalaya on May 21.IMD is expecting extensive damage to all types of kutcha houses, some damage to old badly managed pucca structures; potential threat from flying objects; uprooting of communication and power poles, disruption of rail/road link at several places, extensive damage to standing crops, plantations, orchards, falling of palm and coconut trees, uprooting of large bushy trees, large boats and ships may get torn from their moorings.NDRF director general, SN Pradhan said on Tuesday all precautionary measures are being taken and people from low lying areas are already being evacuated.“The biggest challenge is that we are facing two disasters together—covid 19 and cyclone. This is a cyclone in the time of Covid. We are also creating awareness about Covid-19 while creating awareness about Amphan and evacuating people. If a cyclone shelter has a capacity of 1000, because of social distancing and need to maintain sanitary facilities, only 500 to 400 people can be sheltered there,” said Pradhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-to-begin-landfall-at-4pm-in-sunderbans/story-IKDGQca5CDw220B0YsdBIO.html
20-05-2020||India||Maoists torch four vehicles in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli district||Maoists set ablaze four trucks in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli district ahead of the bandh called by them to protest the killing of an associate, police said on Wednesday.The incident took place on Savargaon-Murumgaon road around Tuesday midnight, a release from the office of Gadchrioli superintendent of police said.The rebels blocked the road in Dhanora taluka and torched the four heavy vehicles, an official said.Maoists have called a bandh in the district on Wednesday to condemn the killing of woman rebel Srujjanakka, who was killed by police here on May 1.There were around 155 cases of serious offences registered against her in Gadchiroli, including killings of 34 tribals, the police release said.On Sunday, two policemen were killed and three others injured in an encounter with Maoists in Poyarkoti-Koparshi forest area of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naxals-torch-four-vehicles-in-maharashtra-s-gadchiroli-district/story-qSkpFtofcIPYTEpTXMYQcL.html
20-05-2020||India||Tripura has best Covid-19 recovery rate with no deaths, claims law minister||Tripura has the best recovery rate of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients and there have been no fatalities in the state, law minister Ratan Lal Nath has claimed. Sharing the figures, Nath said Tripura has a 68.63% recovery rate while it is 39% in India. In the North-East, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients is 57.7%. Nath also shared recovery rates of other states available to him including that of Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. Andhra Pradesh has 63.82% recovery rate while it is 24.07% in Maharashtra, 47.25% in Jammu and Kashmir, 44.6% in Delhi and 37.47% in Tamil Nadu, he said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHowever, Punjab on Tuesday reported the recovery of 78% Covid-19 patients and claimed to be the highest in the country. When asked about Punjab’s recovery rate, the minister said, “I need to check it first before I give my comment.”Tripura’s tally of the coronavirus disease went up to 171 after four new cases were reported on Tuesday night.“The Covid-19 recovery rate on the national level is 39%. In the northeast region, the rate is 57.7% and in Tripura, it is 68.6. According to the latest report, our state has the highest recovery of Covid-19 patients in the country, “ the minister had said while speaking to reporters late on Tuesday evening. The total number of samples tested in India is 24,04,267 while in Tripura, 15,083 samples were tested, according to the latest report.In India, 1,745 samples were tested per million and 3,773 samples were tested per million in Tripura, Nath said and added that Delhi topped the list with 7,052 tests per million. Jammu and Kashmir did 6,711 tests per million, 4,764 by Andhra Pradesh, 4,463 by Tamil Nadu and 2,312 by Maharashtra, he added.With 3,773 samples tested per million in Tripura, it is the highest among the states in the northeast regions, according to Nath. Nath said 2,435 samples were tested per million in Arunachal Pradesh, followed by 1,637 tests in Sikkim, 1,105 in Assam, 898 in Meghalaya, 550 in Manipur, 237 in Mizoram and less than 500 in Nagaland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-has-best-covid-19-recovery-rate-with-no-deaths-claims-law-minister/story-ECso6eYkZeWrxPNqA8EtMM.html
20-05-2020||India||Super cyclone Amphan expected to cause damage to these districts in Bengal and Odisha: Here are the details||Super cyclone Amphan will hit the West Bengal-Bangladesh coast and is likely to make landfall near Sunderbands today evening. According to the India Meteorological Department, Amphan was about 120-kilometre east-southeast of Paradip, Odisha at 8:30 am today. The IMD has stated that Amphan’s landfall process will commence from today afternoon. It will cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha (West Bengal) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) close to Sunderbans today.According to the IMD, Amphan is expected to cause considerable damage to districts in Odisha and West Bengal upon landfall. Also Watch | Super cyclone Amphan to hit West Bengal today, landfall likely near Sunderbans Also read: Amphan likely to maintain intensity of cyclonic storm till May 21 morningHere’s a list of districts that will be affected by cyclone Amphan:West Bengal In West Bengal, East Midnapore, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hoogli and Kolkata are expected to witness some damage due to cyclone Amphan.Damage expectedAccording to the IMD, extensive damage to all types of kutcha houses (non-cemented, un-bricked) is expected in these areas. Badly managed, old pucca houses may also bear some damage. The residents in these areas have been warned of a potential threat from flying objects. Disruption of road/rail links is likely. Extensive damage to standing crops, plantation, orchards is expected, the IMD said in its bulletin today morning. The weather department has also cautioned against blowing down of palm and coconut trees, uprooting of large bushy trees. “Large boats and ships may get torn from their moorings,” the IMD warned. Also read: Amphan to hit Bengal today: Here’s how the super cyclone was namedOdishaJagatsinghpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, Jhajpur, Mayurbhanj and Kendrapara are the districts that are expected to bear the brunt of cyclon Amphan. Damage expectedIn Odisha, the IMD has anticipated total destruction of thatched houses and extensive damage to kutcha houses. Power and communication poles could be bent or uprooted. Major damage to kutcha and pucca roads is predicted and minor disruption to overhead powerlines. Widespread damage to standing crops, orchards is expected. Blowing down of bushy trees like mango trees. After landfallIt is very likely to continue to move north-northeastwards across Gangetic West Bengal and Bangladesh after making landfall today evening.“Amphan is likely to maintain the intensity of cyclonic storm till the morning of May 21,” the weather department said in its bulletin. Thereafter, Amphan will weaken into a Deep Depression over Bangladesh, the IMD stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/super-cyclone-amphan-expected-to-cause-damage-to-these-districts-in-bengal-and-odisha-here-are-the-details/story-VyNIEE8OqDDIRZHHhrDLgK.html
20-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amphan likely to maintain intensity of cyclonic storm till May 21 morning and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After landfall, super cyclone Amphan likely to maintain intensity of cyclonic storm till tomorrow morning: IMDThe India Meteorological Department on Wednesday, in its national bulletin on cyclone, stated that after super cyclone Amphan makes landfall over the Bengal coast today evening, it is very likely to continue to move north-northeastwards across Gangetic West Bengal and Bangladesh before gradually weakening. Read moreUnauthorised trucks come to rescue of migrants againDays after the state government ordered to seal the Lucknow borders to prevent migrant labourers from travelling to their home on foot or unauthorised vehicles, a large number of labourers were seen within city limits stuffed in trucks and other vehicles and moving towards east UP districts and Bihar. Read moreMajor round of transfers of IAS officers in Maharashtra’s Thane, Ulhasnagar and Panvel due to Covid-19 situationIn another major round of transfers of IAS officers, the Urban Development Department of Maharashtra has transferred the commissioners of two municipal corporations of Ulhasnagar and Panvel city while two additional commissioners of Thane Municipal Corporations have been transferred as well. Read moreTwo new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh take total count to 202Two fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surfaced in Bapu Dham colony, a containment zone in Sector 26, taking the count of cases in Chandigarh to 202 on Wednesday morning. Read moreGlobal emissions cut during lockdown may not last long, warn scientistsThe momentous decline in global greenhouse gas emissions, fuelled by the wave of shutdowns and shuttered economies caused by the coronavirus pandemic, is unlikely to last long, said a group of scientists, who fear that the drivers of global warming could quickly bounce back as social distancing ends and economies rebound. Read moreGetting out to Ambrose caught behind was an umpiring error: Sachin Tendulkar recalls 1997 ODI against West IndiesSachin Tendulkar has been at his vocal best during this lockdown. The ‘Master Blaster’ who is often touted as someone who doesn’t like to open up on cricketing matters and dressing rooms secrets has been batting on the front foot in the last couple of months.Read moreCBSE students to take pending board exams in their own schools, no external centres; results by July- endStudents will appear for pending class 10 and 12 board exams at the schools where they are enrolled instead of an external test centre, according to the HRD Ministry. Read more‘They have brought their bodies and plugged them in; they will go to die there - where there is life’: GulzarThe masterful wordsmith that he is, acclaimed poet, lyricist, screenwriter and director Gulzar pens a heartfelt expression of the migrant worker’s unimaginable struggles, plight yet unbroken spirit. Read moreNeed a haircut? Try the jugaad technique by this desi uncle, netizens are loving itThe art of cutting hair is not something everyone can ace in a snap of the fingers. However, now, many are trying it while they’re staying indoors. Read morePaatal Lok ending explained: Who is Masterji, why does Hathoda Tyagi kill himselfThe ending of Amazon Prime’s Paatal Lok was just as complex and dense as the show itself. And even though the lead character Hathi Ram Chaudhary sits down to connect all the dots in one scene, it’s always good to have a recap. Spoilers ahead. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amphan-likely-to-maintain-intensity-of-cyclonic-storm-till-may-21-morning-and-all-the-latest-news/story-kTUiAsekeC3F9hh1Nzc0VP.html
20-05-2020||India||MLAs who ‘sacrificed’ to remove Congress govt will be contenders for tickets in by-polls: Madhya Pradesh BJP chief||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is likely to allocate tickets for the forthcoming Madhya Pradesh Assembly by-polls to a majority of former Congress members of the House who helped the party wrest power from Kamal Nath.According to state BJP President VD Sharma, those who resigned as MLAs are strong contenders for the tickets in by-elections as they had “sacrificed” a lot and are thus strong contenders for being fielded. “These are people had left their ministerial berths and posts as MLAs to save Madhya Pradesh from corruption and poor administration. I would not be wrong in saying that these people had sacrificed themselves and their posts for the state. So, for this reason, all of them are in consideration for the candidature,” the state BJP President told ANI. The by-polls have been necessitated as seats fell vacant after the sitting MLAs resigned. The party is already gearing up for by-elections in 24 assembly constituencies. MLAs considered close to Jyotiraditya Scindia had resigned and later crossed over to the BJP resulting in the fall of Kamal Nath government in the state.The nomination for tickets for the by-elections will be approved by the Central leadership of the party, he added.Despite lockdown, the party has begun preparations for these by-polls. According to Sharma, online meetings in all constituencies are being conducted. Present in these meeting were 20-25 people including former candidates, district, mandal level leaders and other prominent leaders in every constituency. “We have strengthened the organisation online. Shakti kendra and booth level meetings have begun. We work round the year. We will reach people through online mediums and door to door campaign will be done by keeping physical distancing and following other health measures,” said Sharma. The by-polls are expected to take place in September. Sharma praised BJP workers in the state and called them Corona warriors. “I take pride in saying that BJP workers are not less than any Corona warriors. They have served people while endangering their lives. One of our corporator from Ujjain contracted and died while serving people. We have ensured that migrants reaching or crossing over the state will get food and essentials,” claimed Sharma. On the announcement of his new team in the state, Sharma said, “ it will be announced soon. It got delayed as we all are busy with COVID-19 relief work. It may get announced by the end of this month.” (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mlas-who-sacrificed-to-remove-congress-govt-will-be-contenders-for-tickets-in-by-polls-madhya-pradesh-bjp-chief/story-zdfOuYn8dYNqAm5jdMCRXJ.html
20-05-2020||India||Over 1 crore availed free treatment under Ayushman Bharat so far: Report||Over one crore people have availed treatment worth around Rs 13,412 crore for free in hospitals across the country under the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme since its launch in September 2018, officials said.Also, 2,132 patients have availed or are currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY) in the country, the National Health Authority (NHA), which is responsible for implementing the scheme, said on Wednesday.Responding to the Covid-19 outbreak, the Union Ministry of Health has made testing and treatment for the coronavirus infection free under the insurance scheme for its 53 crore beneficiaries.More than 21,565 hospitals, including private hospitals, have been empanelled under the programme so far, the NHA said in its statement.Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Rajasthan have emerged as the top performing states, providing the highest number of treatments under the scheme, it said.Orthopaedics, cardiology, cardio-thoracic and vascular surgery, radiation oncology and urology have remained as the top specialties under which treatment is sought.Treatment packages like single stent (medicated, inclusive of diagnostic angiogram), hip fracture internal fixation and rehabilitation, coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), double stent (medicated, inclusive of diagnostic angiogram) and total knee replacement have emerged as the top tertiary procedures, the statement said.This is a milestone achievement for the Ayushman Bharat PMJAY scheme on providing 1 crore treatments to patients from the country’s poorest households since its launch less than two years ago. These treatments worth Rs 13,412 crore have been provided through a growing network of 21,565 public and private empanelled hospitals, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said in the statement.“The government of India is making persistent efforts to expand testing and make treatment of Covid-19 available for free to all 53 crore beneficiaries of the Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY, further strengthening government’s resolve, scope and capability to move towards universal health coverage,” Vardhan said.To mark this milestone, the first edition of Arogya Dhara, a series of webinars created as an open platform for discussion on topical issues of public health, is being planned to be held on May 21.  The webinar titled “Ayushman Bharat: 1 crore treatments and beyond” will have a keynote address by Vardhan and he is expected to launch a ‘Ask Ayushman’ chat bot on WhatsApp, a 24*7 AI-enabled assistant to provide information on various aspect of the AB PM-JAY scheme such as its benefits, features, process of making an e-card, locating the nearest empanelled hospital, sharing feedback and the process of lodging a grievance, it said.One of the key features of the chat bot is that it is able to comprehend and respond in Hindi and English languages and it also provides text-to-speech feature for the users and can be universally used on all major social media platforms, the statement added.The minister will also launch a hospital ranking dashboard, which is a significant step to rank empanelled hospitals on the basis of beneficiaries’ feedback, it said.The ranking will help NHA take evidence-based decisions for enhancing quality measures and indicators of healthcare delivery across all empanelled facilities to further improve the beneficiaries’ experiences.Apart from these, a Hindi version of the Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY website will also be launched. The main objective of this is to effectively connect with the masses and to empower them with access to right information through a user-friendly medium, the NHA said in the statement.Dr Indu Bhushan, CEO of AB-PMJAY and NHA, said, “We are marking this milestone of 1 crore treatment under AB-PMJAY at a time when the whole country is reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic. We have utilised this period to leverage our IT systems and network of private sector stakeholders to support the government’s preparedness and response in the form of managing the national Covid-19 helpline 1075 by conducting thousands of outbound calls to coronavirus-infected patients and their families.” “We have also further strengthened our network of hospitals and service capabilities to ensure continued service delivery to non-COVID patients under the scheme,” he said.NHA’s state-of-the-art call centre is also being used as a Covid-19 helpline. More than 600-700 dedicated agents are answering calls by citizens round the clock.The National Health Authority has made calls to disseminate precaution advisory to beneficiaries of AB PM-JAY who are at a higher risk of contracting the disease such as those above 60 years of age and have recently received treatment under PM-JAY or those having co-morbidities.  The AB-PMJAY is the flagship scheme of the government that provides a cover of up to Rs 5 lakhs per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation to over 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families (about 53 crore beneficiaries). AB PM-JAY provides cashless and paperless access to services for the beneficiaries at the point of service.Under this scheme, there are 1,578 health benefit packages with defined rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-crore-availed-free-treatment-under-ayushman-bharat-so-far-report/story-8lFxwgxKiNurTws5d7jkjM.html
20-05-2020||India||Major round of transfers of IAS officers in Maharashtra’s Thane, Ulhasnagar and Panvel due to Covid-19 situation||In another major round of transfers of IAS officers, the Urban Development Department of Maharashtra has transferred the commissioners of two municipal corporations of Ulhasnagar and Panvel city while two additional commissioners of Thane Municipal Corporations have been transferred as well. These transfers, the state said, came under the measures to tackle the Covid-19 situation in these three cities.The state has transferred Sudhakar Deshmukh, civic commissioner of Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) and Ganesh Deshmukh, the civic commissioner of Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Two additional commissioners of Thane Municipal Corporation, Sameer Unhale and Rajendra Ahivar have been transferred too. This step comes ten days after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Commissioner (BMC) Praveen Pardeshi was transferred and IS Chahal was appointed as the new Mumbai civic chief on May 8.A notice by the deputy secretary of Urban Development Department (UDD) of Maharashtra Kailas Badhan stated, “Sameer Unhale will be the new civic commissioner of Ulhasnagar, while Sudhakar Deshmukh will be the civic commissioner of PCMC. The decision to transfer these IAS officers was taken to tackle the Covid-19 situation in these cities.”Also read: In biggest single-day spike, India records over 5,611 Covid-19 casesAhivar and Ganesh Deshmukh are still waiting for their posting. The new commissioners of UMC and PCMC will take charge on Wednesday.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation said, “Both the additional commissioners of Thane Municipal Corporation are transferred. Ganesh Deshmukh is likely to be posted as additional commissioner of TMC while Sanjay Herwade, who was earlier the deputy municipal commissioner of TMC will be the second additional commissioner. However, their orders are not yet passed.”All the three cities have seen a massive increase in the number of cases especially in the slum pockets while social distancing was violated. Thane city, which merely had 300 cases in the first week of May, at present has 1,353 cases due to a spike in cases in three of its major slum pockets. Covid-19 cases in Ulhasnagar rose to 137 due to a funeral of a 50-year-old man who tested Covid-19 positive. His funeral was attended by family and friends without following the lockdown protocol. A similar rise was seen in Kamothe area of Panvel, where despite being a containment zone, people were seen wandering in markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-round-of-transfers-of-ias-officers-in-maharashtra-s-thane-ulhasnagar-and-panvel-due-to-covid-19-situation/story-1CNW97rDgCnjCfVSPJhO8I.html
20-05-2020||India||Hizbul terrorist involved in killing of RSS activist arrested by NIA: Report||A Hizbul Mujahideen militant allegedly involved in the killing of an RSS functionary and his PSO was arrested by the NIA in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kishtwar district, officials said on Wednesday. He was apprehended by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from the Hanjala area of the district Tuesday night, they said. The militant has been identified as Rustam Ali. He was named in a chargesheet filed by the NIA in the killing of RSS activist Chander Kant Sharma and his Personal Security Officer in April last year, the officials said. Jammu and Kashmir Police had on September 23 last year arrested Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists -- Nissar Ahmed Sheikh, Nishad Ahmed and Azad Hussain -- in connection with the murder cases of a senior BJP leader and an RSS functionary in the region. BJP state secretary Anil Parihar was killed in 2018, while senior RSS functionary Sharma and his PSO were shot dead in April last year. Both the killings had triggered protests in Kishtwar. The killings were part of a conspiracy to revive militancy in Kishtwar and were hatched by longest surviving Hizbul Mujahideen commander in the area Jahangir Saroori, according to the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hizbul-terrorist-involved-in-killing-of-rss-activist-arrested-by-nia-report/story-OQUQUQODL6nW4B42hLLYxM.html
20-05-2020||India||Among Sharad Pawar’s suggestions to deal with Covid, panel for education sector||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief on Wednesday said a study group or panel should be set up to ensure students, teachers and institutions do not suffer and there is no disruption in imparting education as a fallout of the coronavirus pandemic.Sharad Pawar, in a series of tweets, suggested ways to deal with the challenges brought about by the pandemic in Maharashtra, which is the worst affected state with more than 35,000 cases of Covid-19.The tweets came after he met with Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday to discuss the situation amid the lockdown in the state.“The next academic year will be delayed due to the situation of #Covid_19 and lockdown. As a result, the number of students & teachers will decline. The income of educational institutions & technological institutions is likely to get adversely affected,” Sharad Pawar tweeted.“Some educational institutions are likely to collapse or close down due to financial losses. A study group or committee should be appointed to take timely measures to ensure that students, teachers & educational institutions are not harmed & process of education is not disrupted,” the senior politician added.Among his proposals, there were also measures to boost the state’s economy by introducing a policy of “encouraging new incentives” for industry growth and relaxing some conditions of the lockdown.Pawar also gave some suggestions to the chief minister on transport, education, agriculture and industry.Maharashtra recorded 2,127 new cases of Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 37,136.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/among-sharad-pawar-s-suggestions-to-deal-with-covid-panel-for-education-sector/story-EBtfCp4Q57lFIvM3tlGYcL.html
20-05-2020||India||After landfall, super cyclone Amphan likely to maintain intensity of cyclonic storm till tomorrow morning: IMD||The India Meteorological Department on Wednesday, in its national bulletin on cyclone, stated that after super cyclone Amphan makes landfall over the Bengal coast today evening, it is very likely to continue to move north-northeastwards across Gangetic West Bengal and Bangladesh before gradually weakening. “It is likely to maintain the intensity of cyclonic storm till the morning of May 21,” the weather department said in its bulletin. Thereafter, Amphan will weaken into a Deep Depression over Bangladesh, the IMD stated. Watch | Super cyclone Amphan to hit West Bengal today, landfall likely near Sunderbans Under Amphan’s influence, gale wind speed reaching 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph is likely over interior districts of Murshidabad and Nadia of Gangetic West Bengal during the night of May 20 to May 21 morning.Also read: Amphan to hit Bengal today: Here’s how the super cyclone was namedLight to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over the interior districts of Gangetic West Bengal on May 21. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall expected at a few places over Malda and Dinajpur districts on Bengal on May 20 and most of the districts of Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on May 21, the bulletin read. Assam and Meghalaya may get light to moderate rainfall, with heavy to very heavy rainfall in some areas, on May 21. Expected damageInterior districts of Gangetic West Bengal are likely to see minor damage to communication and power lines while major damage is expected for kutcha (uncemented, non-bricked houses) and some pucca roads in the region, the IMD said. Also read: List of deadly storms in Bay of Bengal in last 30 yearsPeople are urged to stay indoors as trees as small trees are likely to get uprooted due to the super cyclone.Super cyclone Amphan is expected to make landfall on the coast on West Bengal and Bangladesh on Wednesday evening. Amphan, which was about 120-kilometre east-southeast of Paradip, Odisha at 8:30 am today will cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha (West Bengal) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) close to Sunderbans today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-landfall-super-cyclone-amphan-likely-to-maintain-intensity-of-cyclonic-storm-till-the-morning-of-may-21-imd/story-JKGPLvAULfzNMcVQ4hT7KO.html
20-05-2020||India||In 14 tweets, Sharad Pawar offers suggestions to reopen Covid-19-hit Maharashtra||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday highlighted the problems faced by educational institutes due to the coronavirus pandemic. He demanded formation of a study group to ensure that the process of education is not disrupted.“I had a discussion with Hon Chief Minister of Maharashtra Shri @OfficeofUT regarding current #Covid_19 situation in state & the challenges faced by the administration & preventive measures to provide relief to various sections. I have conveyed my suggestions on following topics,” Pawar said on Twitter.“The next academic year will be delayed due to the situation of #Covid_19 and lockdown. As a result, the number of students & teachers will decline. The income of educational institutions & technological institutions is likely to get adversely affected,” he further said in the series of tweets.“Some educational institutions are likely to collapse or close down due to financial losses. A study group or committee should be appointed to take timely measures to ensure that students,teachers & educational institutions are not harmed & process of education is not disrupted,” said Pawar, whose part is part of the government in Maharashtra. Some educational institutions are likely to collapse or close down due to financial losses. A study group or committee should be appointed to take timely measures to ensure that students,teachers & educational institutions are not harmed & process of education is not disrupted.He then further talked about industries in the state and said that strategy is needed to restart factories.“Factories are not in a position to resume as workers from the state and outside the state have migrated to the villages. We need to strategise to bring them back,” said Pawar.He also offered suggestions on how to open offices, ports and other industries in Maharashtra. “The presence of state ministers and officials needs to be reinstated to build public confidence about the situation in the state returning to normalcy,” he tweeted.Maharashtra is the worst-affected state by Covid-19. The state on Tuesday recorded 76 Covid-19 deaths - the highest single-day surge - and 2,127 new cases, said officials.With 76 fatalities - up by 13 from the previous high of 63 notched on May 17 -- the state death toll now stands at 1,325 and the total number of coronavirus patients increased from 35,058 on Monday to 37,136.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-14-tweets-sharad-pawar-offers-suggestions-on-how-to-tackle-covid-19-in-maharashtra/story-DrWe3nwlrBdnn7TYxISFkO.html
20-05-2020||India||PM Modi lauds Ayushman Bharat scheme as beneficiaries cross 1 crore-mark||The number of people who have benefitted under the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat Scheme has crossed the one crore-mark, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday.“It would make every Indian proud that the number of Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries has crossed 1 crore,” he wrote in a series of tweets, adding that the initiative “has had a positive impact on so many lives.” It would make every Indian proud that the number of Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries has crossed 1 crore. In less than two years, this initiative has had a positive impact on so many lives. I congratulate all the beneficiaries and their families. I also pray for their good health.The PM spoke about his interaction with the “1 croreth beneficiary” of the health insurance scheme – Pooja Thapa from Meghalaya who is the wife of an army personnel - in a telephonic interview.  During my official tours, I would interact with Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries. Sadly, that is not possible these days but I did have a great telephone interaction with Pooja Thapa from Meghalaya, the 1 croreth beneficiary. Here is what we discussed. https://t.co/vsUOEEo5pMThe prime minister also spoke about the benefits of the scheme and lauded the healthcare workers associated with it . He said that one of the biggest benefits of the scheme is “portability” as the beneficiaries “can get top quality and affordable medical care not only where they are registered but also in other parts of India.”  One of the biggest benefits of Ayushman Bharat is portability. Beneficiaries can get top quality and affordable medical care not only where they registered but also in other parts of India. This helps those who work away from home or registered at a place where they don’t belong.He appreciated the efforts of doctors, nurses among others in ensuring the scheme helps the ‘poor and downtrodden’. I appreciate our doctors, nurses, healthcare workers and all others associated with Ayushman Bharat. Their efforts have made it the largest healthcare programme in the world. This initiative has won the trust of several Indians, especially the poor and downtrodden.Prime Minister Modi had launched the Centre’s flagship health insurance programme Ayushman Bharat Scheme on September 23 in Ranchi that aims to provide Rs 5 lakh hospitalisation cover to up to 107.4 million poor and vulnerable families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-ayushman-bharat-scheme-as-beneficiaries-cross-1-crore-mark/story-nJcuxIMfWSarjB0ftGETiI.html
20-05-2020||India||With first case in Garo Hills, Meghalaya loses ‘Covid-19-free’ status in a day||Meghalaya reported a new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case on Tuesday, a day after 12th and the last patient recovered.A 33-year-old woman, who had returned to the state from Chennai on Monday after lockdown restrictions were partially eased, from the Garo Hills tested Covid-19 positive.“One of the persons from the Garo Hills, who came from Chennai in the second batch on Monday, has tested positive for Covid-19. The person is asymptomatic and has been lodged at an institutional quarantine facility in Tura. We’re monitoring the situation,” Chief Minister Conrad Sangma tweeted.We should not to panic ... but need to handle this with utmost care and responsibility. We need to take care of elderly people and people with comorbid conditions. Asymptotic and young people are recovering from this by observing isolation.Earlier, Meghalaya reported 13 Covid-19 positive cases after a reputed Shillong-based doctor tested Covid-19 positive and later died of the viral infection. He is the lone Covid-19 related fatality in the state. While 12 of the late doctor’s relatives, employees, and friends had contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, from him.“We should not panic, but need to handle this with utmost care and responsibility. We need to take care of elderly people and people with co-morbid conditions. Asymptomatic and young people are recovering from the disease by keeping themselves isolated,” the CM had tweeted.Like Meghalaya, Tripura and Manipur also achieved ‘Covid-19 free’ status after all their patients recovered. But both these north-eastern states have since recorded fresh cases.Tripura has reported 171 Covid-19 positive cases, including 116 recoveries. Manipur has seven active Covid-19 positive cases, as two patients have recovered.Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, which had earlier reported one Covid-19 positive case each, are yet to report any new cases.On Tuesday, Assam recorded its single-day highest spike on Tuesday, as 42 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported, taking the total count to 158. So far, four Covid-19 related deaths have been reported from Assam. There are still 110 active Covid-19 cases in the state. While two patients have left Assam for their native places in West Bengal and Bihar.Nagaland is the only state in the north-east, which is yet to report a single Covid-19 positive case. The state’s lone patient was tested and treated in Guwahati and was included in Assam’s tally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-first-case-in-garo-hills-meghalaya-loses-covid-19-free-status-in-a-day/story-ihalbawUGRj1yZ8Uj98XgM.html
20-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: List of deadly storms in Bay of Bengal in last 30 years||Cyclone Amphan is fast approaching the east coast of India, and is expected to make the landfall between West Bengal and Bangladesh on Wednesday afternoon.It is the most intense cyclone in Bay of Bengal since a 1999 storm devastated Odisha, killing around 9,000 people.Amphan has marginally lost its intensity since it began moving towards the coast, it will still hit the coast as extremely severe cyclonic storm. According to glossary of Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), an extremely severe cyclonic storm carries wind speed of between 167 kmph and 221 kmph; a storm is classified as a super cyclone when wind speeds exceed 222 kmph.Click here for Cyclone Amphan LIVE updates Amphan is expected to cause widespread damage in inland areas, including inundating of land and destruction of huts or other temporary settlements.Authorities have evacuated 42 million people from low-lying areas in Odisha and West Bengal, the two states which will be severely affected by the cyclonic storm. Amphan’s impact will also be seen in Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya as it will move north-northwards on Thursday and Friday.Some of the deadliest storms in history have formed in the Bay of Bengal, including one in 1970 that killed half a million people in what is modern-day Bangladesh. Here is a list of some of them:• Some 1,38,000 died in Bangladesh in 1991 in a tidal wave caused by a cyclone.• In 1999 in Odisha, 10,000 people were killed by a cyclone.• In 2007, Cyclone Sidr killed at least 4,000 in southern Bangladesh.• Then in 2008 Cyclone Nargis, which devastated Myanmar’s Irrawaddy Delta, killed about 140,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-list-of-deadly-storms-in-bay-of-bengal-in-last-30-years/story-z5FEdpXnpJOYRb6dAVxL3L.html
20-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan continues to be extremely severe, to make landfall near Sunderbans||Super cyclone Amphan continues to be an extremely severe cyclonic storm over northwest Bay of Bengal on Wednesday morning with a wind speed of about 160 to 170kmph gusting to 180kmph. It lay only 120km east-southeast of Paradip; 200km south of Digha; 360km southwest of Khepupara in Bangladesh according to India Meteorological Department’s 9am bulletin.Click here for live updates on cyclone AmphanAmphan will move north-northeastwards and cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coast between Digha and Hatiya Islands close to Sunderbans around Sagar Island today afternoon with a wind speed of 155 to 165kmph to 185kmph.“There is no change in status. It continues to be an extremely severe cyclonic storm and very intense in nature. We are tracking its trajectory towards landfall closely,” said Sunita Devi, scientist in charge of cyclones at IMD.Winds over coastal Odisha will be 100 to 110 gusting to 125kmph along and off Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara and Bhadrak till afternoon on Wednesday and over Balasore till evening.Also read: Cyclone Amphan - List of deadly storms in Bay of Bengal in last 30 yearsStorm surge during landfall is expected to be 4 to 6 meters above astronomical tide in parts of West Bengal. The storm surge is expected to inundate low lying areas of south and North 24 Parganas and parts of East Medinipur district during landfall. Wind speed in Kolkata, Hooghly and Howrah is likely to range between 110kmph to 120kmph gusting to 130kmph which may cause extensive damage in urban areas also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-continues-to-be-extremely-severe-to-make-landfall-near-sunderbans/story-OBnLQsZNni3upQanSCTloN.html
20-05-2020||India||Amphan to hit Bengal today, landfall likely near Sunderbans: Here’s how the super cyclone was named||Super cyclone Amphan is expected to make landfall on the coast on West Bengal and Bangladesh on Wednesday evening. Amphan, which was about 120-kilometre east-southeast of Paradip, Odisha at 8:30 am today will cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha (West Bengal) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) close to Sunderbans today.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Amphan’s landfall process will commence from today afternoon.  Watch| ‘Cyclone in time of Covid’: NDRF chief on Amphan preparation amid pandemicAs the super cyclone, the biggest in the Bay of Bengal after 1999 cyclone that hit Odisha, rattles its way to landfall, here’s how it was named. Also read: As Amphan barrels towards India, a look at what makes cyclones deadlyHow was Amphan namedThe World Meteorological Organisation maintains rotating lists of names which are appropriate for each Tropical Cyclone basin. “If a cyclone is particularly deadly or costly, then its name is retired and replaced by another one,” the WMO website read. The group that has 13 member countries, including Bangladesh, India, Iran, Maldives, Myanmar, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen, names cyclones in the region. The World Meteorological Organisation/United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (WMO/ESCAP) panel on Tropical Cyclones at its twenty-seventh session held in 2000 in Muscat, Sultanate of Oman, agreed in to assign names to the tropical cyclones in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea.  #WATCH Cyclone 'AMPHAN' lies 110kms from Paradip & is moving at a speed of 18-19kmph. An hour ago, wind speed of 102kmph was observed at Paradip. Landfall expected near Sunderbans in West Bengal by late evening today. Next 6-8 hrs crucial: PK Jena, Spl Relief Commissioner,Odisha pic.twitter.com/EKYnNwVefyAlso read: All you need to know about Cyclone AmphanThe naming of the tropical cyclones over the north Indian Ocean commenced from September 2004, with names provided by eight members. Since then, five more countries joined the panel.‘Amphan’ was the last name in the current list and was supposed to be taken up as the name of the first cyclone to occur in the region in 2020. The name “Um-pun” was given by Thailand in the year 2004 and means ‘sky’.Before this, the last cyclone in the region, ‘Fani’, was named by Bangladesh.  ‘Titli’ was suggested by Pakistan while ‘Hudhud’ was named by Oman.After Amphan, the names to be used will be taken from the new list, starting with Nisarga (suggested by Bangladesh), Gati (named by India), Nivar (Iran), and so forth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amphan-to-hit-bengal-today-landfall-likely-near-sunderbans-here-s-how-the-super-cyclone-amphan-was-named/story-ZKKLXNri4Y2WyXV6vYEFlO.html
20-05-2020||India||Union Cabinet meeting to be held at 11 am today||A meeting of the Union Cabinet will be held here at 11 am on Wednesday amid the COVID-19 crisis.On Monday, India entered the fourth phase of the lockdown which will continue till May 31.With 5,611 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, India’s COVID-19 tally reached 1,06,750 today, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.As many as 140 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 3,303.Out of the total cases, 61,149 are actives cases and 42,298 patients have been cured/discharged/migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-cabinet-meeting-to-be-held-at-11-am-today/story-FUWOE5Yw1Jg30Q8p7oROKM.html
20-05-2020||India||Rajiv Gandhi from Kerala’s Idukki remembers former PM ahead of his death anniversary||What’s in a name? A lot, says Rajiv Gandhi (35) of Marayur in hilly Idukki district in Kerala, who shares his name with the former prime minister.Rajiv’s grandfather Megavarnan was an ardent supporter of the Congress party and named his newborn grandson after the stalwart in 1985. Though he basked in the glory in school, Rajiv soon started facing problems. His friends and others used to bully him. He took it in his stride but had to often explain to people how he got the name.Ahead of the death anniversary of former PM Rajiv Gandhi on May 21, the man from Idukki says Gandhi’s early death was a big loss to the country.“I read he was a good leader and started computer in the country. Sad, the country lost him at a young age,” he said.Though he’s now known by his first name, in all official records he is still Rajiv Gandhi. When the former PM was assassinated in 1991, he was six but still remembers that his grandfather and others cried that day.Not good in his studies, Rajiv started doing farm jobs after Class 12. A good farm hand, he often goes to the Marayur forest nursery as a temporary worker. The “name game” is nothing new in plantation areas of Idukki - just walk around he you can see many Gandhis, Nehrus, Napoleans and others.On the 150th birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation Mahathma Gandhi last year, Idukki district Congress committee had arranged a gathering of people carrying the name Gandhi. At least 100 ‘Gandhis’ had responded to the invitation and later on popular demand they also included Nehrus. Hence, hundreds of Gandhis and Nehrus rubbed shoulders on October 2 last year and shared their experiences. The vice-president of the Kerala unit of Congress, A K Mani, said many plantation workers still love to name their children after national heroes.Keralites’ love for names of Russian leaders and other sports legends are well known. You can meet many Breshnev, Khrushchev, Lenin, Olga and Pushkin in the interiors. Every year, Russian cultural centre in Thiruvananthapuram organises a meet of such people.“Earlier, party supporters were mad over Communist legends. As the ideology declined the world over this trend is also on the wane,” said V Lenin, a teastall owner in Thiruvananthapuram. Agreed senior journalist M J Babu, hailing from hill destination Munnar. “Keralites are nostalgic about their great leaders. So many eponyms are still around,” he said.In north Kerala, where people breathe soccer, many still love to name the newborn after their soccer greats. At one point, religious leaders were forced to issue a ‘fatwa’ in Malappuram to rein in crazy soccer fans. In Kozhikode, a Muslim League leader had named his daughter Brasilia, capital of Latin American country Brazil. Brasilia was councillor of the Kozhikode Corporation and is now helping her businessman husband run an apparel unit in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajiv-gandhi-from-kerala-s-idukki-remembers-former-pm-ahead-of-his-death-anniversary/story-rdRWYP47LmVv3lnNlgbLII.html
20-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: All operations at Kolkata airport suspended till 5am tomorrow||The authorities in West Bengal suspended all operations at Kolkata airport till 5 am on Thursday in the wake of Cyclone Amphan which is hurtling towards the east Indian coast. It is expected to make the landfall between West Bengal and Bangladesh on Wednesday afternoon.Kolkata is one of the cities which will be affected by the movement of the cyclone. The other districts in West Bengal which will bear the brunt of the cyclone are Hooghly, North and South 24 Parganas.The cyclone will also impact Odisha badly and around 10 districts will be severely impacted. Authorities have evacuated 4.2 million people from low-lying areas in these two states.Cyclone Amphan | Expected damage, government preparation: Latest updatesAt 6.30 am on Wednesday, the cyclone lay centred 125 kilometre away from Odisha. Some cities in the state have started receiving rainfall as the cyclone approaches. Paradip is witnessing high winds too.The cyclone is packing winds gusting to a speed of 185 kmph. It had turned into Super Cyclone on Tuesday, but its intensity has decreased marginally and will make the landfall as extremely severe cyclonic storm. According to glossary of Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), an extremely severe cyclonic storm carries wind speed of between 167 kmph and 221 kmph; a storm is classified as a super cyclone when wind speeds exceed 222 kmph.Amphan had been billed as the most intense cyclone in the Bay of Bengal since a 1999 storm devastated Odisha, killing around 9,000 people.The storm surge is expected to be 4 to 6 metres above the astronomical tide in parts of West Bengal, flooding low lying areas in the three districts when it makes landfall. Wind speeds in Kolkata, Hooghly and Howrah are likely to range between 110 kmph and 120 kmph, gusting to 130 kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-all-operations-at-kolkata-airport-suspended-till-5-am-tomorrow/story-QnVZpNI869Vis0GwGWWWUP.html
20-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan brings heavy winds and rain to Odisha coast||Cyclone Amphan, one of the worst storms over the Bay of Bengal in two decades, pummelled Odisha’s coastal districts early Wednesday morning, as howling winds blew at over 100 kilometres per hour (kmph) ripping through Paradip. The cyclone is lying around 110 km south by southeast of the port town.Though the ground zero of Amphan is expected to be somewhere between Sagar islands in neighbouring West Bengal and Bangladesh’s Hatia islands later on Wednesday afternoon, the cyclone, strongest over the Bay of Bengal since the 1999 supercyclone, has started causing widespread destruction in coastal Odisha, uprooting trees and electric poles in Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara districts.Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said though cyclone Amphan was moving at around 20kmph on Tuesday, it has slowed down to 11kmph over the last six hours. “It’s expected to move along the track that we had anticipated. It’ll make landfall sometime between Wednesday afternoon and evening,” said HR Biswas, director of the regional meteorological office in Bhubaneswar.Also read: Amphan to hit Bengal today, landfall likely near Sunderbans- Here’s how the super cyclone was namedParadip faced Amphan’s fury as sustained gusty winds of over 100kmph uprooted scores of trees, electric poles, blew away asbestos, and tin roofs of several houses, including government buildings. Paradip port officials said cyclone warning signal number 8 has been sounded, as the wind speed is likely to go up to 145kmph.“Cyclone Amphan is uprooting trees and (electric) poles. I urge people not to get out of their houses until the cyclonic storm subsides. Restoration will begin after that with the help of CESU (Central Electricity Supply Utility of Orissa), ODRAF (Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force) & NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) teams,” tweeted Kendrapara district collector Samarth Verma. At Paradip port, over 100 truck drivers have taken shelter inside their vehicles and waiting for the cyclonic storm to blow over. Heavy rains, measuring over 200 millimetres (mm) over the past 24 hours, have lashed Paradip.Odisha evacuated over 1.37 lakh people from the coastal and adjoining districts into makeshift shelter homes till Tuesday evening. The authorities have lodged the evacuees while ensuring social distancing norms are maintained in a bid to prevent the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Over 200 pregnant women have been brought to safety by authorities in the coastal districts.However, in Balasore, a Covid-19 hotspot with 119 positive cases, the authorities had a tough time in evacuating people, as they were apprehensive of contracting SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, at the shelter homes.IMD officials said coastal towns such as Chandbali, Balasore, and Bhubaneswar are experiencing high wind speed. Chandbali witnessed winds blowing at 74kmph and Balasore at 61kmph.At Balasore’s Talasari beach, fishermen ran for cover as gusty winds lashed their boats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-brings-heavy-winds-and-rain-to-odisha-coast/story-Oz6AGrElQ0BI9Z4B5KkChM.html
20-05-2020||India||Surat’s diamond industry starts operations with reduced workforce||After government gave relaxation for opening the industries while taking necessary precautions during the fourth phase of lockdown, the diamond industry in the city opened on Tuesday.However, the industries are operating with a reduced workforce. Nilesh Bodke, who is associated with the diamond industry said that this sector is resilient and will overcome the impact of Covid-19 lockdown in 2-3 months. “The diamond market opened today, after the announcement of the state government, but it will take at least 2-3 months for the industry to start its functions normally. Majority of the labourers who work in these industries have returned back to their villages and will not come back in the near future. On the other hand, the monsoon season is about to start and these labourers will most probably return after ploughing their land in the villages,” Bodke told ANI.“The market in Mumbai has not started operating yet, which makes it difficult for the industry in Surat to function. There are no options to export or import the diamonds and hence the industry cannot function normally in the given scenario,” he added.However, Bodke expressed hope that the situation would improve gradually.“The situation will improve in the future. The workers in the diamond industry are very hard-working and do not shy away from putting more than 12 hours if required,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surat-s-diamond-industry-starts-operations-with-reduced-workforce/story-rTChKm9wPC1oTcbGyAeqdJ.html
20-05-2020||India||As Amphan barrels towards India, a look at what makes cyclones deadly||India and Bangladesh evacuated around half a million people out of the way of the most powerful storm in a decade ahead of its landfall on Wednesday amid fears of heavy damage to houses and crops and disruption of road, rail and power links.Approaching from the Bay of Bengal, Amphan is expected to make the landfall between West Bengal and Bangladesh with winds gusting up to 185 kmph. The wind speed packed in by Cyclone Amphan is equivalent of a category 5 hurricane.Watch | What does cyclone Amphan have to do with covid-19?The cyclone will generate sea waves as high as a two-storey house that could swamp mud dwellings along the coast, uproot communication towers and inundate roads and rail tracks.Bangladesh authorities fear that Amphan will be the most powerful storm front since Cyclone Sidr devastated the country in 2007, killing about 3,500 people and causing billions of dollars in damage.Here is a look at what makes cyclones deadly:• Cyclones are low-pressure systems that form over warm tropical waters, with gale force winds near the centre. The winds can extend hundreds of kilometres (miles) from the eye of the storm. Sucking up vast quantities of water, they often produce torrential rains and flooding resulting in major loss of life and property damage. Tropical cyclones (hurricanes) are the most powerful weather events on Earth, according to NASA.• Cyclones can unleash catastrophic storm surges - tsunami-like flooding - when they make landfall. The large swells move faster than the cyclone and are sometimes spotted up to 1,000 kilometres ahead of a major storm. The surge can extend for dozens of kilometres inland.• Experts say that one of the reasons for cyclones to be so devastating is the favourable conditions in Bay of Bengal, like high sea surface temperatures. The tropical cyclone season in the Bay of Bengal and neighbouring Arabian Sea has two peaks around May and November, according to the World Meteorological Organisation. The cyclones can form in the western Pacific Ocean and travel in a northwest direction before arriving in the Bay of Bengal. Some reach the southeastern coast of India but others divert northeast and move up to West Bengal and Odisha states. • Studies suggest a warming climate could bring more destructive cyclones as there would be extra heat in the oceans and atmosphere, although such systems could also become less frequent. Rising sea levels could boost storm surges from cyclones, making them even more deadly and destructive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-amphan-barrels-towards-india-a-look-at-what-makes-cyclones-deadly/story-znY8qNlDqi22PX2seJd6CP.html
20-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Air India flies Canadian citizens home; to bring back stranded Indians tonight||The first Air India aircraft carrying Canadians of Indian origin back to the country landed at Vancouver International Airport on Tuesday afternoon. The flight will return to New Delhi on Wednesday night as the first-ever rescue mission for Indians stranded in Canada due to the Covid-19 pandemic begins.Describing the flight’s arrival as a “historic first”, India’s Consulate in Vancouver in British Columbia said the repatriation flight will commence on May 20. India’s High Commissioner to Ottawa Ajay Bisaria tweeted that he was “delighted” to welcome the first Vande Bharat Mission flight to Canada. He added that the flight was full as it also brought Indo-Canadians home. “Hope to bring every citizen home in these and future flights,” he said.  Delighted to welcome first @airindiain special flight in Canada this morn. It came full. First ever rescue mission for Indians in Cda starts from #Vancouver tomorrow. Hope to bring every citizen home in these and future flights. Thanks @cgivancouver, working round the clock. https://t.co/rImuGGjtwxFamily members of some of those who arrived in Vancouver thanked the Indian Government and Air India for the flight. Gobind Shergill tweeted that his wife had arrived, and that she was “very impressed by all the safety measures taken by all authorities.” The Vande Bharat Mission is the Indian government’s repatriation programme to bring back Indians stranded abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. There are nearly three lakh Indians in Canada, according to estimates, and the five Air India flights that have been scheduled from Vancouver and Toronto will take more than 1400 of those with “compelling” reasons back to India.The flight from Vancouver will cover Delhi and Amritsar. It will be followed by flights from Toronto on May 21 and 22 that will take passengers to Delhi and Amritsar, and Bengaluru and Hyderabad, respectively. On May 24, another flight will depart from Vancouver for Bengaluru and Hyderabad, while the last planned trip, from Toronto on May 25, will go to Ahmedabad and Jaipur.Passengers arriving in Canada are expected to enter mandatory self-isolation for a period of 14 days, and those returning to India will also be placed in quarantine for that period and then tested for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-air-india-flight-flies-canadian-citizens-home-to-bring-back-stranded-indians-tonight/story-TbIJPwYrqyJLjZAlQ1ZR1N.html
20-05-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Cases breach 37,000-mark in Maharashtra, over 22,000 in Mumbai alone||According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 national tally stands at 10,6750. There are 61,149 active coronavirus cases in the country, 42,297 patients have been cured or discharged while 3,303 people have died from the deadly contagion.Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have crossed the 37,000-mark while in Gujarat, the second worst-affected state, the Covid-19 cases have breached the 12,000-mark.Here’s the statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries.Also read: In biggest single-day spike, India records over 5,611 Covid-19 casesMaharashtraWith 37,136 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra continues to lead the state tally. The state has recorded 1,325 deaths so far while 9,639 patients have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 12,448 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 4,895 recoveries and 84 Covid-19 deaths.GujaratThe tally in the state, as per the Ministry of Health, stands at 12,140. While 719 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, Gujarat has seen 5,043 recoveries so far.Also read: Delhi’s Feroz Shah Kotla ground turned into a Covid-19 centreDelhiAs many as 10,554 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. One hundred and sixty-eight people have died from the infection while 4,750 have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 5,845 on Wednesday. The state has reported 143 fatalities, and 3,337 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 5,465 positive cases of coronavirus. Two hundred and fifty-eight people have died from Covid-19 here while 2,630 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases have reached 4,926 in Uttar Pradesh. While 2,918 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 123 have died from the infection here.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 2,961 on Wednesday. There have been 250 deaths and 1,074 recoveries in the state.TelanganaThe number of Covid-19 positive cases reaches 1,634 in state so far. Thousand and ten people have made a recovery from the virus while 38 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 2,532 positive Covid-19 patients and 1,621 cases of recovery. Fifty-two people have died.Punjab The Covid-19 tally jumped to 2,002 on Wednesday. While 38 people have died in Punjab, 1,642 patients have recovered. Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 1,317. Seventeen people have died from the infection while 653 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 1,397 Covid-19 cases and 40 deaths. As many as 544 people have been cured and discharged.Haryana The state has reported 964 coronavirus cases so far and 14 deaths. Six hundred and twenty-seven people have recovered from Covid-19 in the state.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 642 coronavirus cases on Wednesday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 497 people have successfully recovered.In Bihar, 1,498 people have tested positive for coronavirus, nine people have died while 534 patients have recovered. Odisha has 978 Covid-19 positive patients, 277 have recovered while five people have died. Jharkhand has 231 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 127 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 111 coronavirus patients, 52 patients have recovered from the infection, one patient has died. Himachal Pradesh has 92 cases, three patients have died and 47 have recovered. Assam has reported 142 Covid-19 cases, four people have died while 41 people have recovered.Chhattisgarh has recorded 101 cases of coronavirus and 59 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 200 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 57 have recovered, three people have died. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, all patients have recovered.Ladakh has 43 patients, all patients have recovered. Goa reported 46 cases of Covid-19 disease, 7 patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported 18 cases, 9 have recovered; one patient had died. Meghalaya has reported 13 cases and one death, 12 patients have recovered. Manipur has nine coronavirus cases, two have recovered. Tripura, meanwhile, has 173 cases, 116 patients have recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Dadar Nagar Havel, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. All patients in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-cases-breach-37-000-mark-in-maharashtra-over-22-000-in-mumbai-alone/story-zLuQjXYPAwQXRYq82mYVdP.html
20-05-2020||India||In biggest single-day spike, India records over 5,611 Covid-19 cases||India reported the biggest single-day jump in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients on Wednesday with 5,611 new cases in the last 24 hours taking the country’s tally to 106,750, Union health ministry said.The number of deaths has also gone up after 140 Covid-19 patients succumbed to the respiratory disease between Tuesday and Wednesday morning, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am. So far, 3,303 people have died.The recovery rate now stands at 39.62% as 42,297 people recovered from Covid-19, data showed.Also read: Drug being tested could help in Covid-19 recovery, say Chinese scientistsThe number of coronavirus disease cases have doubled in nearly two weeks—up from 49,391 on May 6 to 106,139 on Wednesday as the country entered the third day of the fourth phase of the lockdown. Lockdown 4.0 is scheduled to end on May 31.A new study has found that higher temperature and humidity may do little to arrest the spread of the coronavirus pandemic adding to a growing body of literature that indicates that the correlation between local climate conditions and virus transmission is weak.The study by scientists at Princeton University and the US National Institutes of Health also suggested the lack of sizeable immunity to the Sars-Cov-2 virus and the speed of the pathogen ensured that climate and humidity had limited impact on transmission. It was published in the journal Science on Monday.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayA batch of studies during the initial surge of the pandemic had held out hope that drier and colder climates are more suited to the virus, and that the weather in tropical countries may hobble the spread to the disease.Previous research from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and the US National Academies of Sciences (NAS) also say while there is some evidence that Sars-CoV-2 transmits less efficiently in higher ambient temperature and humidity, this does not lead to a significant decrease in disease spread without major interventions, such as personal protection and social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-biggest-single-day-spike-india-records-over-5-611-covid-19-cases/story-akdXPe54kIwGnmfLnMmgzO.html
20-05-2020||India||6 farmers killed in collision between 2 trucks in UP’s Etawah||Six farmers were killed and one person injured in a road accident in Uttar Pradesh’s Etawah district on Tuesday night, news agency ANI reported. The farmers had gone to sell vegetables in the market and were returning home when the mini truck they were travelling in was hit by another speeding truck in the Friends Colony area of Etawah.While five people died on the spot, one succumbed to injuries in the hospital. The injured person was admitted to Saifai Medical College, SP City R Singh told ANI. SSP Etawah Akash Tomar, who reached the accident site on receiving information, said that an investigation is on in the incident, according to IANS. “The bodies are being sent for post mortem and further investigations are on,” the SSP said.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the incident. He announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each for the kin of those killed and Rs 50,000 for the injured person, reports ANI.There has been a spate of road accidents across the country, mostly involving migrant workers, in the last few weeks . Twenty-two people were killed in separate road accidents in five states on Tuesday. Nine people died in Bihar, four in Maharashtra, six in two separate accidents in Uttar Pradesh, one in Jharkhand, and two in as many incidents in Odisha, according to state officials.Twenty-four migrant workers had died and 36 injured in the early morning hours of May 16 when a trailer truck carrying sacks of lime, along with 43 people, rammed the back of a stationary truck with many other migrant workers sitting in it on the national highway in UP’s Auraiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-farmers-killed-in-collision-between-2-trucks-in-up-s-etawah/story-hkDSVW23LUClqXVKKdCFHK.html
20-05-2020||India||200 new trains a day from June, boost to vaccine hopes: Covid-19 news today||The government on Tuesday announced 200 new trains a day from June 1 in addition to the Shramik Specials for migrant workers and the premium passenger trains connecting Delhi with 15 cities. The new non-AC trains are expected to cater to small towns, in a fresh step to boost connectivity that has been thrown off track by the lockdown imposed to stop the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). On the vaccine front, Moderna’s experimental vaccine has emerged as a front-runner in global efforts to stop the pandemic.From June 1, govt to restart 200 trains but without ACs, bookings to start soonIndian Railways will run 200 special passenger trains a day from June 1 and online ticket booking will begin soon, railway minister Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday, in a fresh step aimed at gradually resuming normalcy in the services of the national carrier. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayIs Mumbai India’s New York? And is Maharashtra, India’s New York State? The questions are in the context of the coronavirus disease. New York State accounts for 356,278 (as of Tuesday morning) of the total of around 1.51 million cases in the country – around 23.5%. Read more22 migrant workers killed in road accidents across 5 statesTwenty-two people were killed in separate road accidents in five states on Tuesday, taking the death toll in such incidents involving migrant labourers to at least 162 during the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreFaster vaccines likely if Moderna effort succeedsModerna’s experimental vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has emerged the front-runner in the global effort to stop the pandemic after an early trial showed it produced virus-neutralising antibodies similar to those found in recovered patients. Read moreVirus ideally suited to infect humans: StudyThe novel coronavirus is ideally suited to infecting human cells rather than animal ones, a new study by researchers in Australia claims, raising questions about the origin of the virus, which has, until Tuesday, killed over 318,000 people and sickened more than 4.8 million globally. Read moreTemperature, humidity may do little to halt the spread of CovidHigher temperature and humidity may do little to arrest the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, a new study has found, adding to a growing body of literature that indicate that the correlation between local climate conditions and virus transmission is weak. Read moreWhole new ball game in art of swingSaliva is out. The International Cricket Council’s (ICC) Cricket Committee, led by Anil Kumble, recommended a ban on using saliva and allowed only sweat to shine the ball, as part of its guidelines to resume the game in the time of Covid-19. Read more‘Mutations in virus not specific to India,’ says Harsh VardhanThe Sars-CoV-2 viruses causing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has three major strains, but no key mutation specific to India has been found that affects infectiveness or disease severity, said Minister of Health and Science & Technology Dr Harsh Vardhan in his first interview after Covid-19 cases crossed 100,000 in India on Monday. Read moreDonald Trump shoots letter to WHO, threatens to exit world bodyUS President Donald Trump on Monday threatened to pull America out of the World Health Organization (WHO) and permanently stop US funding for the world body if it did not “commit to major substantive improvements” in the next 30 days. Read moreICMR releases guidelines for testing suspected Covid deathsThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has directed all hospitals to take nasal swab samples from dead bodies of suspected coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, to test for the virus, in a detailed autopsy guideline for patients. Read moreCovid-19 crisis: 100,000 samples tested for second straight dayOver 100,000 samples were tested for Covid-19 in India on a second consecutive day (101,475) on Tuesday and took the total number of tests to more than 2.4 million in about four months, officials aware of the matter said. Read moreShramik Specials:Consent of receiving states no longer requiredConsent of states where trains ferrying migrants terminate is not needed to run the special Shramik trains, the government said on Tuesday, reversing an earlier order that called for the mutual agreement of both sending and receiving states in order to transport stranded labourers to their hometowns. Read moreCong offer on buses for migrants sparks UP tussleThe Uttar Pradesh government and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s office continued to exchange letter (over e-mail) and charges related to the latter’s plan to send 1000 buses to help transport migrants in Uttar Pradesh. Read moreSonia Gandhi to chair Oppn leaders’ meetingCongress president Sonia Gandhi will on Friday chair an opposition leaders’ meeting via video-conferencing to discuss the impact of the Covid-19 lockdown, the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore package, the plight of migrants, farmers and the suspension of labour laws in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-new-trains-a-day-from-june-boost-to-vaccine-hopes-covid-19-news-today/story-0jg45E0nSNcx9uUovVLUWM.html
20-05-2020||India||Wind speed, movement, likely damage: All you need to know about Cyclone Amphan||Cyclone Amphan is all set to slam into West Bengal and Odisha on Wednesday afternoon, packing winds gusting to a speed of 185 kmph. It will also bring with it torrential rainfall, threatening to inundate low-lying areas of human habitation.The authorities have already warned of extensive damage to crops and public property at a time when the nation has its hands full with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Also read: Bengal, Odisha brace for barrelling cyclone AmphanAccording to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Amphan is expected to make landfall between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya Island in Bangladesh as a very severe cyclonic storm. Its intensity has reduced marginally. At 6:30 am, Amphan lay centred over northwest Bay of Bengal, about 125 km south-southeast of Paradip, the IMD said on Wednesday morning.Also read: Rainfall, strong winds hit Odisha’s Bhadrak ahead of cyclone Amphan landfallHere are the live updates about the cyclone and its movement:• The IMD said that Cyclone Amphan is about 120 km away from Paradip in Odisha. It will To cross make the landfall between Digha (West Bengal) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) close to Sunderbans in the afternoon• Kolkata airport has shut operations till 5 am on Thursday in the wake is Cyclone Ampan which is hurtling towards the east coast.• The two states which will be affected the most by the movement of the cyclone are West Bengal and Odisha. However, its impact will be visible in Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya too.• The districts to be affected in Odisha are Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak, Balasore and Kendrapara. In West Bengal, East Midnapore, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas are expected to bear the brunt of the cyclone. It has already started raining in coastal districts of Odisha and Paradip is witnessing strong winds.• Nearly 4.2 million people have been moved to safety in the coastal regions of India and Bangladesh.• Amphan was a massive cyclone 700 km in extent and 15 km in height when it was rotating around its centre in the central parts of Bay of Bengal on Monday.• The cyclone is expected to cause heavy to extremely heavy rainfall over Gangetic West Bengal and heavy to very heavy rainfall over north coastal Odisha. It will also cause heavy to very heavy rainfall over sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on May 20 and 21 and Assam and Meghalaya on May 21.• The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has 15 teams in Odisha, 19 in West Bengal and two in reserve for rescue and relief efforts.• The storm surge is expected to be 4 to 6 metres above the astronomical tide in parts of West Bengal, flooding low lying areas in the three districts when it makes landfall.• Wind speeds in Kolkata, Hooghly and Howrah are likely to range between 110 kmph and 120 kmph, gusting to 130 kmph. Gale-force winds of 75 to 85 kmph, gusting to 95 kmph, are likely to lash the north Odisha coast.• Amphan had been billed as the most intense cyclone in the Bay of Bengal since a 1999 storm devastated Odisha, killing around 9,000 people.• Odisha was hit by a super cyclone that left nearly 10,000 dead in 1999, eight years after a typhoon, tornadoes and flooding killed 1,39,000 in Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wind-speed-movement-likely-damage-all-you-need-to-know-about-cyclone-amphan/story-p87T8TU7RCoal6v7ic9LuO.html
20-05-2020||India||Podcast | Covid-19 Fallout: Migrants, the Economy, and Foreign Policy (Live from Zoom!)||This week, Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) sits down with podcast regulars Sadanand Dhume of the American Enterprise Institute and the Wall Street Journal and Tanvi Madan of the Brookings Institution for a special live edition of the Grand Tamasha news round-up.  The three discuss India’s emerging response to the coronavirus, its economic fallout, and the ramifications for India’s foreign policy. The trio also answered viewer questions, recommended their favorite quarantine binge-watches, and debated the role of peas in keema. Watch the livestream here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-fallout-migrants-the-economy-and-foreign-policy-live-from-zoom/story-46jguhtWh3L34BOkJGh48I.html
20-05-2020||India||Bois Locker Room: Response sought on plea against groups||The Delhi high court on Tuesday sought the Centre’s response over a plea seeking directions to it to ensure social media platforms like Facebook and Instagram remove illegal groups such as Bois Locker Room for the safety and security of children.Bois Locker Room, an online chat group that made light of gang-rape and trivialised sexual assault, came to light this month and triggered outrage.A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal issued notices to the Union home, information technology and finance ministries while also seeking to know the stand of Facebook, Google and Twitter by the next date of hearing on July 14.The court was hearing a plea moved by former Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ideologue K N Govindacharya “highlighting the unlawful nature of illegal groups” like Bois Locker Room. “Due to the negativity, fake news and illegal content many young lives are destroyed. Such groups are criminal in nature and do not deserve any protection of free or creative speech,” Govindacharya’s lawyer Gaurav Pathak said. He added Bois Locker Room on Instagram shows “one of the vilest forms of social media”.The Centre’s standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia accepted the notice on behalf of the ministries.“We have zero tolerance for any behaviour or material that exploits young people online and action content violating our community guidelines and policies. We will not be able to comment further, as the matter is sub judice,” a Facebook spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bois-locker-room-response-sought-on-plea-against-groups/story-JKkQ6Sq7EZYVrrYsXZZslK.html
20-05-2020||India||Tensions simmer along LAC as India, China step up vigil||Tensions continue to simmer in Ladakh and Sikkim sectors of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), where India and China have deployed additional troops, days after scores of Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a tense face-off along the India-China boundary.People familiar with developments, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said both sides have deployed additional troops, especially in Galwan Valley region of the Ladakh sector. India bolstered troop levels after the Chinese side brought in reinforcements, they said. China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has pitched close to 100 tents and erected temporary positions in Galwan Valley as part of efforts to establish a presence there, the people said. It has also strengthened its presence in the area opposite Demchok, they said.Responding to a question from Hindustan Times, China’s foreign ministry, in a statement in Mandarin, said the Indian Army was “obstructing normal patrols and operations of Chinese border troops”. While there was no official word from the India side on Tuesday, the external affairs ministry previously said it remained committed to maintaining peace along the border with China and noted that such incidents could have been avoided if there was a common perception about the boundary.Tensions flared after scores of soldiers from the two countries clashed near Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh on the night of May 5-6, while about 150 soldiers were involved in another standoff in north Sikkim on May 9. Several soldiers from both sides were injured in these confrontations.The people cited above said there had been no more confrontations after both sides activated border management mechanisms but the situation continues to be tense, especially in Galwan Valley. The Indian Army responded to the Chinese build-up by deploying additional troops, they added.“In the past, the Chinese side usually patrolled this area but now they’re entrenched in the region,” said one of the people cited above. The face-off began after the Chinese side objected to the construction of a road, north of Pangong lake, located well within Indian territory, he added.The statement from China’s foreign ministry said: “China’s position on the China-India border issue is consistent and clear. The Chinese border troops are committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity in the China-India border areas and have exercised great restraint.”The troops, the statement said, “will firmly safeguard China’s territorial sovereignty and security”. The tensions with China come against the backdrop of an escalating India-Nepal border row. Nepal has protested against India’s construction of an 80-km road leading to Lipulekh, which is claimed by Kathmandu. New Delhi has rejected the protest and said the road, built to facilitate pilgrims travelling to Kailash Mansarovar in China, is “completely within the territory of India”. Nepal was also irked when Indian Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane, without naming China, said Kathmandu was protesting against the road at someone else’s behest.China’s state-run Global Times daily reported that the troop deployments in Galwan Valley constituted the “strongest military response to India’s illegal trespassing incident along the border since the Doklam standoff”. The 73-day faceoff at Doklam in 2017 took bilateral ties to a fresh low and relations were put on an even keel only after the first India-China informal summit at Wuhan in 2018.A second person familiar with developments said the strategic guidance from the top leadership of both sides for better management of the border did not appear to have percolated to the ground level on the Chinese side. Last week, the Indian Army chief Navarane described border face-offs as “temporary and short”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tensions-simmer-along-lac-as-india-china-step-up-vigil/story-vpKqtZJm1nAOM3qk9t20FO.html
20-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh to launch Rajiv Gandhi Nyay Yojana for farmers on May 21, former PM’s death anniversary||The Chhattisgarh government will launch a scheme to ensure “minimum income availability” to farmers of the state through direct bank transfer on the death anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi May 21.Under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana, based on registered area and area under cultivation during Kharif crop season 2019, Rs 10,000 per acre will be deposited in the bank accounts of farmers as agriculture assistance grant for sowing crops such as paddy, maize and sugarcane, officials said.According to the government, at least 19 lakh farmers will benefit from the scheme, for which the state government had allocated Rs 5,756 crore in the budget 2020-21.The money will be given to the farmers in four instalments.In November 2019, the Congress government had decided to procure paddy at the Centre’s fixed price of Rs 1,835 per quintal and said it will pay the difference between the central price and Rs 2,500 per quintal promised by the Congress in its manifesto for the assembly elections in 2018. A five-member committee was constituted to study how a benefit of Rs 2,500 per quintal could be ensured to the farmers.“The committee recommended that Rs 10,000 per acre should be given to farmers who sold paddy under MSP and added the benefit should also be provided for maize and sugarcane crops,” a senior government official with the chief minster’s office, who did not want to be named, said.Chhattisgarh cabinet approved the scheme on May 14. “Our leadership has been advocating the direct transfer of money to the people. We have seen the amazing result of this cash transfer in Chhattisgarh last year. So, we decided to put money in farmers’ pocket again. I am confident that this scheme will help in revival of economy post-Covid-19,” chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said.Chhattisgarh based social workers said the scheme was the right of the farmers. “This is a welcome step as the farmers would be getting money directly in their bank accounts. If the government is claiming it as Nyay Yojana, why aren’t the all 30 lakh paddy farmers of the state are covered in this scheme? These 18.75 lakh paddy farmers, who are benefited under the scheme are those who had sold their crops at the central price,” Alok Shukla, a social activist based in Chhattisgarh, said. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Chhattisgarh unit questioned the scheme and said it will not do justice to the farmers.“This is ‘Anyay Yojna’ not Nyay Yojana. The money is given to the farmers in four instalments which will be of no use to them. They promised that they will be giving the difference amount in one instalment but they ditched the farmers of the state,” senior BJP leader and spokesperson Sacchinand Upasane said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-launch-rajiv-gandhi-nyay-yojana-for-farmers-on-may-21-former-pm-s-death-anniversary/story-0i6h2FlVgVGmDxCZRTD3MN.html
20-05-2020||India||War of words between Congress, BJP as Godse’s anniversary celebrated in Madhya Pradesh||Like every year, the Hindu Mahasabha celebrated the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse at its office in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior on Tuesday.The event was celebrated by lighting 111 lamps in front of Godse’s portrait.The prompted the Congress to launch an attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state.“I am deeply pained and anguished on coming to know about celebration of Nathuram Godse’s birth anniversary. It’s an anti-national act which could be possible because of patronage of the ruling party BJP. I demand of Shivraj Singh Chouhan government to order lodging of an FIR against those who indulged in the act,” said RP Singh, Congress leader in Gwalior.“It’s unfortunate that the state government endorses the ideology of Nathuram Godse. That’s why celebration of Godse’s anniversary by lighting lamps by some people who don’t believe in democracy is not surprising,” another Congress leader KK Mishra said.But the state unit of the BJP hit back at Congress. “Congress is in habit of trying to draw political mileage from any such situation as it has lost its base in Madhya Pradesh and relevance in politics. The fact is BJP has nothing to do with any celebration on Godse’s birth anniversary,” said Madhya Pradesh BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal.Earlier in November 2017, Hindu Mahasabha set up a shrine of Godse in its Gwalior office on the death anniversary of Godse by installing his bust. Godse’s bust was unveiled amid vedic chants and it was worshipped with cow urine, curd, milk, honey and water of Ganges.The district administration in Gwalior later forcibly removed the bust when Congress lodged its protest against it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/war-of-words-between-congress-bjp-as-godse-s-anniversary-celebrated-in-madhya-pradesh/story-7JPipigY8eLu2ZuEzSFKZP.html
20-05-2020||India||Over a dozen migrant workers injured in collision between two trucks near Kanpur||More than a dozen migrants labourers including a child were gravely injured when a truck carrying about 45 of them collided head-on with another truck in Bilhaur area near here on Tuesday, police said.  The incident occurred in Nanamau, just two kilometres away from Bilhaur Police Station, when the truck with the migrant labourers was on the way to West-Bengal from Haryana. Circle Officer (Bilhaur) Devendra Mishra reached the accident site and rescued the injured individuals and admitted them to the hospital. The injured have been admitted to Community Health Centre, Bilhaur, police said. On Saturday, a trailer truck carrying sacks of lime and 43 people rammed into a stationary truck with a number of migrant workers sitting in it on the national highway in UP’s Auraiya. The death toll in the road accident rose to 27 with another man succumbing to injuries on Monday. A total of 36 labourers were injured in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-a-dozen-migrant-workers-injured-in-collision-between-two-trucks-near-kanpur/story-rT63H8koA1HdkoMDiatVGM.html
20-05-2020||India||Rainfall, strong winds hit Odisha’s Bhadrak ahead of cyclone Amphan landfall||As Cyclone Amphan is expected to make landfall today, rainfall and strong winds hit Bhadrak in Odisha. According to Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Cyclone Amphan will cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha (WB) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) close to Sundarbans during the afternoon to evening hours of May 20. “Cyclone Amphan is over Bay of Bengal, near latitude 18.4°N and longitude 87.1°E, about 210 km nearly south of Paradip (Odisha). It is to cross West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha (WB) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) close to Sundarbans during the afternoon to evening hours of 20th May,” tweeted IMD. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Tuesday spoke to Members of Parliament of areas that could be affected by Cyclone Amphan.“He urged them to be in touch with the people of their areas proactively and guide them about the arrangements being made by the agencies concerned,” read a Lok Sabha press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainfall-strong-winds-hit-odisha-s-bhadrak-ahead-of-cyclone-amphan-landfall/story-Ozwl9W5tJWVQljNHh55gzJ.html
20-05-2020||India||HT Salutes: 2 recovered mohalla clinic docs returned to a caring response||Dr Gopal Jha (51) was the first health care worker in the city to test positive for the viral infection, on March 21. His wife, Dr Alpana Jha (49), tested positive a few days later, along with their daughter.He was also part of the first cluster of cases that were reported from Delhi. His colony in Dilshad Garden was one of the city’s first containment zones.“I was a little apprehensive on my first day back. I kept wondering whether patients would be scared to come to my clinic. Everybody in the area knew my wife and I had the infection. But the reception we received was quite the opposite. My regular patients actually came just to ask about my health and well-being. It was nice to talk to them again,” Dr Gopal Jha said. The clinic was sanitised and kept ready while he recovered from severe symptoms of the disease at Safdarjung hospital.He was discharged in the first week of April. He started developing symptoms the day after he got a call from the district authorities asking him to get tested at Guru Teg Bahadur hospital near his house, after one of the patients he had referred there tested positive. He was moved to Safdarjung hospital when he got high fever, cough, loose motion, and had to be put on oxygen therapy for breathing difficulties. His wife and daughter had mild symptoms.“At first I developed a mild fever, which I thought could be because of all the stress... Then, the fever shot up a day later and I started coughing two days after that. I had loose motion and high fever for all 14 fourteen days. The worst was the feeling that I could not breathe. The doctors had to put me on oxygen, after I told them I was feeling a little breathless,” he said.“I did not expect I would have the infection. I maintained social distance when the patient came in. She would have been in my clinic for no longer than five minutes, and I cleaned all the surfaces after she left,” said Dr Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-2-recovered-mohalla-clinic-docs-returned-to-a-caring-response/story-oocl1ZU9sNxahj7mBENjOI.html
20-05-2020||India||HT Salutes: The worry of coming home to a joint family||Dr Srishti Prakash worries constantly about returning home after work. She is a postgraduate student in the gynaecology department of Safdarjung hospital, one of the busiest departments across hospitals in Delhi. Around 50 of her colleagues have so far tested positive for Covid-19. She lives in a joint family with 12 others in a three-storey Ghaziabad house. The family includes her elderly grandmother, who has diabetes, and grandfather, who had prostate cancer. The elderly, and those with co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, kidney and heart disease are at an increased risk of developing severe Covid-19 symptoms.“When I am at work, it is like any other day. We have to maintain social distance, wear masks, gloves and gowns properly. My only fear is carrying the infection home with me,” Dr Prakash said. Her last round of Covid-19 duty in the super-speciality block — where Covid-positive women deliver — was in March, and her next is likely to come soon.“The hospital arranges accommodation for those on Covid-19 duty, so I do not have to go home till I am sure I do not have the infection. But when I work in the other wards, there is a persistent worry, because most Covid-19 patients generally are now asymptomatic,” she said. Every day, before leaving hospital, she cleans her cellphone, pens, and anything in her bag that might have been exposed, with cotton and sanitiser. When she gets home, she first takes a bath and washes the clothes she wore to work.“Everyone is staying home right now, and it scares me that I might be the one to bring the infection home. So, whenever I feel like I might have been exposed to someone with the infection, I stay back in the hostel along with some of my friends,” Dr Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-the-worry-of-coming-home-to-a-joint-family/story-t0Q2bPzy0XNayLWSrbVFmK.html
20-05-2020||India||HT Salutes: A Covid +ve doctor found support from an unlikely source||Dr Aditi Puniya found out she was Covid-positive at 2pm on April 24. By 4pm, people in her colony and all her friends knew about the diagnosis. The resident welfare association (RWA) of the colony in Ghaziabad where she lived had put up a notice everywhere letting people know she had tested positive, and an NGO had tweeted about it.“I was surprised. I was getting calls from everywhere about the diagnosis. I don’t think there was any malice behind what the RWA did, they probably just wanted to inform people and did not know what to do,” said Dr Puniya. She is a postgraduate student working in the department of paediatrics in Jag Parvesh Chandra hospital.Her sister tested negative and was put up in a quarantine centre in Ghaziabad, while Dr Puniya was admitted to a Covid-designated hospital.But it was not all bad. When her sister returned from quarantine, a neighbour started giving them food thrice a week. “We were not very close earlier; we would just greet each other when we met in the lift or lobby. But we have become very close now. My sister got back home before me. The neighbour called my sister to the balcony and gave her food. She still continues to share food with us,” Dr Puniya said.Many of her colleagues weren’t as lucky. She first started feeling ill, with a fever and shortness of breath — on April 19, and the head of her department asked her to go back home and get tested as a precaution. When she tested positive, the hospital started contact tracing.Several members of staff were asked to go into quarantine. “Some of them had very bad experiences, with people not coming close to their house. Our area was declared a containment zone after I tested positive, and groceries were delivered to our houses. But for many others in non-containment areas, getting groceries became difficult during home quarantine, and their neighbours did not help,” she said. Her colleagues stepped up and started bringing groceries to all those who had been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-a-covid-ve-doctor-found-support-from-an-unlikely-source/story-N4uSCgk0cNfOa77mcWWBQP.html
20-05-2020||India||HT Salutes: After a month away from home, a return||It’s only been five days since Shashi Gandhi returned to his second-floor flat in northeast Delhi’s Jhilmil after a month. He worked in the Covid-19 ward at Lok Nayak hospital for 14 days, which was followed by 14 days in quarantine. He lives with his wife and two sons. By the time he was posted in the ward in mid-April, his family was already prepared; the 2,000-bed hospital had been turned into a dedicated treatment facility for the viral infection. “We all knew we will have to work in the Covid ward, so we were prepared, as were our families. They asked me to stay safe and come back soon. When I reached the room the hospital had allotted to me, I found a nice surprise. My children had made a gift pack for me with biscuits and chocolates. I don’t know when they slipped it in my bag,” he said.After work, he would video call his family every day. But a video call was not enough on April 27, which marked the 12th anniversary of his marriage with Mandeep. “I did not know what to do, so after work ended, I decided to go home. But I did not go up to my flat. I just sat in my car downstairs and spoke to my family from afar. I kept some chocolates for them and left,” he said.When in the hospital, he said working in personal protective equipment (PPE) was one of the foremost challenges. “It just gets so hot inside the coverall. We would be drenched in sweat after taking the PPE off after our shifts,” he said.He is likely to be posted for the next round of Covid-19 duty in the last week of this month.Shashi’s wife admitted that they were scared. “This is a new infection and we hear about what is happening in the city. But I also feel proud that my family is contributing in the fight against this disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-after-a-month-away-from-home-a-return/story-WeVcryXSTtvMVOsJcvJvtK.html
20-05-2020||India||From June 1, govt to restart 200 trains but without ACs, bookings to start soon||Indian Railways will run 200 special passenger trains a day from June 1 and online ticket booking will begin soon, railway minister Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday, in a fresh step aimed at gradually resuming normalcy in the services of the national carrier. These trains will run with non-air conditioned coaches and are expected to cater to small towns, according to officials aware of the developments. The schedule will be announced soon, the railway ministry said.The 200 trains announced on Tuesday will run in addition to the premium passenger trains connecting New Delhi with 15 cities across India, and the ones ferrying stranded migrant labourers to their hometowns.“Apart from this, from June 1, railways will run 200 non-AC trains a day according to the time table…online bookings will begin soon,” Goyal tweeted. In a statement announcing the new trains, the railway ministry said: “No tickets will be sold at any railway station and prospective travellers should not come to the railway station to buy tickets.”According to officials who did not want to be named, these passenger trains will run long distance and are likely to connect smaller cities. They could also help expedite the transport of migrants stuck in different parts of the country due to the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).On Twitter, Goyal also said the railways will increase the number of Shramik Special trains to 400 a day — from the current 150 — within the next two days. “All migrants are requested to stay where they are, Indian Railways will get them back home over the next few days,” he said.On May 1, the government began operating Shramik Special trains after demands by several states. And on May 12, Indian Railways resumed its passenger services after a gap of nearly two months with 15 pairs of trains connecting Delhi with Dibrugarh (Assam), Agartala (Tripura), Howrah (West Bengal), Patna (Bihar), Bilaspur (Chhattisgarh), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Bhubaneswar (Odisha), Secunderabad (Telangana), Bengaluru (Karnataka), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Thiruvananthapuram (Kerala), Madgaon (Goa), Mumbai Central (Maharashtra), Ahmedabad (Gujarat) and Jammu Tawi (Jammu and Kashmir).Railways stopped its passenger services in an unprecedented move on March 22 in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. The 167-year-old rail network of India ran nearly 14,000 passenger trains and ferried 23 million passengers a day before the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-june-1-govt-to-restart-200-trains-but-without-acs/story-yG6WCi5S9OYSD6Q7L9VqOK.html
20-05-2020||India||Bengal, Odisha brace for barrelling cyclone Amphan||Cyclone Amphan is poised to slam into West Bengal and Odisha on Wednesday afternoon, packing winds gusting to a speed of 185 kmph, bringing with it torrential rainfall, threatening to inundate low-lying areas of human habitation and cause extensive damage to crops and public property at a time when the nation has its hands full with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Amphan is expected to make landfall between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya Island in Bangladesh, close to the Sundarbans and around Sagar Island, as a very severe cyclonic storm, bordering on an extremely severe cyclonic storm.On Tuesday afternoon, the storm was packing wind speeds of 200 to 210 kmph, gusting to 240 kmph. Its intensity had reduced marginally, bordering a super cyclone and an extremely severe cyclonic storm. According to IMD’s glossary, an extremely severe cyclonic storm carries wind speed of between 167 kmph and 221 kmph; a storm is classified as a super cyclone when wind speeds exceed 222 kmph.National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) director general SN Pradhan said people from low-lying areas were being evacuated.“The biggest challenge is that we are facing two disasters together—Covid-19 and cyclone. We are also creating awareness about Covid-19 while creating awareness about Amphan and evacuating people,” Pradhan said.He cited one example what it means to confront two such challenges simultaneously. If a cyclone shelter has a capacity of 1,000, because of social distancing norms and the need to maintain adequate sanitation to curb the spread of Covid-19, only 400 to 500 people can be sheltered there, said Pradhan.Amphan had been billed as the first super cyclone in the Bay of Bengal since a 1999 storm devastated Odisha, killing around 9,000 people.“After the 1999 super cyclone, this is the most intense.... Though its wind speed will reduce to 155 to 165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph, we can expect extensive damage and devastation in South and North 24 Parganas and East Medinipur,” IMD director general M Mohapatra said at a media briefing on Tuesday.The storm surge is expected to be 4 to 6 metres above the astronomical tide in parts of West Bengal, flooding low lying areas in the three districts when it makes landfall. Wind speeds in Kolkata, Hooghly and Howrah are likely to range between 110 kmph and 120 kmph, gusting to 130 kmph.Gale-force winds of 75 to 85 kmph, gusting to 95 kmph, are likely to lash the north Odisha coast, including Jagatsignghpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, Kendrapara and other areas.Meteorologists and climate scientists said that on Monday evening the intensity of Amphan was 145 knots, or 270 kmph. The wind speed passed the 1999 super cyclone velocity of 260 kmph, tweeted meteorologist Eric Holthous, based on data from the US-based Joint Typhoon Warning Center.Bay of Bengal recorded sea surface temperature of 32 to 34 degree Celsius prior to the formation of cyclone Amphan, Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, said. “We have never seen such high values until now. Tropical cyclones draw their energy from the ocean surface and these temperatures can supercharge a cyclone, leading to rapid intensification. Cyclone Amphan intensified from a category 1 to a category 5 cyclone in only 18 hours, it evolved into the strongest cyclone ever recoded in Bay of Bengal,” Koll wrote in a social media post on Twitter, sharing sea surface temperature data from the buoys of the National Institute of Ocean Technology.Sunita Devi, cyclone scientist at IMD, said the wind speed was 130 knots, or about 240 kmph. “Yes, ocean surface temperatures were high. The sea surface temperature was in the range of 30 to 31° Celsius on Monday, as compared to an expected temperature of 28° Celsius over the region,” Devi said. “On Tuesday, the maximum temperature is around 30° C. The cyclone is still bordering a super cyclone. Its intensity hasn’t reduced much. We are expecting it to make landfall as a very severe cyclonic storm, again bordering an extremely severe cyclonic storm,” Devi added.Amphan was a massive cyclone 700 km in extent and 15 km in height when it was rotating around its centre in the central parts of Bay of Bengal on Monday, Mohapatra had said, adding that its very rapid intensification was unusual.The cyclone is expected to cause heavy to extremely heavy rainfall over Gangetic West Bengal and heavy to very heavy rainfall over north coastal Odisha. It will also cause heavy to very heavy rainfall over sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on May 20 and 21 and Assam and Meghalaya on May 21.IMD is expecting extensive damage to thatched houses, some damage to old, ramshackle concrete structures; uprooting of communication and power poles, disruption of rail/road links at several places, extensive damage to standing crops, plantations and orchards. Large boats may get torn from their moorings.NDRF has 15 teams in Odisha; 19 in West Bengal and two in reserve for rescue and relief efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-odisha-brace-for-barrelling-cyclone/story-OEARGd3IKyYyCX9PUNBb2M.html
20-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Is Mumbai India’s New York? And is Maharashtra, India’s New York State?The questions are in the context of the coronavirus disease. New York State accounts for 356,278 (as of Tuesday morning) of the total of around 1.51 million cases in the country – around 23.5%. And 28,302 deaths – 31.3% of the 90,293 deaths in the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageNew York City accounted for 198,114 of these cases and 20,298 deaths – 13.1% and 22.4% of the cases and the deaths in the country, respectively.On Tuesday morning, Maharashtra accounted for 35,058 of India’s 100,311 cases and 1,249 of 3,081 deaths – 35% and 41% respectively.Of these, Mumbai’s share was 21,335 and 757 – 21.2% and 25% of the cases and deaths in the country respectively. That one in four deaths in India from Covid-19 has taken place in its commercial capital and one of its two most important cities is staggering.The comparative figures for Delhi were 10,054 and 160 – 10% and 5.2% of the India total, respectively.The number of cases in Mumbai and Delhi have accelerated in the past two weeks – but so have cases across India.In the two weeks between May 4 and May 18, the number of cases in Mumbai rose by 12,025 (56% of the total cases in Mumbai were recorded since May 4). In the same period, the number of cases in Delhi increased by 5,156 (or 51.28% of the total cases in Delhi were recorded since May 4). At the national level, India has recorded 54% of its cases in the past two weeks.To answer the original question, Mumbai’s trajectory of cases has followed a more even curve than New York City’s, which was steep. But Mumbai is also more densely populated than NY, and smaller (see page 5).As for why, there are no easy answers.Higher testing alone doesn’t explain this, although it may be one reason why both Delhi and Mumbai are showing as many cases as they are.Delhi tests around 7,354 people for every million of its population (according to data available till Monday night). Mumbai was testing 7,040 per million, according to data available till May 14. That number is likely to have increased.Density may be a factor, as could the presence of large slums. Mumbai has Asia’s largest, Dharavi, and it has seen 1,327 cases and 56 deaths thus far.For some time, it looked as if Mumbai was going the New York City way even in terms of the death rate – it was higher than 7% for some weeks in April. It is now 3.5% (number of deaths as a percentage of number of cases). The corresponding proportion for NYC is 10.2%.That’s a huge difference – but it is also in keeping with the trend that the fatality rate of Covid-19 infections in India has remained lower than that in other countries.It’s probably the reason why India shouldn’t worry too much about the spike in cases. Its focus should be on minimising deaths. Tamil Nadu is a good role model (so far). With 11,760 cases till Tuesday, it has seen only 81 deaths, a fatality rate of 0.69%. Almost 70% of the cases in the southern state have been added in the past two weeks.As India opens up even as it sees a spike in cases, comes the good news that Moderna’s mRNA vaccine seeing great results in a limited study of eight people.The vaccine will now have to go through a much larger human trial. Interestingly, if approved, it will become the world’s first mRNA vaccine. In contrast to normal vaccines that use inactive forms of the virus or bacteria causing the disease, mRNA vaccines use messenger RNA from the virus to instruct the body’s own cells to produce the viral protein. The body’s immune system registers and reacts to them, producing what is called an immune reaction. Moderna’s vaccine against Covid-19 did just this.There’s even better news – there’s work happening on similar vaccines in India||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-0Zb4HvqAPHqWsULAkF4JDK.html
20-05-2020||India||12-year-old left alone at night at Uttarakhand quarantine centre, probe ordered||A 12-year-old boy was left alone at night at a quarantine centre in Gangapur village of Nainital’s Haldwani area on Sunday after he returned from Rampur in Uttar Pradesh. The district administration has ordered a probe into the matter.The boy spent the night alone at a primary school while his father waited outside, who had brought dinner for him. After the father gave him dinner and left, the local guard of the school closed the gate. The boy’s father was taken aback as there was nobody in the school to look after his son and so he decided to wait outside to ensure that the boy doesn’t feel alone or frightened.Officials said that there was no one at the quarantine centre to look after the child at night and the gate was opened the next morning after the boy’s father was seen waiting outside.Lalit Sanwal, gram pradhan of Gangapur village, said that the gate had been locked for security purposes.“We had locked the gate for the safety and security of the boy quarantined at the primary school. There was an ASHA worker to look after the child,” said Sanwal.However, the boy’s father alleged that he found the boy alone at the centre. Nirmala Joshi, block development officer and nodal officer for the quarantine centre, said “this is a very serious matter. I have instructed the panchayat secretary to hold an inquiry into this. The minor boy could not have come alone from Rampur. People who accompanied him should also have been quarantined at the same centre,” said Joshi.According to guidelines stated by the government, a minor should be quarantined with his or her family members, who along with the gram pradhan are supposed to look after the minor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-year-old-left-alone-at-night-at-uttarakhand-quarantine-centre-probe-ordered/story-88FHXg5R7ux7LqUgdC6GqK.html
20-05-2020||India||2 migrants workers killed, over 20 injured in road accidents in Odisha||Two migrant workers died and over 20 were injured in four separate road accidents in Odisha on Tuesday. In Angul district, the driver of an LPG tanker was charred to death when a bus carrying 26 migrants on its way to West Bengal from Mumbai rammed headlong into the tanker at Luhamunda area. At least 12 migrants sustained injuries in the accident and were admitted to Angul district headquarters hospital.In a separate incident, a migrant worker of Balasore sitting atop a iron sheet-laden truck was killed when the vehicle hit another truck parked in front of a marine products export company in Bahanaga. The truck driver was seriously injured in the accident. Similarly, an Odia migrant worker was killed as the trolley he was travelling in was hit by a truck from behind near Uliapatna in Soro area of Balasore.In Cuttack district, at least 10 migrant workers were injured as the bus carrying them from Tamil Nadu rammed into a truck parked on the road near Tangi area of the district early this morning. All the injured have been admitted to SCB Medical College and Hospital. The bus was on its way to Bhadrak district.A truck driver was killed after a bus, returning to Bhubaneswar after deboarding migrant workers in Kolkata, collided with the truck near Panapana in Balasore district. The bus driver sustained injuries.Seventeen migrant workers of Odisha have so far died in different circumstances since the lockdown was announced on March 25 to prevent the coronavirus disease from spreading. Last week, Satyaban Swain, a 28-year-old migrant worker from Ganjam working in a private factory of Surat died after he was allegedly beaten up by police while a 56-year-old Dhubei Mohanty, a migrant worker in Kolkata died near Odisha-Bengal inter-state tollgate after tripping on road. An Odia migrant worker in Haryana last week hanged himself to death after failing to come back to his village in Kendrapara district due to lockdown. Gangadhar Biswal, a migrant worker from Kendrapara district was found hanging from a tree in Yamuna Vihar area of Haryana, a day after he posted a video appeal on social media to help him return to his village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-migrants-workers-killed-over-20-injured-in-road-accidents-in-odisha/story-eb28JLgIorC4QI70rTg5FO.html
20-05-2020||India||Rs 20,500-crore loan support for farmers to sow crop||The Union government will issue Rs 20,500 crore worth of quick loans to farmers who need money for the critical summer-sowing season starting in June, a tranche that will be drawn from an already available fund, but which will ultimately be replenished by farm-sector credit announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman,an official from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) said on condition of anonymity.Farmers access agricultural loans, critical for meeting inputs such as fertilisers, seeds and power, through three types of rural banks across states. These are 33 state co-operative banks, 352 district central co-operative Banks and 43 rural regional banks.During India’s summer-sown season, known as kharif, farmers plant the widest variety of crops, such as rice, pulses, groundnut, coarse cereals, sorghum and maize, among others. This accounts for half of India’s annual food output.Farm-sector credit announced by Sitharaman is yet to be notified by the Reserve Bank of India, but the quick loans will go from NABARD, India’s main state-run financier for rural needs.  NABARD will take usual route of reaching farmers. “NABARD will extend Rs 20,500 crore. Of this, Rs 15,200 crore will be extended through cooperative banks and balance Rs 5,300 crore through rural regional banks as a special liquidity facility in various states,” the NABARD official said .“It will augment the resources of cooperative banks and rural regional banks to enable them to extend credit to farmers for pre-monsoon and kharif (summer-sown season) 2020 operations,”this person added.The fund will be made available as a means of “frontloading” of resources of these banks so as to ensure adequate liquidity with them for financing farmers, the official said. Front-loading is a financial term that means upfront injection of liquidity. The government subsidises short-term crop loans to make farming cheaper. Moreover, banks must necessarily lend to farmers because agriculture is a so-called priority lending sector. All scheduled commercial banks must direct 40% of their adjusted net bank credit towards priority sector lending.Farmers get crop loans at a cheaper 7% as compared to consumer loans, on which the interest ranges from 12% and 14%. For those making timely repayments, the effective rate of interest is even lower at 4%.“Farmers have already accessed over Rs 4 lakh crore of such credit this year. Agriculture is the only sector appears better equipped to absorb the lockdown shocks because supply lines of fertilisers and seeds etc have fared better than other goods,” said Abhishek Agrawal, an economist with Comtrade, a commodities firm. The prediction of a normal 2020 June-to-September monsoon by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has brought relief to farmers, as it will likely lessen the strain on the economy from widespread disruptions caused by the Covid-19. The monsoon rains are critical because nearly 60% of India’s net arable land lacks irrigation and half the population depends on agriculture for a livelihood.With good rains, spending by rural consumers on manufactured items such as television sets and gold jewellery goes up, and boosts factory output. A deficient monsoon cuts rural consumption and also drives up inflation. A normal monsoon is key for robust agricultural output growth, which the government targets at around 4%.Agrawal said since incomes of every class had been hurt, a “class of farmers may still be in need of cash”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-500-cr-loan-support-for-farmers-to-sow-crop/story-blxmKFbLWX0j3JHjzzUCGJ.html
20-05-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi to chair Oppn leaders’ meeting||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will on Friday chair an opposition leaders’ meeting via video-conferencing to discuss the impact of the Covid-19 lockdown, the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore package, the plight of migrants, farmers and the suspension of labour laws in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states.A Congress leader said Gandhi and her party’s key ally, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, were keen on holding the meeting and chalk out a future course of action. He said the two spoke twice to finalise the meeting.People aware of the matter said the opposition parties want to put pressure on the government to accept their demands for announcing “adequate relief measures”, including direct cash transfers for the poor, migrant workers, farmers as well as a financial package for micro, small and medium enterprises as part of a revised package to revive the crisis-hit economy.“The opposition parties want to discuss the Covid-19 situation. That is good. We discuss with the government regularly. Now, the opposition parties will discuss how we can do better and what we are facing,” said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.Banerjee’s Maharashtra and Jharkhand counterparts, Uddhav Thackeray and Hemant Soren, Pawar, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam chief MK Stalin, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Communist Party of India general secretary D Raja will attend the meeting. Rashtriya Janata Dal, Indian Union Muslim League, Jammu & Kashmir National Conference, All India United Democratic Front, Loktantrik Janata Dal and Revolutionary Socialist Party leaders, too, are expected to join it. The Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party were yet to confirm their participation, the people added.This will be the first meeting of the opposition leaders since the lockdown was enforced across the country on March 25 to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. The Congress and the BJP have been involved in a war of words on issues like the plight of migrant workers left jobless by the lockdown. The workers have continued to cycle and walk back to their homes even as buses in late April and special trains have been arranged for them since May 1. The Congress has accused the government of being insensitive towards the plight of the workers. The BJP has hit back and blamed the opposition party for politicising the issue. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi interacted with and arranged transportation for a group of workers from Delhi on Saturday.The two parties have also exchanged words over the suspension of major labour laws in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh to help businesses recoup from the Covid-19 blow and to create more jobs.Rahul Gandhi has accused the government of using Covid-19 as an excuse to exploit the workers, suppress their voice and crush their human rights.The Congress has called the Centre’s Covid-19 economic package “hopelessly inadequate” and said it has “left high and dry” several sections, including 130 million families at the bottom half of the population, migrant workers and farmers. It has maintained the package only amounts to Rs 1,86,650 crore, which is barely 0.91% of the GDP, and includes already budgeted expenditure, regulatory measures, and proposed reforms.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the package last week to help individuals and businesses. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has announced details of the package, which the Centre has said is equivalent of a little below 10% of the GDP. BJP refused comment on the meeting.Hyderabad-based political analyst C Narasimha Rao said the entire country is pained at seeing the plight of migrant workers, maintaining that it is the responsibility of both the ruling side and the opposition parties to ensure these stranded labourers return safely to their home states. “The opposition parties should join hands and put pressure on the government to ensure the suffering of the migrant workers is ameliorated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-to-chair-oppn-leaders-meeting/story-3BYCeG84wmK30FiJa6gxFL.html
20-05-2020||India||Covid-19 crisis: 100,000 samples tested for second straight day||Over 100,000 samples were tested for Covid-19 in India on a second consecutive day (101,475) on Tuesday and took the total number of tests to more than 2.4 million in about four months, officials aware of the matter said. On Monday, a record 108,233 samples were tested, more than the target of 100,000 samples daily that the Union health ministry has set. “The testing capacity has been strengthened significantly in the past couple of months, and we already hit a record in a single day by testing more than a lakh [100,000] samples. The cumulative samples that have been tested so far are also inching closer to 25 lakh [2.5 million], which is huge. Our testing capacity is adequate,” said an official on condition of anonymity.The World Health Organisation (WHO) has called on all countries to ramp up their testing as the best way to slow the advance of the pandemic. “We have a simple message to all countries - test, test, test,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in March.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex biomedical research agency, has approved 385 government and 158 private laboratories for testing.In a statement on Tuesday, Union health ministry said through 14 All India Institute of Medical Sciences-like mentor institutions, handholding of labs across the country has been undertaken to ensure adequate bio-safety standards and accreditation of the laboratories. “To maintain a steady supply of testing material to the labs, 15 depots have been created by roping in India Posts and private agencies for distribution. Many Indian companies have been supported to undertake the production of testing material which was earlier primarily sourced from abroad. This has helped in maintaining steady supplies across the country,” it said. ICMR has been periodically revising guidelines for Covid-19 testing. On Monday, a directive widened the testing strategy to include frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation of Covid-19, all hospitalised patients, who develop influenza-like illness (lLl) symptoms, and all symptomatic ILI among returnees from abroad and migrants within seven days of onset of symptoms. “The more you test, the more you know about the disease pattern. It never harms to test more; it should not be less,” said Dr T Jacob John, a senior virologist.The country has also reported 0.2 deaths per 100,000 population as opposed to 4.1 globally, said the ministry’s statement, attributing the relatively low fatalities to timely case identification and clinical management.The number of cases per 100,000 population in the country stands at about 7.1 while it is nearly 60 globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100k-samples-tested-for-second-straight-day/story-N0Yc0K55nsfKOdS90kY8kK.html
20-05-2020||India||Double whammy of pandemic, climate disasters likely this year||Climate disasters this year, including Cyclone Amphan expected to hit India’s eastern coast on Wednesday, are likely to compound the problems related to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic since 2020 is also likely to be the warmest on record, a paper published on May 15 in British Nature journal has warned. There is a 74.67% chance of 2020 being the warmest year ever and a 99.94% chance that it will among the top five warmest years, the American National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said in March.The paper by Massachusetts Institute of Technology scientists and students has listed heat waves in north India, floods in the delta regions of West Bengal and Bangladesh, wildfires in Siberia, bushfires in Australia, locust crises, drought, water scarcity and floods in Africa, a hurricane in the US among others as climate-attributable risks. The risks are likely to intersect with the Covid-19 crisis over the next 12 to 18 months.“A concerning body of evidence already indicates that climate hazards, which are increasing in frequency and intensity under climate change, are likely to intersect with the Covid-19 outbreak and public health response. These compound risks will exacerbate and be exacerbated by the unfolding economic crisis and long-standing socioeconomic and racial disparities, both within countries and across regions,” said the paper.Fiji was hit by a category 5 tropical cyclone Harold in April. The Gulf Coast of the US is bracing for hurricane season while Louisiana has become the Covid-19 mortality hotspot. In South Africa, authorities are struggling to maintain social distancing during flooding in informal settlements. Drought in Zimbabwe has left millions without access to clean water, the paper said.The paper warned extreme heat events in the US and outside are likely to lead to excess mortality and morbidity, disrupt power supplies, hospitals and emergency services, especially in cities.Emergency response agencies and first responders will have to be deployed across multiple crises at the same time. For example, American Federal Emergency Management Agency is coordinating Covid-19 as well as ongoing extreme weather responses. India’s National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is faced with similar dual responsibilities including rescue and evacuation efforts related to Amphan. “Cyclone Amphan is very intense and has the potential to do large-scale damage. It is a big challenge as the cyclone is striking during the outbreak of Covid-19. We [NDRF] are facing two disasters. It a cyclone in the time of Covid-19,” NDRF chief SN Pradhan said.The paper has recommended coordination at every level of government to prevent potential conflicts of strategy across agencies as difficult policy decisions may lie ahead, including whether hospitals, especially intensive care units, can be evacuated safely. It has also recommended policies on managing health risks during large scale evacuation or sheltering. Detailed plans need to be drafted for compound risk preparedness and governments need to ensure continuous electricity and water supply to avoid an increase in transmission of Covid 19, it said.The paper said overall a long-term strategy for pandemic preparedness is also needed. “...Covid-19 is neither the first nor only time that our globalized society will face these types of compound risks; for example, Puerto Rico was forced to stop Zika surveillance and response in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria [2017].”Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, said while they were preparing the recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reports, they realised that the worst-case scenarios are the compound climate events, where multiple extreme events overlap. “For example, floods due to extreme rains and the high tide coming together when the sea level is also high. Or where the warming in the tropical oceans are making it much more fertile in terms of cyclonic activities and intense storm surges [cyclone Amphan is the best example],” said Koll. Koll added even developed nations are not well equipped to mitigate such kind of compound events. “Most of the low-to-middle income nations in the tropics do not have early warning systems in place or long-term policies to adapt and mitigate climate change. Now, on top of that, the Covid-19 pandemic is presenting new hurdles.” Koll said the paper points out that the growing threats of climate crisis cannot be disregarded. “We need a framework to address both the disasters hand-in-hand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/double-whammy-of-pandemic-climate-disasters-likely-this-yr/story-HDLrnTzrq43BHDLXXsusEL.html
20-05-2020||India||Govt tackles twin challenge of cyclone Amphan, Covid outbreak||The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), preoccupied with the enormous challenge of tackling the coronavirus disease and containing its spread, now also has to worry about super cyclone Amphan, which is set to make landfall in West Bengal on Wednesday.According to functionaries familiar with the situation, the PMO’s focus for the past two months has been almost exclusively on Covid-19, whether giving final touches to federal guidelines on how to deal with the public health crisis, coming up with new strategies to contain its spread, ensuring relief for stranded migrant workers or preparing plans for a revival of the economy.With Amphan set to make landfall in West Bengal between Digha and Hatiya Island in Bangladesh on Wednesday afternoon, the PMO as well as the home ministry are in talks with key ministries and states administrations to size up their preparedness to tackle what has been billed as the first super cyclone in the Bay of Bengal since 1999, when over 9,000 people were killed in Odisha.The PMO is engaged in efforts to ensure that plans are in place for the relief and rehabilitation of people at risk of facing the brunt of the storm, officials said. It is also keeping an eye on the supply of food, medicines and other essential items and coordinating between ministries on the logistics of the exercise.“Most of the meetings in the PMO are related to Covid. But from Sunday onwards, there has been one daily meeting on the cyclone,” said an official, requesting anonymity.One of the major concerns that figured during the meetings at the PMO is how the cyclone may impact the battle against Covid in the affected areas.Management of Covid-19 requires strict adherence to guidelines such as social distancing, quarantines and the need to avoid crowded spaces . The concern is that the cyclone, with the potential to throw life out of gear in large areas that lie in its path, may upset their implementation. “When the PMO takes these meetings, the plans are made also keeping in mind that the cyclone will come amidst an extraordinary health situation,” one official saidOn Tuesday, cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba chaired the third meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) to review the preparedness of states, central ministries and other agencies to tackle the cyclone and its aftermath.The India Meteorological Department said the super cyclone was expected to hit the West Bengal coast with wind speeds ranging up to 155-165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph, accompanied by heavy rainfall. Several districts including Kolkata may be affected, it has warned.“Chief Secretary, Odisha and Additional Chief Secretary, West Bengal apprised the NCMC of preparatory measures taken by them. They informed that evacuation of people from the low-lying areas is being carried out. All actions have been taken to stock food grains, drinking water and other essential supplies. Teams for maintenance and restoration of Power and Telecom services have also been positioned,” said a government communique.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-tackles-twin-challenge-of-cyclone-covid-outbreak/story-jDWIjw5jRFN0YLVBQsqXtN.html
20-05-2020||India||As cyclone Amphan nears, 4.2 million evacuated in coastal regions of India, Bangladesh||Nearly 4.2 million people have been moved to safety in the coastal regions of India and Bangladesh anticipating one of the severest cyclones in decades, Amphan, making landfall somewhere on the border of the two countries on Wednesday, officials said.On Tuesday, Amphon was still several hundred kilometres out to sea in the Bay of Bengal, packing winds of up to 235 kmph and gusts of 255 kmph. It is, however, expected to lose some steam before the landfall between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya Islands in Bangladesh.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), cyclone Amphan is expected to cause more damage than its predecessors, cyclone Bulbul in November 2019 and cyclone Alia, 11 years ago. During Bulbul, a total of 1.8 lakh people had been evacuated and about a million people were affected. “We have shared the data with Bangladesh also as part of regional office of World Meteorological Organisation,” said Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director general of regional meteorological centre in Kolkata.The cyclone will hit when India and Bangladesh are in various stages lockdown to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic and the cyclone relief centres in both the countries are being used as quarantines for a large number of migrant workers returning home. Officials said around 2 million have been evacuated in the coastal districts of West Bengal (1.8 million) and Odisha (2 lakh) and about 2.2 million in Bangladesh. In both Bengal and Odisha, the government has turned vacant school, colleges and other government office buildings into relief centres to ensure social distancing norms. At least three West Bengal coastal districts - East Midnapore, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas – and four of Odisha -- Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara --- are likely to bear the brunt of the cyclone.“We have around 60 cyclone shelters. But to maintain social distance we will use nearly 600 schools and colleges, where evacuated people will be shifted,” Partha Ghosh, district magistrate of East Midnapore.In the six coastal blocks of South 24 Parganas, at least 4200 migrants, who returned from other states over the past few days, have been kept in quarantine, some in cyclone shelters. Now, these shelters cannot be used for evacuees and the administration has turned panchayat offices into cyclone shelter homes.“The silver lining is that Covid-19 has not spread in the remote villages of coastal blocks,” said Javed Khan, disaster management minister of Bengal.Even though South 24 Parganas has registered 97 Covid-19 cases till date, none have been reported from its six coastal blocks, where the evacuation is in progress. In East Midnapore, only one of 52 cases has been reported from its six coastal blocks.“Nodal officers have been deputed for each shelter and front line workers, such as police, doctors and civil defence personnel are being given PPEs”, P Ulaganathan, district magistrate of South 24 Parganas, said.In Odisha’s Balasore, where there are 121 Covid-19 cases, officials said only those quarantine centres, which have not been occupied, will be used for cyclone relief. In the state’s Bhadrak district, another low-lying Covid-19 hot spot, district collector Gyana Ranjan Das said arrangements had been made to shift the evacuees to cyclone shelters inside 72 panchayats and 363 schools in the district. “558 schools have also been identified to accommodate more people if required,” he said.In addition to usual items like food, drinking water and medicines, this is the first time that masks and sanitisers, too, are being stocked at the shelters. People were being told about maintaining social distancing norms. “Nodal officers have been deputed for each shelter and front line workers such as police, doctors and civil defence personnel are being be given PPEs”, P Ulaganathan, district magistrate of South 24 Parganas, said.While asking people to maintain social distancing, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said maintaining social distancing “may not be possible everywhere, as the priority was to save lives in the cyclone”.Odisha’s special relief commissioner (SRC) Pradeep Jena admitted that running cyclone relief centres during the pandemic was a challenge and said the situation was “under control” and that the district collectors had been “given a free hand”.Bangaldesh junior disaster management minister, Enamur Rahman, said the number of shelters had been doubled to ensure social distancing, and everyone would be made to wear masks.Banerjee said that nobody should “step outside their homes from Wednesday morning till Thursday noon,” and should wait for government clearance. “Railways and union home ministry have been requested to suspend movement of trains bringing in migrants from other states during the same period,” she said.District administrations in the two states are making public announcements in the coastal areas and have told fishermen not to venture out to sea, while small fishing boats that had ventured out earlier were contacted on distress alert transmitters and asked to returned to shore. NDRF and SDRF have been deployed in Bengal and Odisha’s coastal areas and sandbags are in place to strengthen embankments. Amphan’s impact on Odisha and West Bengal will likely be felt from Tuesday night onwards as wind speeds in the coastal areas are expected to pick up. Kolkata can see wind speed as high as 130 km per hour, an IMD statement said. Jena said gales between 95-110 kmph are likely to pummel the districts of Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Balasore and Mayurbhanj from Wednesday morning onwards even though the impact in Cuttack and Bhuvaneshwar will not be as severe. The entire region, including parts of north-east, will witness heavy to very heavy rainfall because of the cyclone till Friday.(With AFP inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-cyclone-amphan-nears-4-2mn-evacuated-in-coastal-regions-of-india-b-desh/story-bpZ14tH5LNaaDNckvZknDK.html
20-05-2020||India||Virus ideally suited to infect humans: Study||The novel coronavirus is ideally suited to infecting human cells rather than animal ones, a new study by researchers in Australia claims, raising questions about the origin of the virus, which has, until Tuesday, killed over 318,000 people and sickened more than 4.8 million globally.Using an “in silico” or computer simulation method, the researchers found that the data generated indicated “…SARSCoV2 [the virus that causes Covid-19] is uniquely adapted to infect humans, raising questions as to whether it arose in nature by a rare chance event or whether its origins lie elsewhere”.The four researchers, including two trained in India, tested the binding affinity of Covid-19 virus’s “spike protein” to humans and several animals including pangolins.“Notably, SARSCoV2 spike protein had the highest overall binding energy for human ACE2 (a receptor on cells), greater than all the other tested species including bat, the postulated source of the virus. This indicates that SARSCoV2 is a highly adapted human pathogen,” the study found.The study is yet to be peer-reviewed and now available on the prestigious US-based Cornell University’s pre-print server.The research is plausible but the evidence put out to support it was thin,Richard H Ebright, from the department of chemistry and chemical biology at the US’s Rutgers University, told HT.China has consistently denied, and cited international research, to deny that he virus originated in a high-security biology lab in Wuhan Institute of Virology, located in the central Chinese city where the Covid-19 disease broke out late last year.The four researchers of the paper, however, were surprised at the rapid rate at which the virus adapted to humans. “Normally a virus will bind tightly to the cells of its normal host species and less tightly to cells of species it has not infected before. The surprise with COVID is we found that it bound tightest to human cells than any other species we tested. This is either a massive coincidence or Covid-19 has somehow in the past been adapted for human cells. One way in which this can happen is via culture with human cells in a lab,” lead researcher Nikolai Petrovsky a clinician and vaccinologist, told HT over email.The other researchers involved are Sakshi Piplani and Puneet Singh, who are both bioinformatics scientist originally trained in India, and David Winkler, a professor of biochemistry and genetics.Piplani and Petrovsky are affiliated to the Flinders University in Australia, Singh is with Vaxine Pty and Winkler is affiliated to the La Trobe University.“Yes, this virus looks and behaves as if it is perfectly adapted to humans. That is a surprise for a virus that has apparently just entered humans for the first time,” Petrovsky said.He added that zoonotic events, where pathogens jump from animal to human, are not rare and have been regularly witnessed with Ebola, bird flu, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) etc.“What is rare is to not find any animal source of the virus. For example, for MERS it was rapidly identified to be coming from camels, SARS from bats via civet cats, Ebola from bats via monkeys. So far no animal source has been found for Covid-19 – this may still be found, but its absence allows other possibilities to be considered.”Not everyone, like Ebright,is fully convinced.“The conclusion of the paper that the virus was ‘pre-adapted for human transmission’ is consistent with the scenario of lab ‘gain-of-function’ research followed by a lab accident,” Ebright told HT over email.“Gain-of-function” is a scientific research term, which means accelerating research that improves the ability of a pathogen to cause disease.However, the evidence for the conclusion of the paper that the virus was ‘pre-adapted for human transmission’ is thin,” he said.Petrovsky said their study shows the need to carry out more research into the origins of the coronavirus.“Of course, we know there were institutes in Wuhan that were doing research on bat and pangolin coronaviruses to which Covid-19 is most closely related, with genetic elements from both. It is certainly possible that if both viruses ended up in a cell culture together, which is not unheard of in a lab due to cross contamination, then a new variant virus could be created just as it does in an animal that is infected by two viruses at the same time,” he said.“Both scenarios are equally possible, hence the need to do further investigation to see if either of these is the most likely explanation.”The need for further investigation is also emphasised in the research paper.“Given the seriousness of the ongoing SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, it is imperative that all efforts be made to identify the original source of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.”The researchers added: “In particular, it will be important to establish whether Covid-19 is due to a completely natural chance occurrence where a presumed bat virus was transmitted to humans via an intermediate animal host or whether COVID-19 has alternative origins. This information will be of paramount importance to help prevent any similar human coronavirus outbreak in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-ideally-suited-to-infect-humans-study/story-LBF93IypYG0YjS9c7N21vK.html
20-05-2020||India||Drug being tested could help in Covid-19 recovery, say Chinese scientists||A research team at a Beijing university has claimed to have successfully tested an experimental drug on animals that could shorten the recovery time for Covid-19 patients and offer short-term immunity to the pathogen, which has infected 4.8 million people globally and killed over 315,000 since originating in China late last year.A Peking University statement said on Monday that the team led by Sunney Xie, the director of its Beijing Advanced Innovation Centre for Genomics, has “successfully identified multiple highly potent neutralising antibodies against the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, the causative virus of the respiratory disease COVID-19, from convalescent plasma [a blood fluid] by high-throughput single-cell sequencing”.According to a study on the team’s research published on Sunday in the online medical journal Cell, the “potent neutralising antibody could be used to develop drugs for both therapeutic intervention and prophylactic [preventive] protection against SARS-CoV-2”.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“If the Covid-19 epidemic reappears in the winter, our neutralising antibody might be available by that time,” Xie said in the statement.“When we injected antibodies into infected mice, after five days the viral load was reduced by a factor of 2,500,” Xie told the news agency AFP. “That means this potential drug has [a] therapeutic effect.”The drug uses neutralising antibodies -- produced by the human immune system to prevent the virus infecting cells -- which Xie’s team isolated from the blood of 60 recovered patients.Antibodies have been successfully used in treating other viruses like HIV, Ebola and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome. Clinical trials in the US have showed Ebola drug Remdesivir shortened the recovery time in some Covid-19 patients by a third.Over 100 vaccines for Covid-19 are in the works globally even as the World Health Organisation has cautioned developing one could take up to 18 months.Three Covid-19 vaccines have entered phase II of clinical trials in Beijing, a municipal health official has said.Separately, five innovative drugs have also been approved for clinical trials and all of them have entered phase II clinical studies, said Xu Qiang, the head of the Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission.Beijing, Xu was quoted as saying by Xinhua news agency, will accelerate the research and development of diagnostic reagents, drugs, vaccines and medical equipment and support pharmaceutical and vaccine manufacturers in expanding their capacity to meet the increasing demands.The second phase of the clinical trials is expected to be completed successively beginning in JulyA total of 2,036 volunteer participants have been inoculated for the second phase of clinical trials and researchers are assessing whether or not the vaccines are safe and effective, Xinhua reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drug-being-testedcould-help-in-covid-recovery-say-chinese-scientists/story-pWkFOf615yBnX8XfZSXx0J.html
20-05-2020||India||ICMR releases guidelines for testing suspected Covid deaths||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has directed all hospitals to take nasal swab samples from dead bodies of suspected coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, to test for the virus, in a detailed autopsy guideline for patients. “Collect Nasopharyngeal swab at the emergency department/casualty/ward/ICU and should be sent for Covid-19 RT-PCR test in all Suspected cases before moving the body to mortuary for preservation if the same was not sent in due hospital course,” state the guidelines that were released on Tuesday.The research body stated that bodies must not be released from the mortuaries, in case Covid-19 test results are awaited.As the disease is highly contagious, and the staff conducting the autopsy run the risk of contracting the infection, ICMR, in its guidelines, has also directed to treat death in hospital or under medical care due to Covid-19 as a NonMedicolegal case that doesn’t require a medico-legal autopsy and the required certification of death can be done by treating doctors.“The doctors, mortuary technicians and other mortuary staffs in mortuary performing autopsy are exposed to potentially high and dangerous health risks due to coming in direct contact with infected organs, fluids and secretions, even after taking the highest precautions. Hence, non-invasive autopsy technique should be adopted for forensic autopsy,” the directive stated.Since asymptomatic cases and patients in incubation period may not meet the diagnostic criteria for suspected cases, doctors should go by the possible epidemiological history.“…all dead bodies without reliable clinical/ epidemiological history and all unidentified dead bodies should be treated as suspected Covid-19 deaths. Cases with negative swab results also should be treated as suspected Covid-19 deaths as false negative result is not uncommon,” the guidelines stated.There should either be a separate mortuary or a place earmarked for preservation of bodies of unconfirmed Covid-19 cases, as per the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-releases-guidelines-for-testing-suspected-covid-deaths/story-J8rzIkJ0dxVC10bFMxzjdN.html
20-05-2020||India||Rs 6.45 lakh crore loaned to small borrowers||Public sector banks have sanctioned loans worth Rs 6.45 lakh crore in about two-and-a-half months to small borrowers, out of which about Rs 50,000 crore was approved in just one week ending May 15, as the government attempted to alleviate the distress caused to businesses by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and subsequent lockdown. The loans were sanctioned to 5.5 million micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and retail, agriculture and corporate sectors between March 1 and May 15, the finance minister’s office (FMO) tweeted on Tuesday, describing it as a “notable increase compared to the Rs 5.95 lakh crore sanctioned as of May 8.”The loans included Rs 1.03 lakh crore extended as emergency credit lines and working capital enhancements, an increase from Rs 65,879 crore that had been sanctioned between March 1 and May 8, the ministry tweeted from its handle @nsitharamanoffc.Experts cautioned that a more accurate measure of the revival of industrial activity would be the actual disbursal of loans. The finance ministry could not immediately disclose disbursal data. A finance ministry spokesperson declined comment on loan disbursal. “Industrial activity is directly proportional to the credit off take. Companies will not draw money from the sanctioned limit unless they are confident about their returns on investment. When they don’t draw from their sanctioned limits, it automatically indicates inadequate activity,” said an executive member of a small industries association, who requested anonymity. Easy credit and collateral-free loans to the farm sector and MSMEs were components of the Rs 20.97 lakh crore Atamnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Initiative) announced by the Narendra Modi government to revive the economy in the wake of the economic crisis that followed the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown.While announcing the first tranche of the five-part package, finance minister Sitharaman on March 13 unveiled a Rs 3 lakh crore emergency working capital facility for small businesses, Rs 20,000 crore subordinate debt for stressed MSMEs and proposed to set up a “fund of funds” with a corpus of Rs 10,000 crore to provide equity funding support for MSMEs.On May 7, the FMO had said in a series of tweets that India’s economy was “poised to recover” as state-run banks had sanctioned loans worth Rs 5.66 lakh crore over last two months to about 4.2 million account holders belonging to MSMEs, retail, agriculture and corporate sectors, HT reported on May 8.“The industry does need money, particularly MSMEs. It is good that the money has been sanctioned, now disbursal should happen as soon as possible,” Niranjan Hiranandani, president of the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham), had said then. It is of paramount importance that these loan approvals get converted into disbursals as soon as possible, said Sanjay Aggarwal, senior vice president of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-45-l-cr-loaned-to-small-borrowers/story-B2SxxKXfG0DOOICeL49YyH.html
20-05-2020||India||Faster vaccines likely if Moderna effort succeeds||Moderna’s experimental vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has emerged the front-runner in the global effort to stop the pandemic after an early trial showed it produced virus-neutralising antibodies similar to those found in recovered patients.It is one of at least 20 experimental nucleic acid vaccines against Covoid-19 in various stages of clinical development that use the messenger RNA (mRNA) platform to elicit an immune response against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, according to the World Health Organization (WHO)’s draft landscape of Covid-19 candidate vaccines. Most of these vaccines encode the spike protein of Sars-CoV2. “If it is approved, it will be the first messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine against any disease in the world. We don’t fully know the effectiveness of mRNA vaccines as yet. However, there is high quality science and pre-clinical evidence for this fast and flexible platform for vaccine development. We will have to wait and see,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology, New Delhi.The new vaccine, called mRNA-1273, encodes for a pre-fusion stabilised form of the spike (S) protein selected by Moderna in collaboration with the US Vaccine Research Center at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. mRNA vaccines are promising alternatives to conventional vaccine approaches because of their high potency, capacity for rapid development and potential for low-cost manufacture and safe administration.“This is great news as RNA- and DNA-based vaccines are faster and cheaper to produce than synthetic vaccines as it involves synthetic production of the genetic material, and not the virus. The production is lab-based, so it can be quickly standardised and scaled up,” said Dr N K Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research.Vaccines work by training the body to recognise and respond to the proteins produced by disease-causing organisms, such as a virus or bacteria. Traditional vaccines use small or inactivated doses of the pathogen (virus or bacterium), or the proteins it produces, to provoke an immune response after vaccination without causing disease.mRNA vaccines use a synthetic version of the genetic blueprint the virus uses to build its infectious proteins. The synthetic nucleic acid is inserted into human cells, the humans cells read it as instructions to build fragments of the viral protein, which the immune system attacks by building antibodies against them.“Technological advances have made in vivo delivery of mRNA efficient, and several mRNA vaccine platforms against infectious diseases and some cancers have demonstrated encouraging results, in both animal models and humans,” said Ganguly.This makes mRNA vaccines safer for patients as they don’t contain infectious material. Some experimental mRNA vaccines against certain cancers and allergies are in early stage clinical trials, but none have been approved for use.“For its messenger RNA vaccine, Moderna uses lipid-polymer hybrid nanoparticles (LPNs), which are known messengers with established safety. In India, Gennova Pharmaceuticals has also developing an mRNA vaccine, which it will use with its patented carrier lipid iron oxide (LION) and an adjuvant known as GLA-SE,” said Ganguly.Gennova Pharmaceuticals has conducted experiments ... and obtained very high neutralizing antibody titres,” said Ganguly. A senior company official declined comment, saying the work was in its early stages.The US pharma company Pfizer, is working on four nucleic acid vaccines, of which three are mRNA; the other one contains self- amplifying mRNA. Pfizer collaborated with a German company, BNTECH, to identify the most viable candidates and tests are underway in Germany and the US. The DNA vaccine developed by INVIO Pharmaceuticals work is in phase I /II trials at the International Vaccine Institute in South Korea..There is no approved vaccine for Sars-CoV2, although around 120 vaccine candidates are in various stages of clinical trial. “If mRNA-1273 is successful, it should be ready for commeriail use by January next year,” said Ganguly.Moderna’s vaccine will be produced by the US government and Swiss contract drugmaker, Lonza Group, which has said it will produce one billion doses a year. “We are investing to scale up manufacturing so we can maximize the number of doses we can produce to help protect as many people as we can from Sars-CoV-2,” Moderna Chief Executive Officer, Stéphane Bancel said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faster-vaccines-likely-if-moderna-effort-succeeds/story-Lvc7kBvUe9fzvmhPkmKoPI.html
20-05-2020||India||TikTok faces criticism as NCW leads calls for ban over hate content||TikTok, a video-sharing social networking site owned by Chinese firm ByteDance, where millions of Indians post short videos of just about anything is in the midst of a storm with the National Commission of Women and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh both turning their guns on it. Rekha Sharma, the chairperson of the National Commission for Women said that several videos of women being abused have beein shared on the platform. She said on Twitter that she is of the strong opinion that the platform should be banned She added that the app was also “pushing youngsters towards unproductive life where they are living only for few followers”She said her attention was drawn to a video where a person seemed to be throwing acid on a girl. “We wrote to TikTok to take it down and they cooperated. Soon, we were shown hundreds of videos, with abusive content; videos inferring rape, domestic abuse and molestations. We got in touch with TikTok and showed them some more of the videos; we are waiting for their response,” said Sharma. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s paper, Organiser, in an editorial accused TikTok of enabling Chinese propaganda, harbouring Islamic terrorism and of allowing Muslim men to flout safety measures. “TikTok’s censorship rules which allows all such content is very sensitive when it comes to China. It is clear that it censors posts in India that mention China or Tibet. It is known that TikTok, a video-sharing social networking service, is owned by a Chinese company called ByteDance. However, it is very concerning that the company which is concerned only about China is allowing violent content including videos that glorify rape, acid attacks and terrorism,” the editorial read. On Twitter, Delhi BJP spokesperson Tajinder Pal Bagga, too, called for a ban of the platform, and urged BJP leader Maneka Gandh, also an animal activist, to take action against videos showing cruelty to animals. The calls for ban have been accompanied by hundreds of users down-voting the app on the Android Playstore and it went from being rated 4 stars to 2 stars in a matter of two days. An online petition to have the app banned has been initiated and the petitioner Abhiemanyu Anand Tyagi says that the platform promotes “love jihad”, “religious conversions”, “corona carriers”, “child sex abuse”, “rape threats”. A TikTok spokesperson said that the platform clearly outlines in its terms of service and community guidelines what is not acceptable on our platform. It’s Twitter profile described the platform as “just an anti-fake news account”. “Keeping people on TikTok safe is a top priority and as per the policy, we do not allow content that risks safety of others, promotes physical harm or glorifies violence against women. The behaviour in question violates our guidelines and we have taken down content, suspended the account, and are working with law enforcement agencies as appropriate,” the TikTok spokesperson said.A senior official of the IT ministry said that the ministry usually deals with individual complaints of content on any platform, after which it asks the platform to take it down. “Law enforcement agencies sometimes inform us about disturbing content, and we get in touch with the company to take it down,” said the official. Banning a platform, the official said, is rare. “If a platform routinely flouts norms, and does not take down content, then it can invite serious action from the Centre,” added this person who asked not to be named. TikTok India has courted several controversies earlier. Last year in July, an RSS-affiliate, the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, wrote to the Centre asking for a new law to test and regulate apps like TikTok as India does not have any regulations to monitor any illegal activity on such platforms. Last month, TikTok clocked 2 billion users globally, and said there are 611 million users in India; most of them were on Android platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiktok-faces-criticism-as-ncw-leads-calls-for-ban-over-hate-content/story-teLpPZtz5MpdpfFt1rv0kO.html
20-05-2020||India||‘Mutations in virus not specific to India,’ says Harsh Vardhan||The Sars-CoV-2 viruses causing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has three major strains, but no key mutation specific to India has been found that affects infectiveness or disease severity, said Minister of Health and Science & Technology Dr Harsh Vardhan in his first interview after Covid-19 cases crossed 100,000 in India on Monday. He said calibrated lockdowns and public health measures have delayed the peaking of the curve in India and prevented the dramatically high numbers predicted by several modelling studies, but warned that how the pandemic progresses now will depend on how closely people follow mobility restrictions, social isolation and personal hygiene norms. Edited excerpts:When is the pandemic expected to peak in India?We have successfully managed to delay the peaking of the curve by imposing lockdown and other public health measures in a timely manner. There are several mathematical models which are predicting the course of the pandemic in India, but till now, we have managed to avoid the dramatically high numbers that they predicted. Right now, with the calibrated lockdowns being implemented, we have tried to contain the spread of infection. It is difficult to predict numbers as they will depend on the adherence of restrictions on mobility and intermingling, observance of personal hygiene, and prevention of exposure to infection by people in different areas. Additionally, it will also depend on the proportion of those infected among migrants and travellers from outside and within.Has community transmission begun in India?The World Health Organization (WHO) has defined four stages of Covid-19 outbreak: Countries with no cases, countries with sporadic cases; countries with clusters; and countries experiencing larger outbreaks of local transmission (community transmission). How large is an outbreak that constitutes a community transmission has not been defined by WHO, so what people refer to as community transmission differs from country to country.In India, the virus has come from foreign sources through travellers coming from outside. We generally consider a case to be a ‘case of community transmission’ when there is no clarity on the source of origin of the infection in a new community. Let me explain again. Community spread in India would mean that cases are occurring in people who did not have any known contact with travellers from overseas infected countries. However, this is not happening, implying that there is no community transmission in India.Although there are some clusters of local spread, the numbers being reported are not indicative of community transmission, which would have likely resulted in a larger number of cases given the expanded testing. Central teams have been deployed in 10 states witnessing a high burden of cases to investigate the sites with higher transmission. In addition, 69 districts will be brought under surveillance to understand the burden and disease trends in greater detail.Is India prepared for the projected rise in cases after work and travel restrictions end?India has massively scaled up all aspects of preparedness. There are around 535 laboratories across the country, more than one lakh samples are tested per day, and 24,04,267 people have been tested. The testing strategies are constantly being examined in light of emerging evidence. India has also developed ELISA-based antibody testing kits, which will provide testing alternatives.India now has the capacity to produce over 250,000 PPE units every day. This expansion of capacity is a real success story as we were entirely dependent on imported PPEs in the pre-pandemic period. We have also scaled up the availability of hospital beds, and oxygen supply linked beds, to enable supportive treatment of Covid-19 patients. While there are sufficient ventilators, our goal is to prevent patients from going on ventilators because the global experience shows that once patients go on ventilators, the mortality rate is very high.Overall, we are focusing on preparedness in the community (physical distancing, phased relaxation of lockdown), augmenting healthcare facilities (more beds, oxygen support, ICU) and public health management measures (surveillance, testing) to ensure that a holistic plan is in place to combat the threat of resurgent infections once the lockdown is lifted in a phased manner at varying levels in different districts.How many genomic sequences of SARS-CoV2 has India submitted to the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID)?India has contributed around 226 genomic sequences of SARS-CoV-2 so far to the around 25,000 sequences of SARS-CoV-2 that have been shared with unprecedented speed via GISAID. A 1,000-genome sequencing initiative has been launched by Department of Biotechnology (DBT), and 500 are being sequenced by the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR).What are the findings? Are there any key mutations in the SARS-CoV2 virus causing disease in India?The key mutations in SARS-Cov-2 virus have been found in spike glycoprotein (D614G, G1124V), nucleocapsid (R203K, G204R), RNA dependent RNA Polymerase (P323L) . The circulating viruses in India belong to three major strains. The majority of our samples belong to A2a and about 15% to A3 genotypes. There are a few samples belonging to genotypes B, B1, B4, and A1a. They do not have any mutation that has been reported to be associated with any disease progression or acquisition so far. So, despite the fact that no key mutation specific to India has been found in the virus and it still continues to be an imported virus strain, we cannot afford to be complacent. We have to remain vigilant and continue tracking the virus to identify emerging quasi-species or strains.How many states have the SARS-CoV2 genetic samples been sequenced from? Is there any difference in the strains causing infections across states?Sequences are currently mostly from Kerala, Karnataka, West Bengal, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh -- most belong to A2a clade, while some belong to A3 and B1 clades. It is too early to detect major differences. We are trying for a systematic study of viral RNA sequence from different zones of India and correlate with disease severity.What has been the role of government institutions in the Covid-19 response, including diagnostic, drug and vaccine development?The focus is on self-reliance. We have ramped up our capacity for developing Indigenous testing kits. From being completely dependent on imports, we now have over 20 indigenous manufacturers with a diagnostic kit production capacity of nearly 50 lakh kits per month getting ready by the end of May. This includes indigenous components and reagents.The government’s role has been very proactive in supporting innovation for vaccine development, development of cost-effective diagnostic equipment , as well as drug discovery and repurposing. The Covid Consortium, under DBT-BIRAC (Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council), has supported 70 projects under various categories of vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics. Support has been also given to medical devices such as ventilators and equipment such as PPEs, N-95 masks etc, and for drugs and vaccine development. Funding start-ups that offer immediate solutions has been fast-tracked to address the Covid challenge.Some US studies have found hydroxychloroquine to be ineffective against Covid-19? What is India’s experience?The recent study from New York which failed to find any mortality benefits associated with the use of hydroxychloroquine is a retrospective cohort study. There are several caveats in the study which need to be accounted for. First, the design of the study precludes attribution of the causal effect of the use of hydroxychloroquine on the disease outcomes. Second, the recipients of the drug were already suffering from severe disease, thus making the comparative sample groups unfair. Third, the best effect of hydroxychloroquine based strategy is seen when initiated in the mild to moderate disease stage. Several clinical trials are underway, and once their results are declared, we shall have definite evidence of the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine.Several studies are also underway in India, and as the results emerge, we shall be able to provide more insights into the experiences locally. However, early reports from the pharmacovigilance programme indicate that there are no unexpected spikes of adverse reactions from the use of hydroxychloroquine in the country.What is the progress on the WHO Solidarity Trial in India?In India, we plan to randomise at least 1,500 Covid-19 patients over five to six months. The trial has been initiated with 46 randomised Covid-19 patients, symptomatic adults who have been recently hospitalized and have not yet received hydroxychloroquine. We are not enrolling any asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. The nature of care proposed as part of the randomized trial include providing only local standard of care, administering Remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, Lopinavir / Ritonavir or Lopinavir / Ritonavir with Interferon Beta-1a. So far, around 2,500 people have been randomized globally. Being a five-arm study, large numbers (> 10,000) are required, although there is no cap on sample size. It’s not possible to give timeframe for outcomes as the analysis resulting from these trials is global.Is the effect of BCG vaccination being studied in India?BCG vaccination has been found to be an immunomodulator in malignancies and also protects against certain infectious diseases. Several high-income countries, which do not have routine BCG vaccination in childhood, have initiated clinical trials of BCG in high-risk groups, especially in healthcare workers. Currently, there are two ongoing clinical trials in India. Serum Institute of India (in Pune) is conducting a trial of VPM1002 and Cadila is conducting a trial using mycobacterium indicus pranii. However, we have to keep in mind the fact that India has very high rates of BCG vaccination at birth, and this could be an effect modifier or confounder in the results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mutations-in-virus-not-specific-to-india-harsh-vardhan/story-eaT55M4k3dLVSnDWs1NXBP.html
20-05-2020||India||Infections rise in four states after migrants return||The return of migrants workers from Delhi and Mumbai, the two worst-hit cities by the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, has led to a spike in the infections in Rajasthan, Karnataka, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, multiple officials in these states said.Migrant workers left jobless by the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic spread in late March have been cycling and walking back to their homes from big cities like Mumbai and Delhi. The number of returnees has gone up since buses in late April and special Shramik trains were arranged from them beginning May 1. As many as 759 migrants have tested positive for Covid-19 since May 1 in Rajasthan. Officials said a majority of them have returned from Mumbai. Barring Jaipur, Kota, Bundi and Ganganagar, migrants have been tested positive for the disease in the rest of 29 Rajasthan districts including Bhilwara, which had reported no infections for almost 20 days.Till now, 5,87,880 migrant workers have returned to Rajasthan and the state has 5,507 Covid-19 cases. Rajasthan’s additional chief secretary (health) Rohit K Singh said they have marked 11 districts as red as they fear an escalation in the number of cases as most migrant workers are expected to return in the coming days. He added they were upgrading medical infrastructure in these districts like Barmer, Udaipur, Bikaner, Bhilwara, Jodhpur and Rajsamand. Singh said a majority of the workers found Covid-19 positive have returned from Mumbai and Gujarat.Bhilwara collector Rajendra Bhatt said 42 migrants have been diagnosed with the disease and a majority of them-- 30--have returned to the district from Mumbai, followed by Gujarat (10) and Madhya Pradesh (2). Migrant workers account for 159 out of 164 Covid-19 cases in Dungarpur and most of them have returned from Mumbai, said district collector Kana Ram. His Pali counterpart, Ansh Deep, said a majority of the infected people in his district, too, have arrived from Mumbai where they worked as vegetable, fruit and ice-cream vendors.Bihar had tested 8,337 out of 5.30 lakh migrants (1.57%) who have returned to the state till Monday.Bihar’s principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said 26% of the migrant workers tested Covid-19 positive have returned from Delhi. “Of the 8,337 samples of migrant tested so far, 651 (8%) have been reported positive...,” Kumar said on Monday. About half of the Covid-19 cases in Bihar (1,392) were migrants who have returned since May 3. As many as 26% of them have come from Delhi followed by 12% from West Bengal, 11% from Maharashtra, 9% from Haryana and 7% from Gujarat. “The health department has been very attentive to the arrival of migrants and [is] analysing data on a continuous basis,” Kumar said. Bihar had received 530,000 migrant workers until Sunday and around a million were expected to return by May 27.According to the Karnataka health department’s data, migrants from Mumbai accounted for 66 of the 99 new cases reported on Monday. A few of the cases were of people, who have returned from Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. Karnataka has reported 1,692 total cases and half of them are those, who have retuned to the state after May 1.Uttar Pradesh has not provided data on how many migrant workers have tested positive, but health officials said a large number of them, who have returned from Delhi and Mumbai, have been diagnosed with the disease.“More than half of the workers, who have tested positive, are from Delhi and about one-fourth from Mumbai. Fortunately, all of them are in quarantine centres and have no symptoms,” said an official in Saharanpur district, who did not want to be named.Gujarat’s southern districts have reported a surge in Covid-19 cases due to the return of migrants from neighbouring Maharashtra. One-third of the total Covid-19 cases in Odisha are migrants who have returned to the state from Gujarat’s Surat. “In districts such as Dang, Narmada and Valsad, many of the new cases are of the persons who have returned from Mumbai or Pune in Maharashtra,” Gujarat health secretary Jayanthi Ravi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infections-rise-in-four-states-after-migrants-return/story-bBzKZGN49Zm5MgAZtiunNP.html
20-05-2020||India||In Bengal, increase in testing but rise in cases the same||West Bengal’s average daily increase in the number of Covid-19 patients has remained almost the same over the past fortnight even though the testing rate has increased by over three folds, according to an analysis of available data. This has resulted in a sharp decline in the percentage of Covid-19 positive people among those tested for the disease.Between May 5 and 7, the state tested 7,637 samples, averaging 2,545 daily. In those three days, 289 more people tested positive, with an average of 96.3 people daily. But between May 17 and 19, the state tested 24,994 samples, with 8,331 tests daily on an average. During these days, 385 people tested positive, with an average of 128 persons daily. With this, the state has recorded a significant improvement in the percentage of people tested positive for the disease among those tested for it. The percentage stood at 4.87% on May 5. It has since come down to 3.11% on May 17.The state’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) claimed that this was because of the state’s success in containing the spread of the disease even as the figures have intrigued a section of doctors.“The data reflects the state’s success in containing the diseases by enforcing a successful lockdown. The people are also to be thanked for maintaining the lockdown,” said Santanu Sen, TMC Rajya Sabha lawmaker. Sen, a doctor, has been one of the important persons in chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Covid-19 management team.West Bengal Doctors’ Forum secretary Koushik Chaki said the data could be misleading. “This mismatch in the rate of testing and the percentage of people testing positive could have happened due to more testing in the areas lesser affected by the disease. One example is that whereas a good number of tests have been conducted in north Bengal, too few persons tested positive there,” said Chaki. “Whether the infection rate in the state is indeed low can be said only after knowing how much tests have been conducted in the highly-affected districts of Kolkata, Howrah and North 24-Parganas and how many in the containment zones.”Punyabrata Goon, another doctor, said the figures indicate more testing in relatively unaffected areas. “There are hints that the state may have been able to contain the spread but more test reports are needed to say so convincingly.” A health department official, who did not want to be identified, said that the high rate of negative results is also because of pool testing in some pockets of the state, especially north Bengal. “Nearly 11,000 tests were conducted in the districts of Malda and Murshidabad but only 43 cases were reported from these districts.”An Inter-Ministerial Central Team, which visited West Bengal to assess the Covid-19 situation, earlier this month alleged discrepancies in reporting of cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-increase-in-testing-but-rise-in-cases-the-same/story-piKbJxvi5DPG27yzwZKJzO.html
20-05-2020||India||Gujarat Covid tally crosses 12,000-mark||Gujarat, the third worst-hit state by Covid-19, trailing only Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, crossed 12,000 positive cases on Tuesday. Maharashtra has 35,058 confirmed cases of the viral disease and Tamil Nadu 12,448 .Gujarat recorded 395 more positive cases on Tuesday and 25 deaths in the past 24 hours. “Till Tuesday evening 12,141 cases and 719 deaths have been reported,” said Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health). “Out of these 25 deaths, 16 deceased had comorbid conditions. Also, 239 people were discharged in the same period. As of now condition of 6,330 patients is stable and 49 are on ventilators,“ she said.Ashwini Kumar, secretary to the chief minister, urged the people of Gujarat to adhere to restrictions that still remain in place after recent lockdown relaxations.Shops only related to essential services would remain open in containment zones and that too only between 9 am and 3 pm, Kumar said. Similarly, in non-containment areas, shops and offices will be open from 7 am to 6 pm on the basis of the odd-even formula. Drug stores, health care and medical facilities will be open 24 hours.Kumar added that a night curfew will be imposed from 6 pm to 8 am across the state which will be implemented very strictly. “All the shifts of employees in all the industries will have to be completed by 06:00 in the evening as per the concession given to start phased industry business in the state. All industrial houses should be vigilant so that employees can reach their homes by 6.00 pm so that there are no cases of curfew violations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-covid-tally-crosses-12k-mark/story-5oFBRJWXDRSlHBzkLy6IWP.html
20-05-2020||India||3 Gulf returnees booked for hiding medical history in Kerala||Police have booked three persons in Kollam on Tuesday for allegedly hiding their health status and travelling from the Gulf. They tested positive on their arrival in Kollam medical college hospital and later they reportedly told the police that they had symptoms before their travel. “We have registered cases against them under the Disaster Management Act,” said Kollam rural police superintendent S Harishankar.Now health authorities have asked all travellers who arrived by the Abu Dhabi-Thiruvananhtpuram flight on Sunday to undergo PCR tests immediately.Many complaints have surfaced that people often suppress their fever by taking paracetamol tablets before taking flights to escape thermal scanners, said a senior health official. There are also unconfirmed reports that these three had tested positive during anti-body tests in Abu Dhabi and they were allowed to board the flight in last moment, the three told the police during questioning. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had termed their behaviour “most irresponsible.” “It is a serious issue. We will take it up with the Union Government and embassies concerned. We have been asking for thorough tests before taking our expatriates. The affected will endanger others also,” the CM had said on Monday. Later police in Kollam (south Kerala) registered cases against them under the disaster prevention act.A 34-year-old nurse from Kuwait, who was cured of the disease in Malappuram in north Kerala, tested positive on Monday. “She landed at Kozhikkode airport from Kuwait with a cured certificate. She was asked to come for a re-test after a week and tested positive again. This is first of its sort in the state but in others parts of the country such cases reported,” said Malappuram district medical officer K Sakeena. She said a special medical board has been constituted to treat her.With 38 flights from foreign countries and 24 trains from other states scheduled to arrive in the next two weeks, the state is bracing for a major surge in cases. Arrivals from West Asian countries and other states led to a surge in active cases from 16 to 130 in last 11 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-gulf-returnees-booked-for-hiding-medical-history-in-kerala/story-bxTAI9BBbPBxs8664NP3FM.html
20-05-2020||India||States should be ready before domestic flights restart: Puri||Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday said that states should be ready to allow the resumption of regular domestic flight operations as the Centre alone cannot make a decision in this regard. “ In the spirit of cooperative federalism, the govt of states where these flights will take off & land should be ready to allow civil aviation operations,” Puri tweeted. Flight operations have remained suspended since March 25 when the lockdown to check the Covid-19 pandemic was imposed.The government on Sunday lifted several stringent curbs and allowed interstate travel and local transport like buses as it extended the lockdown until May 31. Regular flights will continue to be prohibited across the country. Cargo, medical evacuation, and special flights have operated during the lockdown.The Airports Authority of India has issued guidelines for the resumption of flights in a “graded manner”. It has asked passengers to wear masks, other protective gear and maintain at least four-feet distance from co-passengers whenever the operations resume. Puri has said airport operations are likely to open only in a graded manner with nearly 25-30% of capacity initially. They will be scaled up to their original level in a gradual manner, according to the government’s plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-should-be-ready-before-domestic-flights-restart-puri/story-lyTj7SwsKim5rDHCmaOXwJ.html
20-05-2020||India||Covid-19 crisis: Is worst yet to come for Maharashtra? Experts weigh in||On Monday night, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray addressed the state on social media – a much-anticipated speech on the possible easing of lockdown restrictions in the state.That wasn’t to be. Instead, he said, his government will continue to with red zone restrictions in the state and will not ease the lockdown until at least May 31. The reason? The rising number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, and feedback that told him things would have been even worse, possibly “alarming” without the lockdown. Soon after his speech, the state health department released the daily Covid-19 numbers for Maharashtra. In the previous 24 hours, the state had added 2033 new cases, taking the total positives to 35,058. In the same time, authorities recorded 51 deaths. Maharashtra now has 1,249 deaths. This meant that Maharashtra has more than three times the number of cases recorded by Tamil Nadu (11,760), Gujarat (11,746) and Delhi (10,554) – the three states immediately below it in the Covid-19 affected list. Simultaneously, Maharashtra accounts for 39.41% of all Covid-19 fatalities in India (Mumbai’s share in this grim statistic is 23.89%).There are more sobering numbers from Maharashtra: It recorded 20,607 coronavirus cases in the last 14 days (May 5-18), averaging 1471 new cases per day. Mumbai recorded 12,025 cases in the same time, averaging 859 per day. Earlier this week, both Maharashtra and Mumbai reported record one-day spikes (2347 and 1595 cases respectively on May 17).To be sure, a similar trend was observed throughout India during this period; 54% of the country’s 102,287 cases (6 pm, May 19) have been recorded in the last two weeks.State health minister Rajesh Tope indicated earlier this week that the worst is yet to come. “We expect the cases to peak by the end of June,” he said. But some experts differ, saying that it may come down after 14 days (May 31) when the fifth incubation period of the virus will be over. Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) said on Tuesday, “We will have to wait for another 14-day incubation cycle to complete (by May 31). After this, the rise is likely to come under control, and we may witness a gradual decline. If it does not reduce then, we may be in the community transmission stage.”He added that state has not reached community transmission stage as there is no exponential growth in the number of fresh cases. For comparison, Maharashtra recorded 24,588 cases in the first 18 days of May, whereas it recorded 10,201 cases in April. It took the state 30 days to reach 1000 cases, but only 23 more for 10,000.The numbers, while on a rising trajectory, have not resulted in a high death rate. On April 12, Maharashtra and Mumbai recorded the highest mortality rate of the pandemic – 7.52% and 7.09% respectively. On May 18, this dropped to 3.56% and 3.55%. India’s overall mortality rate is 3.1%.Maharashtra’s testing rate has also risen dramatically in a month. On April 14, the state was testing at an average of 290 per million population. However, on May 19, according to Maharashtra Medical Education and Drugs Department data, the testing rate had risen to 2409 per million. Tamil Nadu is testing at 4463 per million, according to the state’s health department.Dr Satyajit Rath, retired scientist from the Delhi-based National Institute of Immunology and adjunct faculty at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, said, “It is always good to test more. But the fact remains that the crucial time to be testing extensively was in the early stages of the epidemic when outbreak control was much more feasible. Now, we have established local transmission. While it remains very important to test a lot, increasing overall testing numbers by itself may not have a big effect on slowing down transmission rates in local events.”Another scientist, Abhay Chowdhary, agrees. Dr Chowdhary is the head of the department of microbiology at Navi Mumbai-based DY Patil University and former director of Haffkine Institute for Training, Research and Testing. “Even though the state is running more tests, individuals are violating physical distancing rules, for instance, in containment zones. As a result, those infected get mixed with the healthy population,” said Chowdhary on Tuesday. “This is more worrisome in the case of those who are suffering from existing ailments. Even if 1-2% individuals have co-morbid conditions, it will put an immense strain on the state’s health care infrastructure.”The state government said last week that it has resolved to make the entire state a green zone by the end of the month(currently there are 18 red zone districts). This seems unlikely as, according to the health minister Rajesh Tope, “all the predictions about Mumbai and Maharashtra have not come true. The numbers are rising and we feel that the peak is yet to come.According to our mathematical models, the number of cases in Mumbai will likely be four times the current figure by the end of June. We are trying to prevent it, but have to be prepared for the worst and hope for the best.”Dr Rath says one of the hurdles to get more testing is the paucity of labs.But that the biggest failure may have been the underfunding of our health care system. “We have underfunded our public health system and starved it of resources for a long time; a problem that we cannot now fix overnight. I can only hope that we do not forget this mistake once the pandemic passes.”(With inputs from Faisal Malik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-still-rising-maha-braces-for-covid-peak/story-VY6xO8X1oYdGmNVabEZiQO.html
20-05-2020||India||22 migrant workers killed in road accidents across 5 states||Twenty-two people were killed in separate road accidents in five states on Tuesday, taking the death toll in such incidents involving migrant labourers to at least 162 during the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Nine people died in Bihar, four in Maharashtra, six in two separate accidents in Uttar Pradesh, one in Jharkhand, and two in as many incidents in Odisha, according to state officials.The accident in Bihar’s Bhagalpur took place when a truck with the migrants rammed a bus, which too was carrying labourers who returned on a Shramik Special train on Monday night. Four passengers in the bus, which was on the way to Banka district from Darbhanga, suffered injuries. The truck, which was carrying iron poles, skidded off the road and fell into a ditch after the collision on NH-31 around 4am. The nine victims sitting atop were buried under the poles, Bhagalpur district magistrate Pranav Kumar said. According to the documents found in their possession, they were residents of east and west Champaran districts. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief over the accident and announced a compensation of ~4 lakh to family members of each victim. In Maharashtra’s Yavatmal district, three migrant labourers and a bus driver were killed and 22 others injured after their vehicle hit a stationary truck early on Tuesday, the police said. Among those injured, 17 were reported to be in a serious condition.The accident took place at Kolwan village around 3.30am, when the bus was on its way from Solapur to the Nagpur railway station. The labourers were going there to board a Shramik Special train to reach their home towns in Jharkhand, additional superintendent of police Noorul Hasan said. The bus driver lost control and the vehicle hit a stationary truck carrying road construction material, he said. In UP, two separate accidents involving migrant workers were reported. In the first incident, a truck carrying labourers overturned on the Jhansi-Mirzapur highway, killing three women — between 30 and 38 years — and leaving 17 others injured, the police said. The accident took place at Mahuva crossing in Mahoba district. The labourers had returned from Delhi and boarded the truck near Harpalpur along the Madhya Pradesh border. The truck fell into a roadside ditch after a tyre burst. In the second accident, three workers travelling in a car were killed when their vehicle rammed a stationary mini-truck in Azamgarh district. Superintendent of police Trivedi Singh said: “The accident took place in Jameendashav village under Atraulia police station when the driver of the car dozed off. As a result, he lost control over the car and rammed it into a stationary mini-truck.”In Odisha’s Angul district, the driver of an LPG tanker was charred to death when a bus carrying 26 migrants on its way to West Bengal from Mumbai rammed into the tanker . At least 12 migrants sustained injuries.A migrant worker of Balasore sitting atop a iron sheet-laden truck was killed when the vehicle hit another truck parked in front of a marine products export company. Another migrant worker killed as the trolley he was travelling in was hit by truck.According to data collected by HT reporters, at least 162 migrants have died in such accidents since the beginning of the lockdown on March 25. In the past fortnight alone, 42 migrant labourers have died in two major accidents. On May 8, a goods train ran over 16 people who were sleeping on the tracks in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad on their way back to their village in MP on foot. Then on May 16, 26 workers died after the truck they were travelling in rammed another vehicle in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya district.The nationwide lockdown left migrant workers without jobs and a way to get back home. It was only in late April that some states started transporting their workers back from other states using buses and only on May 1 that the government started running special trains for them. In a communication to states on Tuesday, the Union home ministry asked states and Union Territories to operate more Shramik Special trains in coordination with Indian Railways to ferry the migrants. “I appeal state governments to help the migrants, register their names and provide the list to the railways. I also appeal the migrants to stay where they are, and the Indian Railways will soon help them reach their hometowns,” said railway minister Piyush Goyal. The home secretary also asked states and UTs to ensure that no migrant worker has to resort to walking on roads or railway tracks to reach their destination.(With inputs from HTC in states and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-migrant-workers-killed-in-road-accidents-across-5-states/story-LtPzB20mKFUtXdke8El6bK.html
