22-05-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray asks officials to see if television shootings can resume in Mumbai suburbs||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday directed officials of the state cultural department to study if television shootings can restart at Film City in Goregaon east in the western suburbs of Mumbai. In a meeting with a delegation of film producers and broadcasters, Thackeray asked them to identify safe and secluded locations where film and television shooting can resume with all health guidelines followed.The Maharashtra chief minister asked the delegation to prepare a plan on how they could restart shooting and other production-related work. The cultural affairs department would study the plan, Thackeray said assuring the delegation that the television industry provides livelihood to several people and he is not in favour of keeping everything shut. Representatives of the Indian Broadcasting Foundation, including its chief NP Singh, coordinator Punit Goenka, along producers Ekta Kapoor, Nitin Vaidya among others had a meeting with Thackeray via video-conferencing where Shiv Sena functionary and actor Aadesh Bandekar was also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-asks-officials-to-see-if-television-shootings-can-resume-in-mumbai-suburbs/story-13Z0c8tbDlpCVMsC8sHz6K.html
22-05-2020||India||Govt relaxes travel restrictions on OCI cardholders||New Delhi: The Centre on Friday relaxed travel restrictions to allow certain Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) cardholders, including children of Indian nationals living abroad, to come to the country, according to an order issued in this regard. The others allowed to travel include those wanting to come for family emergencies, students whose parents are Indian citizens living in India, and spouses of Indian nationals with permanent residence in the country. “The travel restrictions, imposed earlier by MHA [ministry of home affairs] on May 7 would not apply to any aircraft, ship, train or any other vehicle deployed for bringing back the... categories of OCI cardholders who are stranded abroad,” said a government press release.India in March first suspended almost all visas and visa-free travel privileges of OCI cardholders. The suspension was extended subsequently in April and May as part of measures to stave off the Covid-19 pandemic. India in late March imposed a lockdown to check the pandemic spread and suspended air, rail and road transport. India will resume domestic flights beginning May 25.Officials aware of the matter said OCI cardholders exempted from the travel restrictions are likely to be included in the third phase of the government’s expatriation programme, Vande Bharat Mission, for Indian citizens stranded abroad after June 13. They added if any seats are vacant on the flights being operated as part of the second phase of the mission, then OCI cardholders will be brought in as well. The second phase of the mission started on May 16 and is expected to bring back around 32,000 Indian citizens on over 160 flights from 47 countries.The government had last month indicated that the first priority was Indian nationals stranded abroad before requests from OCI cardholders to be allowed to travel to India could be taken up. Officials said only those categories with an immediate need to travel have been exempted among OCI cardholders for travel to India.According to the government data, around 200,000 Indian nationals have registered to return to the country and the government is prioritising travel of those with compelling reasons like people who have lost jobs overseas, pregnant women, and others with medical emergencies. There are over 3.4 million OCI cardholders, according to the external affairs ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-relaxes-travel-restrictions-on-oci-cardholders/story-KNm65NVUy8pWMzIOx17BxO.html
22-05-2020||India||MP battles with swarms of desert locusts heading towards Maharashtra||Swarms of desert locusts have reached districts of Madhya Pradesh close to Rajasthan border, travelling thousands of kilometers from west Asia through Pakistan looking for food, a sight not seen in the central Indian state since 1993, officials said on Wednesday, as the state has asked farmers to spray chemicals and play loud music to shoo away the unusual guests. The Madhya Pradesh agriculture department in consultation with the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) has mobilised teams to drive away and kill these creatures as they settle on the trees in the night, officials said.The swarms of locusts started arriving in Madhya Pradesh from Neemuch-Rajasthan border since Sunday. As many as 16 districts of Madhya Pradesh, mostly in the Malwa region, have been affected so far, officials said, adding that they may be heading to Maharashtra as they have already reached Dhar, not far from the western state.Though Rabi season is over and there is no crop in the fields, the swarms have scared the vegetable growing farmers in Neemuch, Mandsaur, Ujjain, Dhar and other districts as they chase them away by beating drums, plates, tin cans etc.“..Whenever they spot trees, they settle over it and devour the vegetation. If there is any loss to vegetables farmers, they will get compensation from the revenue department as per the rules and procedure,” said Ajit Kesari, principal secretary, department of farmer welfare and agriculture.Explaining the modus operandi employed to get rid of the locusts, Kesari said that a team of government of India along with teams from the affected districts, were using water, noise and chemicals as weapons against the unwanted visitors.“The moment the locusts sit on trees, we either shoo them away with the help of noise or with water sprayed from fire tenders. Our second strategy is to spray a specific chemical over them around midnight, once they settle over trees. It kills some and the remaining fly. Then we repeat the process wherever they settle next,” he said.He added that the central government had released Rs 51 lakh for the purchase of the chemical being used to fight the locust menace.“We are keeping stock of chemicals in all the districts. Our instructions to all these districts are to track the locusts and spray the chemical over them when they settle at night. Thus, their number is decreasing by the day. Also, the area is chemically treated to destroy their eggs too,” said Kesari.Dr KL Gujar, deputy director, Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), Faridabad said the creatures were headed this way looking for greener and moist areas.“Given the swift westerly wind, swarms of desert locusts are covering a large area while flying high. The adult locusts can cover several hundred kilometres in the daytime. The breeding of the locusts took place in Pakistan, Baluchistan and Iran but right now, there is dry condition over there. That’s why these are heading towards greenery and moist areas. Direction of wind also helps them cover long distances.”Dr Gurjar said, “We can’t control them in the daytime. We try to control them when they settle at night. Given the size of the group, we are able to cover only 50 to 60% of them with all our resources. The remaining fly and some more join the swarm to make its size bigger. Besides, the existing resources, we are also trying to use drones. In the next couple of days we can get drones to target them on the trees itself while spraying chemicals.”He added that the locusts have arrived for the second consecutive year. This year they were chased in Rajasthan, MP, Gujarat and Punjab. Dr Gurjar said it was important to prevent them from breeding.“We have to stop their breeding. If we can’t control them in five days, they will be ready to breed posing a threat to the kharif crop. That’s why we have to kill them very fast.”(With input from Mustafa Husain in Neemuch and Monika Pandey in Jabalpur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-battles-with-swarms-of-desert-locusts-heading-towards-maharashtra/story-SxEUoava3PxeuGxfzIUtYN.html
22-05-2020||India||Ravaged areas dread more damage with turn of tide||North and South 24-Parganas: Around 500 residents desperately tried to fix a 40-feet wide breach in an embankment along the Vidyadhari river at Uchildaha in West Bengal’s North 24-Parganas district amid a trail of destruction Cyclone Amphan has left behind after hitting India’s eastern coast on Wednesday. Only a few brick houses stood amid the damage that the most powerful cyclone to hit the region in over a decade caused. Residents said they were running out of time as the spring tide, which occurs twice each lunar month, was imminent and they feared further damage. “It is the time of the low tide and we have no time to waste. If we fail to repair the embankment by 8 pm, the spring tide scheduled tonight [Friday] will leave nothing in this village,” said Manas Mahato, the village head of Uchildaha, about 55km from Kolkata. The village was flooded on Wednesday because of the breach that damaged all fish ponds, the main source of income for the residents, and flattened mud houses.The cyclone and the four-metre high storm surge that it triggered breached embankments along major rivers at over 100 places across North 24-Parganas and South 24-Paraganas districts. Residents feared the spring tide may bring another wave of destruction for remote villages because of the breaches. Shibayan Paloi, a resident of Gobindorampur in South 24 Parganas, said the Friday night is most crucial. “It is the new moon and more water will gush in. We do not know what to do. We will have to go back to the school building with our children where we had taken shelter during the storm.”The new moon was scheduled on May 22 and scientists said that the spring tide phase, when average tidal ranges are higher, has started. “Embankments along rivers Ichhamoti, Bidyadhari, Dasha, Rayamangal and Bethni have been breached in most areas. The panchayats [village councils] are working to fix the breached embankments and more people were evacuated on Friday to avert further loss of human lives,” said Sukumar Mahato, the West Bengal assembly member from Sandeshkhali.Several remote islands in the Sunderbans region and coastal blocks still remained disconnected even on Friday as telecommunication services were yet to be restored. But there were reports of major breaches in embankments along the Matla and Raymangal rivers from areas like Patharpratima, Kultali, and Gosaba blocks in South 24 Parganas. Officials said Bidyadhari’s embankment at Minakhan breached at 11 places and hundreds of houses, fish ponds, and farmland were damaged. In the neighbouring Sandeshkhali, embankments were breached at 15 places.A North 24-Parganas district official said the evacuated people were initially kept in 350 relief centres. “Later, we created 100 more shelters to save people from the flooding through breached embankments and the prospect of the spring tide,” the official said on condition of anonymity. Several gram panchayat areas remained cut off as hundreds of uprooted trees, electric poles, and towers blocked important roads. Virtually no mud and brick houses with tin, asbestos or tiled roofs withstood the storm. Bridges and culverts were also damaged.Uchildaha-resident Hasan Sardar said everything in the village is lost. “The houses, crops, fish in ponds... there is no trace of a large number of cattle. The village will be washed away if we fail to repair the breached embankment before the spring tide arrives,” he said.Some were trying to repair the embankments, while others repaired their badly-damaged houses in Sarabaria, Muchikhola, Mallickbheri in Minakhan, and Haroa areas of North 24-Parganas. Many residents complained of drinking water shortage and said the food local authorities supplied was the only thing they had to eat.“Tiger prawns, lobsters... from all fish ponds have been washed away. Fishery sector alone is estimated to suffered losses worth Rs 100 crore in Minakhan,” said Mrityunjay Mondal, a leader of the ruling Trinamool Congress, who was supervising the relief work.The smell of rotting fish filled the air in Gobindarampur village in coastal South 24 Parganas, which is one of the worst-hit districts. Residents said that saline water gushed into the village on Wednesday, killing Rohu, Katla, and Pangash fish in ponds and also triggered a water crisis.“We use pond water for cooking purposes. The cattle used to drink this water. Now we have to depend on only one tube well in the entire village,” said Hiren Das, a Gobindarampur resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ravaged-areas-dread-more-damage-with-turn-of-tide/story-AMa9sokUSU1BHQqSCjDT7K.html
22-05-2020||India||Andhra HC revokes suspension of former state intelligence chief, wants him reinstated||The Andhra Pradesh high court on Friday revoked the suspension of senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer and former state intelligence chief A B Venkateshwar Rao and directed the state government to take him back into service.The high court delivered the judgement on a petition filed by the 1989-batch IPS officer of Director General of Police rank challenging his suspension by the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government on February 8 this year.The high court, which heard the arguments from the petitioner and the state advocate general, also set aside the order of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) which upheld the suspension of Rao. It ruled that the IPS officer be paid full salary for the period of suspension.Rao was suspended for his alleged irregularities in procurement of security equipment from an Israeli company during the previous Telugu Desam Party regime. The government, which entrusted the case to Anti-Corruption Bureau, alleged that Rao had colluded with an Israeli defence equipment manufacturing firm RT Inflatables Pvt Ltd to illegally award critical intelligence and surveillance contract to his son Chetan Sai Krishna, who is the CEO of Akasam Advanced Systems Pvt Ltd.The government also alleged that Rao had willfully disclosed intelligence protocols and procedures of police to the foreign defence manufacturing firm, which was a direct threat to national security as intelligence protocols are standard throughout the Indian Police Force.Rao challenged his suspension by filing a petition in the Central Administrative Tribunal on February 13. He contended that the suspension was politically motivated and was done based on frivolous grounds. However, the CAT on March 17 upheld his suspension.On March 7, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs also approved the suspension of Venkateshwara Rao. And it was expended for a further period of three months on April 7.Rao, who was intelligence chief during the Chandrababu Naidu regime, was shifted from the post by the Election Commission of India following complaints from YSR Congress party leaders during the general elections in April 2019. He was later posted as DGP of the Anti-Corruption Bureau.However, after Jagan came to power in May 2019, Rao was attached to the headquarters without being given any posting.Meanwhile, hearing another petition, the high court found fault with the state government for going ahead with painting the buildings of gram panchayats with colours representing the ruling YSR Congress party, despite earlier orders given by both the high court and the Supreme Court.The high court also dismissed the state government order (GO Ms No. 623), adding terracotta colour to the YSRC party colours on the gram panchayat buildings, instead of removing them altogether.The high court sought to know why a contempt of court should not be filed against the government for defying its earlier orders. It sought an explanation from the state chief secretary and panchayat raj secretary by May 28 and asked the high court registrar to start the procedure for contempt of court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-hc-revokes-suspension-of-former-state-intelligence-chief-wants-him-reinstated/story-ZPWBqjsMy9LCNpGb5htwOI.html
22-05-2020||India||Community radio stations may soon get to air 12 minutes of ads per hour, says I&B minister||Community Radio stations could soon get to air advertisements for 12 minutes every hour like TV channels to make this vital segment more self-sufficient, Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said on Friday.The minister said this as he simultaneously addressed the nearly 300 community radio stations that are functional across the country.Javadekar said he was eager to increase the air time for advertisements to 12 minutes from 7 minutes on community radios currently to bring them at par with TV channels. While 75% of the expenditure during setting-up of community radio stations is borne by the ministry and that comprises a major expenditure, daily operations’ cost is borne by the stations. The minister pointed out that there would not be the need for community radio stations to seek funds if more local advertisements can be relayed on these platforms.Terming community radio stations as ‘agents of change’, Javadekar said they reached out to millions every day, and the I&B ministry will come out with a plan to increase their numbers.Exhorting people to keep up their fight against coronavirus, the minister said that “we will drive it away the way we have driven away other diseases”.However, he highlighted the new normal - one that consists of 4 steps - staying at home as much as possible, frequent washing of hands, wearing face masks in public and social distancing.The minister reiterated the mantra of “Jaan Bhi Jahaan Bhi” and said that while restrictions are continuing in the containment zones, economic activities are starting up in green zones.The minister also touched upon the key demand of community radio of permission to broadcast news. He assured that he will consider allowing news broadcast on community radio the same way it is done on FM channels.Community radio stations work in an area of 10-15 kilometers and cater to the local audiences. Many such channels are operating in the interior and remote parts of the country.He prodded such stations to play a key role in combating fake news menace. He added that the ministry has created a fact check cell under PIB and the community Radio can complement the role of fact check cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-radio-stations-may-soon-get-to-air-12-minutes-of-ads-per-hour-says-i-b-minister/story-afTrFEISNuQcDpdJOYbJSL.html
22-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: Ravaged Bengal districts await further damage||At Uchildaha village along river Vidyadhari, about 500 people had gathered on Friday afternoon to repair the embankment that had been breached. Standing amid devastation all around, with only a few brick-built houses still standing but not without damages, these people were desperately trying to fix the 40-feet wide breach.“It’s time of the low tide and we have no time to waste. If we fail to repair the embankment by 8pm, the spring tide scheduled tonight will leave nothing in this village,” said Manas Mahato, pradhan of Atpukur gram panchayat, within Minakhan assembly constituency in Basirhat sub-division of North 24-Parganas district. Uchildaha is about 55 km from Kolkata. On Wednesday, Vidyadhari’s water flowed into the village through the breach and destroyed all fishery ponds that serve as the main source of income, and grounded all houses with mud-walls or those with roofs made of tin, tiles and asbestos.The case of Uchildaha was no one-off incident. The cyclone, and the four metres high storm surge that it triggered, left gaping holes in the embankments along the rivers. Reports of breach in the embankments came from more than a 100 places across Basirhat subdivision in North 24-Parganas and the sub-divisions of Kakdwip and Canning in South 24-Paraganas. With breached embankments, Friday nights’ spring tide may bring another wave of destruction for people living in the remote villages in the coastal areas and in the remote islands of the Sunderban delta. “Thursday night is the most crucial. The water will swell further. It is the new moon and more water will gush in. We don’t know what to do. We will have to go back to the school building with our children where we had taken shelter during the storm,” said Shibayan Paloi, resident of Gobindorampur in Kakdwip of South 24 Pargaans.With the new moon scheduled on May 22, scientists said that the ‘spring tide’ phase - when average tidal ranges are higher – has already started. It will hit its peak around 11 pm on Thursday. Add to this the diurnal high tide.“Embankments along rivers Ichhamoti, Bidyadhari, Dasha, Rayamangal and Bethni have been breached in most areas. The panchayats are working to fix the breached embankments and more people have been evacuated on Friday to avert further loss of human lives,” said Sukumar Mahato, MLA from Sandeshkhali.Even though several remote islands in the Sunderbans and in the costal blocks still remained disconnected even on Friday as telecommunication was yet to be restored, reports of major breaches in the embankment on rivers Matla and Raymangal poured in from areas such as Patharpratima, Kultali and Gosaba blocks in South 24 Parganas. At Minakhan, Bidyadhari’s embankment breached at 11 places, destroying hundreds of houses, fishery ponds and hundreds of acres of farmland. In neighbouring Sandeshkhali, embankments were breached at 15 places.According to a senior administration officer of North 24-Parganas district, initially 350 evacuated people were kept in relief centres. “Later, we have created 100 more shelters to save people from the flooding through breached embankments and the prospect of the spring tide,” the officer said. The roads to Minakhan, Sandeshkali, Hingalganjm Kakdwip and Gosaba areas stood witness to unprecedented devastation. Several gram panchayat areas remained out of bounds because hundreds of trees, electric poles and towers and mobile towers laid grounded, blocking important roads.Virtually no mud-house or brick-built houses with tin, asbestos or tiles-made roofs survived the storm and hundreds of fallen trees, electric poles, towers and mobile towers left many areas out of bounds till Friday evening. Bridges and culverts were damaged, too.Uchildaha resident Hasan Sardar said, “Everything in our village is lost. The houses, the crops on the fields, the fishes in the ponds and there is no trace of a large number of cattle. The village will be washed away if we fail to repair the breached embankment before the spring tide arrives.”Also Read: West Bengal suffered losses of Rs 1 lakh crore due to Cyclone Amphan, says CM Mamata BanerjeeAt villages of Sarabaria, Muchikhola, Mallickbheri in Minakhan and Haroa arreas of North 24-Parganas, some were seen trying to repair the embankments, others were trying to repair their houses, too little of which were left. Many had covered the remaining structure with tarpaulins. There was crisis of drinking water and dry food supplied by the local authorities was the only things available for eating.“Tiger prawns, lobsters and bektis from all fishery ponds have been washed away to the river. Rs 100 crore loss is estimated in the fishery sector alone in Minakhan,” said Mrityunjay Mondal, Minakhan’s Trinamool Congress leader, and former MLA, who was supervising the relief work.PM Modi announces Rs 500 crore assistance for cyclone-hit OdishaSmell of rotting fish filled the air in Gobindarampur village in Kakdwip, a costal block in South 24 Parganas – one of the worst-hit districts in south Bengal. Local residents said that saline water gushed into the village on Wednesday, killng Rohu, Katla and Pangash fishes in the fishery ponds, and also triggering a water crisis.“We used the pond water to cook. The cattle used to drink this water. Now we have to depend on only one tube well in the entire village,” said Hiren das, a Gobindarampur resident.The cyclone has claimed 86 lives in the state, devastated the districts of South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas and severely damaged Kolkata, Howrah, Hooghly, East Midnapore and West Midnapore districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-ravaged-bengal-districts-await-further-damage/story-WFpmuM3rj8cJo44iDXd88H.html
22-05-2020||India||Over 66 lakh Indians made inter-state travels from April 30-May 12: Govt sources||Over 66 lakh Indians made inter-state travels from April 30 to May 12, reflecting the large number of people reaching their homes during the period, government sources said on Friday.The details emerged in the midst of heart-rending stories of thousands of migrant labourers struggling to return home from their places of work due to the coronavirus lockdown.The sources said a total of 27.15 lakh Indians moved from one state to another between April 30 and May 6, while the number for the period from May 7-12 was 39.71 lakh. The Union government as well as states made arrangements to transport lakhs of migrant workers to their home states after the lockdown shone the spotlight on their miseries to return home.The government is providing transportation by road and railways to the people, the sources said. They asserted that the numbers show that a large number has moved to their destinations. Increasing transportation and addition of air services from May 25 will further improve mobility, the sources said. People should not create panic and are advised to plan their movements for their destinations accordingly, the sources said.The advice to people to not panic comes amid easing of restrictions with limited rail and air travel set to resume.The Railways on Wednesday issued a list of 100 pairs of trains that it will operate from June 1, putting in operation popular trains such as Durontos, Sampark Krantis, Jan Shatabdis and Poorva Express.This is the second slew of special passenger services that marked the Railways graded restoration of its trains which were suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic.The Railways has ferried over 31 lakh migrant workers on board 2,317 Shramik Special trains since May 1, almost seven lakh more than the initial projection of 24 lakh, according to official data.Also, after a two-month hiatus, one-third of the scheduled domestic flights would be flying from Monday after the airlines adhere to the government-prescribed limits on airfares categorised in seven bands based on flight duration.The lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days. It was then extended till May 3 and again till May 17. The lockdown has now been extended till May 31.Hundreds of thousands of migrant labourers have been struggling to get home, with fortunate ones managing a seat in a bus or train, while many others have been just walking home, traveling hundreds of kilometers. The country has recorded the biggest single-day spike of 6,088 COVID-19 cases, while the death toll due to the virus has climbed to 3,583, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The number of coronavirus cases now stands at 1,18,447 in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-66-lakh-indians-made-inter-state-travels-from-april-30-may-12-govt-sources/story-gG9LFbpmYkSU4sUpcloF2I.html
22-05-2020||India||Mumbai civic body allows home delivery of liquor in non-containment zones||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, in a circular issued on Friday, allowed home delivery of liquor, except in containment zones.Among several conditions, the order said over-the-counter sale of liquor will not be permitted. “I hereby issue orders excluding the containment zones, the liquor shops selling liquor in sealed bottles can be permitted to operate by selling liquor to the customers by effecting delivery of the permitted liquor to the home address of the customer, if such an order is placed,” said Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Chahal.The order comes five days after the state government allowed home delivery of liquor in red zones. Earlier, on May 5, the BMC had ordered shut shops selling non-essential goods, including liquor, due to crowding at wine shops.Praveen Pardeshi, the Municipal Commissioner of BMC at that time, had said, “There are multiple reports, news in social media and inputs received from the police and the ward officials that due to above relaxation there has been huge crowds gathering near these shops and where it has been impossible to maintain social distancing and there were few instances of law and order situation arising out of such crowds gathering at one place.”Maharashtra, which is worst-hit by coronavirus, today detected 2,940 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike, taking the state’s coronavirus count to a staggering 44,582, according to state health department data. With these 63 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll in the state has climbed to 1,517.Mumbai on the same day reported 1,751 new Covid-19 cases taking the financial capital’s total tally of coronavirus positive patients to 27,251. The capital city reported 27 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the death toll to 909.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-civic-body-allows-home-delivery-of-liquor-in-non-containment-zones/story-bqFMLT4usLnW1HNTKNrudL.html
22-05-2020||India||Amphan effect on Nagapattinam; fishing harbour wall damaged||High tides due to the ‘Amphan’ cyclone that played havoc in West Bengal have caused damage to the rubble mound wall in the fishing harbour under construction at a cost of Rs 120 crore at Tarangambadi Nagapattinam district.The sea in Tarangambadi coastal area has remained very rough for the past one week and many coastal hamlets witnessed seawater seepage.The fishing harbour, under construction, came under the tidal wave.The rubble mound wall on the seafront was damaged to a length of 800 metres on the southern side and 300 metres on the northern side. On information, Poompuhar MLA S Paunrajvisited the construction site on Thursday and interacted with the officials and local fishermen.The MLA had said he would draw the attention of the Fisheries Minister.Following this, Director of Fisheries, Tamil Nadu, G S Sameeran visited the site on Friday. While interacting with the director, Tarangambadi fishermen association members pointed out that the rubble mound wall was low in height and width. They appealed to the government to increase the height and width of the wall considerably so as to avoid damage during natural calamities in the future. The fishing harbour construction work commenced last year in 6.7 hectares of land and was expected to benefit thousands of fishermen in 24 hamlets around Tarangambadi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amphan-effect-on-nagapattinam-fishing-harbour-wall-damaged/story-ncJnXYK1kYCLaTmluoYhGL.html
22-05-2020||India||FM reviewed banks readiness in implementing ‘Aatmanirbhar’ relief package||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday reviewed the preparedness of public sector banks (PSBs) for implementing Rs 20,97,053 crore Aatmanirbhar Bharat economic stimulus package announced between March 26 and May 17, the finance ministry said.The finance minister on Friday chaired the review meeting through video conference with the chief executives of PSBs “to review the readiness of banks in implementing ‘Aatmanirbhar’ relief package,” it said in a tweet.The department of financial services (DFS) said the meeting was held to operationalise the announcements made to provide relief to the poor and stimulate the economy. “Everyone aligned on the need for quickly addressing the needs of MSMEs [micro, small and medium enterprises] & other customers,” it said in a tweet. Operational details will be released soon, it said.The government on March 26 announced a Rs 1.70 lakh crore welfare package under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). It was followed by monetary measures worth Rs 8.01 lakh crore taken by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) between March 27 and April 17. Recently, Sitharaman announced an additional Rs 11.02 lakh crore stimulus package in five-parts between May 13 and May 17 under the umbrella of Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Initiative).PSBs play a key role in the effective implementation of most of the announcements the government made since March 26, hence the finance minister will frequently review the progress made by state-run banks in this direction, two finance ministry officials said requesting anonymity.Most of the government’s monetary schemes are executed through the PSBs, which are directly responsible for delivering welfare schemes that involve direct benefit transfer, one of the officials said.The PMGKY, which was announced on March 26, included Rs 500 per month cash payment to 200 million women Jan-Dhan account holders for three months and an ex-gratia of Rs 1,000 to 30 million poor senior citizens, widows and Divyangs each. PMGKY also front-loaded the Rs 2,000 installment paid to 87 million farmers under the existing Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN). The effective delivery of this money depends on the efficiency of the banks, the official said. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The second official said the government is also monitoring the credit flow, which is a must to boost the economy. PSBs have so far sanctioned loans worth Rs 6.68 lakh crore between March 1 and May 19 to 5.97 million accounts. Both the government and the RBI have made several announcements to provide easy credit to Covid-battered businesses, particularly micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and the success of these schemes depends on execution at the level of banks, he said. “FM will be monitoring implementation of these schemes frequently,” he added. The recent announcements made in five tranches included Rs 3 lakh crore credit guarantee for MSMEs and collateral-free working capital loans to small businesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fm-reviewed-banks-readiness-in-implementing-aatmanirbhar-relief-package/story-7atGsEsKcoJsYEw4mwqvXJ.html
22-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: PM Modi says nation stands in solidarity with West Bengal, Odisha||The nation stands in solidarity with the people of West Bengal and Odisha in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday after concluding his tour of the two states.“The central government assures all possible support as well as assistance towards the rehabilitation, restoration and reconstruction efforts,” he wrote on Twitter.He referred to his visit to the two states earlier in the day to review the situation caused by the super cyclone, saying “the nation stands in solidarity with our sisters and brothers in West Bengal and Odisha”.He also tweeted the messages in Bangla and Odiya.Modi reviewed the situation in West Bengal and Odisha with Chief Ministers Mamata Banerjee and Naveen Patnaik, two days after the cyclone, the worst in years, devastated their states.The prime minister announced an interim assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for West Bengal.Modi also announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh to the families of each of those killed and Rs 50,000 for the injured. The prime minister later flew down to Odisha, where he announced a financial assistance of another Rs 500 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-pm-modi-says-nation-stands-in-solidarity-with-west-bengal-odisha/story-VnFuoFFUqK52rZRcTj85dN.html
22-05-2020||India||‘Beautiful feat’: Ivanka Trump on Bihar girl cycling 1,200 km with father||Ivanka Trump, US president Donald Trump’s daughter, described the feat of an Indian girl cycling 1,200 km with her wounded father to get home under lockdown as a “beautiful feat of endurance and love”. Advisor to the US president, Ivanka shared an article by HT’s sister publication livemint.com and hailed the Bihar girl.“15 yr old Jyoti Kumari, carried her wounded father to their home village on the back of her bicycle covering +1,200 km over 7 days. This beautiful feat of endurance & love has captured the imagination of the Indian people and the cycling federation,” Ivanka tweeted. 15 yr old Jyoti Kumari, carried her wounded father to their home village on the back of her bicycle covering +1,200 km over 7 days. This beautiful feat of endurance & love has captured the imagination of the Indian people and the cycling federation!🇮🇳 https://t.co/uOgXkHzBPzThe cycling federation will invite Jyoti Kumari, 15, to appear for a trial next month, impressed with the doggedness with which she pedalled her way to Bihar from Gurugram, carrying her ailing father.With her father Mohan Paswan riding pillion, Jyoti cycled for seven days, covering 1,200 km to get to Bihar’s Darbhanga.Presently, the father-daughter duo is at a quarantine centre near their village Sirhulli under Singhwara block of the district.Paswan, driven to penury following an accident a few months ago,said his landlord gave him an ultimatum to either pay the rent that was due for a few months, or leave.“I succeeded in buying time on a couple of occasions. I promised him that I would take up whatever job I could land once the lockdown was lifted, earn money and pay all his dues. We were so hard pressed that I had to discontinue my medicines so that we could afford one square meal a day. How could we have arranged money for rent?” PTI quoted him as saying.As the lockdown kept getting extended, the threats of the landlord kept getting more severe, he said.It was then that Jyoti was looking after her father in Gurugram while her mother was taking care of her four younger siblings back in the village while working as an Aanganwadi worker.“Amid the gloomy situation, Jyoti suggested that we return home. I pointed out that we would not be able to find any trains or buses soon and my condition would not allow me to walk. She said we should get a bicycle,” said Paswan.Despite attempts to dissuade the daughter, the duo was soon on the road. The father smiled with a hint of pride when asked about her daughter being compared in the local media to the character of Shravan Kumar from the epic Ramayana, who took his old and frail parents on a long pilgrimage with his mother and father seated in baskets hanging at the ends of a pole he carried on his shoulders.“She is indeed my Shravan Kumar. The journey back home has been nothing short of a pilgrimage. Having arrived feels like salvation,” Paswan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beautiful-feat-ivanka-trump-on-bihar-girl-cycling-1-200-km-with-father/story-dlyqoqgl58RCnBw26cH09L.html
22-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Study links hydroxychloroquine to higher risk of death in Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Hydroxychloroquine led to higher mortality and heart issues in Covid-19 patients, says a Lancet studyThe findings come from one of the largest analyses of the risks and benefits associated with treating coronavirus patients with the above mentioned anti-malarial drugs. It is based on a retrospective analysis of medical records and is not a controlled study. Read more. ‘Deeply saddened’: PM Modi expresses grief over Pakistan plane crashPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled the loss of lives in a plane crash in Pakistan and wished a speedy recovery to those injured. Read more. After Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi’s sons forgive killers, his fiancée says ‘no one has right’The Turkish fiancee of murdered Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi said Friday “no one” had the right to pardon his murderers after his sons said they “forgive” the killers. Read more. Shah Rukh Khan prays for Cyclone Amphan’s victims: ‘The news has left me feeling hollow’Actor Shah Rukh Khan is devastated by the destruction caused by Cyclone Amphan in the states of West Bengal and Odisha. He shared a tweet on Friday to talk about the same. Read more. New spying Trojan is targeting diplomatic entities in Europe via spoofed visa applicationsIn November last year, Kaspersky had discovered a new malware that was attacking diplomatic bodies across Europe through spoofed visa applications. Further analysis revealed that this spyware, Reductor, had the same code base as the infamous COMPFun. Read more. Eid ul-Fitr 2020: Date and time of moon sighting in IndiaEid ul-Fitr is celebrated as the end of the month-long fasting during the holy period of Ramadan or Ramzan when the Muslim community practice Roza (fasting in Islam). Read more. Cat sets an example for everyone on how to lay your boundaries. WatchWe all may have experienced a few moments wherein we were unable to say what we wanted to. However, if you are learning how to speak your mind confidently, then this feline, who is ready to wrestle a doggo way bigger than itself for stepping into its personal space, is an inspiration. Read more. IGNOU TEE June 2020: Last date for assignments submission extended furtherIndira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU)has further extended the last date for submission of assignments for the June term-end exam (TEE) 2020. Read more. Dr Harsh Vardhan takes charge as WHO Executive Board ChairmanDr. Harsh Vardhan took charge as the Chairman of the WHO executive board. India’s Health Minister thanked all the member nations and expressed condolences to the family members of all those who had succumbed to the Covid-19 pandemic. Dr. Harsh Vardhan also spoke about the Indian govt’s Ayushman Bharat policy during his address to the WHO. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-study-links-hydroxychloroquine-to-higher-risk-of-death-in-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZJDJkIe52UidFCrGHAeeFI.html
22-05-2020||India||Covid-19 latest: 42 new cases set record for single-day spike in Kerala||Kerala reported a big spike with 42 new coronavirus cases on Friday, the highest in a day since the outbreak in January last, largely due to the continued repatriation of expats from the middle-eastern countries and return of residents stranded in other parts of the country. “More people are expected in the coming days. We can’t say no to our people. Situation is really critical but there is no need to panic either. What we need is more vigil and surveillance. We will do everything possible to avoid secondary infections,” said Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, adding that more than 90,000 people have arrived in the state by rail, road and air in the last two weeks.Out of total 732 coronavirus cases registered in the state so far, 216 are active- a sharp increase from 16 active cases about two weeks ago. The number of people under observation has also gone up to 85,000 from 5,000 at one stage.Out of 42 new cases registered on Friday, 21 are patients who arrived here from other states and 17 are foreign returnees, the CM said. North Kerala districts of Kannur and Malappuram have maximum active cases-- 36 each.The state has recorded five deaths to the disease so far; the last casualty was a woman who had returned from Mumbai two days ago.The pressure to contain the spread of the disease is only going to go up after more people arrive on domestic flights that are resuming on May 25. The CM said the state will insist on a 14-day mandatory quarantine for residents arriving on domestic flights.Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had recently said that there was no need to put domestic travelers in quarantine.“We can’t take chances. It (quarantine) is not meant for business travelers and others who come for brief visits. But people who are coming here to stay will have to undergo a 14-day home quarantine like those coming by train,” he said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Vijayan said the government will take strict action against those who flout quarantine norms and cited that 100 cases were registered against such violators in the last two days. He also noted that many aged people and children were venturing out of homes after increased relaxation.“It is not a healthy trend. The government has made it clear that people who crossed 65 years of age and children below 10 years of age can come out only in urgent situations. But this is being flouted quite often,” he said adding that reverse quarantine is a must in such situations.Reverse quarantine refers to the practice of isolating a set of people including those with underlying medical conditions, those aged 65 years and above and the immune-compromised, so that they are protected against infections. The state has started experimenting with it in some districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-42-new-cases-set-record-for-single-day-spike-in-kerala/story-BXGA6YWpz0S6TQ0P0RtXpK.html
22-05-2020||India||Taliban’s Sirajuddin Haqqani admitted to Pak military hospital for Covid-19: Intel||Sirajuddin Haqqani, the Taliban deputy leader has tested positive for coronavirus along with three commanders, according to anti-terror operatives in Delhi and Kabul.Sirajuddin Haqqani, who also heads the Taliban’s sword arm Haqqani Network, is reported to have been taken to a Pakistani military hospital for treatment, possibly Rawalpindi.The other Taliban leaders who are reported to have been infected with the virus include Mullah Amir Khan Muttaqi and Fazal Mazloom who are associated with the Taliban’s negotiating team in talks with US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad. The two Taliban leaders along with Mullah Nooruddin Turabi, who was earlier based in Doha, are reported to be treated at hospitals in Quetta and Karachi.Taliban leaders denied that some among its top leadership were down with Covid-19. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah said that the leaders of Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, as the political wing of the Taliban is termed, were healthy and not unwell. “Some outlets are circulating fake reports about a number of leaders of IEA including Deputy Khalifa Sahib Sirajuddin Haqqani contracting coronavirus…. The said reports are the work of malicious circles trying to stoke fear,” he tweeted.Counter-terror operatives, however, insisted that they had checked the information from multiple sources.The coronavirus infection, one official said, could be the reason why Fazal Mazloom was not spotted at the Taliban meetings at Doha earlier this month.He, however, stressed that there was no confirmation available how the Taliban leaders had contracted the infection. Or if it had anything to do with their visits to Pakistan over the last two months.A large proportion of Taliban leaders such as Sirajuddin Haqqani are known to be close to Pakistan deep state that has guided and funded them apart from allowing use of its facilities. Sirajuddin Haqqani also heads the terror group Haqqani Network that he inherited from his father Jalaluddin Haqqani who set it up during the Afghan-Soviet war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-s-sirajuddin-haqqani-admitted-to-pak-military-hospital-for-covid-19-intel/story-tXXkPlyrZHmnK0129M0ZLP.html
22-05-2020||India||Woman gives birth to twins on Shramik Special. Underweight children die||A woman on board the Shramik Special train gave birth to twins on Friday afternoon. However, the children died within hours of being born, officials said.Travelling from Vapi in Gujarat, Gayatri Devi, along with her husband Bhaiya Lal, was on the way to her hometown Varanasi. Reports say she was eight months pregnant at the time of journey.As Devi, 21, experienced labour pains, fellow women passengers helped her deliver. She gave birth to twin boys somewhere after the train crossed Bharwari in Kaushambi district. As the authorities got the news, the train was stopped. “We got the news and the train was stopped at Sirathu where she was brought down, along with the new-born, and was sent to Sirathu PHC in an Ambulance,” said head constable RPF, posted at Sirathu station, Amodh Singh. The twins could not survive, however, the doctors managed to save the mother, who has been admitted in an isolation ward at the Kaushambi district hospital. “It was a premature delivery, both the kids were underweight. We found one had died before reaching the district hospital. The other was alive till he was brought here but by the time we could give him oxygen support, he too breathed his last,” said chief medical superintendent of district hospital of Kaushambi, Dr Deepak Seth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-gives-birth-to-twins-on-board-shramik-special-underweight-children-die/story-LOrQDUGVbS0Zx1eMVR3JFN.html
22-05-2020||India||Maharashtra detects 2,940 new Covid-19 cases, state count climbs to 44,582||Maharashtra on Friday detected 2,940 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike, taking the state’s coronavirus count to a staggering 44,582, according to state health department data.Maharashtra which is the worst-affected state  amid the Covid-19 pandemic with a large number of coronavirus positive patients also reported 63 deaths on Friday.With these 63 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll in the state has climbed to 1,517.This was the sixth consecutive day when the state reported more than 2,000 new coronavirus cases, the state health department data revealed.ALSO READ | Will Covid-19 curve in Mumbai flatten in June?The number of active coronavirus positive cases in Maharashtra stands at 30,474, while at least 3,32,777 people have been tested for the deadly infection.A total of 12,583 Covid-19 positive patients have recovered after treatment and have been discharged from various hospitals across the state.Mumbai on Friday reported 1,751 new Covid-19 cases taking the financial capital’s total tally of coronavirus positive patients to 27,251.The capital city reported 27 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the death toll to 909.Earlier in the day, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) held its ‘Maharashtra Bachao’ (Save Maharashtra) agitation, with party workers across the state wearing black masks and unfurling banners slamming the Uddhav Thackeray-led coalition government over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic.Two months after the first coronavirus case was identified in Maharashtra and a week after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray secured his nomination to the Legislative Council, the BJP hit out at the state government’s “ineffectual” tackling of the Covid-19 pandemic and staged demonstrations across the state, even roping in children for some of the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-detects-2-940-new-covid-19-cases-state-count-climbs-to-44-582/story-TYEFq3xVsZenIaaTTjf2mK.html
22-05-2020||India||PM Modi announces Rs 500 crore assistance for cyclone-hit Odisha||Praising Odisha for its deft handling of the situation in the wake of Cyclone Amphan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced Rs 500 crore advance assistance. He assured that Centre would work shoulder to shoulder Odisha at this difficult juncture and give all possible assistance for restoration and rebuilding of infrastructure in the areas affected by the cyclone.PM Modi who conducted an aerial survey of the cyclone-affected districts of Balasore and Bhadrak along with chief minister Naveen Patnaik and Governor Prof Ganeshi Lal, said he had a detailed review of the losses in agriculture, housing, power, communication and infrastructure.“Everyone is fighting Covid-19. In such a time, we had a super cyclone in some parts of India. This became very worrying. At the same time, due to the well established processes in Odisha, many lives were saved. I congratulate the people and Government of Odisha,” said PM Modi.The PM said pending a review of the situation in matters of long term relief, restoration, rehabilitation, the Centre has decided to provide advance assistance of Rs 500 crore and ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh to the next of kin of deceased and Rs 50,000 to seriously injured in the cyclone in the State. He said the Odisha goverment will soon submit a report to the Centre after assessing its losses and following that a an Inter-Ministerial Central team.will arrive immediately and assess the damages. However, Odisha officials said it is not clear whether the amount would be given from National Disaster Response Fund or Centre’s share from State Disaster Response Fund.As per preliminary estimates by the state government 44.80 lakh people have been affected in 1,500 gram panchayats. Similarly, crops in over 1 lakh hectare farmland have suffered damage. Besides, power distribution infrastructure has been badly affected with twisting and uprooting of electric poles, damage to transformers and substations under the impact of Cyclone Amphan in the four worst affected districts of Balasore, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara and Bhadrak.The Odisha government today said there has been no confirmation of any loss of human life in the state due to cyclone Amphan. There were reports of three cyclone-related deaths in Balasore, Bhadrak and Kendrapara districts. Special Relief Commissioner P K Jena said the causes were different.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-announces-rs-500-crore-assistance-for-cyclone-hit-odisha/story-XygladHQIPROvLeKdZvsKN.html
22-05-2020||India||Hydroxychloroquine led to higher mortality and heart issues in Covid-19 patients, says a Lancet study||According to a paper published in the medical journal Lancet which analysed data of over 96,000 Covid-19 patients sourced from 671 hospitals across six continents over a span of almost four months, the benefits of administering hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine when used alone or in combination with a macrolide, to a Covid-19 positive patient are unconfirmed. In fact, the findings demonstrate that these drug regimens were associated with higher mortality rate or decreased in-hospital survival and an increased frequency of irregular heart rhythm or arrhythmia (ventricular arrhythmias) when used for treatment of Covid-19.The findings come from one of the largest analyses of the risks and benefits associated with treating coronavirus patients with the above mentioned anti-malarial drugs. It is based on a retrospective analysis of medical records and is not a controlled study.The paper co-authored by Mandeep R Mehra, Sapan S Desai, Frank Ruschitzka and Amit N Patel points out that chloroquine is an antimalarial drug while hydroxychloroquine, is used for the treatment of autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis. These drugs have shown to have antiviral properties as well as immunomodulatory effects in laboratory conditions and were thus being repurposed as therapeutic agents in the absence of an effective treatment against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, better known as SARS-CoV-2 infection.“However, the use of this class of drugs for COVID-19 is based on a small number of anecdotal experiences that have shown variable responses in uncontrolled observational analyses, and small, open-label, randomised trials, that have largely been inconclusive,” says the paper.It says that one of the several protocols developed for Covid-19 treatment, also advocates the use of a combination of hydroxychloroquine with a second-generation macrolide, such as azithromycin (or clarithromycin).The paper, however, deduces from “in-hospital outcomes” that these drugs either administered alone or in combination with macrolides have shown a higher mortality rate and increased heart problems for the researched group.The research paper assumes significance since antimalarial drugs are being experimented with for the treatment of coronavirus cases in several countries including the United States, which has shown even greater reliance on these drugs to treat positive cases. In India, ICMR has not allowed use of these drugs for coronavirus treatment on a ‘sympathetic’ basis. While US President Donald Trump had personally intervened and requested India for lifting the ban on export of hydroxychloroquine, India has warned against the indiscriminate use of this medicine among Covid-19 patients and suspects.The multinational registry analysis comprised data of patients hospitalised between Dec 20, 2019, and April 14, 2020, with a positive laboratory finding for SARS-CoV-2. It included patients in four treatment groups—chloroquine alone, chloroquine with a macrolide, hydroxychloroquine alone, or hydroxychloroquine with a macrolide. All these patients had received one of the four treatments within 48 hours of diagnosis of the disease.Another group—a control group—comprised of hospitalized coronavirus patients who had not been given any of the four treatments under study, was formed.The research studied the in-hospital mortality and the occurrence of de-novo ventricular arrhythmias among the groups formed.The 96 032 studied patients had a mean age of 53·8 years and 46·3% of those were women. Of these, 14 888 patients were in the treatment groups—1,868 received chloroquine, 3,783 received chloroquine with a macrolide, 3,016 received hydroxychloroquine, and 6,221 received hydroxychloroquine with a macrolideand 81, 144 patients were in the control group.The study found that 10, 698 or 11·1% patients died in the hospital. The mortality in the control group was 9·3%, but for the group administered with hydroxychloroquine, it was 18·0% (hazard ratio 1·335, 95% CI 1·223–1·457), for the group given hydroxychloroquine with a macrolide, it was 23·8% (hazard ratio 1·447, 1·368–1·531), for the group given chloroquine, it was 16·4% (hazard ratio 1·365, 1·218–1·531), and for group that was administered chloroquine with a macrolide, it was 22·2% (hazard ratio 1·368, 1·273–1·469).Each of these four groups were independently associated with an increased risk of in-hospital mortality, found the study.The occurrence of de-novo ventricular arrhythmia was also higher among the four groups administered with the drugs of interest, compared to the control group.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Compared with the control group (0·3%), hydroxychloroquine (6·1%; 2·369, 1·935–2·900), hydroxychloroquine with a macrolide (8·1%; 5·106, 4·106–5·983), chloroquine (4·3%; 3·561, 2·760–4·596), and chloroquine with a macrolide (6·5%; 4·011, 3·344–4·812) were independently associated with an increased risk of de-novo ventricular arrhythmia during hospitalization,” the study said.The study claims that the analysis was arrived at after controlling for multiple confounding factors including age, sex, race or ethnicity, body-mass index, underlying cardiovascular disease and its risk factors, diabetes, underlying lung disease, smoking, immunosuppressed condition, and baseline disease severity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hydroxychloroquine-led-to-higher-mortality-and-heart-issues-in-coved-19-patients-says-a-lancet-study/story-Bp17MvEzhIECYLkHE0T32L.html
22-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: Irdai asks life insurers to expeditiously settle claims||Irdai on Friday asked life insurance companies to take immediate action to ensure expeditious settlement of claims in wake of cyclone ‘Amphan’ causing loss of lives in several parts of West Bengal and Odisha. Cyclone Amphan has left dozens of people dead and thousands homeless in West Bengal, battering several parts of the state and washing away bridges and swamping low-lying areas. It also wreaked havoc in Odisha, damaging power and telecom infrastructure in several coastal districts. In a circular, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) said there are reports of loss of human lives and loss of belongings in the cyclone affected districts, primarily in the states of West Bengal and Odisha. In order to extend every possible facilitation in quick and timely settlement of life insurance claims, it asked insurers to nominate a senior officer to act as a nodal officer in the state concerned to liaise with the state administration to facilitate identification of policyholders among the deceased due to cyclone. “Initiate immediate action to ensure that all reported claims are registered and eligible claims are settled expeditiously,” Irdai said. With regard to claims involving loss of life, where difficulty is experienced in obtaining a death certificate due to non-recovery of body, it asked the insurers to follow the process as in the case of Chennai floods in 2015. “A suitably simplified process/procedure including relaxations in the usual requirements wherever feasible may be considered to expedite claims settlement,” the circular said. With a view to limit the fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic and limiting direct/indirect social contact, insurers have been advised to encourage and motivate their policyholders/claimants to adopt e-modes, wherever possible for correspondence. In case policyholders/claimants reach office, life insurers should follow the government directions regarding maintaining social distancing and proper sanitisation, Irdai said. The staff must be duly sensitized to deal with policyholders/claimants with empathy and concern, it added. The insurance companies have also been asked to file state-wise progress report on claims settled on weekly basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-irdai-asks-life-insurers-to-expeditiously-settle-claims/story-3yI1gmFkwTdknjoKlOMw0H.html
22-05-2020||India||‘Deeply saddened’: PM Modi expresses grief over Pakistan plane crash||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled the loss of lives in a plane crash in Pakistan and wished a speedy recovery to those injured. There were 99 passengers on board, however, it is not clear about the number of survivors.The Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) Karachi-bound flight from Lahore crashed in a residential area minutes before landing near the Jinnah International Airport. “Deeply saddened by the loss of life due to a plane crash in Pakistan. Our condolences to the families of the deceased, and wishing speedy recovery to those injured,” he tweeted. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi too condoled the loss of lives in the crash and said he is praying for “miraculous stories of survival”.“I’m sorry to hear about the air crash in Pakistan in which many lives have been lost. News of survivors is a ray of hope & I pray that there are many miraculous stories of survival tonight. My deepest condolences to the families of those who have perished,” tweeted the Congress leader.There were no immediate reports on the number of casualties. However, Karachi mayor said that there were no survivors, according to news agency Associated Press. Several people on social media contradicted his claims. Moments before the crash, pilot Sajjad Gul had informed air traffic controllers that he had lost an engine, according to audio tapes of his last conversation played by news channel ARY.“We have lost an engine…. Mayday, Mayday, Mayday,” the pilot is heard calmly telling the traffic controllers who told him to land on any of the two runways that had been left open for him.Communication between the ATC and the plane was lost soon after the pilot went for a go-around, said PIA chief executive officer Air Vice Marshal Arshad Malik. This is the second time in less than four years that a PIA plane has crashed. The airline’s chairman resigned in late 2016, less than a week after the crash of an ATR-42 aircraft killed 47 people, news agency Bloomberg reported. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeply-saddened-pm-modi-expresses-grief-over-pakistan-plane-crash/story-dHVHWereTJyRSZnnA2OYsJ.html
22-05-2020||India||Covid-19 cases to peak in country between June 21-28: Study||India may witness Covid-19 cases peaking between June 21 and 28 with maximum daily positive cases to be around 7,000-7,500 in this period, a study by a team of researchers said.The study has predicted that confirmed Covid-19 cases reported daily will show a rising graph till the end of June.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“A clear downward trend in the confirmed cases is likely to be observed each day from the second week of July,” Nandadulal Bairagi, a senior professor of Jadavpur University who was involved in the project told PTI.With measures in place and increased testing, a gradual flattening of the trajectory is expected within October, the researcher said.The study was conducted by Bairagi, Professor and Coordinator Centre for Mathematical Biology and Ecology (CMBE), Jadavpur University, and five other researchers.The study, based on a mathematical model approved by the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) of the Government of India, used deep machine learning algorithms along with a mathematical model for analysing and forecasting the Covid-19 pandemic in India with data being taken from the https://www.covid19india.org/state website.“We divided the population of a designated geographical area into seven compartments based on the epidemiological class of Covid-19 and WHO prescribed minimum requirements of infection prevention and control (IPC) strategy to reduce transmission,” he said.Bairagi said, the total number of infected persons since the outbreak of coronavirus in the country “will touch the five lakh figure in first week of October and it will then start showing a perceptible declining trend.” One of the factors for this high number could be a large number of asymptomatic persons roaming around with each having the potential to transmit the infection to two-three more persons “Just think of it. The contamination was contained after 76 days of lockdown in Wuhan, the origin point of the coronavirus pandemic. But we in India are witnessing a spike in active cases despite the lockdown nearing two months in few days time,” he said.In the absence of any specific drug and vaccine, India must continue its nationwide lockdown to prevent person-to-person transmission of coronavirus while looking for ways to start economic activities, the senior researcher said.“Public transport must be avoided due to difficulties in contact tracing, random testing has to be increased and time for diagnosis has to be reduced for early detection... We have recommended to the government that lockdown may be partially withdrawn in green and orange zones after the last week of June, but it must be continued in red-zone regions of the states concerned. Strict surveillance must be continued after partial withdrawal of lockdown to avoid the second wave of Covid-19,” he said.Asked about their observation on difficulty in contact tracing in case of contamination in public transport, he explained, “In a hospital or similar place where the persons who have contacted the infection can be traced, you can trace the origin and quarantine every body else who came in touch with the primary contact.” But in a bus or train, there can be many asymptomatic persons who will spread the infection and then get down at their stoppages, he said.Apart from Bairagi, CMBE researcher Abhijit Majumder, Dr. Debadatta Adak of MBB University, Agartala, Dr. Tapas Kumar Bala of Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Kusumdevi Sundarlal Dugar Jain Dental College and Hospital, Dr Abhijit Paul and Dr Samrat Chatterjee of Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, Faridabad were involved in the research.The interim report of the research has already been sent to the SERB, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-to-peak-in-country-between-june-21-28-study/story-CtEhBRYDvSFehkrePj7z8M.html
22-05-2020||India||PM Modi announces Rs 500 crore advance relief for cyclone-hit Odisha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an advance financial assistance of Rs 500 crore for cyclone-battered Odisha on Friday.Modi made the announcement after an aerial survey of areas hit by cyclone ‘Amphan’ and holding a review meeting with Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal and Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik. The prime minister said further assistance will be provided for long-term rehabilitation measures after getting a detailed report from the state government.The leaders toured districts such as Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Balasore, Jajpur and Mayurbhanj for about 90 minutes. At the same time, there has been damage to property, which we reviewed in a meeting today.All possible assistance will be provided by the Centre to ensure quick relief work.Rs. 500 crore will be given to Odisha as advance assistance: PM @narendramodi in OdishaUnion ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi were also present at the review meeting held at the premises of the Biju Patnaik International Airport here.Modi said that though the Odisha government has been able to save lives by undertaking preparations well in advance, the cyclone has caused damage to housing, power and infrastructure, besides the agriculture sector while moving towards West Bengal.Complementing the people of Odisha, administration and the chief minister for saving lives, Modi said the disaster posed a serious challenge before the state as it struck at a time when everyone is engaged in a formidable battle against COVID-19. PTI AAM SKN SOM KJ KJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-announces-rs-500-crore-advance-relief-for-cyclone-hit-odisha/story-dtYl3tTrOAnaHXhi5Mh1cJ.html
22-05-2020||India||Covid relief to artisans making idols for Ganeshotsav, PoP ban deferred for a year||The union environment ministry on Friday withdrew its proposed ban on the use of Plaster of Paris (PoP) for making idols in 2020 Environment minister Prakash Javadekar said that the decision to postpone the ban by one year was taken to help artisans but environmentalists criticised the government, saying that PoP was harmful to the environment.“The ban on PoP for the Ganesh idol has been postponed for one year. This will not harm those artisans who have already made their idols this year,” Javadekar tweeted on Friday.On May 13, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) published guidelines on banning the use of PoP, thermocol, and single-use plastic for making idols across India while encouraging the use of biodegradable and less toxic materials. Even dyes and toxic chemicals used to colour the idols were proposed to be banned for future use.“Based on submissions from various parts of the country about different festivals, especially Maharashtra, where idol makers have already purchased large quantities of PoP, we have lifted the ban just for this year. Considering the Covid-19 crisis and difficult economic situation, the decision was taken. Idol makers are directed to avoid the use of chemicals and dyes as much as possible this year,” said a senior official from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change. “This is a temporary decision, and the ban will be implemented from 2021.”Made from Gypsum, which is heated up to 150 degrees Celsius, PoP contains chemicals such as sulphur, phosphorus and magnesium. It is also used for making casts for broken bones. It costs the cheapest (Rs. 500 to 1000 for a small household idol) among all materials, but it remains in the environment for a long time, with potential harm to aquatic life.The umbrella body of Ganesh mandals in the city, Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti (BSGSS), had requested the Maharashtra government and the Centre to allow the use of plaster of Paris (PoP) during this year’s festival. “Acquiring large quantities of clay, which is very expensive, will be very difficult during lockdown for artisans. We welcome the Centre’s decision to ensure idol makers are not harmed during this tough period. We have directed mandals to celebrate a simple festival this year,” said Naresh Dahibhavkar, president, BSGSS.This year 2.32 lakh large and household idols are slated to be made in Mumbai, Dahibhavkar said. “Of this 15% will be eco-friendly, made from clay and paper, while the remaining will be made up of PoP. About 10% of 2.32 lakh idols have already been made,” said Dahibhavkar.Marine biologists said PoP was never the choice for idol makers historically. “It has always been clay (shadu) idols not only for Ganeshotsav but other festivals as well. PoP takes months to break down and dissolve, destroying the marine ecosystem and considering the Covid-19 pandemic, it is our duty to be more sensitive to the environment. Lifting the ban is a bad idea,” said Vinay Deshmukh, marine biologist and former scientist, Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI).Environmentalists pointed out that the CPCB had revised its guidelines after 10 years based on an order passed by the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) discouraging the use of PoP. “The Centre does not have the authority to override the HC’s decision, which was in the interest of the environment. Historically, the size of the idol (during Lokmanya Tilak’s time when the festival was first celebrated in the current form) was not more than nine inches. The priority of the ministry should be the opposite of the decisions it is currently taking,” said Anand Pendharkar, wildlife biologist, Sprouts Environment Trust.Use of PoP In Mumbai during GaneshotsavAn average of 11,000 large (for public places) idols and 1.6 lakh household idols are made every year using PoP. The use of thermocol and plastic was disallowed by the umbrella body of Ganesh mandals last year. An average of 75 large idols and 40,000 household idols are made using clay while 250 paper idols are made annually during the 11-day Ganeshotsav festival. Lalbaugcha Raja, Mumbai Cha Raja Ganesh Galli, Andhericharaja, Fortcha Icchapurti and many other popular idols have been using PoP annually for almost a decade. Last year 2.11 lakh idols were immersed across 129 immersion spots in Mumbai. The figure was 2.03 lakh in 2018, 1.92 lakh in 2017, and 2.09 lakh in 2016. The percentage of eco-friendly idols increase from 2% to 5% over four years with a maximum increase in paper idols being adopted by mandals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-relief-to-artisans-making-idols-for-ganeshotsav-pop-ban-deferred-for-a-year/story-fGwFozShhnn9qSDSJjjb7O.html
22-05-2020||India||MHA allows OCI cardholders in certain categories to come back to India||The Central government on Friday relaxed visa and travel restrictions for holders of Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) cards stranded abroad since March due to the Covid-19 lockdown, allowing certain categories to come to India. The categories include minor children born to Indian nationals abroad who hold OCI cards, those wishing to travel for family emergencies, and university students who are OCI card holders but whose parents are Indian citizens living in India.The OCI card holders are likely to be included in the third phase of the government’s massive repatriation operation called Vande Bharat Mission, as there is no word yet on when the government will allow international flights. Officials familiar with developments said OCI card holders could also be accommodated in vacant seats in flights during the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission, which will continue till June 13.In the second phase, which started on May 16, India is bringing back around 32,000 citizens on more than 160 flights from 47 countries.The home ministry’s order on Friday partially resolves issues raised by hundreds of thousands of people whose visas were suspended following the imposition of restrictions on international travel because of the Coronavirus outbreak.The categories of OCI card holders allowed by the government include minor children born to Indian nationals abroad holding OCI cards, OCI card holders who wish to come to India on account of family emergencies such as a death in the family, couples where one spouse is an OCI card holder and the other is an Indian national and they have permanent residence in India, and university students who are OCI card holders (not legally minors) but whose parents are Indian citizens living in India, according to the home ministry’s order seen by HT. With this move, the multiple-entry lifelong visas given to OCI card holder have also been restored after they were temporarily suspended due to the Covid-19-related restrictions.OCI card holders were among several categories of people who have been eagerly awaiting permission to travel to India. Government officials had indicated earlier this month that their first priority is meeting the minimum expectations of Indian nationals stranded abroad before requests from OCI card holders could be entertained. In line with this thinking, only those categories with an immediate need to travel have been picked now from among OCI card holders.According to government data, nearly 260,000 Indian nationals in 98 countries have registered with the external affairs ministry to return to the country, and the government is prioritising travel of those with compelling reasons, such as people who have lost their jobs, pregnant women and people with medical emergencies.“The travel restrictions, imposed earlier by MHA on May 7 would not apply to any aircraft, ship, train or any other vehicle deployed for bringing back the above mentioned categories of OCI card holders who are stranded abroad,” said a statement from the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-allows-oci-cardholders-in-certain-categories-to-come-back-to-india/story-8MFwLuOIeSiJnDiSeaVAiJ.html
22-05-2020||India||Refrain from using Covid-19 crisis for personal political gains: Opposition parties to Centre||Leaders of 22 opposition parties on Friday decided to submit to a 10-point charter of demands to the Centre, urging it to refrain from using the Covid-19 crisis for personal political gains, activate parliamentary institutions such as standing committees and provide financial help to states.The meeting, chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, also appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately reach out to all the political parties in a systematic manner, engage them in a dialogue with listen seriously to their suggestions to deal with the health and economic crisis triggered by the deadly coronavirus.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said the like-minded parties believe that this is neither the time for showmanship nor the one-upmanship. “This is the time for a collective endeavour to bring India out of this crisis. This is what the people of India need and this is what the people of India demand,” he added.Pawar said the opposition parties are collectively going to raise a ten- point demand to the Centre for immediate implementation.“Refrain from using the crisis for personal political gain, activate parliamentary institutions like standing committees and be genuine in helping the states financially and otherwise,” he said.Pawar stressed the need to take the right steps to gradually restore road transport within the states and plan for resumption of air and rail services that were disrupted by the lockdown.“New policies for encouraging industrial growth should be incorporated to attract new investment in the states. To increase imports, exports and inland shipping, consultations should be held with industrialists, entrepreneurs and expert officials in the field,” he added.“The number of students will decline for the next academic year due to the lockdown. Some educational institutions are likely to collapse or close down due to financial losses. A study group or committee should be appointed to take timely measures,” the former union minister said.Pawar said the state governments are relaxing the conditions of lockdown but factories are not in a position to resume as workers have migrated to the villages.“We need to strategise to bring them back,” he said.Earlier, the opposition parties urged the Centre to immediately declare the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan in Odisha and West Bengal as a national calamity and called for substantially helping the two states in facing the impact of the disaster.The leaders passed a resolution in this regard and said relief and rehabilitation should be the topmost priority at this juncture.“We, the opposition parties, extend our sympathy and support to the governments and people of West Bengal and Odisha in meeting the impact of the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan,” it said.The resolution said a natural calamity like Cyclone Amphan has come as a double blow to the states amid the coronavirus pandemic, breaking the spirits of people.“Opposition parties, therefore, urge the central government to immediately declare this as a national calamity and substantially help the states in facing the impact of this disaster,” it added.The resolution said the people of Odisha and West Bengal urgently need the support and solidarity of the governments and citizens of the country.Relief and rehabilitation should be the topmost priority at this juncture, it further said, adding the possibility of an outbreak of other diseases as a result of the calamity must also not be ignored.“We, the opposition parties, call upon the central government to provide urgent help to our fellow citizens/countrymen,” it said.The leaders also conveyed their deepest condolences to the families of those who lost their lives due to the cyclone.“We express our solidarity and sympathies with the pain of those who have suffered other losses. The country and its people are already in the midst of a grim struggle for survival combating the Covid-19 pandemic,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/refrain-from-using-covid-19-crisis-for-personal-political-gains-opposition-parties-to-centre/story-yJgnKv9HIijj1SxciA1EOM.html
22-05-2020||India||Maharashtra BJP launches protests against govt’s handling of Covid-19 pandemic||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) versus the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) battle was on full public display on Friday as the former held its ‘Maharashtra Bachao’ (Save Maharashtra) agitation, with party workers across the state in black masks, unfurled banners slamming the Thackeray-led government over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic.Two months after the first coronavirus case was identified in the state and a week after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray secured his nomination to the Legislative Council, the BJP announced that it would no longer stay quiet and spoke out against the government’s “ineffectual” tackling of the pandemic.As part of its agitation, state BJP unit party workers were seen in social and broadcast media shouting slogans against the Thackeray government, holding placards in a symbolic protest. The protests were held outside their homes, state, district and city party offices in a move to roll out a campaign and to generate a sentiment against the government. The BJP has also demanded an independent fiscal package worth Rs 50,000 crore for farmers, daily wage earners in the state to combat Covid-19.The Shiv Sena and other ruling parties did not take this lightly and slammed the Opposition for playing politics amidst a full blown disaster. They also hit back on social media. And, by late afternoon on social media, both the BJP’s ‘Maharashtra Bachao’ and the state Congress’ ‘Maharashtra Drohi’ (Maharashtra’s traitors) were viral but the former was lagging behind the latter.“The maximum number of coronavirus cases and maximum deaths are in Maharashtra. The public health system has completely collapsed due to the state government’s failures. For how long can we co-operate with the government. How much can the people tolerate?” asked Fadnavis, who protested along with his party colleagues outside the state BJP office.A day earlier, Fadnavis had upped the ante targeting Thackeray directly as someone who was new and made “strategic failures” as he lacked “administrative experience”. The former CM has also alleged that the state and the city have reduced testing of patients in a bid to bring down the Covid-19 positive cases. He has alleged that despite having a capacity of conducting 10,000 tests, the BMC was conducting only around 4,500 tests daily.Sena Yuva chief and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray in response to BJP’s protest tweeted : “One political party state unit has set a new low and a new world record – the only party in the world to indulge in politics and in spreading fear, hate and division when the world has forgotten all of it to help each other. This party has forgotten the pandemic.”Re-tweeting another photo where children are wearing black clothes, holding BJP flags and protesting, Thackeray said, “Absolutely shameful, what lust for power politics can make leaders do. Making children stand in heat, with their masks lowered, not covering their faces for a political protest when we need to keep them safe and indoors.”“Maharashtra Drohi hashtag has become viral across the country because people realise the true picture of the BJP. In the face of such a horrific disaster, only they can think of politics…let people die, we want power, is their mantra,” Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-bjp-launches-protests-against-govt-s-handling-of-covid-19-pandemic/story-RRVxTBTfVqQybp9wXus9CP.html
22-05-2020||India||‘Lockdown mostly achieved its purpose’: Govt lists gains, reveals strategy||A government constituted panel on Friday remarked that the almost two month long nationwide lockdown period beginning March 25 has served its purpose and it was not possible to continue it for an unlimited time. The chairman of the empowered group number 1, formed along with several others, added that the lockdown had given the country sufficient time to upgrade its health infrastructure to meet the challenges posed by any rapid spread in the coronavirus contagion.“Lockdown has mostly achieved its purpose, but it cannot be continued for unlimited time; we need to behave in a manner which makes it difficult for coronavirus to spread. This is the way forward,” said Dr V K Paul, Member (Health), NITIAayog and the Chairman of the Empowered Group 1.Further explaining his statement, Dr Paul said that the growth rate of Covid 19 cases has seen a steady fall since April 3, 2020, around eight days the imposition of the first phase of the lockdown. He said that the number of cases would have been much higher today, had the lockdown not been implemented.He added that this was also true for the death rate of the disease“Like number of cases, the growth rate of Covid-19 deaths, too, has fallen significantly due to the lockdown, marking a notable difference between pre-lockdown and post-lockdown situations,” he said.The chairman said India’s response to the unprecedented crisis presented by the pandemic could be summed up in four words: timely, graded, proactive and pre-emptive. “It has been part and parcel of our overall strategy,” said Dr Paul.Explaining it further, he pointed out that in less than two months, the country had scaled up its coronavirus fighting capability with 1,093 covid facilities comprising around 3.24 lakh hospital beds and 6.5 lakh beds in covid care centres.On testing capacity, it was pointed out that a total of 27,55,714 tests have been done till 1 PM on Friday. Friday was also the 4th day when more than 1 lakh tests were done in a single day.Also Read: Lockdown saved maximum 2.1 lakh lives, averted 70 lakh cases, claims a government modelDue to the continuous scaling up of all preventing measures, a total of 48,534 coronavirus patients have been cured so far, including 3,334 patients cured in the last 24 hours, taking up the recovery rate to 41% while 66,330 patients were under active medical supervision.“The time the nation got for preparation due to lockdown has been utilized very well, we can now say with confidence that we will be able to face the challenge and surmount it,” added Dr Paul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-mostly-achieved-its-purpose-govt-lists-gains-reveals-strategy/story-z8e98UBVhzHitabwl9TfxL.html
22-05-2020||India||Haridwar starts collection of swab samples of migrant returnees||Haridwar district authorities have started collecting swab samples of migrant returnees after a recent order from the Uttarakhand high court (HC) that expressed concern over the influx of people following the easing of lockdown restrictions and insisted upon ramping up coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests, especially in the hill state’s red zones. In Haridwar, migrants arriving from Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Chamoli are being put under institutional quarantine in light of the HC order to enforce surveillance mechanism.Chief medical officer, Haridwar, Dr Saroj Naithani said 479 swab samples were collected from Kaliyar area from the passengers, who reached the temple town by a Shramik Special train from Mumbai on Thursday.“Around 200 samples were collected from Haridwar district on Thursday,” she said.“On Friday at 5 am, a Shramik Special train arrived from Amritsar, carrying 317 passengers, whose swab samples have been collected. Those who are travelling by road are also being tested and quarantined. They will be allowed to go back to their native places, as soon as they test Covid-19 negative,” Dr Naithani said.Haridwar district education officer (DEO), basic education, Brahampal Singh Saini has directed all officials to ensure arrangement for accommodation and food for migrant returnees, who are staying at makeshift quarantine centres on school premises.“All school principals and deputy education officials have been directed to maintain social distancing norms. While food for migrant returnees is being prepared by Bhojan Matas, who usually cook mid-day meal for school students,” said DEO Saini.On Tuesday, Uttarakhand HC had directed the state government to procure rapid test kits at the earliest and start conducting tests on an experimental basis, as the Indian Council for Medical Research’s (ICMR) approval is still pending, at the hill state border points in a bid to increase surveillance mechanism.The HC also directed the state government to set up quarantine centres at each border point, as over two lakh people are expected to enter Uttarakhand after the lockdown restrictions are lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haridwar-starts-collection-of-swab-samples-of-migrant-returnees/story-mtvkgsQG2LnsOyDVXG4GnO.html
22-05-2020||India||‘Rajasthan made us pay for Kota students’ ride home’: UP govt to Congress||Steppin up its attack on the Congress, the Uttar Pradesh government on Friday alleged that the Rajasthan government, helmed by Congress’ Ashok Gehlot, recovered Rs 36.5 lakh from it for the 90 additional buses it provided for bringing stranded students from Kota. “On the one hand you do not even show the courtesy of dropping our students stranded in your state at the UP border and ask us to pay the cost for ferrying students; on the other hand you try to show off your sense of public service and sensitivity by offering buses for migrants in UP,” deputy CM Dinesh Sharma, flanked transport minister Ashok Katariya, said at a press conference.The BJP leader accused the Congress of being “two-faced” and sought a public apology for misrepresenting facts over arranging buses for migrants, which it called a “political stunt”. “The Congress must render an apology for misleading the nation, especially the migrant workers for its two-faced character,” Sharma said. Detailing the Kota episode, Sharma said UP had sent buses to bring stranded students back on April 18 but it fell short of vehicles. They could bring only 10,000 students whereas the number were 12,000.“Therefore, the UPSRTC requested Rajasthan state road transport corporation (RSRTC) to provide 90 additional buses to ferry all the students back home. They did agree but on the condition that the UPSRTC give this in writing that it would bear the cost to which we agreed and sent a written request immediately accordingly,” Sharma said.Elaborating further, Katariya said that Rajasthan raised a bill of Rs 19.75 lakh on May 1 towards diesel that UPSRTC’s 560 buses sourced from the Kota depot and the entire amount was paid to them on May 5.“Again, on May 18 they sent the UPSRTC a reminder for the payment of another amount of Rs 36.36 lakh as the fare for the 90 buses the UPSRTC hired from RSRTC for bringing students from Kota to Agra and the UPSRTC paid the entire amount back on May 20,” he said.He said though students belonged to UP, they were staying in Rajasthan for the study purpose and hence the Rajasthan government was equally accountable for their well-being. “Should the Rajasthan government have not shown the courtesy of dropping these students free of cost on the UP borders at least if not to their homes?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-made-us-pay-for-kota-students-ride-home-up-govt-to-congress/story-bcqoI4kjDY3mtUH4GagpZM.html
22-05-2020||India||It’s only a pause, more steps to come to deal with Covid-19 crisis: Anurag Thakur||The government has only taken a pause and more measures will be announced in the days to come to help sectors hit by the coronavirus outbreak and also to make India ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur said. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the government has taken several steps to mitigate the hardships of the people due to lockdown and support growth, Thakur told PTI in an interview. Only this Sunday, he said, the government on the direction of Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a comprehensive economic package of Rs 20.97 lakh crore to support the economy hit hard by COVID-19. “We came first with the ease of compliance. The second was for the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package (Rs 1.70 lakh crore) and the third was this stimulus package of Rs 20.97 lakh crore. This can’t be the end,” he said while sharing details of a series of announcements. “The announcements have taken a pause and the action will continue,” the minister said when asked whether the government was expected to come out with more measures to deal with the current economic crisis following the coronavirus outbreak. Emphasising that the Modi government is sensitive to the needs of people and businesses, he said, the ministry is taking the inputs from various sectors. “Tourism is a very very important sector for us. Hospitality is an important sector for us. Civil Aviation is an important sector for us. In a country like India where they contribute to the GDP, not only GDP but millions of jobs have been provided through these sectors. We are very open about these sectors, and others if any have been left out. “But let me say here also many will also fall into other categories which have been benefited. Some will benefit from the series of announcements made for the MSME sector. Small hotels which fall into this category can take advantage of the announcement made in the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package,” he said. Stressing that economic reform is a continuous process, the minister said, “I’ll say the year 2020 will be known as the year of reforms.” In bold reforms aimed at boosting the sagging economy, the government last week announced several reforms including a slew of measures for the agriculture sector, defence manufacturing, civil aviation and mining sector. “The long-pending demand for the change of definition of MSME, taking farmers out of the clutches of the Essential Commodities Act and the APMC Act have been seen as historic steps. Opening up of the coal mining and mineral sector at the same time has been a very positive step towards self-reliance,” he said. “Apart from that opening up of the space sector is not a small reform. Permitting foreign investors to own up to a 74 per cent stake in defence manufacturing ventures under the automatic route, from the current 49 per cent limit is another big bold move,” he said. Also, the list of weapons that cannot be imported will be expanded to give Make in India a boost and cut down the import bill and improve export potential. Rebutting the criticism that the government has not done enough to push demand, the minister said that the central government has transferred funds directly to the needy, whether it was fund transfer to 20.5 crore Jan Dhan account holders or 2.2 crore national security assistance programme beneficiaries, or 9 crore farmers. Besides, he said, the Modi government has undertaken several other measures which will directly benefit the needy people. These include distribution of free ration to about 80 crore people, gas cylinders under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana etc. The government, the minister said, has announced a series of measures to help the MSME sector which employs the highest number of people (about 12 crores) after agriculture. Among other things, the government has made a provision of Rs 3 lakh crore of collateral-free loan for the MSME sector. “I think this is going to give a boost to the MSME sector,” the minister said, adding it will help in protecting jobs and there would be no more layoffs. At the same time, the minister said, the money in the hands of people will go a long way in boosting aggregate demand in the economy. PTI DP CS MR MR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-s-only-a-pause-more-steps-to-come-to-deal-with-covid-19-crisis-anurag-thakur/story-1LpbYXSLg6REA49zeJIACK.html
22-05-2020||India||3.5 million new enrolments under MGNREGA, as ‘distressed’ workers return to villages||As many as 3.5 million new workers have sought jobs under MGNREGA since April 1, the highest number of applications in a decade, but there may not be enough work to engage them all, according to government data and officials in multiple states.According to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme website, around 3.5 million new job applications have come in the current financial year since April 1 till May 20. For the same period in the last fiscal, the new applicants were about 1.8 lakh. A clear indication of rural economic distress is that in the entire 2019-20, the applications for new jobs were about 1.5 million, less than half of what has been received in mere 50 days of the current financial year.The national data also showed that the cumulative job applications as on May 20 stood at 43.3 million people and only half of them have been provided work so far. The maximum increase in demand for jobs cards has been from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, states which have received the most number of migrant workers from various parts of the country.Seeing the surge in demand, many of the state governments have directed district authorities to create a pool of additional work and get approvals within the next fortnight. Under MGNREGA, district authorities are expected to create a work budget for the year on the basis of the job applicants in February and March of the previous financial year.“Situation is different this year as demand for work started growing in April once the migrants started returning home,” Sidharth Tripathy, Jharkhand’s special MGNREGA commissioner, said. Rajasthan’s NREGA commissioner PC Kishan said normally there is a slight increase, three to 5%, in new job applications when the financial year starts. “This year, we have seen two lakh new job cards since April 1, which is equal to new job cards issued in the entire 2019-2020. This is not normal,” Kishan said.Nikhil Dey, who has worked on MGNREGA since the law came into force in 2005, said the number of new job applications received in the past two months normally comes in a year.“Apart from the migrants returning home, even locals are seeking job under NREGA because of lack of employment opportunities anywhere,” Dey said.State government officials said as there are not enough sanctioned works, there is a delay in providing employment to so many people. “Nobody had anticipated such a situation,” Jharkhand’s Tripathy said and added they have been engaging MGNREGA workers in pre-monsoon works such as maintaining of ponds or digging of wells. “We have also taken additional road construction work where MGNREGA worker can be employed,” he said.Bihar’s rural development department secretary Arvind Kumar Chaudhary said the department has decided to employ MGNREGA workers for flood management works that have started from May first week. Odisha would be using migrant workers, who have returned, in works to repairing the damage and rebuilding from Cyclone Amphan, apart from pre-monsoon works and for road construction.The state’s bid to provide more work has got impetus from the central government, which has decided to give Rs 40,000 crore in addition to Rs 61,000 crore provided in the budget for 2020-21. This, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said last week, will be the largest ever allocation for MGNREGA and would give a boost to the world’s biggest minimum social security programme that ensures minimum 100 days of work in a year and covers entire rural India.“We welcome the decision but around 15,000 crore will be used to clear pending amounts from the last financial year. The states need to create enough works to employ all those who have enrolled. If needed, MGNREGA workers can be used for agriculture purpose as there is a shortage of farm labourers,” Reetika Khera, a development economist working with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi, said.MGNREGA, which has been decried in the past by some leaders for incurring wasteful expenditure, is now providing succour to migrant workers returning from cities.“I was working with a building construction company in Bilaspur town but due to lockdown the work stop hence I enrolled myself in MNREGA at my village in Ratanpur. At least I am doing some work and earning some money,” Ratnakar Yadu, a resident of Chhattisgarh’s Bilaspur district, said.Kashiram Ahirwar, a 38-year-old resident of village Mau Bichhoda in Bundelkhand’s Tikamgarh district, returned his village with his wife and two children after losing his mason’s job in Bhind. “As no construction activity is going on and harvest season is also over here, my only hope is MGNREGA,” he said. Like him, Balveer Ahirwar, 23, of village Ladwari in the same district and his brother came back after losing their job due to lockdown. They reached from Delhi on May 13, after a week-long journey. “We have no money left and five quintal wheat from my father’s farm also did not fetch enough money. I and my Ashok are pleading sarpanch to give us work. But, he says that works have not been sanctioned by the local office,” he said. Jabbar Ahmad, 43, who returned to Bihar’s East Champaran town from Surat, where he used to work in a cotton factory, is looking for a job under MGNREGA.“I am a trained worker for cotton factory but I am looking for a job under MGNREGA for instant relief,” said Ahmad. Shirsat Kapil Ashok, East Champaran district magistrate, said many trained people, including some contractual teachers, were asking for a scope to work under MGNREGA. In some places, there have been reports of school teachers enrolling in the scheme for work.As for the work provided under the scheme, the national MGNREGA website shows that Rajasthan emerged as the top state in the country with close to 210,000 new works issued in the past 45 days of this financial year.“We are focusing on the rural job guarantee scheme to provide financial security to rural populations in the current scenario. This has resulted in 24.31 lakh labour engaged in NREGA today,” Sachin Pilot, Rajasthan’s deputy chief minister, said.Chhattisgarh, which has employed 28.32 lakh people under the scheme, highest ever for the state, has decided that if needed more than 100 days work will be provided under the scheme.“We are clear if people want we would provide additional work under NREGA for workers in our state even if we have to pay from our own pocket,” said state chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who has already asked the Centre to increase the employment days in a year from 100 to 150 days. Bhupesh Baghel also said collectors have been asked to ensure that migrants get work under MGNREGA. Deepak Soni, Surajpur’s collector, said after the quarantine period the workers are being provided work. MGNREGA workers in Chhattisgarh have never crossed 15 lakh mark.Uttar Pradesh, which has more than half a million new job seeks, has asked districts officials to create new roasters to accommodate additional MGNREGA workers. “Providing them work at the same time would not be possible for all workers. We would provide them employment in a staggered manner so that more families can be covered in the social security scheme,” a UP rural development department official, who did not want to be named, said.(With inputs from state bureaus)Top 5 states in terms of labour engagement on May 21State Labour engaged (in lakhs) Rajasthan 32.31 Uttar Pradesh 30.64 Chhattisgarh 28.32 Madhya Pradesh 22.82 West Bengal 18.42||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-5-million-new-enrolments-under-mgnrega-as-distressed-workers-return-to-villages/story-aDJHYz0vz1tSeLleIhVT7I.html
22-05-2020||India||Lockdown saved maximum 2.1 lakh lives, averted 70 lakh cases, claims a government model||A government empowered group formed to devise, monitor and implement India’s coronavirus containment effort has claimed that the nationwide lockdown implemented first on March 25 to break the chain of transmissions in the early stages of the spread of Covid-19 infections in the country has been successful in saving hundreds of thousands of lives and slowing down the growth of the disease as per the projections made by several mathematical models.According to a Boston Consulting Group (BCG) model, the lockdown has saved between 1.2 - 2.1 lakh lives, and averted between 36 - 70 lakh positive cases of Covid-19, claimed the chairman of empowered group I.The projection models, prepared to gauge the efficacy of preventive measures including the lockdown, were presented on Friday afternoon during the routine press conference of government officials meant to provide updates on the status of Covid containment efforts.According to another estimate made by ‘independent economists’, around 68,000 deaths were averted in India due to implementation of lockdown, while helping prevent an additional 23 lakh positive cases, said the chairman. He presented another model prepared by the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), which claimed that the lockdown had helped in saving 78,000 lives.Dr V K Paul, Member (Health), NITIAayog and the chairman of the empowered group number 1 also highlighted the various other advantages handed out by the lockdown and said it ensured that the cases remained limited to certain areas.“80% of all active cases were in just 5 states, more than 60% cases are in just 5 cities, the spread of Covid-19 infection has remained limited to certain areas, this is no small achievement, and also gives confidence to open up other areas,” said Dr Paul.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi and Rajasthan are the five worst victims of the coronavirus pandemic in India.He went on to claim that the growth rate of Covid19 cases has witnessed a steady fall from April 3, 2020, when the lockdown was able to put a brake on the speed of rise in infections.“The number of cases today would have been much higher, had lockdown not been implemented,” he said.The lockdown was first implemented on March 25 till April 14 and then extended in its second phase to May 3, followed by the third phase which ended on May 17. The country is now in a gradual exit mode with the national lockdown entering its fourth phase with graded resumption of economic activities.Dr Paul added that the lockdown not only put brakes on the rising number of positive cases, but it also ensured that the rate of Covid-19 related deaths, too, came down significantly. The difference in the death rates was notable between pre-lockdown and post-lockdown situations, he claimed.The official presentation on the efficacy of lockdown and other containment measures taken by the government comes on a day when a meeting of opposition parties was organized by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who was particularly harsh on government’s handling of the crisis while alleging that the centre had no exit strategy from the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-saved-maximum-2-1-lakh-lives-averted-70-lakh-cases-claims-a-government-model/story-BtZypgevlb4Tij0tOgf66M.html
22-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 3 amateur videos capture moments after Pakistan plane crash and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.3 amateur videos capture moments after Pakistan plane crash near Karachi airportA Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) plane crashed in Karachi on Friday. The flight was on its way from Lahore to Karachi. News agency Reuters reports that the plane had 99 passengers onboard when it crashed. Read moreAlong with Rs 1k crore, PM Modi pledges ‘shoulder to shoulder’ help to BengalPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday afternoon declared an advance assistance fund of Rs 1000 crore for relief and rehabilitation in Amphan-hit districts of Bengal after conducting an aerial survey of the worst-hit areas in the North and South 24 Parganas districts with chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Read morePakistan plane, about to land, crashes near Karachi; 107 on boardA Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) flight on its way from Lahore to Karachi, crashed in the area near Jinnah International Airport on Friday, according to Civil Aviation Authority officials. Read moreHarsh Vardhan takes charge as WHO Executive Board chairman, 3 key posts now held by IndiansUnion Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday took charge as Chairman of the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) Executive Board at a time when countries across the world are grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreOxford’s coronavirus vaccine trial progressing ‘very well’, on to second phase nowThe widely-followed trials for a coronavirus vaccine at the University of Oxford were described on Friday as progressing “very well”, with experts moving to the next phase after initiating the trial in April, when over 1000 immunisations of its candidate-vaccine were completed. Read moreSupreme Court seeks Centre’s response in plea to ban use of Zoom appThe Supreme Court (SC) on Friday sought the response of the central government in a plea seeking a ban on the use of Zoom software application, citing privacy and security concerns. Read moreChina abandons growth target, lowers defence budget rise for 2020 amid pandemicChina for the first time in decades will not have a GDP growth target for 2020 given the global economic uncertainties because of the Covid-19 pandemic, a government work report released by Premier Li Keqiang said Friday. Read moreSolutions to tackle future pandemics lies in conserving biodiversity: ExpertsMankind can find solutions for future pandemics in conservation of biodiversity, which simply means conserving the gene pool of all things living, for posterity. Read moreWatch singing husky Kovu give Jason Mraz a run for his money as he hums along to ‘I’m Yours’ with his hoomanSome of us may remember the track ‘I’m Yours’ by Jason Mraz. Well, now there is a new cover of the classic song which may leave you swooning even more than the original did. Read moreExplained: How coronavirus is spreading so quicklyDroplets from mild coughing in slight breeze can travel 6 metres in 5 seconds. Without masks, social distancing of 2 metres may not protect against infection. Children within the trajectory of the travelling droplet cloud are at risk. Watch the full video for more details. Read moreGulabo Sitabo trailer: Ayushmann Khurrana, Amitabh Bachchan settle land dispute with charmShoojit Sircar’s Gulabo Sitabo trailer, starring Ayushmann Khurrana and Amitabh Bachchan, has been released. In an unprecedented move for a film of this scale, Gulabo Sitabo will premiere directly on streaming on June 12, when it debuts on Amazon Prime Video. Read moreTikTok app rating on Google Play Store rises to 1.6 from 1.3 in a day, still gets poor reviews from usersSocial media app TikTok is not having its brightest of days. Since earlier this week, the company’s app on Google Play Store has witnessed a lot of backlash due to the CarryMinati YouTube vs TikTok battle and also for the quality of content it shows to millions of users. Read moreEid al-Fitr 2020: Saudi Arabia moon sighting timing, Shawwal start date, end of RamadanEid al-Fitr or Eid ul-Fitr or Meethi Eid marks the end of Ramadan, also referred to as Ramzan, the Islamic holy month of fasting and is celebrated by Muslims all across the globe. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-form-hindustan-times-3-amateur-videos-capture-moments-after-pakistan-plane-crash-and-all-the-latest-news/story-oKhV3GP1IrMR9PCzYKwb8L.html
22-05-2020||India||22 oppn parties call upon Centre to declare Cyclone Amphan as national calamity||Twenty-two opposition parties urged the Centre on Friday to immediately declare the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan in Odisha and West Bengal as a national calamity and called for substantially helping the two states in facing the impact of the disaster.The leaders of the 22 parties, who met through video-conferencing, passed a resolution in this regard and said relief and rehabilitation should be the topmost priority at this juncture.“We, the opposition parties, extend our sympathy and support to the governments and people of West Bengal and Odisha in meeting the impact of the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan,” the resolution said.It said a natural calamity like Cyclone Amphan has come as a double blow to the states amid the coronavirus pandemic, breaking the spirits of people.“Opposition parties, therefore, urge the central government to immediately declare this as a national calamity and substantially help the states in facing the impact of this disaster,” the resolution said.It added that the people of Odisha and West Bengal urgently need the support and solidarity of the governments and citizens of the country.Noting that relief and rehabilitation should be the topmost priority at this juncture, the resolution said the possibility of an outbreak of other diseases as a result of the calamity must also not be ignored.“We, the opposition parties, call upon the central government to provide urgent help to our fellow citizens/countrymen,” it said.During the meeting, the leaders conveyed their deepest condolences to the families of those who lost their lives due to the cyclone.“We express our solidarity and sympathies with the pain of those who have suffered other losses. The country and its people are already in the midst of a grim struggle for survival combatting the COVID-19 pandemic,” they said.The meeting called by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi was attended by the leaders of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and Left parties, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-oppn-parties-call-upon-centre-to-declare-cyclone-amphan-as-national-calamity/story-zs8Ob2QsmWw3ecTYVmKYlO.html
22-05-2020||India||Harsh Vardhan takes charge as WHO Executive Board chairman, 3 key posts now held by Indians||Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday took charge as Chairman of the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) Executive Board at a time when countries across the world are grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic.“I am aware I am entering this office at a time of global crisis on account of this Covid-19 pandemic. At a time, when we all understand that there will be many health challenges in the next two decades. All these challenges demand a shared response,” the Health Minister said after accepting charge as Chairman of WHO’s Executive Board.Referring to the country’s prolonged battle against the highly infectious coronavirus disease which has already crossed the 1 lakh mark, Dr Harsh Vardhan said, “India faced Covid-19 in a proactive and pre-emptive way, with unmatched scale and determination. Today we have a mortality rate of only 3%. In a country of 1.35 billion, there are only 0.1 million cases of Covid-19. The recovery rate is above 40 % and the doubling rate is 13 days.” ALSO READ | ‘Mutations in virus not specific to India,’ says Harsh VardhanThe Executive Board comprises 34 technically qualified members elected for three-year terms. The chairman’s post is held by rotation for one year among regional groups. The main functions of the Board are to implement the decisions and policies of the Health Assembly and facilitate its work. The World Health Organisation is the global health watchdog currently in the forefront of the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic and also in the frantic search for a vaccine for the deadly infection, which has spread to 183 countries across the globe.Currently, three key WHO posts are held by Indian representatives.Dr Harsh Vardhan, who is an ENT surgeon by training, will replace Dr H Nakatani, who is the advisor for international affairs to Japan’s health minister.Taking charge as chairman of the 34-member Executive Board that usually implements the decisions of the World Health Assembly, Dr Harsh Vardhan will have to work closely with WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.WHO’s initial response to the Covid-19 pandemic has been criticized by many countries led by the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-takes-charge-as-who-executive-board-chairman-3-key-posts-now-held-by-indians/story-5pdQD8KwIyaS8fztwQhLFL.html
22-05-2020||India||Newborn twins become Gujarat’s youngest coronavirus patients||Twin brother and sister, born six days ago in Gujarat’s Mehsana district, have tested positive for coronavirus, becoming the state’s youngest patients for the viral infection, an official said on Friday.A woman from Molipur village in the district, who had tested positive for the virus, gave birth to twins at the Vadnagar Civil Hospital on May 16, said Manoj Daxini, district development officer. “This is the first case in Gujarat where newborn infants, that too twins, have tested positive for coronavirus.While the male infant tested positive on May 18, the baby girl’s reports came on Friday,” he said.Both infants were in a stable condition, he said.“The woman hails from Molipur village, where several COVID-19 cases were detected after three persons who had returned from Mumbai tested positive,” Daxini said. At least 93 coronavirus cases have been detected in Mehsana district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newborn-twins-become-gujarat-s-youngest-coronavirus-patients/story-n4pKQuMGcjs5otCgimIDrL.html
22-05-2020||India||Dalai Lama writes to Naveen, Mamata; expresses sympathy for cyclone Amphan victims||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama has written to Mamata Banerjee and Naveen Patnaik, chief ministers of West Bengal and Odisha respectively, expressing his sympathy for the loss of lives and property in the two states ravaged by cyclone Amphan.Click here for Cyclone Amphan LIVE updatesIn his letters to the two chief ministers, the Buddhist leader said he is making a donation from the Dalai Lama Trust for the relief and rebuilding efforts “as a mark of solidarity with the people of West Bengal and Odisha.” However, the amount of donation was not mentioned in the statement issued by his office on Thursday.“This morning His Holiness the Dalai Lama wrote to Mamata Banerjee and Naveen Patnaik, the Chief Ministers of West Bengal and Odisha respectively to express his sadness over the loss of life, the devastation of property, as well as the hardship caused to so many people due to Cyclone Amphan,” said the statement on Thursday.Cyclone Amphan has claimed 77 lives in West Bengal and Banerjee said the state suffered losses to the tune of Rs 1 lakh crore because of it.There has been no confirmation of any loss of human life in Odisha due to the cyclone, though it affected nearly 45 lakh people and damaged a large number of houses in the coastal districts.The Dalai Lama also conveyed his condolences to the families who have lost loved ones, and to all those affected by the storm.“I appreciate the prior preparations that were made to respond to this natural disaster, and the efforts that are underway to provide relief and assistance to those affected,” the Dalai Lama wrote to each chief ministers.To the West Bengal chief minister, he said, “In addition to our profound respect for India as a sacred land, which has also been home to many Tibetans over the last 61 years, we have a special regard for Bengal” mainly because of two great personalities who hailed from it.They are great philosopher and dialectician Shantarakshita, who established the first Tibetan Buddhist monastery in Tibet in the 8th century CE, and Dipankara Atisha, who revived the practice of Buddhism in the 11th century, the Dalai Lama said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalai-lama-writes-to-naveen-mamata-expresses-sympathy-for-cyclone-amphan-victims/story-S1wtOEhTwmG9N8kZOBrmnM.html
22-05-2020||India||BJP to mark one-year of Lok Sabha victory, offers 5-day online course in good governance||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-backed think tank, Public Policy Research Centre (PPRC), will offer a five-day online training course on good governance to mark the party’s one year in office on May 30. Current efforts by the government, whether it is the timing of the Covid-19 lockdown or the use of technology for combating the pandemic and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for self-reliance, are being showcased by the BJP as accomplishments during the year.The BJP came to power at the Centre for a second term in May 2019 with an unprecedented majority of 303 Lok Sabha members following the General election. Though the party has much to celebrate, such as passing the law to read down Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, the ban on triple talaq and the decks being cleared by the Supreme Court for the building a Ram Temple in Ayodhya, the Covid-19 crisis has put a spanner in the works.Giving details of the online programme that is open to all, Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, national vice president of the BJP and honorary director of PPRC, said the Modi government has offered good governance since it first came to power in 2014, and its emphasis on last-mile delivery, efficient execution of schemes and use of TECHNOLOGY played a key role in its return to power last year.The course will have bureaucrats, both serving and retired, as resource persons. Health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal and NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant are likely to be part of the five-day course.On its website, PPRC described the course in good governance as one “imbued with public interest that demands exemplary collaborative inputs in the administration”.PPRC director Sumeet Bhasin said the programme will cover 10 topics, including the historical perspective of good governance, targeted last mile delivery, role of leadership, use of technology, and theory for Aatma Nirbhar Bharat (self reliant India).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-offer-five-day-online-course-in-good-governance/story-s20BmgdLeTbSmDlJRB3t6J.html
22-05-2020||India||Along with Rs 1k crore, PM Modi pledges ‘shoulder to shoulder’ help to Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday afternoon declared an advance assistance fund of Rs 1000 crore for relief and rehabilitation in Amphan-hit districts of Bengal after conducting an aerial survey of the worst-hit areas in the North and South 24 Parganas districts with chief minister Mamata Banerjee.“The state and the Centre tried their best to take precautionary measures before the cyclone. But despite that around 80 lives have been lost. This is very unfortunate. The government of India will work shoulder to shoulder with the state administration. We are announcing the release of an advance assistance fund of Rs 1,000 crore,” said PM Modi in Hindi. Before the Prime Minister arrived at the Kolkata airport, Banerjee said, “We heard last evening that he (Modi) would be coming. Sometimes we have to move out of politics and attend to constitutional obligations and work together as state and Central governments. We have to maintain that relationship. We have to follow the federal structure,” said Banerjee. “While we have received reports of 80 deaths so far, six crore people in the state have been directly affected. This (Amphan) has done more damage than any other natural disaster,” said Banerjee.Modi also declared Rs 2 lakh as assistance to families of the dead and Rs 50,000 to the injured people from the Prime Minister’s disaster relief fund.Before making the announcements, the Prime Minister went for an aerial survey with Banerjee for the first time and even held a meeting with state officials at Basirhat in the North 24 Parganas. They flew over the worst affected areas in a 10-seat army chopper for around one hour.Modi sought a report on the damages and said central teams would also visit Bengal for damage assessment, said officials who attended the administrative meeting.Also Read: ‘West Bengal is fighting well’: PM Modi’s rare praise for Mamata Banerjee“The fight against the coronavirus and the fight against the cyclone are completely different in nature. To fight the coronavirus, we ask people to stay at home while during the cyclone we ask people to leave their homes and take shelter in safe places. Under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee, the state has fought both the situations. West Bengal has to fight. We have to work together,” said Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/along-with-rs-1k-crore-pm-modi-pledges-shoulder-to-shoulder-help-to-bengal/story-vucFrgS7ufERBY2DXxryCJ.html
22-05-2020||India||‘Govt uncertain about lockdown, does not have exit plan’: Sonia Gandhi at opposition meet||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday attacked the Centre, saying it has “abandoned any pretence” of being a democratic government and all power is now concentrated in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) while the “spirit of federalism is all but forgotten”. Addressing a meeting of 22 like-minded parties held through video-conferencing, she also described Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s May 12 announcement of the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package as a “cruel joke” on the country. Gandhi came down heavily on the government for giving just a four-hour notice for imposing the nationwide lockdown on March 24 to contain the spread of the deadly coronavirus.“All of us supported the decision despite its suddenness and obvious unpreparedness of the government,” she said.This is the first meeting of the opposition parties after the nationwide lockdown came into force on March 25.The meeting is attended by former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader HD Deve Gowda, Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray and his colleague Sanjay Raut, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar and his party leader Praful Patel, Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her colleague Derek O’Brien, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief MK Stalin, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Communist Party of India (CPI) general secretary D Raja and Jharkhand chief minister and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) chief Hemant Soren.Sharad Yadav of the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), Tejashwi Yadav and Manoj Jha of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader PK Kunhalikutty, Omar Abdullah of the Jammu and Kashmir National Conference (JKNC), All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) chief Badruddin Ajmal, Jayant Choudhary of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief Upendra Kushwaha, Jitin Ram Manjhi of the Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM), NK Premachandran of the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), Kerala Congress (Mani) leader Jose K Mani, Raju Shetty of the Swabhiman Paksh, Thol Thirumavalavan of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) and Prof Kondandaram of the Telangana Jana Samiti (TJS) too are attending.Apart from Gandhi, the Congress is represented by Rahul Gandhi, AK Antony, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, mallikarjun Kharge and Ahmed Patel.However, the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) skipped the meeting.In her opening remarks, the Congress chief also said the initial optimism of the Prime Minister that the war against the virus would conclude in 21 days has turned out to be misplaced. “It seems that the virus is here to stay until a vaccine is found. I am also of the view that the government was uncertain about the criteria for lockdowns, nor does it have an exit strategy. Successive lockdowns have yielded diminishing returns,” she claimed.Gandhi claimed that the defining image of the Covid-19 pandemic has been the lakhs of migrant workers, many with children, walking hundreds of kilometres, without money, food or medicines, desperate to reach their home states.“Apart from the plight of the migrant workers, those who have been cruelly ignored include the 13 crore families at the bottom half of the population, including tenant farmers and landless agricultural workers, laid off or retrenched workers and employees, shopkeepers and self-employed, the 5.8 crore out of the 6.3 crore MSMEs, and organised industries, including the large businesses, that drive our country’s growth,” she said. Gandhi said India was facing an economic crisis even before the first coronavirus cases were identified. “Demonetisation and a hasty and flawed GST were amongst its main causes. The economic downturn began in 2017-18. Seven quarters of declining GDP growth was no ordinary event; it was unprecedented. Yet, the government carried on with its misguided policies and incompetent governance,” she said.“The economy has been gravely crippled. Every economist of repute had advised an immediate need for a massive fiscal stimulus. The Prime Minister’s announcement on May 12 of a grand Rs 20 lakh crore package - and the finance minister (Nirmala Sitharaman) spelling out its details over the next five days, have turned out to be a cruel joke on the country,” the Congress chief alleged. Gandhi said the opposition parties had demanded that cash must be transferred to the poor, free grain be distributed to all families, buses and trains be arranged for migrant workers to go back to their homes and wage assistance and wage protection funds be set up to protect the employees and the employers.“Our pleas have fallen on deaf ears. Far from offering succour and support, the government has embarked on a wild adventure of so-called reforms including a grand clearance sale of PSUs and repeal of labour laws,” she added.“There is not even pretence of consultation with stakeholders or debate in Parliament. We deplore these unilateral moves.”The Congress president said a number of renowned economists are predicting that 2020-21 will end with negative growth of up to minus 5%.“The consequences will be catastrophic. That the present government has no solutions is worrying but that it has no empathy or compassion for the poor and vulnerable is heartbreaking,” she added. “The government has also abandoned any pretence of being a democratic government. All power is now concentrated in one office, the PMO. The spirit of Federalism, which is an integral part of our Constitution, is all but forgotten.” Gandhi claimed that there is no indication either if the two Houses of Parliament or the standing committees will be summoned to meet. “It is our duty to offer constructive criticism and suggestions, and be the voice of the people,” she said.At the beginning, Gandhi expressed profound “sense of sorrow” at the enormous damage caused in West Bengal and Odisha by Cyclone Amphan, including the loss of 80 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-uncertain-about-lockdown-does-not-have-exit-strategy-sonia-gandhi-at-opposition-meet/story-r0kF4rOxnSJC2kcAk7E0yL.html
22-05-2020||India||PM Modi lands in Odisha, takes off for aerial survey to assess 4 Cyclone Amphan-hit districts||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday arrived at Bhubaneswar’s Biju Patnaik International Airport to assess the damage caused by Cyclone Amphan and undertake an aerial survey of four Odisha districts battered by the severe cyclonic storm.The prime minister was received by Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, Pratap Sarangi, Chief Secretary A K Tripathy, DGP Anhay and others senior government officials at the airport.The political leaders strictly maintained social distancing guidelines at the airport amid the Covid-19 pandemic.ALSO READ | In PM Modi’s aerial survey of cyclone-hit Bengal, CM Mamata a co-travellerPM Modi accompanied by the Odisha governor and the chief minister left immediately for the aerial survey by a special air force helicopter.The Prime Minister is scheduled to fly over the districts of Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore adjoining West Bengal. These are the districts which bore the brunt of the severe cyclonic storm in Odisha earlier this week.Union ministers Pradhan and Sarangi flew in a separate chopper for the aerial survey.After his return from the aerial survey, PM Modi is scheduled to review the cyclone situation and measures taken for restoration and relief work in the affected areas.Cyclone Amphan, which barelled past the Odisha coast and made landfall in the Sunderbans on Wednesday, has caused untold damage to houses, power infrastructure, standing agricultural crops and the horticultural sector in four coastal districts and parts of northern Mayurbhanj.The Prime Minister is expected to conduct the aerial survey for over one hour.Earlier in the day, PM Modi conducted an aerial survey of cyclone-hit areas of West Bengal and also announced Central aid of Rs 1000 crore for relief and rehabilitation work in Cyclone Amphan-hit districts of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lands-in-odisha-takes-off-for-aerial-survey-to-assess-4-cyclone-amphan-hit-districts/story-XMnGkjGvIXwVUvGvcC2q0O.html
22-05-2020||India||Petition challenging PM Modi’s election from Varanasi adjourned by two weeks||The Supreme Court on Friday adjourned the hearing on the petition challenging the election of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi parliamentary seat held in May last year. The matter will now be taken up after two weeks.The petition has been filed by sacked Border Security Force (BSF) constable Tej Bahadur who could not contest from Varanasi since his nomination paper was rejected by the returning officer on May 1 last year. Bahadur challenged PM Modi’s election before the Allahabad High Court, but lost. HC dismissed the petition on December 6, 2019 holding that Bahadur had no locus to challenge the election as he was neither a candidate nor an elector.This was the first hearing on Bahadur’s appeal against the HC verdict in the Supreme Court. He alleged there were several technical flaws in the HC judgment dismissing his case.A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde, Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy were ready to hear arguments. But Bahadur’s lawyers moved a letter for a four-week adjournment without specifying any reason. The Court refused to grant such time and instead posted the matter after two weeks. PM Modi was represented by senior advocates Harish Salve and Satya Pal Jain.Bahadur’s nomination was rejected as a clause contained in the Representation of Peoples Act prescribes a five-year ban on contesting against any person in the employment of the state who got dismissed on grounds of corruption or disloyalty to state. Bahadur claimed he was dismissed but on grounds other than corruption or disloyalty. In such cases, the candidate must attach a certificate of the Election Commission testifying this fact. Bahadur did not possess this certificate and hence his nomination got rejected.Bahadur shot to fame in 2017, when he shot a video exposing the alleged poor quality of food supplied to BSF jawans in their camp. His act was seen as indiscipline and the BSF dismissed him in April 2017. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Samajwadi Party fielded him against PM Modi from Varanasi. Bahadur failed to qualify as a candidate after his nomination stood rejected. He was not even an elector of Varanasi. In his own petition, he admits to be an elector from Bhiwani, Mahendragarh parliamentary constituency in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petition-challenging-pm-modi-s-election-from-varanasi-adjourned-by-two-weeks/story-xPwfPeEt8up1q7HG7ElBFK.html
22-05-2020||India||‘Under Mamata Banerjee’s leadership’: PM Modi’s rare praise for Bengal chief minister||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced a Rs 1,000 crore assistance to West Bengal after a first-hand assessment of the destruction due to cyclone Amphan this week. PM Modi, who assured people that the Centre would stand by the Trinamool Congress-ruled state, also showered rare praise on chief minister Mamata Banerjee who has been his fierce critic.In a video statement made as he wrapped up the Bengal leg of his visit - he flew down to neighbouring Odisha - PM Modi noted that West Bengal was faced with a difficult situation because of the cyclone at a time the state and the country is battling with the coronavirus disease.To deal with Covid-19, social distancing is required and people are told to stay where they are. But the cyclone required people in the affected areas to vacate their houses and move to safer places, he said.But Bengal under Mamata Banerjee’s leadership has made commendable efforts.Watch l ‘Fighting Covid & cyclone’: PM Modi announces interim relief for West Bengal “Despite these contradictions, West Bengal is fighting well,” PM Modi’s office later tweeted, reiterating PM Modi’s commitment to stand with the people of Bengal in these “testing times”.PM Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party and Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress have been bitter rivals in Bengal for years, particularly after the BJP set its eyes on getting a foothold in the state’s politics.In last year’s general elections, the BJP’s aggressive campaign delivered 18 of Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats. Much of this increase came at the cost of the Trinamool Congress which had to settle for 22 seats, down from the 32 it had won in 2014.Home Minister Amit Shah, who had led the BJP campaign in Bengal and is credited for expanding the party’s tally from 2 to 18 Lok Sabha seats in five years, has made it clear that the BJP was aiming to come to power in Bengal in next year’s assembly elections.Not surprisingly, Mamata Banerjee has been the BJP’s favourite punching bag in Bengal and is seen to be deeply suspicious of its moves.Like when the Centre sent an inter-ministerial team to Bengal, among other states, Mamata Banerjee was the only chief minister to question the Centre’s motives. The central team was told to stay put at their guest house by state officials and not move out without a police escort.The central team was still able to find flaws in the state’s handling of Covid-19, gaps that provided the state BJP leadership ammunition to target Mamata Banerjee and her government.Back home in Kolkata, she also has a running feud with Governor Jagdeep Dhankar who often accuses her government of keeping him in the dark. Dhankar had fired his last attack at the state government over the Kolkata municipal corporation less than 24 hours earlier.To be sure, Governor Dhankar has not attacked Mamata Banerjee for her handling of cyclone Amphan either. Hours before PM Modi landed in Kolkata - the governor also accompanied him on the aerial survey and attended the review meetings he chaired - Jagdeep Dhankar announced on Twitter that he had contributed Rs 50 lakh to the chief minister’s fund for Amphan relief work and asked people to chip in too.Friday’s interaction between PM Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee was a contrast to the prime minister’s last visit to the state in January this year amid the protests over the amended citizenship law.Banerjee had then deputed a minister to receive him at the airport and skipped a Kolkata Port Trust event. But she did later call on PM Modi at Raj Bhavan, describing it as a courtesy to the visiting dignitary.A statement by the Prime Minister’s Office on PM Modi’s flying visit on Friday underlined that this was his second visit to the state this year. West Bengal, the PMO statement said, is the only state apart from Uttar Pradesh, where PM Modi has had multiple visits this year.Prime Minister Modi hasn’t stepped out of Delhi for months due to the coronavirus outbreak and the emphasis on people staying at home. A PMO official said PM Modi’s last outstation visit was to Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj and Chitrakoot on February 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-is-fighting-well-pm-modi-s-rare-praise-for-mamata-banerjee/story-I0UBEUqOGNKKVnBHI7FyXM.html
22-05-2020||India||Solutions to tackle future pandemics lies in conserving biodiversity: Experts||Mankind can find solutions for future pandemics in conservation of biodiversity, which simply means conserving the gene pool of all things living, for posterity. Gene pools can be classified into possible usages like fighting pandemics, fighting hunger, fighting garbage in our cities, in landfills and in oceans, fighting air pollution, and above all, fighting climate change.The story of human civilization is one of harnessing biodiversity to its advantage. All crops were derived from wild plants. All domesticated animals were hybridized variants of their wild cousins. Almost all medicines owe their origin to nature.This diversity of living beings and diversity of ecosystems within which they flourish (oceans, deserts, mountains etc) make up for overall biodiversity. The vast numbers of different kinds of living organisms that make up Earth’s biodiversity are a result of three-and-a-half billion years of evolution.Benefits of biodiversity are measured in terms of ecosystem services. It is believed that value of ecosystem services is significantly larger than global GDP of all countries. An example of ecosystem services would be the service of pollination of plants provided by bees. Just imagine if there were no bees, what it would take to pollinate the plants across the world, manually!But like everything good, biodiversity too could be under threat. There have been five major mass extinctions, owing to cataclysmic changes in the environment. Some experts believe that we are now headed for a sixth mass extinction. This one will be caused by loss of habitat.India is ranked high among the countries with greatest degree of biodiversity (it has about 7% of the global faunal and about 10% of the global floral total species), and we, therefore, have most to lose – unless we take effective collective action now, to save humanity, to save the world, to save our children and our future generations.We need collective action across individuals, families, communities, nations to save biodiversity. We must conserve forests and associated biodiversity, and work towards achieving the common goal of having 33% of India’s land under forest cover.If the human race has to survive, all other life forms must survive to support the web of life. Human race has the ability to decide the future of itself and future of other life forms.Thousands of years ago, great thinkers of India contemplated the same and came up with a universal maxim of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ which means the universe is my family. Let us trust that all solutions are within nature (biodiversity), and we promise to protect our common future.(GV Reddy, IFS officer, is Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, head of forest force in Rajasthan and Chairman of the Rajasthan State Biodiversity Board; Avneesh Makkar is group finance director of an MNC in India.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/solutions-to-tackle-future-pandemics-lies-in-conserving-biodiversity-experts/story-1JWOAa5amHQe3Pmwu0NidP.html
22-05-2020||India||DRI sounds alert over smuggling of infrared thermometers into India from China||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has sounded an alert to different customs formations across the country to check smuggling of infrared thermometers into the country from China, officials said on Friday. The move assumes significance as the demand of such thermometers have spiked in the country due to the coronavirus pandemic. “The DRI has sent an alert to inland container depots and the cargo airport in Delhi and other places across the country, dealing with the import and export of commodities from abroad, among others asking them to be vigilant about such smuggling,” an official said. He said there is information to suggest that smugglers may under-value or mis-declare these thermometers to illegally import them to India. A good being brought into the country can be under-invoiced with an intention to evade customs duty to defraud the government exchequer. In this method, the invoice being filed with authorities for the import of the goods is falsified to show that the price of goods being imported is lower than the actual price being paid by an importer abroad. India had lost a staggering USD 13 billion, over Rs 90,000 crore, to trade mis-invoicing (that includes under and over invoicing), equivalent to 5.5 per cent of the value of the country’s total revenue collections in 2016, according to a 2019 report by the US-based think-tank Global Financial Integrity. A non-contact infrared/thermal thermometer of a reputed manufacturing firm may cost anywhere between Rs 3,500 and Rs 8,000, according to the websites selling them. The officials also suspect that the smugglers may exploit the free trade zone of Dubai port to route the goods for sending them to India. “A strict vigilance is maintained to thwart such attempts to cause damage to the Indian economy and the local manufacturers,” the official said, referring to the DRI alert issued recently. The DRI is a federal economic intelligence agency under the Finance Ministry mandated to check commercial frauds among others. The customs formations are on alert to thwart any attempts of smuggling. About 2,500 kg of raw material for masks was intercepted by air cargo export here on May 13. In addition to these, the customs officials had intercepted multiple shipments containing 5.08 lakh masks, 57 litres of sanitiser in 950 bottles and 952 PPE kits at the courier terminal in New Delhi. These were attempted to be smuggled out of the country to the US, UK and the UAE among others, they said. The goods were mis-declared as packing materials for pouches to avoid suspicion and further scrutiny by the customs officials. The export of such goods is prohibited by the government due to the coronavirus outbreak. Many countries have either increased the production of such products or ordered their import owing to domestic demands as they stare at its possible shortage. Customs officials in Chennai recently thwarted an attempt to illegally smuggle out over 1,000 kg of red sanders wood to Malaysia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dri-sounds-alert-over-smuggling-of-infrared-thermometers-into-india-from-china/story-Cxo6LSZofXf7JpWsK138jM.html
22-05-2020||India||IMD issues heatwave warning for Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh||India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday warned that heatwave conditions would prevail over Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh for the next five days.“Heatwave conditions very likely over Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh during 5 days with a severe heatwave in isolated pockets over West Rajasthan during the next 24 hours,” the IMD stated in its All India Weather Warning Bulletin.“Heatwave conditions very likely over parts of peninsular India and Vidarbha during next 3-4 days. Heatwave conditions are likely to develop over East Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh after 24 hours and over southern parts of Uttar Pradesh after 48 hours.”The weatherman has further predicted that heavy rainfall is likely to batter Sikkim and few other Northeastern states between May 24-May 26.“Heavy to very heavy rainfall likely at isolated places over Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim and Assam and Meghalaya during 24th - 26th and over Arunachal Pradesh on 24th May 2020,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-heatwave-warning-for-rajasthan-madhya-pradesh/story-h9FINSccp5Nuksraos0nMI.html
22-05-2020||India||Supreme Court seeks Centre’s response in plea to ban use of Zoom app||The Supreme Court (SC) on Friday sought the response of the central government in a plea seeking a ban on the use of Zoom software application, citing privacy and security concerns.Zoom app, which is owned by the US-headquartered company, Zoom Video Communications, enables video conferences and online chat facilities. The use of the platform is free for video conferences of up to 100 participants with a 40-minute time limit. For longer or larger conferences with more features, paid subscriptions are available.The petitioner, Harsh Chugh, who is a part-time tutor, told the apex court that the sudden boom in the use of Zoom application because of the lockdown restrictions, which were imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, has severely compromised cyberspace security, as personal data of its users are being routinely leaked. “Poor privacy and security of the application have enabled the hackers to get access to the meeting, classes, and conferences being conducted online through this application. Zoom is reported to have a bug that can be abused intentionally to leak information of users to third parties,” the plea said.Chugh prayed that there should be a ban on the use of Zoom for both official and personal purposes until an appropriate law addressing data security issues is put in place.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, issued notice to the central government in the matter.The petition pointed out that the Zoom application saw exponential growth in its users from 10 million in December 2019 to 200 million in March 2020 due to the pandemic-induced lockdown restrictions.The petitioner alleged that the application has made false claims that its calls are end-to-end encrypted.Chugh also alleged that Zoom practices data hoarding, including mass storage of users’ personal data.“Zoom was capitalising off the pandemic by selling users’ information to Facebook without their consent. Zoom is sending the data it collects from the computer of its users even if they weren’t logged on to a Facebook account,” the petition said.It was also contended that the application causes a serious violation of the right to privacy which is a fundamental right, under Article 21 of the Constitution.“Zoom is reported to have a bug that can be abused intentionally to leak information of users to third parties. Zoom pedals its products knowing that hackers are accessing users’ webcams, exposing them to extreme invasions of privacy,” it added.On April 1, the ministry of home (MHA) affairs through its cyber coordination committee had issued an advisory on the secure use of Zoom by private individuals. This advisory stated that the platform is not for use for official purposes.The petitioner pointed out that various high courts across the country are still using the application, despite the MHA advisory.“The Bombay high court recently decided to live stream hearing on a trial basis. The bench of Justice GS Patel made the hearing of listed matters on April 9 publicly accessible. The hearing in the court of Justice Patel could be accessed by anyone and everyone via the Zoom application. Similarly, the Kerala high court has also started live-streaming of court hearings through this application,” the plea stated.It was also submitted that the Zoom founder and chief executive officer, Eric S Yuan, had accepted the fact that his company was not prepared for the influx of novice users.“It’s not safe to conduct these conferences through an application, which has already been banned in several countries over security issues. The founder of the application has himself accepted that it has certain bugs leading to leakage of data and making it easy for hackers to access them,” the plea added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-response-in-plea-to-ban-use-of-zoom-app/story-yXNMzxc957MUPkVJxEiTyM.html
22-05-2020||India||Congress’ Sanjay Jha tests positive for Covid-19, under home quarantine||Congress leader Sanjay Jha said on Friday he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and will self-quarantine for the next week or so. “I have tested positive for Covid-19 . As I am asymptomatic I am in home quarantine for the next 10-12 days (sic),” Sanjay Jha tweeted.“Please don’t underestimate transmission risks, we are all vulnerable. Do take care all,” the Congress spokesperson said.His tweet came on a day India reported 6,088 new Covid-19 cases, the second biggest single-day surge in a week, in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 118,447.There were 66,330 active cases of the respiratory disease in the country and 3,583 people succumbed so far, the Union health ministry said on Friday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-sanjay-jha-tests-positive-for-covid-19-under-home-quarantine/story-408djv0qTvf2Bmc7y3esLP.html
22-05-2020||India||Govt allows certain categories of OCI card holders stranded abroad to travel to India||The government of India on Friday allowed certain categories of Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) card holders to travel to India. These include minor children born to Indian nationals abroad who hold OCI cards; those who want to travel for family emergencies and university students who are OCI card holders but whose parents are Indian citizens living in India.The announcement was made by the ministry of home affairs on Friday, and it comes close on the heels of the country widening its expatriates’ extraction programme called Vande Bharat Mission to the third phase. In the second phase, which started on May 16, India in a special operation, is bringing back around 32,000 citizens on more than 160 flights from 47 countries .ALSO WATCH | Vande Bharat mission phase two begins 16 May: All you need to know The home ministry order partially resolves issues raised by hundreds of thousands of people whose visas were suspended following imposition of restrictions on international travel in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. . According to the order,” It is now been decided to permit the following categories of Overseas Citizens of India cardholders who are stranded abroad.1) Minor children holding born to Indian nationals abroad and holding OCI cards2) OCI cardholders who wish to come to India on account of family emergencies like death in the family.3) Couples where one spouse is an OCI cardholder and the others is an Indian national and they have a permanent residence in India.4) University students who are OCI cardholders (not legally minors) but whose parents are Indian Citizens living in India.”The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19With this move, the multiple-entry life-long visas given to OCI card holders has also been restored which was temporarily suspended due to the travel restrictions.OCI cardholders were among several categories of people who have been eagerly awaiting permission to travel to the country. The government officials had earlier this month indicated that their first priority was to meet the minimum expectations of Indian nationals stranded abroad before requests from OCI card holders could be entertained. In line with the thinking, only those categories with an immediate need to travel have been picked from among the OCI card holders. According to the government data, close to 200,000 Indian nationals have registered with the foreign affairs ministry seeking to return to the country and the government is prioritizing travel of those with compelling reasons like people who had lost jobs overseas, pregnant women, and other people with medical emergencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-certain-categories-of-overseas-citizen-of-india-card-holders-stranded-abroad-to-travel-to-india/story-XqmyUWqgecBmKkg0GreBuN.html
22-05-2020||India||Rajasthan cuts mandi charge on sale, purchase of agri produce||Rajasthan government has partially rolled back the 2% farmer welfare fee on the sale and purchase of select agriculture produce, which was imposed on May 5 because of the protests from the agrarian community.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday directed that farm produce such as jowar, bajra, makka, jeera (cumin) and isabgol, should be charged 50 paise for every Rs 100 instead of the earlier stipulated fee of Rs 2.Similarly, for agricultural produce such as oilseeds, pulses, and wheat on which the mandi tax of Rs 1.60 per Rs 100 was earlier fixed has now been revised to Re 1.Wool has been exempted from the fee, whose receipts will go to a Farmers’ Welfare Fund that has been set up by the state government.The CM took the decision to partially roll back the fee after holding a meeting with representatives of the state’s business bodies on Thursday. He also consulted his cabinet ministers, members of the legislative assembly (MLAs), members of Parliament (MPs) and entrepreneurs before taking the decision.He said that the state government is aware of the problems being faced by the industries and traders due to the imposition of the farmer welfare fee amid the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The partial rollback in farmers’ fee is likely to give relief to businessmen and agro-processing industries related to food items, he added.The desert state’s border districts such as Pratapgarh, Jhalawar, Banswara, Jalore, Sirohi, Kota, Baran, Bharatpur, Dhaulpur, and Alwar, would have lower farmers’ fee than neighbouring states and it would facilitate competitive state, Gehlot said.Earlier, the mandi traders went on a five-day strike from May 6 in protest against the state government’s decision to impose a 2% farmer welfare fee under the Rajasthan Agriculture Produce Market Act, 1961 on the sale and purchase of farm produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cuts-mandi-charge-on-sale-purchase-of-agri-produce/story-oUyc6BHsviNDnH3KjklILK.html
22-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown restrictions eased in Srinagar ahead of Eid||Amid the coronavirus spread, lockdown restrictions have been eased out at Srinagar’s Lal Chowk on Friday ahead of Eid al-Fitr, the festival of breaking the fast.The locals were allowed to buy essential commodities from the shops situated in the Lal Chowk market. Some of them also went to banks for withdrawing money.Several people stepped out of their houses to buy food items but were seen abiding by the social distancing norm as a precautionary measure to halt the spread of the virus.“We were allowed stepped out of our houses today. Tomorrow is Eid and we need some food items for that,” said Rafiq Mohammed, a local while speaking to ANI.Notably, heavy police have been deployed in other parts of the city to restrict movement of people due to the lockdown. All shops and business establishments are closed on the directions of administration and people are advised to stay at homes to prevent from COVID-19 disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-restrictions-eased-in-srinagar-ahead-of-eid/story-lzfoPRnSK91i3dcPkDzq5L.html
22-05-2020||India||Tripura: Class 10 and 12 postponed exams to now start from June 5||AGARTALA: Tripura government has announced fresh dates for the rest of the Class X and XII board examinations, which were disrupted because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, from June 5.State education minister Ratan Lal Nath told media persons at Civil Secretariat late Thursday evening that the examinations would be held between noon and 3pm.Altogether, 27,142 candidates appeared for Class XII examinations this year, of which 8,749 examinees will sit for their unfinished tests to be held at 58 centres across the state.On June 5, Sanskrit examination will be held, followed by economics (June 6), psychology on (June 8), Arabic and Music (June 9), Geography (June 10) and Home Management and Home Nursing and Nutrition (June 11).“We will sanitise all the examination centres. Social distancing norms will also be strictly enforced. Only one examination centre is located in a red zone, which will be relocated,” the minister said.Of the total 39,917 candidates for Class X, only 309 have to appear for their unfinished examinations, including Physical Science on June 5 and Life Science on the following day that will be held across 60 centres.The Standard X and XII board examinations had started on March 2 and 3, respectively.The minister said that private-run school authorities have been urged not to hike their monthly tuition fees because of the pandemic that has roiled economic activities. “It has come to my notice that 34 private schools have so far agreed to give relief to parents for both monthly tuition fees and school bus fares,” he added.Tripura has 309 private schools, where around one lakh students are enrolled. About 5,000 teachers are employed in these private schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-class-10-and-12-postponed-exams-to-now-start-from-june-5/story-e9VUNO0Vq8QZ5d61WAGRNJ.html
22-05-2020||India||PM Modi announces Rs 1,000 cr immediate relief for Cyclone Amphan-hit Bengal||The central government stands with West Bengal in these testing times and will provide immediate advance assurance of Rs 1,000 crore, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday as he wrapped up a visit to the state that had been battered by cyclone Amphan this week. This is PM Modi’s first outstation visit in nearly three months.PM Modi was received at the airport by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and chief minister Mamata Banerjee - who accompanied him on the aerial survey of some of the worst-affected parts of the state before landing near a school in Basirhat, 50 km from Kolkata airport.PM Modi held a review meeting at the school where Mamata Banerjee pitched for greater central assistance to help people rebuild their lives. Banerjee said at least 80 people had been killed in Bengal due to the cyclone, many due to electrocution.Click here for Cyclone Amphan LIVE updatesIn a brief statement to the media after the meeting, PM Modi said the Centre and state are working together to provide all possible help to people.Watch l ‘Fighting Covid & cyclone’: PM Modi announces interim relief for West Bengal “All aspects relating to rehabilitation, reconstruction will be addressed. We all want West Bengal to move ahead. The Centre will always stand with West Bengal in these testing times,” PM Modi said.PM Modi didn’t get into Mamata Banerjee’s demand to declare the cyclone that had wreaked havoc in the state as a ‘national disaster’.In government rules, there is no provision for such a notification but political parties in states hit by disasters routinely make this demand to underscore that the Centre should loosen the purse strings and give more assistance than would be permissible under disaster management rules.Mamata Banerjee has complained for a few days that the Centre wasn’t moving enough to help Bengal. “We haven’t received any money to fight the Covid-19 pandemic till date,” the chief minister told reporters after cyclone Amphan left behind a trail of destruction and damage.Help should arrive fast and not after 500 days, she told reporters at a press conference on Thursday. It was at the same event that she had appealed to PM Modi to visit the state to see the damage for himself.PM Modi’s public announcement of Rs 1,000 crore advance assurance was designed to address this complaint.PM Modi said Rs 2 lakh would be given to the next of kin of persons who died in the cyclone and Rs 50,000 each to persons seriously injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-announces-rs-1-000-cr-immediate-relief-for-cyclone-amphan-hit-bengal/story-kmshOClDcFNqLUjubNxUVJ.html
22-05-2020||India||In PM Modi’s aerial survey of cyclone-hit Bengal, CM Mamata a co-traveller||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday conducted an aerial survey of Cyclone Amphan-hit West Bengal with chief minister Mamata Banerjee.Dharmendra Pradhan, Babul Supriyo, Pratap Chandra Sarangi and Debasree Chaudhuri also accompanied the two leaders.Click here for Cyclone Amphan LIVE updatesThe cyclone has claimed 80 lives so far, said the state government.Upon arrival this morning, PM Modi was greeted by CM Banerjee at the Kolkata airport. The CM then urged the PM to declare Cyclone Amphan a national disaster. President Ram Nath Kovind too dialled CM Banerjee to lend support. ALSO WATCH | PM Modi, Bengal CM conduct aerial survey of cyclone Amphan-hit areas “I sincerely thank President Ram Nath Kovind Ji, for personally calling me to convey his support and concerns for the people of Bengal in this unprecedented time of crisis because of Amphan Cyclone. We are extremely grateful,” said the CM. Banerjee had earlier pitched for central assistance and appealed to PM Modi to visit the cyclone-hit areas. The state government had moved out five lakh people to shield them from the cyclone that slammed the the state on Wednesday.PM Modi had assured West Bengal on Thursday that the country stands in solidarity with it as the state counts its losses in the wake of cyclone Amphan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pm-modi-s-aerial-survey-of-cyclone-hit-bengal-cm-mamata-a-co-traveller/story-4UceFk4iXK4IIsC6Bqj6PN.html
22-05-2020||India||After meeting with PM, video conference with Sonia Gandhi on Mamata Banerjee’s sked||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday accompanied Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his aerial survey of the areas affected by cyclone Amphan in the state. Eighty people have died due to the impact of the cyclone in the state, she said. In the afternoon, CM Banerjee is scheduled to attend a videoconference of opposition leaders called by Congress chairperson Sonia Gandhi to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country.According to a senior official of the state government, the chief minister and the Prime Minister surveyed two of the two worst-affected districts - North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas - following which both of them attended an administrative meeting at Basirhat, a subdivision in North 24-Parganas district that has been ravaged by the cyclone and large parts of which remain cut-off from the rest of the state due to fallen trees, electric poles and electric and mobile towers. After the meeting with PM Modi, Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to return to the state secretariat, where she will attend a videoconference of opposition leaders called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to discuss the government’s Covid-19 management and the plight of the migrant workers. Earlier, receiving the Prime Minister at Kolkata airport on Friday morning, the Bengal CM asked the PM to declare cyclone Amphan as a national disaster, a demand that the Congress and Left Parties in the state have also made. On Thursday, Mamata Banerjee had said that the cyclone has come as a double whammy in the middle of the Covid-19 lockdown and the state would need Centre’s help for relief and reconstruction. Making the demand, Communist Party of India (Marxist) politburo member Surya Kanta Mishra said, “Funds should start reaching the state immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-meetings-with-pm-video-conference-with-sonia-gandhi-on-mamata-banerjee-s-sked/story-xtl4mYqNCbqwF2g1Kv46rO.html
22-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Healthcare workers against revised govt guideline on quarantine and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Healthcare workers against revised govt guideline on quarantine, launch black ribbon protestHealthcare workers treating Covid-19 patients in government hospitals designated for the treatment of patients with coronavirus disease are protesting after being asked to vacate quarantine facilities as per the latest guideline by the Union health ministry. Read moreCyclone Amphan should be treated as national disaster: Mamata Banerjee tells PM Modi at Kolkata airportWest Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to declare Cyclone Amphan as national disaster. She made the request at the Kolkata airport on Friday while receiving PM Modi who reached West Bengal to take stock of the devastation caused by the cyclone. Read more2 Union ministers, three ex-ministers ‘eminent members’ of Delhi GymkhanaTwo present and three former Union ministers, the chief of defence staff, the governor of RBI, a number of secretaries, senior military officers and a host of judges of the high court and Supreme Court are among the “eminent members” of the Delhi Gymkhana Club. Read moreSecond case involving Parliament staff, senior officer found Covid-19 positiveA senior officer of Parliament working in the editorial and translation (E&T) services tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive recently. The officer had attended office till May 12, which is located on the fifth floor of the Parliament annex building that houses most of the parliamentary officials and chambers for House panel meetings. Read moreCovid-19: Canadian university designs biodegradable face masksWith no proven drug or vaccine yet to cure the coronavirus disease Covid-19, millions around the world are taking precautions such as wearing face masks, maintaining social distancing to protect themselves from getting infected. Read moreSSC CHSL, JE, Stenographer new exam date: Important notice releasedStaff Selection Commission (SSC) has released an important notice regarding announcement of the new dates for SSC CHSL, junior engineer and SSC Stenographer grade C and D exams. Read moreTwo giraffes fight ‘neck to neck,’ literally. It’s a sight to behold, watchThe Internet is full of videos of fights from the animal kingdom. It’s often the predators or the reptiles that emerge as the protagonists of the show. However, how many times have you seen a video of fighting between the giraffes? Read moreEid Mubarak 2020: History, the significance of Eid al-Fitr, what is Eid al-Fitr, how it is celebratedEid al-Fitr marks the end of Ramadan, the Islamic holy month of fasting and is celebrated by Muslims all across the globe. Eid al-Fitr, also called the “Festival of breaking fast” celebrations will begin on May 23 and continue until May 24, however, the actual date may vary as per the moon sighting. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-healthcare-workers-against-revised-govt-guideline-on-quarantine-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jydfNqCxpgfcZcXqWQyygP.html
22-05-2020||India||Maharashtra recovery rate rises to 28% due to revised discharge policy||Maharashtra health department’s latest data showed that the recovery rate of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients has risen to 28%, as compared to 16% on May 1 because of the revised discharged policy that was earlier announced by the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW).So far, 11,726 Covid-19 patients in the state have recovered.“Covid-19 recovery rate is improving. On Thursday, 1,408 patients were discharged from hospitals. The mortality rate has also come down to 3.49%, as compared to 4.21% on May 1,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.Earlier on May 9, the MoH&FW had announced that moderate cases of Covid-19 and pre-symptomatic, mild and very mild cases need not undergo tests before being discharged from hospitals.Avinash Bhondwe, health expert and president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra, said, “The revised discharge policy has led to an improved recovery rate. However, these patients may have been recovered from Covid-19 but they’re yet to be cured of the viral infection. The state government authorities need to keep a tab on these patients’ health condition for at least the next seven days, and if they fail to do the infection is likely to spread.”Dr. Pradip Awate, the state surveillance officer, said all Covid-19-hit countries are tweaking their policies. “We’re going by the decision of the Union ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research, who are best equipped to take the call. Besides, studies have proved that after 10 days of the onset of the disease, the virus SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, may not be that infectious. Symptomatic patients are not active carriers. There’s no need to panic,” he said.On Thursday, Maharashtra reported 2,345 new Covid-19 cases, the fifth day in a row when over 2,000 cases were recorded, taking the overall count to 41,642.Mumbai, the country’s financial hub and the worst-hit city in the country, reported 1,382 new Covid-19 positive cases, as the tally rose to 25,500. Dr. Tatyrao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), claimed that the state is free from community transmission.“We’re waiting for the incubation cycle to end on May 31, and the spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases are likely to end after that,” he said.On Tuesday, Maharashtra had issued a notification that allowed opening up of more industrial and commercial activities in rural and semi-urban areas, excluding red zones, in a bid to revive the economy that has been roiled by the viral outbreak.At present, the red zones are restricted to 18 civic bodies that have an estimated population of 2.91 crores.On Thursday, the state government also announced the imposition of a price cap for private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, including on the billing of drugs.Dr. Sudhakar Shinde, chief executive officer (CEO), Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, said, “Private hospitals won’t be allowed to charge more than the amount fixed by the state government. Some patients may need costly medicines, but these hospitals can’t charge more than 10% extra. High-end drugs like immunoglobulin, Meropenem, etc., can be charged at the maximum retail price (MRP),” he added.The state government came down on private hospitals after allegations started doing the rounds that many of them were charging exorbitant fees and fleecing unsuspecting Covid-19 patients.The state government has requisitioned to the Union Ministry of Railways for an additional 250 Shramik Special trains after 441 of them had ferried 5.81 lakh migrant workers to their home states.On Thursday, another 61,000 migrant workers returned to their home states by 51 Shramik Special trains. Over two lakh stranded migrants are still waiting to return home.State home minister Anil Deshmukh said that the government has been footing the bills to repatriate migrant workers to their home states. “So far, Rs 12.44 crore has been transferred to district collectors to pay for migrant workers’ rail fares. Earlier, Rs 54.76 crore was released for their transportation cost,” he saidThe state government has also informed rail authorities that inter-district rail travel is prohibited because of a spike in Covid-19 positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-recovery-rate-rises-to-28-due-to-revised-discharge-policy/story-e13HpWNPcz181ILdKw0qOJ.html
22-05-2020||India||UP Police receive threat against CM Adityanath on WhatsApp, case filed||The Uttar Pradesh Police received a message on WhatsApp where a person threatened to kill Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath “with a bomb”.The message was received by social media cell of UP Police’s integrated emergency response centre UP112 on Thursday midnight. The sender accused the chief minister of being anti-Muslim.The police lodged an FIR against unidentified person under Indian Penal Code’s (IPC) Section 505 (1)(b) for causing fear or alarm to the public to commit an offence against the state or against the public tranquillity, Section 506 for threat to cause death and Section 507 for using anonymous communication for issuing threat.Inspector of Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar police station, Dheeraj Kumar, had lodged an FIR. He mentioned in the FIR that the threat message was sent at UP-112 WhatsApp number 7570000100 at 12.32 am on Thursday. He said the UP-112 authorities informed the police station and further probe in the matter is on.Additional Director General of UP-112, Asim Arun, confirmed recieving the threat message to eliminate the chief minister on WhatsApp.Adityanath, meanwhile, set up a revolving fund of Rs 218.49 crore on Thursday for over 35,000 families to promote self-employment.This fund under the Rural Livelihood Mission, will help those engaged in sewing, embroidery, production of disposable plates, spices, masks, an official spokesman said.A revolving fund is continually replenished as withdrawals are made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-receive-threat-against-chief-minister-adityanath-on-whatsapp-case-filed/story-X4Tr9jh48PvSGpDwv69RvL.html
22-05-2020||India||CM Mamata Banerjee receives PM Modi at Kolkata airport. A request follows||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to declare Cyclone Amphan as national disaster.She made the request at the Kolkata airport on Friday while receiving PM Modi who reached West Bengal to take stock of the devastation caused by the cyclone. PM Modi will conduct an aerial survey of the affected areas.Banerjee had earlier pitched for central assistance and appealed to PM Modi to visit the cyclone-hit areas. The state government had moved out five lakh people to shield them from the cyclone that roared into the state on Wednesday, packing winds gusting to a top speed of 185 kmph.Click here for Cyclone Amphan LIVE updatesThe chief minister had earlier said on Thursday that Rs 1,000 crore fund has been created for restoration work for areas affected by Cyclone Amphan. She also said that the cyclone has claimed the lives of 80 people in the state, according to news agency ANI.PM Modi had assured West Bengal on Thursday that the country stands in solidarity with it as the state counts its losses in the wake of cyclone Amphan.“Have been seeing visuals from West Bengal on the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. In this challenging hour, the entire nation stands in solidarity with West Bengal. Praying for the well-being of the people of the state. Efforts are on to ensure normalcy,” the Prime Minister had said in a tweet.Cyclone Amphan has left 72 people dead and thousands homeless in West Bengal, battering several parts of the state and washing away bridges and swamping low-lying areas.Two teams of the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) were airlifted by Indian Air Force (IAF) from Pune to Kolkata on Thursday, to help in the rescue and relief operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-should-be-treated-as-national-disaster-mamata-banerjee-tells-pm-modi-at-kolkata-airport/story-dRQEVrafxisMVWqgCTiVeM.html
22-05-2020||India||PM Modi reaches West Bengal, will survey areas ravaged by Cyclone Amphan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached West Bengal, the first leg of his visit to survey the areas ravaged by Cyclone Amphan. PM Modi will conduct an aerial survey of the damage.The Prime Minister deboarded the plane at Kolkata airport wearing a face mask. He was received by Governor Jagdeep Dhankar and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee; they were also wearing face masks.Banerjee asked the Prime Minister to declare Cyclone Amphan as a national disaster. She had earlier said that 80 people were killed in the state due to the cyclonic storm, according to news agency ANI.The Prime Minister is stepping out after almost three months, officials said. His last tour was to Prayagraj and Chitrakoot in Uttar Pradesh on February 29.The Prime Minister had announced a nationwide lockdown in March due to the coronavirus pandemic which has gripped India and the world. He had urged people to stay wherever they are. The lockdown has since been extended thrice, and PM Modi has not stepped out.But this is like a national emergency, which is why the PM has decided to step out after 83 days, said officials. He will go to Kolkata and 24 North Parganas in West Bengal, they said.“He will conduct aerial surveys and take part in review meetings, where aspects of relief and rehabilitation will be discussed,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a tweet on Thursday night.Cyclone Amphan has left 72 people dead and thousands homeless in West Bengal, battering several parts of the state and washing away bridges and swamping low-lying areas.It also wreaked havoc in Odisha damaging power and telecom infrastructure in several coastal districts.After West Bengal, the Prime Minister will go to Odisha in the afternoon.Meanwhile, the extremely severe cyclonic storm has weakened and moved to Bangladesh, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said.News of PM Modi’s decision came hours after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee pitched for central assistance and appealed to PM Modi to visit the cyclone-hit areas. The state government had moved out five lakh people to shield them from the cyclone that roared into the state on Wednesday, packing winds gusting to a top speed of 185 kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reaches-west-bengal-will-survey-areas-ravaged-by-cyclone-amphan/story-jEQElALQwvazOBfhR04wEK.html
22-05-2020||India||Rajasthan govt to run special buses to immerse ashes in UP and Uttarakhand||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that special bus services would operate in a bid to help people to immerse ashes of their loved ones, who passed away during lockdown restrictions, which were imposed in the desert state since mid-March to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The CM has asked state government officials to hold talks with Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh governments to give consent for the operation of such buses, as the holy sites to immerse ashes are located in these two states.Gehlot held a review meeting on the pandemic situation in the state and urged the officials to ensure that home and institutional quarantine of migrants workers, who have returned to their native places since the easing of lockdown restrictions, would get the highest priority. Additional chief secretary Veenu Gupta, who is also the chairman of the state-level quarantine management committee, said over 10,000 quarantine centres have been arranged.At least 7.18 lakh people are in quarantine in the desert state, and among them 34,000 are under institutional quarantine.Principal secretary, information technology, Abhay Kumar, said around 6 lakh have completed their quarantine period so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-govt-to-run-special-buses-to-immerse-ashes-in-up-and-uttarakhand/story-Qk2Rdig7xRpMbyd9EGl0VN.html
22-05-2020||India||Air India, other carriers open ticket booking after govt announces resumption of air travel||National carrier Air India on Friday tweeted that it will start booking of tickets for domestic journey from today. The announcement comes days after after the government announced reopening of air travel from May 25.On Thursday, the Civil Aviation Ministry gave details of 383 routes across the country where air travel will resume after a gap of two months.“Good News! Our Domestic Flight Bookings will start from 1230 hrs today. To book login to http://airindia.in or contact authorised travel agents or visit our booking offices or call customer care,” Air India said on Twitter.Many private players had announced resumption of bookings for domestic travel after the government’s announcement. Carriers like IndiGo and GoAir had started accepting bookings on their website. Anothe rprivate carrier Vistara welcomed the moved to resume domestic flights, which were grounded on March 25, the day restrictions were first imposed in the country.“Aviation is a growth engine for the economy and resumption of air travel will give great impetus to the government’s overall efforts in helping the country eventually return to normalcy,” Vistara CEO Leslie Thng said.While IndiGo is accepting bookings from May 25 - the fisrt day of the resumption of air travel - Vistara and GoAir have opened bookings from June 1.The government also issued guidelines for air travel on Thursday. It has asked passengers to report at least two hours before departure, declare health status at the airport, complete the check-in process online, travel light and minimise use of the toilets once inside the flight.The rules advised passengers to carry just one cabin baggage and one check-in baggage, and said there will be no meal on board.In addition, “very elderly, pregnant ladies, passengers with health issues” have been asked to avoid air travel. A person residing in a containment zone will not be allowed inside the airport, the guidelines said.Before boarding the flight, passengers will be provided with a safety kit - containing a mask, a face shield and a sanitiser - by their airlines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-other-carriers-open-ticket-booking-after-govt-announces-resumption-of-air-travel/story-PyGddjy8WLQzijSR9kipoM.html
22-05-2020||India||‘How weird this is’: Chidambaram tweets on Govt’s Covid-19 data||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday said that there are discrepancies in the data presented by two government organisations, which have been releasing data about the number of Covid-19 infections in the country.“See how weird this is: Total number of COVID19 cases in the country now at 118,447, including 66330 active cases and 3583 deaths: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. And the dashboard* number is: TOTAL CASES: 116,723 *Source: ICMR, M/HFW,” Chidambaram tweeted. See how weird this is:Total number of COVID19 cases in the country now at 118,447, including 66330 active cases and 3583 deaths: Ministry of Health and Family WelfareAnd the dash board*number is:TOTAL CASES: 116,723*Source: ICMR, M/HFWHe said that the these data sets has been taken from Union Ministry of Health and Indian Council of Medical Research or ICMR.The health ministry released the data on jump in the number of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours on Friday. India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) stood at 1,18,447 on Friday as 6,088 new cases were added to Thursday’s tally.However, the ministry clarified in the table on state’s data that 1,620 cases have been reassigned to states.This was the second biggest single-day surge in a week, according to the health ministry. According to the health ministry update, the number of Covid-19 cases had risen by 5,611, the country’s biggest single-day jump, to reach 1,06,750 on Wednesday.There are 66,330 active cases of the respiratory disease in the country and 3,583 people succumbed in the last 24 hours, according to the ministry.With 48,533 Covid-19 patients sent home, the recovery rate went up to 40.97% on the fifth day of the fourth phase of the national lockdown, data suggested. This is up from about 7% before the first phase of the lockdown began on March 25.Of the 148 deaths reported since Thursday morning, 64 were in Maharashtra, 24 in Gujarat, 18 from Delhi, 11 from Uttar Pradesh, seven from Tamil Nadu, six from West Bengal, five from Telangana, four from Rajasthan, three from Madhya Pradesh, two from Jammu and Kashmir and one each from Bihar, Odisha, Haryana and Punjab.The death toll reached 45 in Telangana, 41 in Karnataka and 39 in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-weird-this-is-chidambaram-tweets-on-govt-s-covid-19-data/story-ZTiIjf6dxFidWqRgLL2RoJ.html
22-05-2020||India||Mayawati, Akhilesh Yadav, Arvind Kejriwal to give Sonia Gandhi’s oppn meet a miss||Bahujan Samaj Party’s Mayawati, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will skip Friday’s meeting of opposition leaders to be chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. The meeting is to be held to discuss the prevailing situation in the country amid the coronavirus pandemic, the impact of nationwide lockdown and the government’s announcement of Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package to revive the economy.The meeting, to be held via video-conferencing, will also discuss the plight of stranded migrant workers, the problems faced by the farmers and the suspension of labour laws in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat.This will be the first meeting of the opposition leaders after the lockdown was enforced across the country on March 25 to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Trinamool Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India (CPI), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), Jammu and Kashmir National Conference (JKNC), All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) and Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) will attend the meeting.The Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will also attend.The issue of travel of stranded migrant workers to their home states has triggered a political slugfest between the Congress and the government. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has dismissed Congress’ charges that the government has been insensitive to the plight of stranded migrant workers and blamed the opposition party for politicising the issue.The suspension of labour laws in BJP-ruled states has also been criticised by the Congress as former party president Rahul Gandhi said the fight against the coronavirus cannot be an excuse to exploit the workers, suppress their voice and crush their human rights.However, the BJP has insisted that labour law reforms are a long-standing demand of trade unions and industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-akhilesh-yadav-arvind-kejriwal-to-give-sonia-gandhi-s-oppn-meet-a-miss/story-Ickw6N6mXsLVAW5hDzvH5J.html
22-05-2020||India||Pakistani troops shell LoC areas in twin sectors of Poonch, Rajouri||The Pakistan Army on Friday shelled forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch and Rajouri districts, drawing retaliation from the Indian Army, a defence spokesperson said.“At about 0720 hours today, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms along LoC in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district”, the spokesperson said.The cross-border shelling between the two sides was going on when last reports were received, the official said. However, there was no immediate report of any casualty during the Pakistani shelling. Pakistani troops also shelled areas along the LoC in Poonch sector.“About 0330 hours today, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms & shelling with mortars along LoC in Krishna Ghati Sector of district Poonch”, the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-troops-shell-loc-areas-in-twin-sectors-of-poonch-rajouri/story-jeV8DcxNHZA8s1btF2uhWO.html
22-05-2020||India||Maharashtra and 3 others see further spike in Covid-19 cases, more states above 1,000-mark||India once again saw the number of Covid-19 cases increasing by a large number on Friday. In fact, the increase of 6,088 Covid-19 cases was the highest ever for India in 24 hours since the time the pandemic broke out.Nearly one-third number of this grim milestone is contributed by Maharashtra, the country’s worst-affected state. As per the Union Health Ministry dashboard, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state has reached 41,642. Apart from achieving this grim milestone, Maharashtra also has the highest number of fatalities in the country - 1454.The second worst-hit state in India by the Covid-19 pandemic is Tamil Nadu. However, the number of Covid-19 cases is one-third than table topper Maharashtra. According to the health ministry, Tamil Nadu has registered 13,967 Covid-19 positive cases and 94 deaths. So far, 6,282 people have been cured/discharged in the state.The next in the tally is Gujarat which has nearly 13,000 cases of Covid-19. According to health ministry, Gujarat has 12,905 Covid-19 positive cases and 773 fatalities. As many as 5,488 people have been cured/discharged.National capital Delhi, which is at number four in the list, recorded another big spike in new cases (571) of the coronavirus disease, taking the total number of cases in the city to 11,659. With over 500 new cases each day, Delhi has been recording the highest single-day spike for the last three days. The national capital also added 18 deaths related to Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the city-state’s toll to 194.Apart from these Big 4, there are other states like Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh where Covid-19 cases have emerged in a large number. In Rajasthan, the number of Covid-19 cases is 6,627. So far, 151 people have died and 3,485 have been cured/discharged. Madhya Pradesh has recorded 5,981 cases of Covid-19, and 270 fatalities. As many as 2,840 people have been cured/discharged. Uttar Pradesh has recorded 5,515 cases of Covid-19 and 138 deaths. The number of people cured or discharged in the state are 3,204.The neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana have seen 2,028 and 1,031 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 39 people have died due to the disease in Punjab, 15 have lost their lives in Haryana. The number of cured/discharged patients in Punjab is 1,819 and in Haryana it’s 681.The states with more than 2,500 cases of Covid-19 are West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. Andhra Pradesh has recorded 2,647 cases of the coronavirus disease and 53 deaths. There are 1,709 patients who have been cured/discharged. In West Bengal, tje number of Covid-19 cases are 3,197 and 259 deaths. The number of cured/discharged patients is 1,193.As many as 1,699 people have been infected from coronavirus in Telangana till date. One thousand and thirty five people have made a recovery from the virus while 45 people have died from Covid-19.Here is a look at the Covid-19 situation in other states:Bihar has reported 1,982 cases of coronavirus till date. Eleven people have died while 593 patients have recovered. In Karnataka, there are 1,605 Covid-19 cases. As many as 571 people have been cured and discharged while 41 patients have died.The union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 1,449. Twenty people have died from the infection while 684 have been were cured.Odisha has 1,103 Covid-19 positive patients, 393 have recovered while seven people have died.Kerala reported 690 coronavirus cases on Thursday. Four people have died due to coronavirus in the state while 510 people have successfully recovered.Jharkhand has 290 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 129 have recovered.Over 200 people (217) have contracted the Covid-19 disease here. While 139 have recovered, three have died. Covid-19 cases in Tripura have been on a rise as the cases rise to 173 in the state. One hundred and forty eight patients have recovered from coronavirus here.The North-Eastern state of Assam has reported 203 Covid-19 cases. Four people have died due to coronavirus here while 54 people have recovered.One hundred and forty six people have been infected by coronavirus Uttarakhand till date. Fifty four patients have recovered from the infection, while one has died.One hundred and twenty eight people have tested positive for coronavirus in Chhattisgarh. The number of Covid-19 recoveries in the state has risen 59 while no death has been reported. Himachal Pradesh has reported 152 Covid-19 cases. Three patients have died and 59 have recovered. The coronavirus cases in Goa have gone up to 52 in Goa. As many as seven people have recovered from the deadly contagion here. The union territory of Ladakh has witnessed 44 cases of coronavirus of which 43 people have recovered. All 33 coronavirus cases in Andaman and Nicobar Islands have recovered. No deaths have been reported here.Manipur has recorded 25 coronavirus cases, two patients have recovered. Twenty cases of coronavirus have been reported in Puducherry. Ten have recovered, and no deaths have been reported.Meghalaya has reported 14 cases and one Covid-19 death so far, 12 patients have recovered. One patient has died.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. All patients in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram have recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-and-3-others-see-further-spike-in-covid-19-cases-more-states-above-1-000-mark/story-7Mm4dkOrRo5xiAqQk5tqJO.html
22-05-2020||India||PM leaves for West Bengal to assess Cyclone Amphan’s impact||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday morning left for West Bengal to take stock of the situation in the wake of cyclone Amphan He would later in the day visit Odisha.Modi will conduct aerial surveys and take part in review meetings in the two states, where aspects of relief and rehabilitation will be discussed.Chief ministers Mamata Banerjee and Naveen Patnaik would join the prime minister during the aerial survey in their respective states.Cyclone Amphan has left 77 people dead and thousands homeless in West Bengal, battering several parts of the state and washing away bridges and swamping low-lying areas. It also wreaked havoc in Odisha, damaging power and telecom infrastructure in several coastal districts. The extremely severe cyclonic storm has weakened and moved to Bangladesh, the IMD said. This is the prime minister’s first visit outside the national capital after the coronavirus-induced lockdown was imposed on the midnight of March 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-leaves-for-west-bengal-to-assess-cyclone-amphan-impact-cyclone-amphan-latest-updates-death-damage-odisha-west-bengal/story-CLhCOV0QZbLhDGIScVvVnO.html
22-05-2020||India||Another biggest single-day spike, over 6,088 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) stood at 118,447 on Friday as 6,088 new cases, the second biggest single-day surge in a week, were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry.The number of Covid-19 cases had risen by 5,611, the country’s biggest single-day jump, to reach 106,750 on Wednesday.According to the health ministry dashboard at 8am, there were 66,330 active cases of the respiratory disease in the country and 3,583 people succumbed in the last 24 hours.With 48,533 Covid-19 patients sent home, the recovery rate went up to 40.97% on the fifth day of the fourth phase of the national lockdown, data suggested. This is up from about 7% before the first phase of the lockdown began on March 25.The worst-affected state in India, Maharashtra has more than 41,000 Covid-19 and has reported 1,454 fatalities. It had reported more than 2,000 Covid-19 infections for the fifth straight day on Thursday as it breached the 40,000-mark with 2,345 new cases, the second-highest single-day spike so far.Tamil Nadu is the second-worst hit state with 13,967 cases as Gujarat recorded 12,905 patients so far. However, the western state has 773 fatalities as compared to 94 in Tamil Nadu.According to the health ministry, Delhi has 11,659 cases of the coronavirus disease and 194 people have died in the national capital so far. With over 500 new cases each day, Delhi has been recording the highest single-day spike for the last three days, the data shows.As the government announced on Thursday it will reopen air travel on 383 routes across the country after a two-month gap and allowed one-third of the operations beginning May 25, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) again nudged states to strictly follow lockdown guidelines, particularly the night curfew, to make sure people observe social distancing norms and contain the risk of infection spreading.The two-week fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown is scheduled to end on May 31, but with several restrictions having been relaxed to boost economic activities. The lockdown was initially imposed for a 21-day period till April 14 but was extended till May 3 in the second phase and then for another 14-day third phase till May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-biggest-single-day-spike-over-6-088-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours/story-ClWol8a8XPum9E98V6XG7K.html
22-05-2020||India||As govt orders resumption of air travel, a look at seven bands of pricing for fights||The government has decided to reopen air travel on 383 routes across the country after a two-month gap. It has, however, allowed one-third of the operations beginning May 25.The civil aviation ministry has set limits on fares that airlines can charge in the initial phase of this critical unlocking of swift long-distance travel.Civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said the government has identified seven bands (or sectors) based on flight durations. The fares - consistent for each band - will be capped till at least August 24. Sector ‘A’ has routes with travel time of less than 40 minutes. This sector includes routes such as Delhi-Chandigarh, Jammu-Srinagar and Patna-Ranchi, among others. Sector ‘B’ has flights with duration of more than 40 minutes up to 60 minutes. This includes flights such as Delhi-Bhopal and Delhi-Lucknow. Sector ‘C’ has flights such as Delhi-Ahmedabad and Delhi-Patna’; whereas Sector ‘D’ includes routes like Delhi-Mumbai, among others. Since Delhi-Mumbai air travel takes around two hours, it has been put under Sector ‘D’.Prominent flights under Sector ‘E’ are Delhi-Chennai and Delhi-Bengaluru. Meanwhile, flights in Sector ‘F’ include Delhi-Kochi and Sector ‘F’ flights such as Delhi-Port Blair.“Earlier, air carriers could put their range (minimum to maximum) on their websites...We want air travel to become affordable. We have set a minimum fare and a maximum fare. For Delhi to Mumbai, the minimum fare will be Rs 3,500 and maximum Rs 10,000,” Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said at the media briefing on Thursday. The government said 40 per cent of the tickets in all bands will be sold at a price less than the mid-point (of the lower and upper limits). In case of a Delhi-Mumbai journey, these tickets will be priced at around Rs 6,700.The move to set fare limits will ensure there is no overcharging by airlines in view of an expected rush of passengers and heightened demand for tickets, Puri said. At the same time, the move to set lower limits is expected to protect carriers from extremely low fares set by competitors.Domestic flights with less than 40-minute duration, like the ones from Delhi to Chandigarh, will have lower and upper limits of Rs 2,000 and Rs 6,000, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) announced later in the day. For flights with duration between 40 and 60 minutes, such as Delhi to Lucknow, the lower and upper fare limits are Rs 2,500 and Rs 7,500.In the next band (60-90 minutes for journeys like the ones between Bengaluru and Mumbai), the lower fare limit is Rs 3,000 and the upper limit is Rs 9,000, the aviation regulator said. Flights between 120 and 150 minutes, including those on major routes such as Delhi-Bengaluru, will have lower and upper limits of Rs 4,500 and Rs 13,000.Those with duration between 150 and 180 minutes (such as Delhi to Imphal), the lower and upper limits are set at Rs 5,500 and Rs 15,700. And finally, for flights with duration between 180 and 210 minutes - like the ones on Delhi-Coimbatore route - the range will be Rs 6,500 and Rs 18,600.The Railways also issued a list of 100 routes of trains that it will operate from June 1, putting in operation popular trains such as Durontos, Sampark Krantis, Jan Shatabdis and Poorva Express.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-govt-orders-resumption-of-air-travel-a-look-at-seven-bands-of-pricing-for-fights/story-51jIzWAR0v1sOMIj9mkYUO.html
22-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 halts Delhi govt’s bus procurement project by a year all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pandemic halts Delhi govt’s bus procurement project by a yearThe Delhi government’s project to strengthen the Capital’s public transport system by adding a new bus fleet has been adversely affected by the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 as the procurement and arrival of more than 2,800 buses is set to be delayed by almost a year due to revenue shortfall and limitations in manufacturing, according to senior government officials. Read moreMan sent to Covid-19 quarantine allegedly commits suicide in KarnatakaA man, who had returned from Mumbai to his native place in Karnataka on Wednesday and was sent to quarantine, reportedly committed suicide. The police said that the man hanged himself on Thursday morning. Read moreMigrant worker on way home dies in bus in Odisha’s Jharsuguda; 40 others injured in accidentA 60-year-old migrant worker, who was returning home to Odisha’s Ganjam district from Gujarat in a bus, died while travelling and 40 others were injured in a separate incident in the state, officials said on Thursday. Read moreCalls for protest march in Hong Kong as China pushes new security lawsHong Kong activists on Friday made online calls for a march against China’s plans to impose national security legislation on the semi-autonomous city which many fear could erode its freedoms and international standing as a global finance hub. Read moreWill the rich clubs get even richer when European football resumes?Late last month, Manchester United chief executive Ed Woodward warned the club’s supporters that speculation around transfers running into hundreds of millions of pounds “seems to ignore the realities that face the sport.” Read moreGhoomketu movie review: Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s creaky comedy shows signs of age“Writing comedy is a serious business,” Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s whimsically named hero Ghoomketu tells us in the eponymous film. “Audience should laugh too.” The trouble with Ghoomketu is it never uses its own sage advice. Read moreAn incredibly ‘lucky’ draw: Italian woman wins 1-million-euro PicassoAn Italian accountant whose son bought her the raffle ticket as a Christmas present won a Pablo Picasso oil painting valued at 1 million euros ($1.1 million) in a charity draw Wednesday. Claudia Borgogno summed up her amazement in one word: “Incredible.” Read moreWatch: ‘China hindering patrolling’: India slams Beijing after Ladakh, Sikkim fistfights||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-halts-delhi-govt-s-bus-procurement-project-by-a-year-all-the-latest-news/story-XaGAdIwgbkVjSjLucjdvcI.html
22-05-2020||India||AIIMS to study how long coronavirus can survive in dead bodies||AIIMS doctors are contemplating autopsy of a COVID-19 victim to study how long the coronavirus can survive in a dead body and if it can transmit the infection, the Delhi hospital’s forensic chief said on Thursday.The study will also help ascertain how the virus affects the organs, Dr Sudhir Gupta said.An informed consent will be obtained from the legal heirs of the deceased for it, he said adding that many more departments like pathology and microbiology would be involved in the study.  “It is going to be a first-of-its-kind exercise and thus has to be planned meticulously. It will help us understand how the virus behaves in the body and the way it affects the organs. Also, it will help us assess how long the novel coronavirus can survive in a dead body,” Dr Gupta explained.On Tuesday, the apex health research body ICMR said COVID-19 is a respiratory infection and mainly spread through aerosols.As per the available scientific literature till now, the survival of virus gradually decreases with time in a dead body but there is no specific time limit to declare the body non-infective.  So, it is advisable to adopt precautions and non-invasive autopsy technique, it stated.Non-invasive autopsy technique as described in ICMR guidelines should be used, if at all required, to prevent the risk of spreading the infection to mortuary staff, police personnel and contamination of mortuary surfaces.“If autopsy surgeon feels that he will not be able to conclude cause of death or any other related issue without dissection, then he can proceed with minimal invasive/limited internal dissection.“However, the dissection has to be performed keeping in mind that the conduction of autopsy is a high risk procedure which is potentially as hazardous as any other procedure performed on the body of a COVID-19 patient,” the guidelines said.The Indian Council of Medical Research said limited studies have been conducted on postmortem samples of patients who died due to COVID-19.Most of the pathological studies are in consensus with the clinical features and clinical course of the disease in general. But the disease also gives pathological damages to organs like heart, liver, kidney, brain, blood vessels and other organs, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-to-study-how-long-coronavirus-can-survive-in-dead-bodies/story-yXBJiOYr62wgqD45eV5PkO.html
22-05-2020||India||Limits set on airfares, govt asks states to follow lockdown guidelines: Covid-19 news today||Airlines will have to abide by limits set on fares and passengers will follow a host of safety protocols, including declaring their health status and wearing masks, when one-third of domestic flight operations resume on May 25, the government said on Thursday. Separately, it also asked states to strictly follow lockdown guidelines, including the night-time curfew and social-distancing measures, to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.India unlocks air travel on 383 routes with new rulesIndia will reopen air travel on 383 routes across the country after a two-month gap, the government announced on Thursday, but allowed one-third of the operations beginning May 25 and set limits on fares that airlines can charge in the initial phase of this critical unlocking of swift long-distance travel. Read moreNo meals, PPE suits for staff and 1 cabin bag in flight normsPassengers boarding domestic flights beginning Monday will have to report at least two hours before departure, declare their health status at the airport, and have to complete the check-in process online, according to the government’s guidelines. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayIndia is moving again.On Wednesday, the civil aviation ministry announced the resumption of flights, and on Thursday, it came out with the details. There won’t be as many flights as there were before the lockdown – just around a third – and the government will define the range for ticket prices. Read morePrivate airlines likely to be part of third phase of Vande Bharat MissionThe third phase of the Vande Bharat Mission, India’s massive programme to repatriate nationals stranded across the globe because of the Covid-19 crisis, is expected to involve private airlines to increase the number of flights. Read moreGovt tells states to follow night curfew, flags norms’ violationThe ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday again nudged the states to strictly follow lockdown guidelines, particularly the night curfew, to make sure people observe social distancing norms and contain the risk of infection spreading. Read moreRailways allow opening of ticket counters at select stationsThe Indian Railways has allowed re-opening of reservation counters at select stations and booking through Common Service Centers (CSCs) and agents, the ministry of railways said Thursday. Read moreUtilised curbs to ramp up health care infrastructure: CentreIndia has used the lockdown imposed on March 25 gainfully to ramp up its health-care infrastructure and kept its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) mortality rate relatively low, health ministry officials said on Thursday in response to reports that questioned the effectiveness of what has been billed as the world’s strictest lockdown. Read morePandemic affected as many as 93 million urban workers: GoM reportAs many as 93 million urban informal workers, across five sectors -- manufacturing, construction, trade, tourism and hospitality -- have been affected by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to slow its spread, according to an informal Group of Ministers headed by labour minister Thawarchand Gehlot. Read morePandemic has hit defence production: Rajnath SinghDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said the lockdown imposed to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in late March has hit defence manufacturing harder than other sectors. Read moreWill meet piped water target despite outbreak: Jal Shakti ministerThe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has made no difference to India’s stated goal of providing piped water to all households by 2024, Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said. Read moreCulture ministry plans norms for public spacesThe Union culture ministry is drafting guidelines for people to enter public spaces governed by institutes that come under its regulation -- including national monuments such as the Taj Mahal, galleries such as the National Gallery of Modern Art, and other museums and libraries -- once the national lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 is lifted. Read moreCovid-19: Two studies indicate reinfection may not happenTwo recently published studies hold promise over one of the most enduring questions since the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19): does a person who has recovered from the highly contagious disease develop immunity against reinfection? Read moreDonald Trump accuses China of ‘disinformation attack’US President Donald Trump on Wednesday accused China of spreading “disinformation” about the Covid-19 pandemic on orders coming “from the top”, a reference perhaps to President Xi Jinping. Read moreApple, Google release tech for Coronavirus pandemic appsApple and Google on Wednesday released long-awaited smartphone technology to notify people if they might have been exposed to the coronavirus. The companies said 22 countries and several US states are already planning to build voluntary phone apps using their software. Read moreWhen virus queered the pitchThe cricket pitch, the sport’s literal centre, has been impacted by Covid-19. And time’s running out. Playing surfaces get a top dressing (manure, fertiliser, a special kind of soil) before monsoon hits in June. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/limits-set-on-airfares-govt-asks-states-to-follow-lockdown-guidelines-covid-19-news-today/story-pfcKaFKkREF5QPpeEx9oHI.html
22-05-2020||India||Leopard rescued from fencing wire dies in Uttarakhand, fourth death in 2 weeks||A leopard died hours it was rescued by forest officials in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon division on Thursday. The leopard was trapped in a fencing wire.This was the second such incident in Kumaon within a week and fourth leopard death in last two weeks in the state.“On getting information from locals, we rushed to the spot and found that a one-year-old leopard was trapped in farm wire near Kunjgadi nullah in the Kapkot area of Bageshwar district. Our team tranquilised it, and brought it to range office after rescue operation but veterinarian declared it brought dead,” said Manish Kumar, range officer, Kapkot in Bageshwar.People of the area alerted Kapot municipality chairman Govind Singh Bisht after seeing the trapped leopard near Kunjgadi nullah. Bisht then informed forest officers about the trapped animal. By the time they reached the spot, the leopard was already unconscious due to severe injuries, an official said.It was brought to the range office where the veterinary doctor declared it brought dead. Its body was burnt by forest officials after post-mortem, said Kumar.This the second case that a leopard was trapped in farm fencing wire. In a similar incident, a leopard was found trapped in Bajaili village of Someshwar in Almora on May 14. Forest officials rescued it and brought it to the rescue centre in Almora. After its treatment, the leopard was released in a natural habitat.On Tuesday, carcass of a leopard was found near the roadside in Almora district’s Chaukhutiya area. On May 12, two leopards were found dead in Uttarakhand within 24 hours. A carcass of a five-year leopard was found in Jyolikot area of Nainital stuck in a trap wire. In another incident, a ten-year-old leopard was found dead in Pithoragarh district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-rescued-from-fencing-wire-dies-in-uttarakhand-fourth-death-in-2-weeks/story-R7iXsJ0h5gE9VChgonuPHJ.html
22-05-2020||India||Man sent to Covid-19 quarantine allegedly commits suicide in Karnataka||A man, who had returned from Mumbai to his native place in Karnataka on Wednesday and was sent to quarantine, reportedly committed suicide. The police said that the man hanged himself on Thursday morning.He was working at a hotel in Mumbai and had managed to come back to his native place Moodabidri after inter-state travel was allowed, the police said.However, since he had come from a different state, the 51-year-old was put into mandatory institutional quarantine functioning at a school. The police said that he was stressed about his employment prospects due to the Covid-19 lockdown and that appears to be the reason why he killed himself.The man is survived by three daughters and a wife. His body has been shifted to the district government hospital for post-mortem and police have launched an investigation.This is the second instance of a person under quarantine killing themselves. In a similar incident on April 27, a 50-year-old Covid-19 positive patient had leapt to death from the third floor of a hospital where he was being treated.Meanwhile, there is growing opposition by residents of various localities in Karnataka where quarantine facilities are set-up. On Wednesday, residents of Bapujinagar in Shivamoga had attacked a hostel, which had been designated as a quarantine facility for those coming back from Mumbai, destroying furniture and other equipment.Earlier, residents of Giringar in Bengaluru and Anekal on the outskirts of the city had staged similar protests. Their main concern was that infected people may spread the disease among the people of that area. However, a health department official said this kind of NIMBY (not in my back yard) pheonomenon was not acceptable and while government would strive to ensure that it took all precautions, people cannot take law into their hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/men-sent-to-covid-19-quarantine-allegedly-commits-suicide-in-karnataka/story-LyReNyvdIabzw84TZt7fhP.html
22-05-2020||India||PM Modi to step out after 83 days, his first visit is cyclone-hit Bengal and Odisha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going to West Bengal and Odisha on Friday to take stock of the damage caused by Cyclone Amphan, which ravaged the states on Wednesday. PM Modi will conduct an aerial survey of the damage.The Prime Minister is stepping out after almost three months, officials said. His last tour was to Prayagraj and Chitrakoot in Uttar Pradesh on February 29.The Prime Minister had announced a nationwide lockdown in March due to the coronavirus pandemic which has gripped India and the world. He had urged people to stay wherever they are. The lockdown has since been extended thrice, and PM Modi has not stepped out.But this is like a national emergency, which is why the PM has decided to step out after 83 days, said officials. He will go to Kolkata and 24 North Parganas in West Bengal, they said.“He will conduct aerial surveys and take part in review meetings, where aspects of relief and rehabilitation will be discussed,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a tweet on Thursday night.Cyclone Amphan has left 72 people dead and thousands homeless in West Bengal, battering several parts of the state and washing away bridges and swamping low-lying areas.It also wreaked havoc in Odisha damaging power and telecom infrastructure in several coastal districts.The extremely severe cyclonic storm has weakened and moved to Bangladesh, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said.News of PM Modi’s decision came hours after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee pitched for central assistance and appealed to PM Modi to visit the cyclone-hit areas. The state government had moved out five lakh people to shield them from the cyclone that roared into the state on Wednesday, packing winds gusting to a top speed of 185 kmph.Earlier on Thursday, PM Modi assured West Bengal that the country stands in solidarity with it as the state counts its losses in the wake of cyclone Amphan.“Have been seeing visuals from West Bengal on the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. In this challenging hour, the entire nation stands in solidarity with West Bengal. Praying for the well-being of the people of the state. Efforts are on to ensure normalcy, Prime Minister Modi said in a tweet.PM Modi would first reach West Bengal in the morning and then go to Odisha in the afternoon, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-emergency-officials-on-pm-modi-s-decision-to-tour-cyclone-hit-areas/story-X20Goku0rBOvBnXf32RpJI.html
22-05-2020||India||Migrant worker on way home dies in bus in Odisha’s Jharsuguda; 40 others injured in accident||A 60-year-old migrant worker, who was returning home to Odisha’s Ganjam district from Gujarat in a bus, died while travelling and 40 others were injured in a separate incident in the state, officials said on Thursday.Officials said Bhaskar Nahak of Aska in Ganjam was aboard a bus carrying migrant workers when he felt uneasy. His co-passengers found him dead as the bus was nearing Lakhanpur on National Highway-49 in Jharsuguda district late on Wednesday evening. Officials of the Jharsuguda district administration stopped the bus at Jharsuguda town and sent the body for an autopsy.In another incident, 40 migrant workers suffered injuries after a bus carrying them overturned on NH-60 near Laxmannath Toll Plaza in Jaleswar area of Balasore district early on Thursday. The workers were travelling from Kerala to West Bengal’s Kolkata in a bus when the driver lost control over the wheels due to darkness.Odisha’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose to 1,105 with the reporting of 42 new cases. Of the 1,105 cases, more than 1,000 have been reported in migrant workers who have returned from other states.An 85-year-old man, who had returned from Gujarat’s Surat, died in a quarantine centre in Ganjam district on Thursday taking the death toll to seven.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-worker-on-way-home-dies-in-bus-in-odisha-s-jharsuguda-40-others-injured-in-accident/story-n4B8PSVrBZ64wvVGHB7AxN.html
22-05-2020||India||Number of Covid-19 active cases in India more than Italy and Spain, shows data||The number of active Covid-19 patients in India has crossed thenumber of patients in Italy and Spain, two of the worst hit countries by the pandemic.According to Union health ministry, the number of active cases in the country is 63,624. In Italy, the number is 62,752 and in Spain, the number of active cases is 54,768.Globally, India is at the fifth place in terms of number of active Covid-19 cases while the United States tops the list.The nationwide Covid-19 tally crossed 1.1 lakh on Thursday with 5,609 new cases getting detected in the last 24 hours. This is the second-biggest single-day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country.According to the Union health ministry, the total number of cases in the country are 1,12,359. As many as 3,435 people have died in total, the ministry said.The ministry, however, said that the recovery rate among those having tested positive for Covid-19 has risen to nearly 40 per cent, from about seven per cent before the lockdown began on March 25. It also said that hospital support was needed by less than seven per cent patients.Meanwhile, Delhi on Thursday recorded 571 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of cases in the city to 11,659, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. With over 500 new cases each day, Delhi has been recording the highest single-day spike for the last three days, the data shows.The number of coronavirus disease cases have doubled in nearly two weeks - up from 49,391 on May 6 to 1,06,139 on Wednesday in the fourth phase of the lockdown.The nationwide lockdown was initially imposed for a 21-day period till April 14, but later got extended till May 3 in the second phase and then for another 14-day third phase till May 17. A two-week-long fourth phase is now underway till May 31, but with several restrictions having been relaxed to boost economic activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-covid-19-active-cases-in-india-more-than-italy-and-spain-shows-data/story-Ti3wWIfD3loUf0pQlO3Z9K.html
22-05-2020||India||Delhiwale | Making a new city your home||A great many of our fellow citizens, who came to this city years ago to make a living, are now rushing back to their impoverished villages, often through desperate means. This reverse migration was triggered by the sudden closure of all work (and hence employment) inherent to the prolonged lockdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic. But this young man with a stylish haircut is a fresh arrival from his village to our city.“I came to Delhi a few months ago.... just before the lockdown began,” says Sunny Kumar. A security guard, he is manning the gates of a south Delhi neighbourhood. At 18, this is Mr Kumar’s first ever job in life. On this uncomfortably hot afternoon, he’s standing out quite starkly from a couple of other guards on duty with him. There’s something about his brooding demeanour— a kind of magnetic stage presence hard to miss. And then there’s the matter of his haircut, so attention-grabbing. Running his fingers through his hair as if suddenly conscious of them, Mr Kumar blushes, confessing that “It’s a new style... I got it after arriving in Delhi.”The young man, who finished school last year, reveals he never aspired to become a guard. “I left my village (in Nalanda, Bihar) for a job, any job, due to the conditions at home”—he uses the Hindi word ‘paristhiti’. His father is paralytic, he says matter-of-factly. The eldest among four siblings, “I felt it was my responsibility to look after the family and to lessen the burden my mother was experiencing in running the household.”He knew quite a few people of his village working in Delhi, and so he easily landed up with the current job through this precious network of acquaintances. “I decided to start this life in Delhi after giving it a lot of thought,” he mutters.Mr Kumar is now sufficiently established to be able to send money frequently to home. He lives in Tughlakabad and is full of plans for his future.“After some months I will try to enrol in a college for graduation,” he says, as another guard, his colleague in mask, listens to him intently. “Ultimately, I want to join the army.”And now he reveals another dream of his. Raising his eyes towards the interlocutor, he declares a tad hesitantly, “I also intend to get modelling assignments.” Having said this, he looks almost relieved and helps himself to a bottle of water kept inside the guard’s cabin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-making-a-new-city-your-home/story-6x2mQNn1aL6YMeVw8ByawL.html
22-05-2020||India||Release buyers’ loans: Receiver in Amrapali housing case urges SC||The court receiver appointed for execution of the Amrapali group housing projects has urged the Supreme Court to issue urgent orders to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for an advisory asking all banks and financial institutions to disburse balance loan amounts to Amrapali homebuyers to ensure availability of funds for completion of stalled projects. The special bench of the apex court will take up the receiver’s note for hearing on Friday. The Supreme Court has been monitoring the execution and handover of the stalled Amrapali housing projects ever since an internal audit report, commissioned by the Court, found grave irregularities on part of Amrapali firms and its directors. The court appointed senior advocate R Venkatramani as the receiver to pursue the completion of the stalled projects and ensure timely completion and handover to the homebuyers.Venkatramani informed the Supreme Court in his note that as on date, funds to complete the housing projects had to come from the sale of unsold housing inventories, sale of other Amrapali properties, and balance receivables on sold units from homebuyers who have taken loans.The note, a copy of which is with the HT, pegs funds from sale of 5,228 unsold inventories at approximately Rs 2220.45 crore, funds from sale of other Amrapali properties, attached or otherwise, at Rs 500 crore, bank loans to homebuyers and balance accruing on sold units at approximately Rs 3,870.4 crore, and receivables from unsold units at Rs 213.46 crore.Meanwhile, advocate ML Lahoty, assisting the Court on behalf of homebuyers, has submitted a separate note to the court, claiming that funds accruing from sale of other assets belonging to Amrapali group come to more than Rs 7,881 crore, instead of Rs 500 crore estimated.Venkatramni said: “I will offer my comment on Friday on this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/release-buyers-loans-receiver-in-amrapali-housing-case-urges-sc/story-Sr98ztrh0VwbKk0aCNEWJI.html
22-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India is moving again.On Wednesday, the civil aviation ministry announced the resumption of flights, and on Thursday, it came out with the details. There won’t be as many flights as there were before the lockdown – just around a third – and the government will define the range for ticket prices. On the Delhi-Mumbai route, which is India’s busiest one, for instance, the minimum fare will be Rs 3,500 and the maximum Rs 10,000. There’s a further requirement – that 40% of the tickets be sold at the median price of Rs 6,700.On Tuesday, Indian Railways announced it would run 100 (pairs of) trains, adding to the Shramik trains it is running to ferry stranded migrant workers back home, and the special trains it is running from Delhi to 15 cities and back. On Wednesday, it released the list of trains. The flights will start from May 25 and the trains from June 1.The resumption of air and rail services comes as India is slowly easing stringent lockdown rules that were issued on March 25 as the first phase of the lockdown began. That has been extended three times, and we are currently in Lockdown 4.0 as some have started referring to it, although the current phase is more of a graded exit than a continuation of restrictions. This phase ends on May 31.RESUMING AIR, RAIL TRAVELThe resumption of air and rail services comes as India slowly eases stringent lockdown rules that were first issued on March 25. The developments come even as the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise in India.The resumption of air and train services comes even as the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise – India added 5,830 infections to end Thursday with a total of 116,726 cases. The government has come under criticism from some quarters for imposing too harsh and too prolonged a lockdown, and from others for lifting the lockdown just as cases are beginning to peak.Perhaps in response to that, the Press Information Bureau put out a release on Thursday defending the government and showcasing numbers that prove that the lockdown has been used to prepare for the crisis. The release refers to 3,027 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, 6.5 million personal protective equipment kits and 10.1 million N95 masks supplied to the states, and the daily manufacture of 300,000 PPE kits and a like number of N95 masks.The number of Covid-19 cases was never going to drop to zero by mid-May as a government presentation showed; it was always clear that a lockdown would reduce the number of cases (there is no doubt that India’s has), and delay the peak (more on this shortly) – providing enough time for the State to prepare. EXITING THE LOCKDOWNThe imminent lifting of the lockdown is an indication that India believes it is now equipped to deal with the worst the pandemic can throw at it, or that it believes the economic cost of the lockdown is now far too high, or both.The imminent lifting of the lockdown – even if this takes the form of a fifth phase with even more easing of restrictions – is an indication that India believes it is now equipped to deal with the worst the pandemic can throw at it, or that it believes the economic cost of the lockdown is now far too high, or both.But what about the peak? When will it come? India has added 52.23% of its cases (as on May 20) since May 5. While the current drivers of the number – Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, and Tamil Nadu – may well start seeing a reduction in the number of daily cases, it is likely new drivers will emerge, spurred by the mass movement of migrants and stranded Indians back home, or just by the natural progression of the pandemic.WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?While states that are driving India’s spike in Covid-19 tally may see a reduction in the number of daily new cases, it is likely that new drivers will emerge, spurred by mass movement of migrants and stranded Indians back home, or just by the natural progression of the disease.Some of the ensuing Covid-19 infections will be mild, and some may be asymptomatic, but overall, the number of cases will continue to rise and may peak only in July, according to Dr SK Sarin, the chair of the Delhi chief minister’s committee on Covid-19 preparedness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-mrsuXVfyvx6m7bQfEw8Z7J.html
22-05-2020||India||West Bengal, Odisha flooded as cyclone Amphan wreaks havoc||Cyclone Amphan killed at least 72 people and left a trail of destruction and damage in West Bengal, where rescue teams on Thursday struggled to reach ruined coastal hamlets that bore the brunt of the storm’s fury before it moved on to neighbouring Bangladesh.The toll in India from the cyclone, including the two dead in Odisha on Wednesday, stood at 74 at the time of going to print. The loss of life may have been much more had it not been for the evacuation of 658,000 people -- 500,000 in West Bengal and 158,000 in Odisha -- before the cyclone arrived. Those moved to relief camps have been asked not to step out or return to their homes for fear that they may come in contact with high-tension electric cables that have snapped and be electrocuted.WATCH | Cyclone Amphan leaves trail of destruction in Odisha & West BengalThe death toll included 15 who died in Kolkata. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said most of the 72 deaths had been caused by electrocution and falling trees. The deceased in Odisha were a two-month-old baby and a woman. In Bangladesh, initial reports said that 10 people were killed.“Several districts have been totally ruined. We never thought that it would be so destructive,” Banerjee said as her government tried to arrive at an estimate of the damage done by Amphan, the most powerful storm to have originated in the Bay of Bengal since the 1999 Odisha super cyclone that killed 9,000 people.“Two districts – North and South 24 Parganas -- are completely devastated. We have to rebuild those districts from scratch. I would urge the central government to extend all help to the state,” said Banerjee, who is likely to visit the devastated districts on Saturday for a spot assessment of the destruction.The state government announced compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh for the families of those killed in the cyclone. Banerjee also announced a relief package of Rs 1,000 crore after meeting members of a task force formed to assess relief work needed in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan. Large parts of West Bengal including many areas in Kolkata and its surrounding areas went without electricity on Thursday and telecom disruptions made it difficult for the state government to contact district headquarters for an assessment of the situation, including the number of people displaced by the cyclone. Officials said that in some districts it could take three days to restore power supply. “Not all the district magistrates could be contacted on Thursday. Those who we could contact have been asked to send a list of immediate requirements which we can send,” West Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha told reporters at the state secretariat. Banerjee said she had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to visit the cyclone-hit areas, adding that home minister Amit Shah had called her and assured her of help. Banerjee said help should arrive fast and not after 500 days. “We haven’t received any money to fight the Covid-19 pandemic till date,” the CM said.The storm, which made landfall around 20km east of Sagar Island in the Sunderbans on Wednesday afternoon, packing winds gusting to a top speed of 185 kilometres per hour, cut off road links, snapped telecommunications and left parts of West Bengal without electricity. It flattened houses, uprooted trees and power pylons, causing rivers to swell and breach their embankments. It hit Kolkata at a wind speed of 130km per hour. Reuters Television footage shot in West Bengal showed upturned boats on the shore, people wading through knee-deep water and buses crashed into each other. More images showed villagers trying to lift fallen electricity poles, fishermen hauling their boats out of a choppy sea, and uprooted trees lying strewn across the countryside.“Have been seeing visuals from West Bengal on the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. In this challenging hour, the entire nation stands in solidarity with West Bengal. Praying for the well-being of the people of the state. Efforts are on to ensure normalcy,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Thursday.Designated a super cyclone, Amphan has weakened since making landfall. Moving inland through Bangladesh, it was downgraded to a cyclonic storm on Thursday by the Indian weather office. The storm was expected to subside into a depression later.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said on Thursday that the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) “climatological intelligence” was accurate and helped in saving lives while minimising damage.IMD used a doppler weather radar (monitoring tool for severe weather) on the east and west coasts to come up with an accurate cyclone track with near-accurate wind speed and landfall point predictions. IMD’s director general, M Mohapatra, said: “This shows India can face cyclones and can save life and property.” NDRF director general SN Pradhan said Odisha may bounce back to normalcy in the next 24 to 48 hours. The West Bengal government has sought four more NDRF teams which are being airlifted from Chennai and Pune, he said. “Restoration work has started from late last night. If more teams needed, we can deploy more,” said Pradhan adding that the overall damage has not yet been assessed and the death toll may change as reports from the ground start coming in.Concern was, meanwhile, growing over flooding in the Sundarbans, an ecologically fragile region straddling the India-Bangladesh border, best known for thick mangrove forests and its tiger reserve.“The tidal surge submerged some part of the forest,” said Belayet Hossain, a forest official on the Bangladesh side of the forest. “We have seen trees uprooted, the tin roofs of the guard towers blown off,” he said.Over on the Indian side of the Sundarbans, a village official said embankments surrounding a low-lying island, where some 5,000 people live, had been washed away, and he had been unable to contact authorities for help.“We have not been able inform them about anything since last night, the official, Sanjib Sagar, said.(Reuters contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wb-odisha-flooded-as-amphan-wreaks-havoc/story-uvKKGxeCxkJSe2PRiGFYZP.html
22-05-2020||India||India unlocks air travel on 383 routes with new rules||India will reopen air travel on 383 routes across the country after a two-month gap, the government announced on Thursday, but allowed one-third of the operations beginning May 25 and set limits on fares that airlines can charge in the initial phase of this critical unlocking of swift long-distance travel.Civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said the government has identified seven bands based on flight durations, while announcing a set of norms for airlines and guidelines for passengers that outline how air travel is set to change in India in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The fares — consistent for each band — will be capped till at least August 24.“[Because of the lockdown] we have been able to escape the situation other countries have found themselves in. [But] it is equally important that at some stage you will have to open up. Two months is a very long time...you have to balance between lives and livelihood; it is time to now open up,” Puri said at a press conference in New Delhi, a day after announcing the resumption of domestic flights.According to data by Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), flights in the first phase will operate on all routes, taking off from a total of 35 origin cities and landing in 39 destination airports.“The central government hereby directs that domestic civil flight operations are permitted from 25 May, 2020 to a limited extent... For operations from Metro to Metro cities, One-Third capacity of the approved Summer Schedule...,” the civil aviation ministry said in an order on Thursday. The metro cities were identified as Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad and Kolkata. The rule will be applicable for metro to non-metro operations as well.Though there are several guidelines for social distancing in airports and at embarkation and disembarkation points, the middle seat will not be kept vacant in the aircraft. Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist at Mumbai’s Hinduja Hospital, said social distancing should be a priority. “Even though the government is saying they will scan each passengers, many of the travellers will not show any symptoms as almost 80% people (Covid-19 patients) are asymptomatic.” Puri, however, said it was not possible to keep the middle seat vacant. “This is not an option being followed by any other country as well. We will keep our fingers crossed,” he said.The seven bands identified by the government are: flights with duration of less than 40 minutes (Sector A), those with journey time of 40-60 minutes (Sector B), 60-90 minutes (Sector C), 90-120 minutes (Sector D), 120-150 minutes (Sector E), 150-180 minutes (Sector F) and 180-210 minutes (Sector G).A Delhi-Mumbai air travel takes around two hours, putting it in the category of Sector D. “Earlier, air carriers could put their range (minimum to maximum) on their websites...We want air travel to become affordable. We have set a minimum fare and a maximum fare. For Delhi to Mumbai, the minimum fare will be Rs 3,500 and maximum Rs 10,000,” Puri said at the media briefing.The government said 40% of the tickets in all bands will be sold at a price less than the mid-point (of the lower and upper limits). In case of a Delhi-Mumbai journey, these tickets will be priced at around Rs 6,700. The move to set fare limits will ensure there is no overcharging by airlines in view of an expected rush of passengers and heightened demand for tickets, Puri said. At the same time, the move to set lower limits is expected to protect carriers from extremely low fares set by competitors.Domestic flights with less than 40-minute duration, like the ones from Delhi to Chandigarh, will have lower and upper limits of Rs 2,000 and Rs 6,000, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) announced later in the day. For flights with duration between 40 and 60 minutes, such as Delhi to Lucknow, the lower and upper fare limits are Rs 2,500 and Rs 7,500. In the next band (60-90 minutes for journeys like the ones between Bengaluru and Mumbai), the lower fare limit is Rs 3,000 and the upper limit is Rs 9,000, the aviation regulator said. Flights between 120 and 150 minutes, including those on major routes such as Delhi-Bengaluru, will have lower and upper limits of Rs 4,500 and Rs 13,000. Those with duration between 150 and 180 minutes (such as Delhi to Imphal), the lower and upper limits are set at Rs 5,500 and Rs 15,700. And finally, for flights with duration between 180 and 210 minutes — like the ones on Delhi-Coimbatore route — the range will be Rs 6,500 and Rs 18,600.Vistara welcomed the moved to resume domestic flights, which were grounded on March 25, the day restrictions were first imposed in the country.“Aviation is a growth engine for the economy and resumption of air travel will give great impetus to the government’s overall efforts in helping the country eventually return to normalcy,” Vistara CEO Leslie Thng said. Global airlines’ body International Air Transport Association (IATA), a grouping of 290 airlines, said the decision to regulate airfares is a “step back”. Private carriers such as Air India, Vistara, IndiGo and SpiceJet are its members. “Airlines need to have the freedom to make their commercial decisions, including the pricing of airfares. Hence, we recognise and hope that this is a one-time measure as a result of Covid-19 and will be discontinued on August 24,” IATA assistant director (corporate communications - Asia Pacific) Albert Tjoeng told news agency PTI.Ravi Kini, managing partner at law firm MV Kini & Co, said: “Fares are published by airlines in the regular course. The range normally published is very wide for allowing flexibility for the airlines to respond to the market demand in free market situation. In the current situation, free market play has been curbed due to Covid-19...This is a good move by the government to balance the consumer interests with airline profitability.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-unlocks-air-travel-on-383-routes-with-new-rules/story-qz9OO2O37L6U76KSSUhrOP.html
22-05-2020||India||Owner of popular grocery store in Defence Colony tests Covid positive||The owner of a prominent grocery store in Delhi’s popular Defence Colony market has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials said on Thursday, even as health care workers launched efforts to trace people who may have come in contact with the 53-year-old.Manoj Gupta, the owner of Defence Store in the south Delhi neighbourhood, was admitted to the Max Hospital in Saket on Tuesday after developing flu-like symptoms. He later tested positive for the infectious disease, the Defence Colony residents’ welfare association said. Seven family members of Gupta and three domestic help were later put under home quarantine as a precaution.The grocery store, which carries both domestic and imported brands of various food and daily use items, was operational with social distancing norms through the lockdown, which was necessitated by the Covid-19 outbreak. Gupta’s family has decided to keep the store shut till the test results of all staffers and other family members are out. The Defence Colony Market Association said the neighbourhood market – over time, it has come to be identified as a popular shopping destination – will remain open while adhering to the government’s guidelines. The market reopened on Tuesday after the government allowed a graded relaxation of restrictions under the fourth phase of the lockdown. There are 52 commercial establishments in the market, including restaurants, bakeries, grocery stores and chemists.Gupta’s family said he did not visit any location other than the store during the movement restrictions, which have effectively been in place since March 22. “We don’t know how he got the infection. He did not go anywhere except the store. Our test reports are expected to arrive on Friday. The store’s three staff members have also been tested at RML Hospital for Covid-19 and the reports are likely to come in a day or two. We will not reopen the store till all the reports return negative. We have already got the store sanitised and will get it disinfected multiple times before opening,” said Pramod Gupta, Manoj Gupta’s brother.The Delhi government and district administration could not be immediately contacted for a comment regarding tracing Gupta’s contacts over the past few days.As news of Gupta’s test result broke, residents began calling the area councillor, Seema Mallik, to have the market disinfected. The colony has over 4,800 housing units spread over five blocks, with a sizeable population of retired government and armed forces personnel.Mallik said: “I have got calls from residents and the market association, and will get the entire market sanitised.”Gaurav Dhingra, owner of Defence Bakery, said they were trying to spread awareness about the disease among customers. “We have been taking all necessary precautions from the beginning. We should not get scared because somebody has tested for the disease here. Rather, we should be supportive and not stigmatise the person and family. We have already asked our customers to wear masks and gloves. Only two customers are allowed inside at a time. We are encouraging contactless payments,” he said.The market association has asked owners of all shops in the area to ensure social distancing inside their stores. “I have asked owners to display products on tables outside the stores, to ensure social distancing inside the shop,” said Rajinder Malik, president, Defence Colony market association.Major (retd) Ranjit Singh, president of the Defence Colony residents’ welfare association, said: “So far, we don’t know how he contracted the virus. District health officials have sanitised Gupta’s residence, his shop and the rest of the market. We will ensure the family gets all the necessary help.”Singh sent a message to residents in the colony on Wednesday, informing them about the positive test, and appealing to them not to blame Gupta for contracting the disease or trying to bully the family.Customers of the popular store also appealed that the owner and his family not be stigmatised. “We should support them. It’s fine to visit the store taking all precautions necessary,” said Abhay Sharma, who works in an IT firm in Gurugram, and is a regular customer.Riya Mittal, a Delhi University student who was at Defence Bakery on Thursday, said: “Thousands of people have tested positive in Delhi now. We will have to keep going taking all precautions.”With the government relaxing the curbs of the lockdown, medical experts say people have to learn to live with the virus. “There is no need to panic or worry. We can’t sanitise all places because there are so many people who are asymptomatic. People should just follow basic precautions,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Now that people are stepping out for work, Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said: “The only thing we can do is take precautions like ensuring social distancing and frequently washing our hands and wearing a mask.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/owner-of-popular-grocery-store-in-defence-colony-tests-covid/story-h7u1L3GttcsZO4IurATBFK.html
22-05-2020||India||‘Covid-19 peak likely in July-August’: Dr SK Sarin||Dr SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, who also heads the five-member committee formed to assist the Delhi chief minister to tackle the pandemic, spoke to Hindustan Times about the importance of antibody testing, community surveillance, and the way forward for the Capital.Community transmission is when an infection has occurred in the absence of history of travel or a known contact, which is likely to happen now in view of the large migrant labour movement and also easing of the lockdown.People are scared of the term community transmission. But this has occurred in almost all the countries and is likely to be there even at present here.The lockdown has only delayed the peak, which is likely to come maybe in July or mid-August.At present, the country is seeing an ascent in the number of Covid-19 cases. It will remain so as long as the reproductive number is more than 1 (meaning each infected person transmits the virus to more than one person). The plateau will come only when one person infects one person, the decline will start when one person is infecting say 0.5.We are already in the second scenario that the committee had talked about of 500 cases being reported in a day. And, Delhi is prepared for the third scenario of 1,000 cases being reported in a day as well.It is really one of better controlled and monitored cities with a very well organised reporting and testing system. We are doing almost 5,000 tests a day now, which was anticipated for this scenario. And, it can go up to even 10,000 when required.Delhi is doing well but it is a very vulnerable city due to movement of people from other states. And it will remain a vulnerable state for a year or year-and-a-half. The people of Delhi will have to be extra cautious.Ideally, the lockdown should have lasted 12 weeks as we learnt from Wuhan, China but we had it for about nine weeks. I think it was only possible and people were accepting of it because it was done in an incremental manner.We have to be extra-cautious for a surge in cases mainly because of the travelling migrant workers and slightly early easing of the lockdown restrictions. There will be a surge but is acceptable. The numbers are not a cause of concern, the deaths are.Also, at any given time in a community 30 – 50% is the hidden number of cases. So, as a way forward I strongly suggest that antibody tests be done.Today’s green zones are probably the most dangerous zones for tomorrow because there is no exposure in people living in these areas and they will drive the future waves of infections. Today, red zones are probably better because more people have been silently exposed and they would have developed the antibodies to fight off the infection.Now, to understand whether a red zone can be more open tomorrow or a green zone become restricted we need to do antibody testing. It will help us identify the areas where we have to pay more attention next month or the month after.Our testing strategy needs to improve. And that would include making the swab tests available at all major hospitals rather than the samples being sent to certain specified labs.Delhi is already doing about 5,000 tests a day and this can be increased up to 10,000.Apart from the RT-PCR {Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction} nasal swab test, our testing strategy will have to include blood antigen test. If you are going to test a large population, the test has to be cheap, rapid and feasible. The current nasal swab tests are not that friendly and feasible.It should be available in the next few weeks’ time. Plus, we also need the antibody test like I have said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-has-only-delayed-the-peak-dr-sk-sarin/story-8igm2aPjRM3Ndd1WNKAshM.html
22-05-2020||India||Railways allow opening of ticket counters at select stations||The Indian Railways has allowed re-opening of reservation counters at select stations and booking through Common Service Centers (CSCs) and agents, the ministry of railways said Thursday.“ Opening of all these booking facilities once again will mark an important step in the graded restoration of passenger railway services and making the task of ticket booking easy for all prospective travelers from all parts of India in reserved trains. Zonal railways may adhere to standard social distancing guidelines and observe the hygiene protocols in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic,” the ministry said.Booking of train tickets will resume at around 1.7 lakh common service centres across the country from Friday onward, Union railway minister Piyush Goyal also said on Thursday. Railways will also allow booking at counters across the station soon, Goyal said. This will make the service accessible to those in remote locations. The minister said bookings will also resume at counters at specific railway stations over the next two to three days.Zonal Railways have been instructed to decide and notify the opening of reservation counters in a phased manner on Friday along with dissemination of information about their locations and timings as per local needs and conditions. “ We will announce resumption of more trains. It is time to take India towards normalcy. We are developing a protocol to identify the stations where counters can be opened. We have to ensure that there are no large crowds gathering at counters to book tickets, so we are studying the situation and devising a protocol towards it,” Goyal said.Goyal was speaking at an interaction with BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on Thursday. Railways on Tuesday announced it will run 200 special passenger trains a day from June 1 and online ticket booking was scheduled to open Thursday.Goyal said within 2.5 hours of opening bookings for the 100 pairs of special trains on Thursday, four lakh passengers had booked tickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlys-allow-opening-of-ticket-counters-at-select-stations/story-WH0nwICHp0DT0gXujCerQL.html
22-05-2020||India||Vaccination at birth must continue in all hospitals in all zones: Health ministry||Vaccination at birth will continue in hospitals or clinics irrespective of the categorisation of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) containment zone, the Union health ministry said in an advisory on immunisation issued on Thursday.While in other cases, providing vaccination doses as per the schedule will only be allowed outside the containment and buffer zones, and in green zones. In containment and buffer zones no outreach programme is allowed to be conducted to mobilise the target population; however people who walk-into a health facility to get their child vaccinated should not be turned away, and adequate precautionary measures must be taken during the process.The advisory was issued amid fears that immunisation services were being entirely stalled, putting young children at risk of contracting vaccine preventable illnesses that could become life-threatening.As a standard practice, immunisation services are delivered through the following modes: birth dose vaccination in health facilities where the child is born and another option is for walk-in immunisation sessions at fixed health facilities such as district hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres or sub-centres etc.Doctors say while vaccination at birth will not be a problem it is the other doses that need to be carefully planned.“Vaccination at birth means that you are likely to be in a hospital, and it won’t require an extra visit. The next vaccination is usually six weeks onwards, and in the first six months at least three visits will be required. For a reasonable period it can be delayed but not indefinitely. Since Covid is here to stay, there’s a need to plan better for the remaining doses after discussing with the doctor such as instead of going to a hospital where other patients are also going to be present, people can opt for vaccine clinics,” says Dr Nitin Verma, senior pediatrician, Max Healthcare. Under government of India’s universal immunisation programme (UIP), vaccines are given for 12 diseases to protect children and pregnant mothers from vaccine preventable diseases (VPDs).“No active mobilisation to the health facility be carried out; every opportunity is to be utilized for vaccinating beneficiaries if they have already reported at the facilities; ensure social distancing and hand washing etc., to be adopted at health facility level for vaccinating the pregnant women and children who have reported to these facilities,” says the health ministry directive.The list of areas under containment zone and buffer zone in a district is updated on weekly basis. Any area exiting a containment or buffer zone can start facility based and outreach immunisation activities as in areas ‘beyond buffer zone’ after a minimum gap of 14 days.“In the context of Covid-19 outbreak, for delivery of immunisations services for different zones health facilities will adequately follow guidelines from ministry of home affairs and ministry of health pertaining to Covid-19 that will be the primary reference points… practices of social distancing, hand washing, and respiratory hygiene in all sessions; birth dose vaccination at health facilities would continue irrespective of zones… the State and District administration should make a local assessment of Covid-19 risk before starting the outreach or health facility-based immunisation with mobilisation of beneficiaries. Similarly, an area enlisted as a ‘containment/ buffer zone’ should stop health facility-based sessions and outreach sessions.” For areas beyond buffer zones, and in green zones, there are no restrictions to be followed, except for taking a call at the local level on the government outreach programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-at-birth-must-continue-in-all-hospitals-in-all-zones-health-ministry/story-2N14HYE59DEahZHO7kr20L.html
22-05-2020||India||Will meet piped water target despite outbreak: Jal Shakti minister||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has made no difference to India’s stated goal of providing piped water to all households by 2024, Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said. In an interview to Hindustan Times, Shekhawat conceded that in some states, it was a challenge to provide water for frequent washing of hands that health experts advise as a way of keeping the virus at bay. He added: “Looking towards the challenge itself, PM had envisaged this programme (Jal Jeevan Mission) . You may call it luxury but we are going to achieve it in the targeted time.” Edited excerpts:Your ministry’s objective has been to provide tap water to all by 2024. Has the coronavirus disease pandemic made any difference to the plan?No, not at all. We are still set for our goals for 2024 and providing functional drinking water to every household. Before this Covid period, we were working hard ever since PM announced this on 15 August from Red Fort. We requested states to collect the low hanging fruits-- villages that already have existing, sustainable sources of water -- could start retrofitting pipes. I can proudly say that we have achieved our goal for the first year. Simultaneously, during the Covid period, the 2.5 months, we were not sitting idle. We repeatedly did meetings with states and ministers. We wanted to use this period to complete the planning for the implementation of this programme. We requested them to make their state execution plan for this year and the remaining three years. So you are completing the theoretical part during the lockdown?Yes and as soon as the construction activity was allowed in Lockdown 2, we asked states to start work as soon as possible. Today, for example, I had meetings with Chattisgarh CM and Madhya Pradesh CM and I have requested CMs to use the Jal Jeevan Mission as a programme to provide employment at the grassroots level. Since each and every village has to be provided piped water, every village will have work for laying pipes, digging trenches, etcetera. MNREGA {Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act} budget has been increased, so we have asked states to utilise that money as well by consolidating funds so you are providing employment and achieving (piped water) targets.So there is a convergence of supply and demand? But your ministry data says only 18% people have piped water right now. So how difficult is it for people to practice washing of hands?It is really challenging, but water was not available as a whole but through the water drinking water programme and work of the states over the years, it was available in the close vicinity. Whether it is in the 50-100 metres and for some other villages, it is a longer distance, but still it was available. We wrote a letter to the states during the lockdown, to ensure sustainable water supply through those public standposts or common sources of water.But practically speaking, it must be a problem. Isn’t it a luxury to be able to wash hands frequently? Especially in states like West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, which have only 1%, and Biha, which has 2% households with piped water.It is a challenge. Looking towards the challenge itself, PM had envisaged this programme (Jal Jeevan Mission) . You may call it luxury but we are going to achieve it in the targeted time.What do you make of the side effects that we are seeing of the lockdown? Reports that the Ganga has become much cleaner. Do you fear that things will immediately go back as soon as the lockdown ends?There are three visible causes of water pollution--sewage, industrial effluents and third, by human interactions. Out of three, two were closed--industry and the human interactions, due to the lockdown. Because of that there are changes which have been observed in the quality of water but as far as the Ganga is concerned, it’s not a major difference. In the Ganga, in the last Kumbh last year, 22 crore people observed changes in the quality of water. That’s because of the mission mode effort under the PM of Namami Gange. In the month of October- November, we did a rafting expedition from Devprayag to Rishikesh. In those 90 odd kilometres, I just picked up some water from the river in my glass and it was absolutely potable. In this season, as the water comes from melting snow, it appears comparatively better. Similiar position is also in the Yamuna water, there was significant rainfall which increased the water in the river. It was a coincidence that there were untimely rains otherwise we only see sewage in the Yamuna in this period. Water for harvest was also not taken out of the river so quantity of water increased. Looking at the industrial shutdown as an opportunity, Prime Minister instructed us to take samples of the river and use this period as an opportunity to study, how much pollution is contributed through industrial effluence. This can be used for future planning. So how will you use it?We have collected all the data of different stretches of the Yamuna and Ganga during the lockdown period. Now we are able to tell how much pollution is contributed by sewage in the city and how much by industries. So we have tied up with Central Pollution Control Board and also with the IITs {Indian Institutes of Technology} apart from our internal bodies so at the end of it, we’ll have extensive data on this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-meet-piped-water-target-despite-outbreak-jal-shakti-minister/story-7FH7BFRRGeBKzjgYeQDjMI.html
22-05-2020||India||Utilised curbs to ramp up health care infrastructure: Centre||India has used the lockdown imposed on March 25 gainfully to ramp up its health-care infrastructure and kept its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) mortality rate relatively low, health ministry officials said on Thursday in response to reports that questioned the effectiveness of what has been billed as the world’s strictest lockdown.Together, the central and state governments have put in place 3,027 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and Covid health centres besides 7,013 Covid care centres. All the dedicated health facilities together have 281,000 isolation beds, 31,250 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, and 11,387 beds with oxygen support for patients.Health minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan, at an event marking the government’s Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme reaching 10 million beneficiaries, listed some of India’s achievements. “India has managed to put up a better fight against Covid-19 as compared to many other developed and developing countries. Of the 1 lakh cases, we have sent a significant number (more than 40,000) home after treatment, and most of the remaining 60,000 people are also on the road to recovery. As far as Covid-related deaths are concerned, India has managed to keep the mortality rate also low, as compared to other countries. We are doing fine,” Harsh Vardhan said.India so far has reported over 1,12,000 cases, 45,300 recoveries and 3,435 deaths. When compared with situation globally, health ministry says, India has reported 7.9 cases per 100,000 population as compared to 62 globally. As for deaths, India has reported 0.2 deaths per 100,000 population as compared to 4.2 globally.Even so, some reports have questioned the effectiveness of the lockdown, which confined citizens indoors, shut factories and services not deemed to be essential, including clubs, gymnasiums and entertainment centres. “This is not correct to say. The idea was to work towards improving healt-care services so that all who need treatment get it in time,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting not to be identified. So far, the Centre has supplied 6.5 million personal protection equipment (PPE) coveralls and 10.1 million N-95 masks to the states. From importing most of the PPE components, India has tasked domestic manufacturers with producing them. India is producing nearly 300,000 PPE coveralls and 300,000 N-95 masks each day.“This is a remarkable achievement and was made possible because the government had time to prepare for infrastructure upgrade. The country is fully prepared to manage the situation if the cases were to surge. We are comfortably placed at the moment; there is no need to panic,” the ministry official cited above said. On the surveillance and research front, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has constituted a National Task Force that has held 20 meetings since mid March and is responsible for taking scientific and technical decisions in managing the viral disease.“A well-coordinated approach has been adopted to activate the scientific community of the country and who are contributing by working round the clock to develop new testing kits, protective equipment, respiratory devices, etc. This approach has helped in providing a common platform for sharing of best practices, collaboration of work, development of need-based innovations, and in avoiding duplication of research work,” the health ministry said in a statement on Thursday.“With the help of institutions under department of science and technology (DST), and sister ministries, DST is taking the lead in coordinating the effort to map and upscale appropriate technologies in India for addressing a plethora of issues related to Covid-19. The department of biotechnology and its PSU, Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) has announced a Covid-19 research consortium call to support diagnostics, vaccines, novel therapeutics, repurposing of drugs or any other intervention for control of Covid-19.”Preventive steps taken very early in the Covid-19 outbreak have paid off for India and also managed to induce behavioural change, experts said.“The lockdown was supposed to buy us time, which it has managed to do, and to consolidate the gains. People will now need to incorporate the behavioural changes for good such as avoiding mass gatherings, wearing masks, maintaining hygiene, following cough etiquettes, staying at home if feeling sick etc.,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/utilised-curbs-to-ramp-up-health-care-infra-centre/story-AWNHpQ2KW7kpUGvehjsWDM.html
22-05-2020||India||No meals, PPE suits for staff and 1 cabin bag in flight norms||Passengers boarding domestic flights beginning Monday will have to report at least two hours before departure, declare their health status at the airport, and have to complete the check-in process online, according to the government’s guidelines.Passengers will also be given a safety kit that will include a three-layered mask, face shield and sanitizer near the boarding gate, the guidelines issued on Thursday said. The rules advised passengers to travel light — just one cabin baggage and one check-in baggage allowed — and said there will be no meal on board. The guidelines advised “very elderly, pregnant ladies, passengers with health issues” to avoid air travel. However, a person residing in a containment zone or those who have contracted Covid-19 will not be allowed inside the airport. Flyers are “expected to certify the status of their health through the Aarogya Setu app or a self-declaration form”.From origin to airportAccording to the guidelines, passengers will have to reach the airport two hours before departure, follow social-distancing measures and should “travel to the airport in an authorised taxi/personal vehicle following the norms” specified by the Union home ministry.A traveller will have to do web check-in and obtain a boarding pass, and download the baggage tag and baggage identification number. “In the initial stage, passengers will be entitled to carry maximum of one hand baggage and one checked-in baggage as per the specifications by the airline of his travel,” the guidelines said. Before entering the terminal, passengers must wear a protective gear, and they will continue wearing a mask throughout the journey.“A passenger will print the baggage tag and affix it on the bag at a prominent place,” the guidelines said. In case that is not done, s/she will have to write the PNR (Passenger Name Record) number and name on a piece of paper and paste that on the baggage. Flyers were also advised to travel light as “trolleys would be permitted sparingly”.Entering the terminal buildingAt the airport, passengers will have to reach the thermal screenings facility near the entry gate. A designated staff will check temperatures of passengers. The status of the Aarogya Setu app should be displayed to the staff. In the absence of a compatible device, passengers will have to fill up a self-declaration form.“In case of non-availability of Aarogrya Setu, the passenger should be facilitated to go a counter provided by the airport where Aarogrya Setu can be downloaded. Children below fourteen years of age would be exempt from this requirement,” the guidelines said.After completing the formalities, a passenger can proceed to the CISF (Central Industrial Security Force) counter at entry checkpoint and display the identity card and boarding pass. CISF staff, on confirming the identity of the person, shall allow entry. The passenger will then proceed to the baggage drop counter.SecurityArrangements have been made at airports to guide passengers to walk through the pre-embarkation security screening. “Passengers should divest of all metal on their body to facilitate the security screening. Also, bring only one hand luggage as per specified size allowed by the airlines,” the guidelines said.Security staff will practice a “minimum touch” concept to reduce physical contact with the passengers.Movement inside airport Passengers will proceed to security hold area after security screening. While waiting in the security hold area, they should maintain social distancing and sanitization protocols. Chairs marked “Not For Use” should not be occupied.BoardingPassengers will have to collect the safety kit provided by airlines, should wear mask and sanitize their hands before proceeding to the boarding gate for scanning of the boarding pass. Check-in of the boarding pass will be done by the passenger by self- scanning of e-boarding pass. Passengers will have to board the aircraft in a sequential manner.Inside the aircraftFace-to-face interaction should be minimised, the guidelines said. “Passengers are advised to minimize use of lavatory and to avoid any nonessential movement in the aisles,” it said. No queuing at lavatories and only one companion for children and the elderly will be allowed. No meal services will be allowed in the aircraft but water bottles will be available. Air crew will be in protective gear. “lf any passenger feels uncomfortable, fatigued or have cough, it should be bought to the notice of the crew for handling the passenger,” it said.Exit from airportPassengers should use only authorised taxis maintaining the prescribed hygiene protocols. Only these vehicles will be allowed for taking the passenger from the airport. On arrival at the destination, a passenger will have to adhere to such health protocols as are prescribed by the destination State/ Union Territory.At a press conference on Thursday, civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri, however, said passengers taking short distance flights will not need to quarantine upon reaching the destination state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-meals-ppe-suits-for-staff-and-1-cabin-bag-in-flight-norms/story-oEEXDk84dY322u7AVNcB3H.html
22-05-2020||India||India hopes Nepal’s leadership will create ‘positive atmosphere’ for dialogue||India on Thursday called on Nepal’s leadership to create a “positive atmosphere for diplomatic dialogue” to address boundary issues, a day after the two sides sparred on a revised political map that depicted Lipulekh and Kalapani as part of Nepalese territory.The external affairs ministry delivered a sharply worded response on Wednesday after Nepal’s land management minister Padma Kumari Aryal unveiled the new map that showed Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Byas rural municipality in Sudurpaschim province.Asked about the matter during an online news briefing on Thursday, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “All matters related to outstanding boundary issues will be dealt with between India and Nepal, and we hope the Nepalese leadership will create a positive atmosphere for diplomatic dialogue to resolve the outstanding boundary issues.”India’s position on Nepal’s revised map is consistent, he said. He reiterated India’s contention that the revision of the map was “a unilateral act and not based on historical facts and evidences”. He also reiterated that “such artificial enlargement of territorial claims will not be accepted by us”.Kathmandu’s move came little more than six months after New Delhi published new maps of the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh that showed Kalapani as part of Uttarakhand state.Nepal’s council of ministers had approved the new map during a meeting chaired by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Monday.The diplomatic row began on May 8 after defence minister Rajnath Singh opened an 80-km road that ends at Lipulekh Pass on the border with China. The road was built so that pilgrims going to Kailash-Mansarovar in the Tibet Autonomous Region can avoid dangerous high-altitude routes through Sikkim and Nepal.Nepal’s foreign ministry summoned the Indian envoy last week to protest against the construction of the road. New Delhi had rejected Kathmandu’s protest, saying Lipulekh is “completely within the territory of India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hopes-nepal-s-leadership-will-create-positive-atmosphere-for-dialogue-on-border-issues/story-y3H0ygrBWfvfYZLfrtiCgM.html
22-05-2020||India||Congress in limelight with Uttar Pradesh bus initiative||The Congress seems to have stolen a march on the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on the migrant crisis in Uttar Pradesh with its aggressive posturing against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).It is for the first time in the 16 months since she formally joined politics and took up the task of reviving the grand old party’s fortunes in Uttar Pradesh that Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has made some impact in India’s most politically important state with the polite but firm stand she took on the issue.Gandhi insisted that the Yogi Adityanath government allow her party to ferry 1,000 buses with migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh’s borders back to their homes across the state. In a deft move, she told the chief minister that her party would not mind if the BJP wanted to use its flags on the buses, arguing that it was not a political but humanitarian issue.The state government denied permission to the buses to transport the migrants on technical grounds, arming the Congress with ammunition to attack the BJP on grounds that it was anti-poor.The Congress claimed that the BJP had been rattled by Priyanka Gandhi’s stand and hence obstructed the attempt to help migrant workers.“The long march home for our migrant labourers has come at huge human costs...The BJP has shown its real anti-poor face. The BJP government’s continued apathy towards the migrant workers was visible in their initial rejection and then petty games to delay the buses provided by Priyanka ji,” said UP Congress leader Gaurav Kapoor.The BJP said the Congress was trying to mask its own failures in party-ruled states by taking an aggressive stance on it in UP.“These workers are not outsiders for us. They are our own people and our resource. Congress governments in Rajasthan, Punjab or Maharashtra have failed to convince them to stay back while no workers are leaving UP. What the Congress is doing now is just hiding its own failings,” UP BJP spokesperson Chandra Mohan said.While the BJP and the Congress slugged it out in the open, the two regional parties – SP and BSP – surprisingly watched the developments from a distance.The Congress has clearly overshadowed both the parties at least on this issue though there have been “for the record” statements by BSP chief Mayawati and SP president Akhilesh Yadav.Political observers argue that both the SP and BSP are trapped in conventional politics and not able to understand a new shift that been sharpened by the coronavirus pandemic.“Both these parties understand the language of caste but now a new language has reappeared in the political scene due to this pandemic, and that is the language of poor, labourers and migrant workers though it is an old one. For BSP and SP, it is dalits and other backward classes (OBCs),” political analyst Professor Badri Narayan said.“There is a clear shift in identity. While Congress has grabbed it as an opportunity, Mayawati appears nervous and Akhilesh is not able to negotiate this issue and appears clueless,” he added.Congress leader Kapoor said while the BSP was completely missing in action during the pandemic, the SP’s work was limited to a few social media messages. “Migrant workers can clearly see that only Congress is coming to their help in these trying times,” he added.But the BSP said it was working silently for the deprived people, including the migrant workers. “We do it quietly and silently and don’t make propaganda of it. Covid-19 is a big humanitarian crisis and we should have some conscience to help the poor without politicising it,” said BSP leader Antu Mishra.Mayawati did comment on the issue on Wednesday when she accused both the Congress and the BJP of politicising the issue and insisted that the BSP does not engage in any “disgusting” politics.“The disgusting politics being done in the past several days, specially by the BJP and Congress in the name of sending migrant labourers home is most unfortunate. Are these parties accusing each other in connivance to divert attention from the tragedy?” she tweeted.“If it is not so then the BSP has to say that instead of insisting on sending migrants by buses, Congress should help them go home by trains by arranging their tickets,” the BSP chief said in another tweet.The SP too took the same line of argument. “Our approach is more practical and pragmatic and our workers available on the ground to provide help to the migrant workers. But we are not in the game of offering buses. We can create an event out of it but we agree that a sustained process can only be done by the government,” SP spokesperson Abhishek Mishra said.“There should be serious political consequences for this huge migrant crisis triggered by the policy failures on part of the government but ultimately it depends on the people to judge that. This kind of mass migration is unprecedented in the history of India,” he added.For his part, the SP chief was more critical of the BJP than the Congress. “The tales of migrant labourers struggling to reach home are saddening. They are getting killed in accidents daily. But an unconcerned BJP has no care for human values. It is exploiting their eagerness to reach home for its political self-interest,” Yadav said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-in-limelight-with-up-bus-initiative/story-osgCglhzH1Aph51uxx5CbI.html
22-05-2020||India||City records over 500 virus cases for third day, toll goes up to 194||Delhi added 18 deaths from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, taking the city-state’s toll to 194. Of the total deaths, 121 were reported over the last 10 days, when the three-member death audit committee started reporting the backlog of deaths.Delhi also recorded 571 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 11,659, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. With over 500 new cases each day, Delhi has been recording the highest single-day spike for the last three days, the data shows.Until May 11, Delhi had reported 73 Covid-19 deaths, according to the daily health bulletin. The higher number of deaths since still puts the mortality rate of the infection in the national capital at 1.6%, which is much lower than the national average of 3.03%.Two days ago, the Delhi government reiterated the need for timely reporting of Covid-19 deaths by designated hospitals. “It has come to notice that both public and private hospitals are not reporting the deaths of positive cases of Covid-19 occurring in their hospitals in a timely and regular manner,” it said in an order.The first order to this effect was issued by the city’s chief secretary Vijay Dev on May 10, asking all hospitals treating Covid-19 patients to send in reports of deaths by 5pm each day. The standard operating procedures were put in place after a discrepancy was noticed in the cumulative number of deaths reported by the health bulletin and by individual hospitals.The addition of over 500 cases daily is the second of three scenarios for which a five-member expert committee had advised the Delhi chief minister to prepare. The first scenario was Delhi reporting 100 cases a day and the third was 1,000 cases a day.“Delhi is already reached the second scenario that the committee had advised about. And Delhi is prepared for the third scenario of 1,000 cases being reported in a day as well,” said Dr SK Sarin, chair of the five-member committee and director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences.The Delhi government is in the process of procuring 2,000 oxygen concentrators, devices that selectively remove nitrogen from the ambient air to make it about 93% concentrated oxygen. This can be used for providing oxygen therapy to critical Covid-19 patients.A small percentage of those with the infection – only 0.4% of the patients – need ventilator support. In the country, too, 0.45% of the active cases, or those still with the infection, are on ventilators. Some 2.94% of the people are on oxygen support, according to data from the union health ministry.There are 306 ventilators in the government sector and 800 ventilators in the private sector in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/city-records-500-virus-cases-for-third-day-toll-goes-up-to-194/story-nsbSCckwlyUWG2TZHaGRhM.html
22-05-2020||India||Pandemic has hit defence production: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said the lockdown imposed to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in late March has hit defence manufacturing harder than other sectors. He added it is because the government is the only buyer of the defence products.Singh spoke about the hardships faced by the defence industry at an e-conclave. He said the lockdown has hit the manufacturing sector, disrupted supply chains while the defence industry has also been affected due to the strict confinement measures. The Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and the department of defence production jointly organised SIDM MSME Conclave 2020.Singh said the economic package and the reforms the Centre has announced to tide over the Covid-19 crisis and to give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Movement)’ would strengthen the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector and generate employment.He called MSMEs Indian economy’s backbone as they have accelerated gross domestic product growth, brought in valuable foreign exchange through exports and provided employment opportunities.Singh said over 8,000 MSMEs were an integral part of the production process of the ordnance factories, defence public sector undertakings, dockyards and base repair depots, and their share equalled nearly 20% of the overall the production of these organisations. He said the government was committed to keeping MSMEs strong.Singh praised the contribution of MSMEs in India’s fight against the pandemic. “I am very happy to know that SIDM has accelerated the manufacturing of DRDO [Defence Research and Development Organisation] designed personal protective equipment kits, masks, ventilator parts…In less than two months, we have not only met our domestic demand, but we can also think of helping neighbouring countries...,” a defence ministry statement quoted Singh as saying.He said the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan would provide a raft of opportunities to industry and help create millions of jobs. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman last week announced a series of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector. They include an increase in foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing, a separate budget for buying locally-made military hardware and a list of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported. The other measures included corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board, indigenisation of imported spares and setting of realistic qualitative requirements for weapons to support the local industry. The FDI limit in the defence manufacturing sector under the automatic route has been increased from 49% to 74%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-has-hit-defence-production-rajnath/story-UcFeKYfudmbQfynURdGY4M.html
22-05-2020||India||Pandemic affected as many as 93 million urban workers: GoM report||As many as 93 million urban informal workers, across five sectors -- manufacturing, construction, trade, tourism and hospitality -- have been affected by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to slow its spread, according to an informal Group of Ministers headed by social justice minister Thawarchand Gehlot.Among the suggestions, which were submitted in a report to the Prime Minister’s Office last week are: a database of the workers; a job card for every migrant worker returning to their village and a complete tweaking of the rural employment guarantee scheme that allows work in a private factory or construction site, with the employer paying wages above the MNREGA wage component which will continue to be paid by the government; and an app named Kaushal (literally, skill) that allows workers to register for skill development courses and also reach out to potential employers. Hindustan Times has reviewed the contents of the report. Gehlot declined comment on the report and said its “contents are not public yet.’’The group also emphasised that there need to be confidence building measures to bring back migrant workers to the cities. These could be in the form of scholarships for their children, access to anganwadis and training and upskilling. All migrant workers should be automatically enrolled in the Ayushman Bharat or national health insurance scheme, the ministerial group said.``We tried to touch upon every aspect in our report,’’ said one of the ministers part of the GoM, ``But let us see which ones are approved by the Prime Minister before we comment on it.’’The group also pointed out that even workers in the organised sector faced the risk of losing their jobs. The Centre for Monitoring of Indian Economy (CMIE) announced last week that 114 million jobs have been lost in April and unemployment is at a record high of 27.1%. The report , while acknowledging that the lockdown saved lives, says that the country now faces an economic crisis whose elements include the loss of jobs and livelihood. Its very first recommendation is to restart economic activities at the earliest. To be sure, the government has allowed for the restart of more economic activities in a phased manner -- from May 3, and subsequently, from May 18.This week, it announced the restarting of limited flights and some regular train services. Biswajit Dhar who teaches economics at Jawahar Lal Nehru University isn’t convinced an app will help. ``The migrants need immediate help and so the government should see this as an opportunity to boost the rural economy and help them find jobs locally. How will apps help when most of them won’t be online?’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/93mn-urban-workers-affected-gom-report/story-mJX2aiWbpk5lJC7KNG4Y8K.html
22-05-2020||India||Entrepreneurship to be the focus of new HRD channel||The Union Human Resource Development (HRD) ministry and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) plan to launch a niche direct to home (DTH), or digital TV channel, focussed on honing entrepreneurial skills of younger people and to keep them abreast with the latest innovations, officials aware of the matter said. The move comes as the Centre is increasingly looking towards the DTH and radio modes to meet educational requirements for students and to overcome the digital divide as the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to check its spread in late March have disrupted the academic year. HT on May 8 reported HRD ministry is planning to start 12 DTH television channels each catering to students from Classes 1 to 12. The channels will serve as virtual classrooms when schools are shut due to the Covid-19 outbreak and amid concerns that online learning might leave behind those with slow or limited internet connectivity.According to details accessed by HT, AICTE, the technical education regulator, has formed a nine-member advisory panel of journalists, entrepreneurs, and educationists to develop the concept for its channel. A Surya Prakash, the former head of public broadcasting agency Prasar Bharati, will head the panel. The panel will also include AICTE chief Anil Sahasrabuddhe as co-chairman, Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar Vempati, education portal upGrad chairman Ronnie Screwvala, Times Now editor-in-chief Rahul Shivshankar, Rakesh Khar, (Network18 Group) and Alok Agarwal, managing partner, The Growth Labs, Alok Nath Jha (DD Kisan), and Abhay Jere (HRD ministry).Prakash said innovation is critical for the advancement of any nation and all nations are driven by innovation. “I congratulate HRD [ministry] and AICTE for thinking of a niche channel devoted to innovation. Our society is brimming with ideas and this endeavour will give a fillip to entrepreneurship, ideas, and innovation in the country,” he said.An AICTE official said the panel is expected to begin its work from the next week. “HRD [ministry]’s Innovation Cell and AICTE have come together for the purpose of creating the platform. The idea is to bring a channel that can serve as a platform for the entire country’s young population. It will highlight the latest innovations and research happening in the country and globally and also showcase the work done by young entrepreneurs,” said the official on condition of anonymity.INDEPENDENT COMMENT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/entrepreneurship-to-be-the-focus-of-new-hrd-channel/story-a1MjOs3I3c3ziRREnvvpGK.html
22-05-2020||India||President Ram Nath Kovind accepts credentials of seven envoys in e-ceremony||President Ram Nath Kovind became India’s first head of state to receive and accept diplomatic credentials of seven foreign envoys in an e-ceremony, heralding “digital diplomacy” because of the restrictions imposed by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Elaborate physical ceremonies for the presentation of credentials have been put on hold during the national lockdown with Covid-19 protocols firmly in place at Rashtrapati Bhavan and President Kovind minimising his engagements. “But it was felt necessary to conduct the credential presentation online, as it is a vital part of diplomatic culture which shouldn’t be overlooked,” said a senior Rashtrapati Bhavan official who asked not to be named.The ambassadors of DPR Korea, Senegal, Côte d’Ivoire, and the high commissioners of Trinidad & Tobago, Mauritius, Australia and Rwanda came to South Block on Thursday morning and stood one by one in front of a large screen, through which President Kovind welcomed them. The distance between South Block and Rashtrapati Bhavan is less than 200 metres.These were the first batch of envoys who presented their credentials after the Covid pandemic swept India leading to a federal lockdown since March 25. Secretary (west) of the ministry of external affairs, Vikas Swaroop, was present with the envoys during the ceremony, the official cited above said.“The envoys read out their letters credence and the President accepted them on the TV screen. They also nodded at the President as per the protocol, and some envoys even extended an invitation to the President on behalf of their head of state to visit their countries. The President accepted them and, at the end, he delivered a short speech welcoming them in India and also mentioned how our country is fighting against Covid,” said a second official aware of the matter.As per protocol, envoys do not begin their formal duties until their credentials are accepted, and their precedence within the diplomatic corps is determined by the date on which the credentials are presentedUsually, the presentation of credentials is an elaborate ceremony with strict rules and rituals. The envoys come to Rashtrapati Bhavan accompanied by a foreign ministry official; they have to sit in a specific seat in the car with the protocol officer next to them; the diplomat is received at the forecourt of the presidential palace by the commander of the Presidential Guard; there is a guard of honour in the middle arc of the main entrance, and the police band plays the national anthem of the diplomat’s country. Once inside the ceremonial hall, the diplomat sits two metres away from the President; does not shake hands or exchange any words, but gives a gentle bow.While these arrangements could not be done due to Covid restrictions, a new beginning was made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prez-accepts-credentials-of-seven-envoys-in-e-ceremony/story-40EuDeemwsfCeGDffMBtfN.html
22-05-2020||India||Culture ministry plans norms for public spaces||The Union culture ministry is drafting guidelines for people to enter public spaces governed by institutes that come under its regulation -- including national monuments such as the Taj Mahal, galleries such as the National Gallery of Modern Art, and other museums and libraries -- once the national lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 is lifted.According to a senior ministry official aware of the drafting process, the protocols include wearing face masks, thermal screening, social distancing, online purchase of tickets, separate entry and exit points to stop crowding, and access in small batches.“Once the protocols are in place, there will be no entry without masks, and visitors will be allowed entry in batches. Social distancing norms of a distance of at least two metres will have to be followed; there will be thermal screening at entry points, and fumigation at regular intervals,” said the official cited above. The detailed guidelines are being drafted following a meeting early this week of senior officials and culture minister Prahlad Singh Patel, the official said, adding that they will be sent to the health ministry for approval.A second official, however, clarified that these cultural spaces will not be open to the public immediately. “We are waiting for the pandemic to subside, and if there needs to be more wait time, we will have to divert resources on digitising,” said the official. He added that ministry was also considering creating a way to visit monuments such as the Taj Mahal virtually. “Since the monument attracts hundreds of people daily, so opening it up completely will be a challenge,” the second official said. Some institutes under the ministry have been facilitating digital experiences since public visits were suspended because if the national lockdown. NGMA exhibited original artworks of Raja Ravi Varma and Jamini Roy, while the Development of Museums and Cultural Spaces (DMCS) launched a short film “A Ray of Genius” to mark the start of the centenary celebrations of Satyajit Ray..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/culture-ministry-plans-norms-for-public-spaces/story-S7nnasmGK1ecU9UVVLp3EN.html
22-05-2020||India||Govt tells states to follow night curfew, flags norms’ violation||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday again nudged the states to strictly follow lockdown guidelines, particularly the night curfew, to make sure people observe social distancing norms and contain the risk of infection spreading.In a letter to the states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said the night curfew, which means all non-essential activity and movement is prohibited between 7 pm and 7 am across the country, was an “important element” of MHA guidelines. The guidelines were issued on Sunday for the fourth phase of the lockdown, extended till May 31.Bhalla wrote: “it has been brought to the notice of MHA, through media reports and other sources that there are violations, at various places, in the implementation of guidelines”. He asked local authorities to issue orders in their jurisdictions on the imposition of night curfew.Bhalla’s letter, a copy of which has been seen by Hindustan Times, doesn’t name any particular state but West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banreeje had on Monday, while issuing its own guidelines, ruled out the enforcement of night curfew.“We won’t officially declare night curfew because people are already under a lot of stress. We do not want to increase their suffering. But we will request people not to venture out of their homes between 7 pm and 7 am or else police will take action,” Banerjee said on Monday. She had said the word curfew has negative connotations.An MHA official, who didn’t want to be named, said lockdown guidelines had been issued after consulting all the states. “If they don’t follow these, then it is a clear violation and the states doing so are putting their people at risk,” the official said.On Monday, the ministry had even reminded all states that they cannot dilute the lockdown guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act.Bhalla, on Thursday, also asked the states to properly delineate the containment zones and take action if the violations are reported in any of the zones – red, orange or green.The national directives, issued along with the guidelines, should also be followed throughout the country, Bhalla added. These include wearing of masks, social distancing at work, transport and public places and maintaining hygiene and sanitation to contain the spread of Covid-19 and protecting individuals and the community, the letter said“I would request all chief secretaries and administrators of union territories to remain vigilant in the fight against Covid-19 and ensure all measures that have either been mandated by MHA or laid down by the states are scrupulously adhered to at all levels,” Bhalla added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-tells-states-to-follow-night-curfew-flags-norms-violation/story-ebuIY2OGy4Cf9qJgJP1eVK.html
22-05-2020||India||Private airlines likely to be part of third phase of Vande Bharat Mission||The third phase of the Vande Bharat Mission, India’s massive programme to repatriate nationals stranded across the globe because of the Covid-19 crisis, is expected to involve private airlines to increase the number of flights.The third phase is set to begin after June 13, when the second phase will end. India is bringing back about 32,000 citizens on more than 160 flights from 47 countries during the second phase, which began on May 16.“There will be a third phase of repatriation. The second phase will last till June 13,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told an online news briefing.“We are very receptive to the idea [of involving private airlines] and the ministry of civil aviation is already in discussions with private airlines to see how they can be included under the Vande Bharat Mission so that we can increase the number of flights,” he said.All flights in the first two phases were being operated by state-run Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express. The government has also used air force transport aircraft and naval warships to repatriate nationals from some countries.As of Thursday, a total of 23,475 Indians have been repatriated under the Vande Bharat Mission. They include 4,883 workers, 4,196 students and 3,087 professionals.The second phase has included destinations such as Istanbul, Ho Chi Minh City and Lagos, and increased flights to the US and Europe. “We are also looking at developing Frankfurt as a hub [for Europe],” Srivastava said.Several flights from other countries, coming in to evacuate citizens of those countries, have ferried stranded Indians. A flight from Buenos Aires that arrived on Thursday morning carried 62 Indians, while a flight operated by Iran’s Mahaan Air on May 17 carried about 300 Indian pilgrims from Ladakh.Other flights have brought back Indians from Argentina, Djibouti, Hong Kong, Mongolia, Peru and South Africa. A special Tunisian military evacuation flight took off from Tunis on Thursday with 25 Indian nationals and it is expected to arrive in New Delhi on Friday morning.A total of 259,001 Indian nationals in 98 countries around the world have registered to return under Vande Bharat Mission. Most of them are workers (28%), students (25%), professionals (14.5%), and short-term visa holders such as tourists (7.6%). Fishermen, deportees and Indian nationals who benefited from visa amnesties have also registered.The government has already said priority will be given to those with compelling reasons for returning, such as loss of jobs, medical emergencies and senior citizens. Among those with compelling reasons who registered to return are 16,991 facing medical emergencies and 8,746 pregnant women and senior citizens. Following a spat between the Central and West Bengal governments over the lack of flights to the state, 169 Indian nationals were repatriated from Dhaka to Kolkata on May 18. Two more Dhaka-Kolkata flights are scheduled for May 27 and June 1, and further flights to West Bengal are planned from Europe, the UK and other destinations.Srivastava said India is also facilitating the travel of foreign nationals on outbound flights under the Vande Bharat Mission. Three flights were operated to the UK on May 16, 18 and 20 and two flights to the US on May 18 and 20. Four more flights are scheduled to the US and two to Frankfurt.Wherever possible, passengers have to undergo testing before boarding flights and in a few instances, those who tested positive for Covid-19 weren’t allowed to board. “There is full medical screening and only asymptomatic passengers are allowed on board,” Srivastava said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-airlines-likely-to-be-part-of-third-phase-of-vande-bharat-mission/story-o8MOLGQoUTD0FaYsV2ae9O.html
22-05-2020||India||India on alert as locusts from Pak threaten farms||India is on the alert for crop-munching desert locusts, which according to a UN warning, pose a “severe” risk to the country’s agriculture this year, as a top pest-monitoring agency flagged signs of an early-than-usual summer invasion of the species of grasshoppers from across Pakistan. This has prompted the Union agriculture ministry to consider importing equipment from the UK, apart from deploying drones, satellite-derived tools, special fire-tenders and sprayers at pre-identified border locations. Protocols are in place for India to hold videoconferencing meetings with authorities in Pakistan for joint strategies, an agriculture ministry official said requesting anonymity because he is not authorised to speak to the media. Locusts can fly up to 150 km daily and a one square km swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people in terms of weight in a single day, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)’s Desert Locust Information Service bulletin.A surge in locust attacks since last year is being attributed to favourable breeding weather caused by a large number of cyclones in East Africa. India, China and Pakistan face the most risk in Asia, according to the UN. Pakistan has already declared an agricultural emergency, according to the official cited above.Locust attacks are known to cause a considerable drop in agricultural output. A moderate infestation chomped through winter crops in an estimated 300,000 hectares in Rajasthan and Gujarat in January. The crucial summer sowing season begins next month. The alert on Wednesday came after a month of monitoring by the locust warning office, a wing under the agriculture ministry’s directorate of plant protection. Their field agents spotted clouds of the insects in mid-April in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar and Jaisalmer districts. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar consulted representatives of the pesticide industry on May 13, a second plant quarantine department official said. Tomar reviewed broad measures to fight off infestations. The ministry now plans to import some equipment from the UK. In December last year, India held preparatory meetings with Pakistani teams on the India-Pakistan border in Munabao and Khokhapar in Rajasthan’s Barmer district, an official said.India is constantly monitoring the pests and scheduling more talks with Pakistani representatives during the entire June to September kharif (summer-sown) season, said KL Gurjar, deputy director at India’s directorate of plant protection. Gurjar was one of the participants at the border talks in December. A report of a senior locust forecasting officer of FAO to the government noted that “swarms would be present in Haryana and Punjab, moving east towards Bangladesh similar to 1950 when there were devastating plagues that lasted up to 14 consecutive years.”“Despite the Covid-19 lockdown, the locust control offices are working since April 11, 2020, with 50 spray equipment and vehicles, in coordination with officials of district administration and state agriculture department,” a statement from the farm ministry said. Normally, with the arrival of the monsoon, locust swarms enter the Scheduled Desert Areas of India via Pakistan for breeding in June and July, but this year, their presence was first reported on April 11.“The situation remains extremely alarming in the Horn of Africa, specifically Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia, where widespread breeding is in progress and new swarms are expected to form in the coming weeks,” an FAO alert issued this month said.Heavy cyclones made for favourable breeding conditions also in the southern Arabian Peninsula for at least nine months (June 2018 to March 2019), allowing “three generations of breeding that was undetected and not controlled”, FAO said.Pest specialists are drawing on standard strategies, such as maintaining sufficient reserves of melathion, the principal insecticide. “Overnight, they can devour field after field. One large swarm can cover several districts,” said JN Thakur, a former chief of locust monitoring at the agriculture ministry.According to Thakur, India has an experience of fighting the pest from two previous outbreaks, in 1950 and 1993, but the country lacks large insecticide-spraying aircraft, which are the most effective way of dealing with a large-scale crisis.Until May 11, the pests have been “controlled in an area of ​​14,299 hectares of Jaisalmer, Sri Ganganagar, Jodhpur, Barmer, and Nagaur districts in Rajasthan and Fazilka districts of Punjab”, the official said. Swarms are active in Barmer, Phalodi (Jodhpur), Nagaur, Sriganganagar, and Ajmer districts of Rajasthan. The Union government has decided to conduct awareness campaigns and training for farmers and officials from these states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-on-alert-as-locusts-from-pak-threaten-farms/story-oG5EgeTu1Y6QQq8CHpm7mM.html
22-05-2020||India||Heatwave to affect parts of country over the weekend||Clear skies almost all over the country, a change in wind patterns following cyclone Amphan as well as hot, dry north-westerly winds blowing over Peninsular India have made conditions favourable for heatwaves after an unusually pleasant spell of weather due back-to-back western disturbances, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists. IMD on Thursday said there will be a 2-4 degrees Celsius rise in maximum temperatures over the country’s northwestern, central and western parts in the next two to three days. It has warned of heatwaves in Rajasthan (May 21-25); western Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Telangana (May 21-24); coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, north interior Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal (May 21-23); eastern Madhya Pradesh, Rayalseema and Uttar Pradesh (May 22-25).A heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature hits 45 degrees Celsius or is above 40 degrees Celsius in summer with a variation of five degrees or more above the normal temperatures.IMD said a feeble western disturbance on Friday is likely to bring rain and thundershowers to Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand and light thundershowers to Haryana, Punjab and Delhi. It added maximum temperatures, however, are likely to rise in the northern plains. Western disturbances are low-pressure systems that generally originate over the Mediterranean region and are known to bring winter rain in India. Their intensity reduces in summer when they move to upper latitudes. At 44.1 degrees C, Palam recorded the maximum temperature in Delhi on Thursday. It was the highest this season. At Safdurjung, the temperature was recorded at 42.7 degrees C, three degrees above normal.According to private forecaster Skymet Weather Services, heatwave conditions are likely over Delhi and Haryana also after 2 to 3 days.National Weather Forecasting Centre head K Sathi Devi said two important factors are responsible for the rise in temperatures. “...one is there is no clouding. There are clear skies almost all over the country except where the cyclone or depression is. The other reason is there is advection; wind patterns have changed after the cyclone.” Devi said hot, dry north-westerly winds were blowing even over the Peninsular India, which makes conditions favourable for heatwaves. “East MP [Madhya Pradesh], Rajasthan, UP [Uttar Pradesh], parts of Peninsular India are all likely to develop heatwave like conditions now. There is no major weather system that can cause clouding. The impact of western disturbances will also gradually reduce now leading to higher temperatures in northwest India including Delhi.”Barmer (Rajasthan) and Aloka (Maharashtra) recorded the highest temperatures in the country on Wednesday (44.2 degrees C). Sunita Devi, the in-charge of cyclones at IMD, said, “Because of the cyclone, all the moisture is concentrated around it while dry, north-westerly winds are blowing over the rest of the country, which causes temperatures to peak gradually.”Even June is expected to be very hot in parts of the country. “If there is no western disturbance, NW [north western] India will be hot even in June. Hot winds from desert regions will heat up the region as wind patterns have changed after Amphan,” said D S Pai, a senior scientist at IMD, Pune.Amphan led to an early onset of the monsoon over the Andaman and Nicobar Islands on May 17. A low pressure before the formation of Amphan made conditions favourable for the advancement. The onset of the monsoon over Kerala is likely to be delayed by four days and is expected to arrive on June 5, IMD said last week. It marks the beginning of the four-month rainy season when India receives 70% of its annual rainfall. IMD’s south-west monsoon forecasts provide information to at least 700 million people in India, who are dependent on agriculture for livelihood. The delay could have implications for farmers impacted by an economic slowdown associated with the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown.The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its people. M Mohapatra, director-general, IMD, said after a cyclone passes, the atmosphere is disturbed. “It takes time to come back to normal. Monsoon advancement can begin normally only when normal atmospheric and wind conditions are restored. The westerly hot winds also impact most parts of the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-to-affect-parts-of-country-over-the-weekend/story-uhp0Vrlg53iKOOtGw3q75H.html
22-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan wreaks havoc on 4.5 million people across Odisha; 72 dead in West Bengal||Cyclone Amphan, which hit India’s eastern coast with winds gusting up to 185 kph on Wednesday, has affected 4.5 million people across 1,500 villages in Odisha, the state government informed the Centre on Thursday even as it has asked officials to submit reports about the damages caused in two days.Odisha chief secretary Asit Tripathy told Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba via video-conferencing that there was no loss of lives in the state even as the cyclone brought a heavy downpour and winds speeding up to 100 kph in some coastal areas. Amphan was the most powerful cyclone to strike eastern India and Bangladesh in over a decade. It tore down power lines, uprooted trees, caused flooding, triggered mass evacuations and left at least 72 people dead in West Bengal, where it made landfall.“Nearly two lakh [200,000] people in Odisha were evacuated from their homes and placed safely in different shelters during the cyclone. A total of 210 medical teams and 75 teams of veterinary doctors have been sent to the affected areas,” Tripathy said. He added that collectors of the affected districts have been asked to submit reports about the damages caused in two days.Tripathy thanked India Meteorological Department (IMD) director-general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra for accurate predictions and added correct forecast of the natural calamity helped contain the damage to life and property. “The IMD is valuable in this area and its forecast is getting better with time. We thank Mohapatra, NDRF [ National Disaster Response Force] DG [director general] S N Pradhan and everyone in this valuable national body,” he said.Additional chief secretary and special relief commissioner P K Jena, too, thanked Mohapatra for re-assuring the state government to have complete faith in IMD’s prediction and forecast on Amphan. IMD had informed the state government that the wind speeds at Paradip and Dhamara coast would be around 135 kph which turned out to be correct. Jena said that Mohapatra had made accurate predictions on ferocious cyclonic storms like Fani (2019) and Phailin (2013).Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik separately conducted an aerial survey of the affected areas of the state’s coastal and adjoining districts that took the brunt of Amphan.Winds gusting up to 100 kph uprooted trees, flattening kutcha houses, disrupted vehicular movement and power supply across Odisha’s Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara and Balasore districts. Odisha energy minister Dibya Shankar Mishra said that over 80% of power supply was being restored while Pradhan said all roads in the cyclone-hit districts would be cleared within 24-48 hours.In a tweet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said authorities were working on the ground to ensure all possible assistance to the cyclone-hit people. “My thoughts are with the people of Odisha as the state bravely battles the effects of Cyclone Amphan. Authorities are working on the ground to ensure all possible assistance to the those affected. I pray that the situation normalises at the earliest,” Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/downpour-storm-wreak-havoc-on-4-5mn-people-across-odisha/story-uXs8bjUFojBmXnlaVsamjO.html
22-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan unleashes fury||The trail of destruction Cyclone Amphan left behind as it hit Kolkata with wind speed gusting up to 130 kph on Wednesday amid the Covid-19 pandemic is the worst the city has witnessed for a long time, residents said.The cyclone was the most severe in over a decade and plunged parts of the city into darkness as it felled electricity poles, trees, upturned cars and flooded the Kolkata airport as well as several other neighbourhoods. It was designated a super cyclone even as Amphan weakened after making landfall between and Bangladesh with winds that gusted up to 185 kph.“After every calamity, we tend to compare it with something in the past. We have seen Cyclone Aila in 2009 and Cyclone Bulbul in 2019. But Amphan was like hell. I have not seen anything of this sort in my life. It was as if the storm was whistling and bulldozing its way through,” said Bibhutibhusan Dey, a 70-year-old Kolkata resident.Cyclone Aila and Bulbul left 339 and 41 people dead. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at least 72 people were killed in her state alone after Amphan tore into it.Many said they felt as if an earthquake has struck the city when the cyclone battered it with their buildings swaying. Residents of highrises felt the cyclone impact more intensely in eastern Kolkata. A part of Kolkata still has large open areas but Amphan passed closer through its eastern parts. “We felt as if the entire building was swaying. Initially we thought it was an earthquake as the cyclone was raging outside... It was really scary,” said Arpita Pal, who lives on the 10th floor of a highrise.Bengali film actor Ankush Hazra echoed the feeling on social media and shared visuals of his damaged apartment. “Earthquake or Cyclone?” he wrote on Instagram.Kolkata’s streets and lanes were littered with broken glasses of shattered window panes, damaged vehicles trapped under unrooted trees, lamp posts, and traffic signals on Thursday morning. Several houses were also damaged when uprooted trees fell on them. A Kolkata Municipal Corporation official said they were getting dozens of calls every second at their control room. “Hundreds of trees, lamp posts, and traffic signals have been uprooted. Several roads have been blocked. Power lines, cable wires, and telephone wires have snapped. The city is in a mess.”Netizens uploaded pictures and videos of exploding transformers, falling trees, tin roofs, and street-hoardings amid the raging storm on social networking sites. “I saw at least two transformers exploding. It was like fireworks on Diwali night. The entire area has been plunged into the darkness since. No electronic gadgets are working. I could only charge one mobile with a power bank,” said Arindam Biswas, a resident of Kolkata’s Baghajatin. The city had virtually come to standstill as many roads remained blocked while there was hardly any mobile connectivity amid the closure of shops and markets. “It was a real lockdown and everyone maintained social distancing. No going out. No mobile phones either,” said Arindam Sen, a resident of the Madurdaha area.The situation in the slums was even worse as thousands of shanties were badly damaged. Their roofs and walls gave way in the face of the storm and intense rain and forced slum dwellers to either take shelter in nearby schools or in some concrete houses.“We never thought the storm would be so intense. The civic officials told us to move to the nearby school building. But as we had seen Aila and Bulbul, we thought Amphan would be the same or a little more intensity. But when it hit, we had nowhere to go. The school was too far. We decided to take shelter in a nearby two-storeyed house,” said Sheetal, who works as a maid and lives in a shanty near Anandapur in east Kolkata.Municipal authorities said they were yet to assess the damage. “The entire Nabanna building (state secretariat building) was swaying it seemed. Once I tried to enter my office on the 14th floor. I couldn’t. The window panes were shaking and vibrating as if they would freak anytime. I have never witnessed such a calamity,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “It was a virus in the sky. Meteorologists had said it would hit a certain point and that it would take around 4 hours to pass. But it was nearly 400 km wide and carried on its devastation for several hours. It could be a subject of research. I have never seen such a calamity,” said Banerjee||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amphan-unleashes-fury/story-gYizm13oDhixnPDMUUXz5I.html
22-05-2020||India||84% women say lockdown restricted their access to menstrual products: Survey||Access to menstrual hygiene products has been affected by the lockdown for young girls and women who depend on schools and community places, a survey has found. The survey, conducted by the Menstrual Health Alliance India (MHAI), has also found that 84% women who responded said that there is either no or severely restricted access to menstrual products in communities that they work in, especially for sanitary pads. As per the survey, whose findings were released by Dasra and Change.org, consumers of 62% of the organisations manufacturing menstrual hygiene products that took part in the survey faced problems in accessing products from their regular channels, while 22% reported no access to menstrual products at all.In the rapid survey, 67 organisations participated, and 45 were from India, 16 from the African region and six from other countries. Fifty four of the organisations were rural and 49 were urban. The survey was conducted in April and 94% respondents were either in lockdown or state mandated social distancing at the time of the survey. Disposable pads were manufactured or distributed by 23 organisations, 28 made reusable pads, while 13 made menstrual cups. Sixty five percent of their clientele or beneficiaries were adolescent girls, 59% were women, 27% were post-partum women, while 34% had disabilities. This meant that more women were forced to use clothes, and the lack of knowledge of hygiene norms was a risk. “Most adolescent girls from low-income households depended on school-based supply in Government schools. Given that schools have been closed since the lockdown, they have started using cloth pads. We need to look at how reusable product choices like cloth pads and menstrual cups can be promoted with information on maintenance of hygiene in order to build resilient MHM practices,” Tanya Mahajan of the MHAI said. The survey found that only 25% were fully operational, and 50% partially. “Very few units had raw material availability for the next 3 months – only 25% had availability and 40% had partial availability,” the report said. Of these, only 24% were in a position to service demand from their community while 46% were able to do so partially. Road transport restrictions were the main roadblock, and with new production norms expecting a focus on a limited capacity, production was affected in many places. In addition to that, the limited availability of migrant labours was a factor. Import restrictions, especially for menstrual cups imported from facilities in Europe to ensure quality benchmarks, was challenging. “Raw materials for disposable sanitary pads, particularly wood pulp, have become challenging,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/84-women-say-lockdown-restricted-their-access-to-menstrual-products-survey/story-tdwlmvGPyfy2HVBE6UHRgM.html
22-05-2020||India||PM Modi in Bengal, Odisha today in wake of cyclone Amphan; to hold review meetings||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will travel to West Bengal and Odisha on Friday to conduct an aerial survey of the damage caused by Cyclone Amphan, a government spokesperson said. “Tomorrow, PM @narendramodi will travel to West Bengal and Odisha to take stock of the situation in the wake of Cyclone Amphan. He will conduct aerial surveys and take part in review meetings, where aspects of relief and rehabilitation will be discussed,” tweeted the Prime MInister’s office.This will be PM Modi’s first visit anywhere since the first lockdown to halt the spread of coronavirus was put in place on March 25.Cyclone Amphan has left 72 people dead and thousands homeless in West Bengal, battering several parts of the state and washing away bridges and swamping low-lying areas. It also wreaked havoc in Odisha damaging power and telecom infrastructure in several coastal districts.The extremely severe cyclonic storm has weakened and moved to Bangladesh, the IMD said.National Disaster Response Force chief SD Pradhan told reporters that Odisha, which had also evacuated over 1.5 lakh people, wasn’t hit as badly as Bengal and would be back to normal in another two days or so.News of PM Modi’s decision came hours after Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee pitched for central assistance and appealed to PM Modi to visit the cyclone-hit areas. Bengal, which had moved out five lakh people to shield them from the cyclone that roared into the state on Wednesday, packing winds gusting to a top speed of 185 kmph.Earlier in the day, PM Modi assured West Bengal that the country stands in solidarity with it as the state counts its losses in the wake of cyclone Amphan.“Have been seeing visuals from West Bengal on the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. In this challenging hour, the entire nation stands in solidarity with West Bengal. Praying for the well-being of the people of the state. Efforts are on to ensure normalcy, Prime Minister Modi said in a tweet.The PM would first reach West Bengal in the morning and then go to Odisha in the afternoon, reported the Press Trust of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-bengal-in-the-aftermath-of-cyclone-amphan-accepts-cm-mamata-s-request/story-p7YjD7Z704ZL7PT8NqguCM.html
