23-05-2020||India||GoAir to resume flights from June 1, online bookings to open from May 25||Low cost private carrier GoAir on Saturday announced that its final flight schedule has been approved and the airline will re-commence flying from June 1. Online bookings for one third of its pre-Covid-19 summer schedule will be open from May 25 to May 31. The airline said that it is prepared to resume safe flight operations and is awaiting clarity on the readiness of respective states and their airports with regard to acceptance of flights, or the conditions applicable to passengers entering the respective states. “Without clarity on these conditions, GoAir does not wish to inconvenience its passengers by putting on sale flights immediately post May 25, which may have conditions for arriving passengers of which they may be unaware. On receiving clarity, GoAir will open its site for bookings from May 25 up to May 31 as and when and where appropriate,” the airline spokesperson said.Assuring its passengers that the airline is fully equipped to execute Covid-19 specific safety procedures, the airline claimed to have received positive initial customer response. GoAir is the only airline to commence its flight operations from June 1 instead of May 25, after the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) announced re-opening of one third of the airline’s summer schedule this week. All airlines have commenced their bookings online and have announced that they will begin operations from May 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goair-to-resume-flights-from-june-1-online-bookings-to-open-from-may-25/story-qbrTi2W9o9lCNKg5JDtjfN.html
23-05-2020||India||Coronavirus cases in Tripura rise to 189, 16 new cases recorded||Tripura on Saturday recorded 16 new coronavirus cases, which took the state’s tally of total cases to 189.All patients who tested positive for the virus had recently returned from Maharashtra.“996 samples have been tested today in Tripura for Covid-19. Among them, 16 have tested positive for the virus,” chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb said in a tweet.Deb also requesting all travellers to follow the quarantine instructions listed and co-operate with the government.The positive cases surfaced 48 hours after two civilians tested positive. In the state, a total of 18,721 people have been tested so far and 153 positive patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-in-tripura-rise-to-189-16-new-cases-recorded/story-ufcU4RewMFOomidk5Xv93M.html
23-05-2020||India||NGT building shut after Covid-19 positive case||The National Green tribunal building complex was shut on Friday after an official posted in the court’s administrative section tested positive for Covid-19.According to a notification issued by the NGT, the official, who was posted in general administration section of the principal bench, had attended office on May 19 and was hospitalised after testing positive on Friday. This is the first Covid-19 positive case to be reported from inside the NGT complex. “All necessary protocols are being followed. Contact tracing is in progress and high risk contacts shall be asked to self quarantine for 14 days. The NGT premises shall remain under deep sanitization and with effect from May 23, no officer, staff, lawyers, litigants, and public shall be permitted to have access to NGT (principal bench) premises,” a notification released by the green court read.The notification said that a decision on the reopening of the court will be taken on May 25 after the entire premise is disinfected and contacts of the officials are traced. This will be done only as per advice of the health authorities, the green court said in the statement.The NGT had earlier issued instructions regarding its functioning stating that the chairperson, members and officers (deputy registrars rank and above) will attend office with 100% attendance.For the remaining, up to 33% of the staff will be required to physically attend office as separately notified from time to time, the NGT had said.According to the office order issued by the NGT, the section heads were ordered to prepare rosters of staff required to attend office physically by rotation and the staff members and list staff not required to be present physically at the office. It had said that only online filing (e-filing) of cases will be allowed and no physical filing is permitted for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-building-shut-after-covid-19-positive-case/story-N370Wovj8WU2h7jOIecdjO.html
23-05-2020||India||Sunderbans left unfit for farming||SUNDERBANS: A major humanitarian crisis threatens the Sunderbans region, as Cyclone Amphan has left thousands of acres of land inundated with saline water, rendering the land unfit for agriculture for several years to come, local people, public representatives and experts fear. The cyclone Aila of 2009 had left behind a similar effect. As the land turned infertile for four to five years, a section of the local farm-dependent population came to rely on forest produces, effectively increasing stress on the eco-sensitive zone of the world’s largest mangrove forest. Another section migrated in thousands to other states, especially India’s southern states, to work as labourers.“I am deeply worried about the situation and have started looking for agriculture experts who could suggest ways to reduce salinity from the farmland as early as possible. With loss of jobs and uncertainty over the economic prospect due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the loss of productivity in farmland is coming as a double whammy. A major humanitarian crisis is looming large,” said Pratima Mandal, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP from Jaynagar in South 24-Parganas.Of the 102 islands in the Sunderbans, 52 are inhabited by 4.5 million people and the rest are tiger territories. Another 2 million living around the islands have been hit by saline water coming through the rivers of Matla, Raymangal, Bidyadhari and Muri Ganga, among others.A visit to the cyclone-hit areas of the Sunderbans region in the districts of North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas revealed how area after area were inundated, with crops on the field ruined and fishes in the ponds dead. But a fear of the long-term loss due to increased salinity in farmland was greatest among the local residents. “The water logged on the fields has no way to go out. Rather, through the breached embankments, saline water will keep entering with every high tide. These lands will remain infertile for the next three-four years, we apprehend,” said Manas Mahato, pradhan of Atpukur gram panchayat in Basirhat sub-division of North 24-Parganas district.Subhas Acharya, a former joint director of Sunderbans Development Board, agreed. “Aila had crippled life in the delta. I apprehend a similar situation this time again,” he said, adding that due to the 4m high storm surge of Aila saline water roared into the villages and croplands remained inundated in saline water for nearly a month in several areas allowing the salt to settle down on the croplands.“This made the land infertile for years. The gaping holes in the rivers’ embankments created by the waves allowed the saline water to freely enter the croplands whenever there were tides. The delta it’s awaiting another humanitarian crisis,” said Acharya.Sandeshkhali MLA Sukumar Mahato and Minakhan MLA Usharani Mondal said that saline water kept hundreds of acres of land in their areas till Saturday afternoon and that they anticipate the water will remain logged for the time being.Biswarup Naskar, a resident of Kakdwip area in South 24-Parganas said that the flooding of sweet water ponds have caused a multidimensional crisis. “Apart from the economic loss for the fishes killed and swept away, there is no food or water for the cattle. The pond water was used to irrigate the crops and backyard farms. The cattle used to drink this water. Villagers have started selling off their cattle,” said Naskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sunderbans-left-unfit-for-farming/story-iFM2xEPgxsF2wGJt8p0nEK.html
23-05-2020||India||141 flights to W Asia to be part of Vande Bharat phase 2||New Delhi The Indian government on Saturday added 141 more flights to West Asian countries for the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission, its massive repatriation programme for citizens stranded overseas because of Covid-19-related travel restrictions.With these new flights, more than half of them to the United Arab Emirates, the total number of flights in the second phase of the programme has gone up to more than 400, people familiar with development said on condition of anonymity.The flights were added due to increased demand from citizens stranded in West Asian countries and the availability of adequate quarantine facilities in states for the returning Indians, the people said. As with all the flights operated so far under Vande Bharat Mission, priority will be given in the second phase to Indian nationals with compelling reasons for returning to the country, they added.The additional flights are from the UAE (81 flights), Oman and Saudi Arabia (15 flights each), Kuwait (14 flights), Qatar (11 flights) and Bahrain (five flights).A majority of the flights are bound for Kerala (84 flights), while the other destinations are Delhi (10 flights), Tamil Nadu (nine flights), Telangana (six flights) Gujarat and Jammu and Kashmir (five flights each), Bihar, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh (four flights each), Punjab (three flights), Odisha and West Bengal (two flights each), Chandigarh, Karnataka and Goa (one flight each).The other 260-odd flights being operated during the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission are from Armenia, Australia, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Canada, Egypt, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Mauritius, Myanmar, Nepal, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Oman, the Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Tajikistan, the UK, Ukraine and the US.The second phase of the repatriation programme began on May 16 and will continue till June 13, with all the flights being operated by state-run Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express. Private airlines are likely to be included in the third phase.In an order issued on Friday, the Centre relaxed travel restrictions to allow certain Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) cardholders, including children of Indian nationals living abroad, to come to the country. As of Thursday, a total of 23,475 Indians have been repatriated under Vande Bharat Mission. The second phase includes new destinations such as Istanbul, Ho Chi Minh City and Lagos, and more flights to the US and Europe.More than 259,000 Indians in 98 countries across the world have registered to return under Vande Bharat Mission. Most of them are workers (28%), students (25%), professionals (14.5%), and short-term visa holders such as tourists (7.6%). Fishermen, deportees and Indian nationals who benefited from visa amnesties have also registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/141-flights-to-w-asia-to-be-part-of-vande-bharat-phase-2/story-w6L2HMiyXeH49koGlnhAWL.html
23-05-2020||India||Judiciary failed to hold govt liable: SCBA president||New Delhi: Supreme Court Bar Association president Dushyant Dave on Saturday said the judiciary has squandered a chance of winning back the public respect by failing to hold the government accountable for its “failures” in tackling the difficulties citizens have faced due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “[The] pandemic really gave judiciary a chance to win over the hearts of the people by taking proactive steps in the time of crisis, and earn back the respect it once commanded… The judiciary intervenes through public interest litigation in all kinds of matters but when it came to the crunch, it failed,” Dave said in his speech titled ‘Role of Judiciary in Pandemic’ at a webinar organsied by the All India Lawyers Union.Dave was referring to the Supreme Court’s handling of petitions relating to difficulties migrant workers and other citizens have faced during the lockdown imposed in late March to check the pandemic’s spread.He said the courts “failed to protect the rights of citizens during the crisis and remained silent as citizens suffered”.The Supreme Court has declined to entertain pleas concerning migrant labourers left jobless because of the lockdown , nor intervene to mitigate their pain during their long walk back home. In response to a plea seeking free transportation for the workers, the court left it to the concerned states to deal with the situation. The court maintained it cannot pass orders based on media reports. “How can we stop people from walking? It is impossible for this court to monitor who is walking and who is not walking,” the court remarked on May 15.“If they are being provided meals why do they need money for meals,” chief justice of India S A Bobde said while hearing another plea for payment of minimum wages to the workers.Dave said the lockdown was announced with a four-hour notice and caused untold misery but the judiciary chose to look the other way. “Judges cannot sit in the ivory tower and be blind to the miseries of the citizens... The Constitution’s framers wanted the judiciary to supervise the executive’s actions and inactions.”He lamented some of the judges chose to remain silent when they could have taken up cases suo motu based on news reports. “What is stopping outstanding judges from taking up matters [related to Covid-19] suo motu? They should confront the chief justice’s powers as the master of roster. But they are remaining silent.”Dave said various high courts also do not pass orders because they know they will be overturned by the Supreme Court the next day at the government’s request. “We lawyers should galvanise judiciary into action. We have to stir their conscience. Criticism of the judiciary is not contempt,” Dave said, urging lawyers to speak up and remind judges of their constitutional duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judiciary-failed-to-hold-govt-liable-scba-president/story-Cf77fZV53lDBwNlPZ2aSlN.html
23-05-2020||India||‘Sensitive’ Anand Vihar off limits to buses||Anand Vihar in east Delhi, which shares its border with Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad and considered a major transport hub of the national capital given that it houses an interstate bus terminal and a railway station, has been classified as a ‘no-go zone’ for Delhi buses by the government in an effort to prevent a large-scale gathering of people as was seen in the initial days of the nationwide lockdown on March 28 and 29. Even as the rest of the city is being catered to by buses and other modes of transport since May 18, no Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus or cluster bus is being allowed to make trips to the Anand Vihar area, the Anand Vihar ISBT or the railway station, much to the distress of the residents there. Even para-transit modes such as auto-rickshaws are being permitted only after thorough police checking, senior government officials said on Saturday.“The Anand Vihar bus route is usually one the busiest in the city. We received directions from the district administration and the Delhi Police not to ply buses to Anand Vihar as the area has been categorised as “sensitive”. The bus terminal is completely shut and has been made off-limits by police barricades,” a senior government official, on condition of anonymity, said.In the absence of the Metro, residents were hoping to least take buses to work, but now that, too, is not an option. “While the rest of the city is able to avail of bus services, we are not. Auto-rickshaws are hardly seen in the area, and the few that are there charge twice or three times the metre fare. My office opened this week and I mostly take a lift from my colleague to office, or sometimes, I book a cab,” Khushbu Rai, a resident of D Block Railway Colony, Anand Vihar, said.A senior official in the district magistrate’s (Shahdara) office said the move is aimed to avoid congregations in the area. “In the last two days, there were reports of migrant workers crowding the area again, not on a large scale though. The problem is that the area also has the Kaushambi ISBT on the other side, and many migrants started coming to Anand Vihar hoping to board a bus to their towns,” the official quoted above said.Another official in the Delhi transport department said the UP government is also not running interstate buses. “If migrants simply reach Anand Vihar hoping to return home, it will be a futile effort. Only those who have applied to the administration and have been cleared for travelling can get a seat on a bus or a train. There are no interstate buses plying other than those which have been coordinated by the two states. Also, the Anand Vihar railway station is operational only for Shramik Special trains (meant to ferry migrants home),” the official said.Days after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, thousands of migrant workers had flocked to the Anand Vihar interstate bus terminal hoping to catch a ride home. At least a lakh migrant workers had gathered outside the terminal. Kejriwal had then urged migrant workers to stay back and promised them shelter and meals.The gathering of migrant workers in large numbers, which led to blatant violation of social distancing norms, led the Union ministry of home affairs to suspend two top bureaucrats of the Delhi government, while issuing show cause notices to two others for ‘dereliction of duty’. The Delhi Police had then filed cases against DTC drivers for taking their buses out on the roads and ferrying migrant workers to Anand Vihar.Officials in the DTC said they are plying over 1,000 buses for public transport across the city and around 1,600 are deployed for transportation of migrant workers and for maintaining law and order. Also, a 1,000 cluster buses are plying in the city currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sensitive-anand-vihar-off-limits-to-buses/story-bw6TMIsPG2ZHadjCMgBy3J.html
23-05-2020||India||Schools must ensure access to e-classes for the poor: Govt to Delhi HC||If Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category students in private schools are unable to access classes online during the lockdown due to lack of devices or the internet, schools must take steps to ensure they can, the state government has submitted in the Delhi high court. The submission was made by the Directorate of Education (DOE) on Friday evening in response to a plea filed by Justice For All, an NGO, which contended that several students belonging to the EWS and disadvantaged groups (DG) were unable to access classes online due to the lack of availability of these devices. The NGO contended that the decision of private, unaided schools to conduct online classes would affect over 50,000 students who cannot afford laptops, phones or high-speed internet. All private and government schools are shut due to the lockdown, put in place to curb the spread of the Covid-19 and classes are being held online.The state government’s submission came on a notice by a high court bench of justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula, to the Centre, the Delhi government, municipal corporations and a few private unaided schools on May 8 seeking a response on the matter. Earlier this month, Hindustan Times had reported that EWS students enrolled in private schools are struggling to keep up with classes online.Advocate Shikha Bagga, secretary at Justice For All, said Saturday: “The affidavit filed by the Delhi government in the high court clearly mentions that it is the duty of schools to ensure no child is deprived of education online due to lack of material required for attending online classes.”The affidavit submitted by the Delhi government mentions that as per Section 12(1)(c) of the Right of Children To Free And Compulsory Education Act, 2009, “it is the obligation of the private unaided schools to provide the aforesaid facilities to EWS/DG category students admitted in their schools.” Malkeet Singh, a contractual driver , has two children studying in top private schools in west Delhi, under the EWS category. While his younger daughter is managing her studies with the help of her teachers and friends, his 11-year-old son has been unable to attend any classes.“We do not have a laptop or a smartphone so he has not been able to attend any online classes. I got to know through other parents that his tests are slated to begin Monday. We don’t know what to do,” he said.His son’s school is among the 15 which were served notices by the education department in the past one week after it was found out that EWS/DG students in these schools were not attending online classes regularly.A senior DOE official, requesting anonymity, said, “The schools concerned were issued showcause notices as per the orders of the court.”On behalf of a few schools that received the showcause notice, advocate Kamal Gupta said, “While targeting private schools, the petition doesn’t talk about how 17 lakh government school students would access online classes in the absence of gadgets. The petition was only filed so that the government could get funds from the Centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-must-ensure-access-to-e-classes-for-the-poor-govt-to-delhi-hc/story-J9VLu3KgPQqZMdouMRQN6M.html
23-05-2020||India||Odia man travels from Mumbai to see father on deathbed, ends up in quarantine||Amit Behera travelled more than a thousand kilometres from Mumbai fervently hoping to see his cancer-stricken father on his deathbed for the last time.But his wish remained unfulfilled as his father died on Friday while he was in a quarantine centre a few km away from a hospital in Balasore district where the older man was being treated.Behara who hails from Guhalia village of Balasore district and works in Mumbai’s Tata Memorial Cancer Hospital had reached Oisha on Tuesday to see his father Damodar one last time. But he did not get to stay with his father as he was taken to the institutional quarantine centre at his village for a 21-day stay. His father passed away at the hospital on Friday afternoon and Behera could not see him.“On Thursday, I had last spoken to my father through video-call and promised him that he would meet him. But all my requests to the nodal officer of the quarantine centre to allow me to visit my father at hospital were turned down. It would always haunt me that I could not see him on his deathbed,” said the youth.After the death of his father, the sarpanch allowed Behera to perform the last rites on Friday afternoon but asked him to return to the quarantine centre by 5 pm. Behera hurried through the funeral, while breaking down several times.Behera’s father was diagnosed with cancer and in 2017 was being treated at Tata Memorial. After being treated for three years there, he had come back to his home last year. But two months ago, the 60-year-old again fell sick. As the lockdown was on, he could not be taken to Mumbai and instead admitted to the district headquarters hospital in Balasore where he died.“I will always regret that I was unable to speak to my father,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odia-man-travels-from-mumbai-to-see-father-on-deathbed-ends-up-in-quarantine/story-re9lJKZTT6ur6Mn6TN2HRI.html
23-05-2020||India||Covid Red zone districts make way for containment zones as states across India push economic activity||Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Punjab, West Bengal and Jharkhand have no Covid red districts. Chhattisgarh has just four red zone blocks and Odisha has quarantine centers in Ganjam and Balasore districts as red zones. Haryana has two red districts, Uttar Pradesh five and Madhya Pradesh four.These are just a few examples of the falling number of red category districts since May 17, when the Centre allowed the states to decide on red, orange and green zones. In fact, several states have disbanded the colour categorization and have opted for more dynamic containment zone declaration, whose number can be changed on a daily basis.The health ministry provided a formula on the basis of which an area can be declared as a red zone depending on the number of containment zones or clusters in it. Number of containment zones in an area form a cluster and several clusters constitute a red zone. Only districts with more than 200 positive cases should be declared a red district, according to the health ministry’s directive issued on May 16.In the normal course, the red zones or containment centers or clusters should have increased in the states as the Covid cases have seen the biggest spike since May 17. On Saturday, India had about 1,25,000 Covid cases as compared to about 37,200 on May 1, covering about 550 of the total 736 districts in the country. But, most states have not reported substantial increase in the number of even containment zones as they apparently want to ease restrictions and allow economic activities to return to the normal level. “We have gone by the Central government rule which allows just a locality or a block to be declared a red zone instead of a district,” explained an official of the Chhattisgarh government, which on Saturday declared only four blocks in the state as red zones. Till last week, four districts in the state were in the red zone defined by the Central government. In these 4 blocks, Chhattisgarh has 44 containment centers, same as on May 17, although the number of Covid cases has increased to 172 from 120, a week ago. “The zones are declared keeping in mind the present situation and the geographical area,” the official said.On Saturday, Jharkhand placed all 21 districts with Covid cases in orange zones with no district in red zone. The state’s three districts Khunti, Pakur and Sahebgunj, where not a single Covid-19 case has been reported so far, are in the green zone. Ranchi, Garhwa and Hazaribag, which were once red zone districts, have now been converted into orange zones. “Presently the state has no red zone district as none of the 24 districts have reported more than 200 positive cases. Therefore, all 21 affected districts are placed in orange zone and three other districts, which have not reported any positive case so far, are declared green zones,” said state health department’s principal secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni. Similarly, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have done away with the concept of red, green and orange zones, and have instead adopted the strategy of marking very active, active and dormant clusters. Before May 17, Andhra Pradesh had five red districts --- Kurnool, Krishna, Guntur, Nellore, and Chittoor. In Telangana, six districts – Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Vikarabad, Suryapet, Medchal- Malkajgiri and Warangal (Urban) were in the red zone. Now, Andhra has 341 clusters and Telangana 130. Andhra Pradesh’s nodal Covid officer, Arja Sreekanth, said clusters that report many fresh cases in the last five days are classified as very active; those which report cases in the last 6 to 14 days are notified as active and those reporting cases only in the last 15 to 28 days are classified as dormant clusters.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe two Telugu speaking states have given powers to district collectors to identify these clusters and implement strict lockdown norms there. “The number of containment clusters keep changing on a day to day basis depending on the increase or decrease in the number of Covid-19 positive cases,” S Subrahmanyam, an official in Andhra’s Covid-19 command control room said. Kerala has also discontinued the zonal classification and adopted a containment area approach and given the police powers not to allow people in these areas to move out of their houses. In the worst affected areas, triple lockdown is in force, meaning only one entry and exit point to help police to keep a tab on each person who enters or leaves. From May 19, Karnataka did away with the colour categorisation of districts and focused instead on containment zones, which are 126 in the state. At its peak, Karnataka had 273 containment zones. “The number of containment zones is a dynamic number which changes on a daily basis,” said a state health department official, who was not willing to be named.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19In Uttar Pradesh, only five districts — Agra, Meerut, Kanpur, Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghaziabad — now fall under red zones, as against 15 before May 17. However, the containment zones have increased from 450 to 708. Principal secretary health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad explained that those districts which do not report a large number of fresh coronavirus infection cases will be automatically categorised as green zones. Haryana has classified 22 districts as orange zones. Only Sonepat and Faridabad are now red districts. The six parameters on the basis of which fresh evaluation was done by the state government are total number of active cases, active cases per lakh population, doubling rate (calculated over seven days period), case fatality rate, testing ratio (number of tests per lakh population) and sample positivity rate (confirmation rate), officials said. The state has 261 containment zones. Uttarakhand has seven containment centers with no red district now and Himachal has 12 containment zones with Kangra still notified as a red district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-red-zone-districts-make-way-for-containment-zones-as-states-across-india-push-economic-activity/story-vu8J9QOQgApQmSHhYhJGrM.html
23-05-2020||India||MP struggles to halt virus as more districts affected||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Madhya Pradesh has increased by around 3000 in the past fortnight, mirroring the national trend of an acceleration in the number of cases in this period. The state now has 6100 cases, with almost 50% of these being added in the past fortnight. More worryingly, the cases have sprad to 49 of the state’s 52 districts. Till a fortnight ago, only 24 districts were showing cases. There are two things that stand out about Madhya Pradesh’s situation. One, the testing. According to the latest data available on the HT dashboard, Madhya Pradesh has tested 1828 per million of its population, lower than the national average of 2096 per million -- worrying, because the state was one of the early hotspots of the infection in India. Two, the returning migrant labourers’ contribution to Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh is just 4.86%, according to Madhya Pradesh health department, showing that the infection has predominantly spread locally. Contribution of migrant workers to total Covid-19 cases was 57% in Bihar and 62% in Odisha, according to data of health departments of both the governments. Around 500,000 migrant workers have returned to the state thus far. There are reasons for Madhya Pradesh to worry. Among the six states having highest number of Covid-positive cases, MP’s death rate at 4.40% with 272 deaths, is second only to Gujarat, which has a mortality rate of 6.04%; MP’s mortality rate is 1.5 times more than the national average death rate of 2.97%, according to data released by the union ministry for health and family on Saturday morning.The state is convinced things are improving. According to additional chief secretary, health department, Mohammed Suleman: “The R naught factor (which indicates how many people an infected person passes the infection on to) was 1.95 around April 1. This has come down to 1.27. This suggests that multiplication of the virus has reduced. The doubling rate has gone down to 17 days from 12 days. Recovery rate has gone up to about 47% . The death rate, which used to be around 6%, has come down to 4.2%. Our testing has been ramped up hugely which is about 1500 per million population now. All these are good indicators.”Independent experts are not convinced. They are concerned that the state has walked back on its earlier plan of testing widely. According to public health expert Amulya Nidhi: “The state government’s strategy was to identify, isolate, test and treat (IITT). In the last two weeks, the infection has spread to about a dozen new districts but Madhya Pradesh is lagging far behind the testing capacity. MP has just 20 testing labs, whereas other states which have a comparable population , such as Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, have increased the number of labs to 37 and 67 respectively.” A government official who didn’t want to be named said, “There were suggestions for massive survey, screening, collection of samples and testing in Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain in particular but administration struggled to get enough testing kits. The health minister requested the Centre at least twice to send more kits.” One of the early hotspots of the disease in MP, and indeed, India, was Indore, once touted as India’s cleanest city. But chief medical and health officer (CMHO) at Indore, Praveen Jadia, said the city faces significant challenges: “Ensuring compliance of lockdown restrictions and social distancing in dense and congested localities continues to remain a big challenge. The death rate has come down and recovery rate has increased significantly but until and unless social distancing is ensured in such localities it’s difficult to say how much time it will take to control the situation.”So does Bhopal, according to the city’s collector Tarun Kumar Pithode. It’s far too crowded. “Social distancing was practically not possible in such areas like Zinci, Jehangirabad, Aishbagh, Talaiya, Mangalwara etc where we find a corona cloud, a term we have given not because of any spread in atmosphere but dense population. That’s why we have started taking people out of these localities. We have taken 2000 people out of Jehangirabad alone. This strategy, coupled with strict containment zone plan and legal provisions, have helped us and the number of positive cases is decreasing significantly,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-struggles-to-halt-virus-as-more-districts-affected/story-OZ17xYuTS2IaZQ0xpzDc8K.html
23-05-2020||India||500 ODRAF men to start clearing roads in cyclone-hit Bengal from Sunday||About 500 personnel of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force and Odisha Fire Service will be deployed on Sunday for road clearing operations Bengal districts hit by cyclone Amphan that hit it on Wednesday, a top official said,Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena said the team travelled to Bengal following orders of chief minister Naveen Patnaik who had offered the State’s support to Bengal in its hour of distress.Equipped with telescopic aluminum ladders, reinforced Concrete cutters, chain saw, hydraulic combi tool, hydraulic spreader, hydraulic cutter, hydraulic Ram Jack and bullet chain saw, the ODRAF team with long experience in rescue and clearing operations would clear the roadblocks.Patnaik on Friday spoke to his Bnegal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and had assured all possible help to overcome the crisis and had enquired about the extent of the damage caused by the cyclonic storm.Cyclone Amphan, which ripped through 16 of the 23 districts of Bengal, had devastated Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas with ferocious winds and rain, killing at least 80 people. Around six crore people have been affected by the cyclone. With a large number of trees and electric poles blocking the roads in Kolkata and several other districts, power supply has not been restored to a large part of the State.On Saturday, 10 NDRF teams stationed in Odisha also left for Bengal for road clearing operations.Meanwhile, the Odisha government on Saturday submitted a preliminary report on the damages caused by the cyclone in the state as well as post-cyclone restoration works to the Centre. In its preliminary report, the state government said 44.4 lakh peole in 10 districts have been affected. Besides, 8.72 lakh livestock have also been affected.Around 34 km of 33 kilovolt lines, 453 km of 11 kilovolt lines, 680 km of low tension lines and 2,439 number of Distribution Transformers have been damaged. The government has so far restored power to 85% of the affected consumers. About one lakh hectares of standing crops have been damaged, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-odraf-men-to-start-clearing-roads-in-cyclone-hit-bengal-from-sunday/story-tZAQNWWi06tjP1nnuXoieJ.html
23-05-2020||India||Odisha to allow home delivery of liquor, will charge 50% special ‘Covid-19 fee’||Odisha will allow ‘home delivery’ of liquor by licensed outlets Sunday onwards. The state will also charge special Covid-19 fee amounting to 50% of MRP. In a notification issued by the state excise department, the government said home delivery of liquor will be allowed by existing ON & OFF shop licensees of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and beer in areas other than Covid-19 containment zones and shopping malls. A ‘special Covid fee’ amounting to 50% over the MRP will be charged to generate additional revenue for the state government, excise commissioner Anjan Kumar Manik said.The excise commissioner said home delivery of liquor can be taken up by retailers directly and through reputed food aggregators like Zomato, Swiggy, delivery service providers and standard technology platforms, etc. acting as retail aggregators. However, they need to obtain no-objection certificates (NOC) from the excise commissioner for the purpose.The outlets can levy delivery charges of Rs 100 for orders up to Rs 1,000 and thereafter Rs 25 for every additional Rs 500 order value. In no case, the delivery charge will exceed Rs 300.As per the guidelines of the excise department, the shops will have to display their phone/mobile/WhatsApp number/email id/UPI details for receiving orders and facilitating digital payments outside their shop. The Odisha State Beverages Corporation website (www.osbc.co.in) will also put out the district wise list of ON/OFF shops licensees along with their details.The product-wise latest MRP will also be put up on the website. Retailers can take orders for home delivery over the phone or through SMS, WhatsApp, email etc. Liquor can be delivered between 7am and 6pm and delivery is expected to be made within six hours of placing the order. The government has made it mandatory for delivery agents to follow necessary social distancing norms like wearing masks, maintaining six feet distance and frequently using sanitiser.Officials said the special Covid-19 cess is expected to make up for the revenue shortfall that the state is likely to face in 2020-21 due to massive economic recession triggered by the lockdown. Though Odisha has budgeted total revenue receipts of Rs 1.24 lakh crore in 2020-21, it is unlikely to achieve it as RBI has forecast negative GDP growth.In 2020-21, Odisha had set a target of Rs 5,250 crore excise revenue, 14.1% increase in its excise revenue of Rs 4600 crore in 2019-20. Excise revenue is one of the three important own-tax revenues of the state after GST and VAT/sales tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-allow-home-delivery-of-liquor-will-charge-50-special-covid-19-fee/story-e9NFVf4MK1dzclMyimzZhI.html
23-05-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee’s decision to seek army help good move: Bengal Governor||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday described chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s decision to seek the army’s deployment to restore infrastructure in Kolkata damaged by cyclone Amphan as “a good move”.“A good move @MamataOfficial to seek support and assistance of Army. These are trying time and appeal to people to keep calm. Authorities must restore connectivity, electricity and other services at the earliest,” Dhankhar tweeted.The Defence Ministry on Saturday sanctioned five columns of the army to restore infrastructure in state capital Kolkata following a request by the state government.The army was also deployed in North and South 24 Parganas districts which have been badly hit by the cyclone, a Defence official said according to PTI.The Governor, whose differences with Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress Congress government run deep, had surveyed the cyclone damage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the chief minister on Friday.The cyclone has caused widespread damage to infrastructure in Kolkata and other places. Several areas of Kolkata were rocked by protests on Saturday as residents took to the streets as many localities remained without water and power since the cyclone swept through southern Bengal on Wednesday.People armed with placards blocked roads with empty buckets and utensils.The protesters said they are under extreme hardship as there was no electricity and water for the past three days and repeated calls to power utilities CESC and WBSEDCL went unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-s-decision-to-seek-army-help-good-move-bengal-governor/story-bsSq5Ui2O76hIDeumWaEjJ.html
23-05-2020||India||Men in khaki give footwear to migrant workers walking thousands of miles to reach home||The sight of migrant labourers marching thousands of miles to reach their native places barefoot is heart-wrenching. The stories and the images on social media about the suffering and misery of these migrants will remain etched in our memory forever.The overwhelming majority of these migrants are young people, in their 20s and 30s, existing in highly precarious circumstances. Many of them are in short term employment contracts, they don’t own their own property and live in privately rented accommodation, away from their families, most of the time sharing a flat often in overcrowded circumstances, and they don’t have enough savings to last them long.Pushed by circumstances, these people were faced with two stark choices: to stay put, or to return to their homeland and their more caring family environment. Many of them decided to walk back home in the face of no transportation facilities.In a bid to help these migrants, Agra police set up stalls to provide slippers and shoes to migrant workers free of charge. Vikas Jaiswal, CO, Sadar Circle, says, “The summer months in Northern India are as it is challenging. The roads become blazing hot, especially during the daytime, and walking barefoot on them becomes extremely painful. Understanding the problem, the police department of Agra decided to offer slippers and shoes to these migrants.”Since the beginning of the lockdown, Agra Police has been helping poor people, migrants, rickshaw-dwellers and labourers with food packets and water bottles.Jaiswal adds, “These are migrants who have been walking for days together from Madhya Pradesh and Rajassthan. This is the least we can do for them. Their smiles are the biggest blessings we are getting.”Agra Police will continue to render these services in the coming days to all migrants coming back to their homes. The cops have also put up a banner, letting the migrants know about their initiative. The message on the banner reads, “Come let’s cooperate, one mission, one initiative, free shoes and slippers for migrant labourers”.Jaiswal shares, “On learning about our initiative and getting the slippers, many labourers and migrants had tears in their eyes. Such initiatives will go a long way in developing trust in the police and the state machinery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/men-in-khaki-give-footwear-to-migrant-workers-walking-thousands-of-miles-to-reach-home/story-P4lLTI5IQ0GZp2Jrs446ZL.html
23-05-2020||India||Sex on the false promise of marriage does not amount to rape, says Orissa HC||Having sexual intercourse on the false promise of marriage does not amount to rape, the Orissa High Court ruled on Saturday while setting aside the order of a lower court on the issue of arrest of a youth for allegedly raping a 19-year-old girl.Under the law, a man can be convicted of rape if it is established that he had sexual intercourse with a woman on the pretext of a false promise of marriage.“The rape laws should not be used to regulate intimate relationships, especially in cases where women have agency and are entering a relationship by choice,” said justice SK Panigrahi while granting bail to one G Achyut Kumar, who was earlier arrested on the charges of raping a 19-year-old girl in Koraput in 2019.The girl alleged that when she got pregnant twice, Kumar gave her some medicines and terminated the pregnancy. Following the girl’s complaint, police in Koraput district on November 27 arrested Kumar, who later moved his bail plea before the Sessions-cum-Special judge court of Koraput-Jeypore. It was rejected and Kumar has been in police custody since then.In its judgment, the HC said many of the complaints come from socially disadvantaged and poor segments of the society and rural areas, women from these sections are often lured into sex by men on false promises of marriage and then dumped as soon as they get pregnant.“The rape law often fails to capture their plight. The law is well settled that consent obtained on a false promise to marry is not a valid consent. Since the framers of the law have specifically provided the circumstances when ‘consent’ amounts to ‘no consent’ in terms of Section 375 of IPC, consent for the sexual act on the pretext of marriage is not one of the circumstances mentioned under Section 375 of IPC. Hence, the automatic extension of provisions of Section 90 of IPC to determine the effect of consent under Section 375 of IPC deserves a serious relook. The law holding that false promise to marriage amounts to rape appears to be erroneous,” Justice Panigrahi said.The court, however, said the factual matrix of the case is based on a prima facie view based on records, as so many aspects of the matter require a thorough trial and till that time the benefit of bail deserves to be passed on to the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sex-on-the-false-promise-of-marriage-does-not-amount-to-rape-says-orissa-hc/story-RlliQ4BpliV8VhdF3Dxu6J.html
23-05-2020||India||Judiciary failed to protect citizens’ rights amid Covid-19 pandemic: Dushyant Dave||The difficulties faced by citizens due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the failure of the government to tackle the same presented the judiciary with an opportunity to hold the government accountable and win back the respect of the public but it was squandered, senior advocate Dushyant Dave said on Saturday.The courts failed to protect the rights of citizens during the crisis and remained silent as citizens suffered, Dave who is also the President of the Supreme Court Bar Association said in his speech on the topic ‘Role of Judiciary in Pandemic’ organized by the All India Lawyers Union.“(Covid-19) pandemic really gave the judiciary a chance to win over the hearts of the people by taking proactive steps in the time of crisis and earn back the respect it once commanded….The judiciary intervenes through public interest litigation in all kinds of matters but when it came to the crunch, it failed,” Dave said with specific reference to the Supreme Court’s handling of petitions relating to difficulties faced by migrant workers and other citizens due to the lockdown announced by central government on March 24.The Supreme Court has consistently declined to entertain cases concerning migrant labourers since March when various petitions were first filed highlighting the plight of labourers.In a plea seeking free transportation for migrant workers to their native states, the top court left it to the concerned states to take action to deal with the problem maintaining that it cannot pass orders based on media reports.“How can we stop people from walking? It is impossible for this court to monitor who is walking and who is not walking,” the court had remarked.Another plea for payment of minimum wages to migrant workers during the lockdown was also disposed of by the apex court on April 21, without any concrete directions.“If they are being provided meals, why do they need money for meals,” Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde, who was hearing that case, asked.Dave said that the lockdown, which was announced with a 4-hour notice, caused untold misery to people but the judiciary chose to look the other way.“Judges cannot sit in an ivory tower and be blindfolded to the miseries of the citizens of India. The Constitution framers wanted the Judiciary to supervise the executive’s actions and inactions,” Dave said.He also lamented that some of the outstanding judges chose to remain silent when they could have taken up cases suo motu (on its own) based on news reports instead of waiting for petitions to be listed before them by the Chief Justice of India.“What is stopping outstanding judges from taking up matters (relating to Covid-19 issues) suo motu? They should confront the chief justice’s powers of master of roster. But they are remaining silent,” he said.Various high courts also do not pass orders because they know that their orders will be overturned by the Supreme Court the very next day at the request of the government, he added.“We lawyers should galvanise the judiciary into action. We have to stir up their conscience. Criticism of the judiciary is not contempt,” Dave said urging lawyers to speak up and remind judges of their constitutional duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judiciary-failed-to-protect-citizens-rights-amid-covid-19-pandemic-dushyant-dave/story-GXUEmIQQaamHZGEcLcTYgJ.html
23-05-2020||India||Rajasthan govt to distribute wheat for free to needy migrant workers amid Covid-19 crisis||The Rajasthan government will give 2 kg to 5 kg wheat free of cost to needy migrants workers, who are not in the food security beneficiaries list. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday directed officials to prepare a data base of all migrants and other needy people who are not in the list of beneficiaries so as to provide them with wheat during the next two months. He also asked the officials to remove names of ineligible people who figure in the list of beneficiaries. Gehlot said Rajasthan has emerged as a model state in distribution of ration and other items to the poor, helpless and needy during the coronavirus pandemic.In a review meeting of the food and civil supplies department, officials said 3.7 crore needy and poor people were distributed cooked food and dry ration through district administrations during the lockdown. Also, an additional amount of Rs 114 crore was borne by the state government for distribution of free wheat to the needy. Food and Civil Supply Minister Ramesh Meena, Chief Secretary D B Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary (finance) Niranjan Arya and other senior officials were present in the review meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-govt-to-distribute-wheat-for-free-to-needy-migrant-workers-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-O3Gf8vatDp6M8Y8IrLhCUJ.html
23-05-2020||India||74% of India’s Covid-19 cases reported in May||India’s Covid-19 cases rose 11 per cent over the past two days to 125,101, according to Saturday morning’s data from the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW).Between Monday morning and Saturday morning the number of cases has gone up by 30 per cent. This is also in line with the rate of growth when compared to the previous five days.By Saturday evening, Maharashtra which is the worst hit state, recorded 2,608 new Covid-19 cases to take the state’s tally to 47,190. Mumbai accounts for 28,817 of those cases. Maharasntra’s death toll now stands at 1,577.The number of Covid-19 infections and fatalities in the country has risen rapidly this month at a rate faster than inother countries that have been hit badly by the virus. Other than Maharashtra, the states of Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Assam have reported a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases this month.Although India reported its first case on January 30, around 74% of India’s total cases have been reported in May alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/74-of-india-s-covid-19-cases-reported-in-may/story-JHyRXJq3o77zwGn807dxdN.html
23-05-2020||India||Fourth Covid-19 death in Jharkhand, positive cases tally touches 350||Jharkhand on Saturday reported its fourth death due to Covid-19 pandemic after a 39-year-old migrant worker who had recently returned from Mumbai tested positive posthumously. The state also reported 27 new cases in the last 24 hours taking the total count of coronavirus positive cases to 350.The man died at Koderma Sadar hospital two days ago. His samples were taken after death and the report confirming his positive status was received on Saturday.“The patient was admitted to hospital after he complained of chest pain. At the time of admission, he had no symptoms of coronavirus infection. He died of cardiac complications. Since he was a migrant worker and returned from a Covid-19 hotspot, Mumbai, his samples were taken. On Saturday, his test report appeared positive,” said state health department’s principal secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni.He added, “Now, the case will be treated as Covid-19 death.”Besides this, Koderma district also reported 10 new Covid-19 cases, all migrant workers. The district now has 27 positive cases including one recovery and one death.Meanwhile, Simdega, East Singhbhum and Ranchi districts, too, reported four, three and two new cases respectively.On Friday late night, Gumla district detected seven migrant workers to be infected with SARS-COV-2 virus.Two women from Ranchi’s Angara and Harmu’s Ganganagar locality were also tested positive.“The 21-year-old woman from Harmu is pregnant. She went to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) a few days back for check up. She had no travel history. We are trying to find out the source of her contagion. We have initiated contact-tracing exercise to identify people who came in direct and indirect contact with her,” said Ranchi civil surgeon Dr VB Prasad.He added that the second woman was aged about 19 years and had a travel history.“She had returned from Rajasthan and was observing home quarantine,” Prasad said.In Simdega, four migrant workers including two women were tested positive for the virus.For Coronavirus Live Updates“All the four had returned early this week from Mumbai. They had been staying in quarantine centres in Jaldega, Kolebira and Qurdeg blocks,” said Simdega civil surgeon Dr PK Sinha.On Friday late night, seven new positive cases were detected in Gumla district. Five of these patients were from Sisai block and two from Basia block.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“The two from Basia block had returned from Mumbai on May 17. They worked as labourers for the Mumbai metro rail project. Of the five patients from Sisai block, three came from Mumbai and two from Pune,” said Gumla deputy commissioner Sashi Ranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-covid-19-death-in-jharkhand-positive-cases-tally-touches-350/story-LoImERIfDnGiAmU1AGtEmK.html
23-05-2020||India||Kerala will be able to survive any crisis after Covid-19: CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the state would be able to survive any other crisis after COVID-19 as it was in the forefront of developing innovative wasy to fight the pandemic. “Kerala is in the forefront of developing innovative ways to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic and will be able to overcome any crisis which might come.Most of the cases currently being reported in Kerala have come from outside the state.We must not alienate them. This land belongs to them too,” Vijayan said, speaking at the first edition of #AskTheCM organized by Twitter India.He was responding to queries on the return of Keralites from abroad, their employment issues, upcoming monsoon and climate change,chances of a natural disaster and preparedness of the state to deal with it, the agriculture sector, the prerequisites of the lockdown relaxations, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-will-be-able-to-survive-any-crisis-after-covid-19-cm-pinarayi-vijayan/story-hZJ5kkkOYxUJM8cC5Q1XAN.html
23-05-2020||India||Modi, Rajapaksa agree to speed up India-aided development projects in Sri Lanka||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Saturday agreed to accelerate Indian-assisted development projects in Sri Lanka and discussed the possibility of promoting investments by India’s private sector.The move assumes significance against the backdrop of China’s concerted push to develop infrastructure projects in Sri Lanka and other countries under its Belt and Road Initiative, which has led to criticism from the US about these countries being exposed to predatory loans.The development projects figured when Modi spoke on telephone with Rajapaksa regarding the Covid-19 pandemic and its health and economic impacts in the region. Rajapaksa briefed Modi on steps being taken by his government to restart economic activity.“In this context, both leaders agreed on the need to accelerate Indian-assisted development projects in Sri Lanka. They also discussed the possibilities of promoting investments and value-addition in Sri Lanka by the Indian private sector,” the external affairs ministry said.Modi assured Rajapaksa that India will continue to provide all possible support to Sri Lanka for mitigating the impact of the pandemic.The Indian prime minister also had a telephone conversation with his counterpart in Mauritius, Pravind Jugnauth, and discussed enhancing cooperation in several areas, including measures to support the financial sector of Mauritius.Jugnauth conveyed his condolences for losses caused by cyclone Amphan in India and thanked Modi for sending the Indian warship INS Kesari to Mauritius with a consignment of medicines and a 14-member medical team to help health authorities fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Kesari arrived in Port Louis on Saturday with a second consignment of essential medicines, which were received by health minister Kailesh Jagutpal. The shipment includes 10 tonnes of Ayurvedic medicines. The Indian medical assistance team that arrived on board Kesari includes a community medicine specialist, a pulmonologist and an anaesthesiologist. The supply of medicines and the team was arranged at the request of the government of Mauritius.The first consignment of 13 tonnes of essential medicines from India, including 500,000 hydroxychloroquine tablets, arrived on a special Air India flight on April 15.Modi conveyed his appreciation for the Covid-19 response mounted by Mauritius, which has resulted in no new cases being reported for several weeks. He said Mauritius should document its best practices, which will be helpful for other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-rajapaksa-agree-to-speed-up-india-aided-development-projects-in-sri-lanka/story-1vzz0wPDseRqOQRdiu9aNO.html
23-05-2020||India||India adds over 140 flights to West Asian nations in Phase 2 of Vande Bharat Mission||The government on Saturday added 141 more flights to West Asian countries for the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission, its massive repatriation programme for citizens stranded overseas because of Covid-19-related travel restrictions.With these new flights, more than half of them to the United Arab Emirates, the total number of flights in the second phase of the programme have gone up to more than 400, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.The flights were added due to increased demand from citizens stranded in West Asian countries and the availability of adequate quarantine facilities in states for the returning Indians, the people said. As with all the flights operated so far under Vande Bharat Mission, priority will be given in the second phase to Indian nationals with compelling reasons for returning to the country, they added.The additional flights are from the UAE (81 flights), Oman and Saudi Arabia (15 flights each), Kuwait (14 flights), Qatar (11 flights) and Bahrain (five flights).A majority of the flights are bound for Kerala (84 flights), while the other destinations are Delhi (10 flights), Tamil Nadu (nine flights), Telangana (six flights) Gujarat and Jammu and Kashmir (five flights each), Bihar, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh (four flights each), Punjab (three flights), Odisha and West Bengal (two flights each), Chandigarh, Karnataka and Goa (one flight each).The other 260-odd flights being operated during the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission are from Armenia, Australia, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Canada, Egypt, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Mauritius, Myanmar, Nepal, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Oman, the Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Tajikistan, the UK, Ukraine and the US.The second phase of the repatriation programme began on May 16 and will continue till June 13, with all the flights being operated by state-run Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express. Private airlines are likely to be included in the third phase.As of Thursday, a total of 23,475 Indians have been repatriated under Vande Bharat Mission. The second phase had included new destinations such as Istanbul, Ho Chi Minh City and Lagos, and had increased flights to the US and Europe.More than 259,000 Indians in 98 countries across the world have registered to return under Vande Bharat Mission. Most of them are workers (28%), students (25%), professionals (14.5%), and short-term visa holders such as tourists (7.6%). Fishermen, deportees and Indian nationals who benefited from visa amnesties have also registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-adds-over-140-flights-to-west-asian-nations-in-phase-2-of-vande-bharat-mission/story-4g6GvoTyqJ5JfBymiLzwcO.html
23-05-2020||India||After global press, ‘cycle girl’ from Bihar gets a school and a bicycle||Fifteen-year-old Jyoti Kumari, who earned global attention after carrying her injured father on a bicycle, peddling a distance of nearly 1,200 km from Gurugram to Darbhanga in eight days, has been granted admission into class 9.According to family sources, Jyoti, daughter of Mohan Paswan, had to drop out of school due to a financial crisis a few years ago.District programme officer Sanjay Kumar Deo Kanhaiya said on Saturday that Jyoti has been granted admission in class 9 at the government school in Singhwara block.The education department also gifted her a brand new cycle, along with school dress, shoes, text books and stationary items on Saturday.Jyoti, who has been quarantined at home upon her return, expressed happiness that she would be able to go to school again. “As of now, I will concentrate on my studies.”Asked about the tweet of appreciation for her by US president’s daughter Ivanka Trump, Jyoti said she came to know of it through a cousin.Ivanka had earlier tweeted that Jyoti’s “beautiful feat of endurance and love has captured the imagination of the Indian people and the cycling federation”.As far as an offer from the Cycling Federation of India is concerned, she said she would decide about it in the coming month.Second among her five siblings, Jyoti has been home quarantined while her father Mohan Paswan has been put up at a quarantine centre in a school.Mukesh Kumar Jha, state coordinator of Dr Prabhat Das Foundation, who was among the first to felicitate Jyoti with “Mithila Virangana Samman”, said she had shown exemplary courage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-global-press-cycle-girl-from-bihar-gets-a-school-and-a-bicycle/story-ZLELRc7tpRm5X366OVrV3I.html
23-05-2020||India||Nepal PM Oli’s new map tactic had three key objectives. China is the common factor||Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s move to release a new political map this week and escalate tensions with New Delhi was designed to consolidate his loosening grip on the party and government, people familiar with the development said on Saturday.The government’s strategic experts told Hindustan Times that PM Oli appeared to have been driven by three objectives, closely linked to each other, to put out a new political map that placed Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh in Nepal.One was to consolidate himself in the Nepal Communist Party government where he believed, two former prime ministers Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda” and Madhav Kumar Nepal had been trying to pull the rug from under him. PM Oli, according to the assessment in New Delhi, has been trying to outdo the two former PMs and it was only after the intervention of Beijing that the three power centres in Nepal’s ruling party agreed to stick together. For now.Two, the new political map puts the focus back on the differences over India’s boundary over the tri-junction point of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura in Nepal’s northwest that separates China and the Tibet Autonomous Region to the north and India’s Kumaon to the south.Also Read: Lipu Lekh: The past, present and future of the Nepal-India stand-off | AnalysisThis means China isn’t the only country with whom India has a substantive border dispute. Or conversely, China isn’t the only country that has a border dispute with its neighbours.This effort to put the spotlight also gives China a handle, particularly since it had endorsed India’s position on these territories in 1954 and 2015.“There is a strong view in the government that there had been a change in Nepal’s pitch and tenor on the boundary question,” a person familiar with the government;s assessment said. It was this view that Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane was echoing when he last week underlined that the noisy protests over the 80-km road to Lipulekh for pilgrims to Kailash Mansarovar could be at the behest of “someone else” – a veiled reference to China.Also Read: When China and Nepal became ‘strategic partners’ | AnalysisFor example, New Delhi was surprised when Nepal had protested India’s map released after splitting Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories, complaining that the map inaccurately showed parts of Nepal to be in India.“The government hadn’t made a change in the map so far as the boundary with Nepal is in question,” one official said, calling that protest a reflection of Nepal letting China dictate its relations with India.The third factor, a national security planner, said had a lot to do with China’s growing footprint in Nepal that has caused some unease in the country, and the government. Some of this discomfort often gets reflected on social media also. “But when you whip up ultra-nationalistic sentiments against India, you end up channeling the public resentment from China to target India,” he said.Also Read: China cannot dictate terms to a free media in Nepal. Can PM Oli resist?| AnalysisThere have been several instances of the standard Chinese ham handed effort to propagate its belief, culture and projects in Nepal, right from the hard push to popularise Mandarin language to the increasing presence of its enterprises in small and micro-enterprises of Nepal. Local traders in Nepal around its tourist hubs are slowly feeling the heat due to the Chinese presence, an Indian official familiar with the situation in Nepal said..Of course, the attempt by Chinese companies to palm off sub-standard kits related to the Covid-19 outbreak hasn’t helped either.The sharp public opinion over quality concerns around Covid-19 kits and protective gear did finally force the Nepal government to cancel the contract.At an administrative level, a source said, resentment was also building around the slow progress over the mega projects to be built by Chinese companies that China had pushed under its Belt and Road Initiative.Kathmandu had accepted only 9 of the 35 projects proposed by China including the Kathmandu-Kerung Railway that alone is estimated to cost at least $ 2.3 billion, about 10 percent of Nepal’s GDP. The utility of the railway line, which has been projected to end Nepal’s dependence on India for supplies, has been questioned given that the military strategic mileage would be drawn by China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-pm-oli-s-new-map-tactic-had-three-key-objectives-china-is-the-common-factor/story-iVmMXyruoYnOHAzell8wDO.html
23-05-2020||India||400 Odia migrant workers deboard from train to escape quarantine||Odisha’s headache over institutional quarantine migrants returning home continued as 400 workers from Andhra Pradesh got down from a Shramik Special train at the railway station near Chilika lake on Saturday in a bid to escape compulsory quarantine, officials said.The Shramik Special train carrying about 1,200 migrant workers from Namburu in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh was on its way to Bhadrak district this afternoon when about 400 migrant workers of Ganjam pulled chain at Chilika railway station.“They were supposed to get down in one of the two railway stations of Ganjam district. However, the train did not have any stoppage in Ganjam and was supposed to halt at Khurda road railway station from where they were supposed to travel to their respective quarantine centres in their panchayats. So when the train crossed Chilika, the migrant workers pulled the chain,” said a East Coast railway official.The Government Railway Police later detained the workers at the Chilika Railway Station and informed the officials of Ganjam district who arrived with vehicles to ferry them to the quarantine centres.Saturday’s incident has come on the back of dozens of such incidents involving migrant workers who are reluctant to stay in 21 days of institutional quarantine after long gruelling travel from their workplaces in other States. Since May 1, about 2.32 lakh migrant workers in different States have come back to Odisha and are being quarantined for 21 days in about 16,000 quarantine centres in rural areas.“For the migrant workers, the quarantine centres have become virtual jails. Most of the centres don’t have basic facilities. After losing their jobs in their workplaces, the quarantine centres are adding to their stress,” said Pradip Pradhan, social activist.With 90 per cent of the total 1,269 Covid cases being reported from those in quarantine centres, the government acknowledges the importance of the centres in containing the spread of pandemic, Yet in several quarantine centres, the migrant workers say the arrangements leave much to be desired. Early this month, over 150 migrant workers fled the quarantine centre protesting lack of drinking water while in another such centre, they alleged that the food was inedible. On Saturday, 54 inmates of K Ramchandrapur quarantine centre of Ganjam district had blocked the Aska-Sorada road alleging lack of electricity and drinking water supply at the centre. A couple of days ago, the video of inmates of a quarantine centre of Bolangir district boycotting the food had gone viral.With few clean and adequate number of toilets in several quarantine centres, there have been reports of many inmates defecating in the open. “The government through advertisements in social media had said the migrant workers would have a comfortable stay of 21 days in the quarantine centres. But on ground that is not happening,” said Sarbeswar Behuria of Jajpur district, a local panchayat leader.In the quarantine centre of Dhunkapada grampanchayat in Ganjam’s Polasara block, the inmates alleged of dirty toilets and lack of hand sanitisers. The rising positive cases among those quarantined has led to fear and apprehension among villagers towards migrant workers.On Friday, hundreds of people in Bajipur village of Balasore district, a Covid hotspot staged a road blockade demanding that six migrants who had returned from Maharashtra be put in quarantine. “We have asked sarpanch, police and local tehsildar to keep the migrant workers in quarantine. However, no one seems to pay any heed,” the locals alleged.Epidemiologist Binod Patra of AIIMS Bhubaneswar, said unless the government successfully manages the quarantine centre, the risk of community transmission may not be ruled out. “At least 3-4 lakh migrant workers are expected to arrive in the coming days. If the government fails to keep them at the quarantine centres for 21 days, the cases may just gallop in monsoon months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/400-odia-migrant-workers-deboard-from-train-to-escape-quarantine/story-f8nBDLDBoHPuIZqxyfWW1K.html
23-05-2020||India||Covid-19: This Eid, no ‘gale milana’, no prayer gatherings, no handshakes||Under the shadow of the coronavirus, the states across the country are taking special precautions to mark Eid al-Fitr, the celebration that breaks the month long fast for Ramadan. This Eid there will be no shaking of hands or no warm embracing for Muslims because of the stringent social distancing.Depending on the sighting of the moon, Eid celebrations will begin either on Sunday or Monday. But prayer gatherings, outdoor festivals, and other public events have been curtailed or cancelled to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.The Kerala government has allowed shops and markets to open till 9 pm on Saturday and on Eid certain relaxations have been announced. Usually, full lockdown is in force on all Sundays but it has been eased a bit this time. Short movements are admissible but crowding will not be allowed. Many clerics have asked believers not to crowd mosques and follow directives of the administration.“True, mass prayers are integral to Eid. For believers, it is painful to miss them. But the situation warrants so,” said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan while greeting Muslim brethren on the eve of the festival.In Karnataka, there is a dichotomy with coastal areas of the state bordering Kerala observing Eid-al-Fitr and Khutub- E- Ramzan on Sunday and rest of the state observing it on Monday. There is a statewide curfew which has been imposed on Sunday and the Hilal committee as well as the Waqf board has appealed to people not to gather for ‘Salat Al Eid.’ The Rakat prayers will also be held indoors and there will be no congregation, said a Hilal committee release.Government officials say that shopping is allowed till Saturday 7 pm as mandated in the SOP, no assembly will be permitted on Sunday.In Chhattisgarh, prayers will be offered in the mosques, but no more than five people will be allowed. “No congregation is allowed during Eid and we have appealed that celebrations should be done inside the house. We have also appealed not to spend money on shopping and purchasing. Instead, the money should be distributed among the poor and sufferers in this crisis,” said Shehar Qazi of Raipur, Mohammad Ali Farooqi, adding that appeal to follow social distancing has been made in the festival.The Superintendent of Police, Raipur, Arif Sheikh, said no congregation is allowed in the city.The historic Gandhi Maidan in Bihar, after more than 90 years, will not host any Eid prayers in view of the pandemic and the need to maintain social distancing.Gandhi Maidan Eid Namaaz committee chairman Mahmood Alam and secretary Maulana Misbahuddin said that since 1925, this will be the first time in 2020 that the Gandhi Maidan will not have Eid prayer.He said the tradition of Eid prayer at the Gandhi Maidan had been started by one Salim Rine after getting the order from Patna’s Collector. Gandhi Maidan has so far witnessed over 40,000 prayer meetings, while chief minister Nitish Kumar has also been part of quite a few.There will be no shaking of hands or no warm embracing this year, because of the stringent physical distancing norms imposed by the government.“You won’t notice the typical “gale milana” (wishing each other with warm embracing) this year. The festive atmosphere would be missing this Eid. Fighting the dreaded virus and saving humanity is more important than celebrating Eid,” said Mufti Anwar Ahmed, a religious preacher from Jamia Nizamia, Hyderabad, said.He said Muslims have to perform Salat-al-Duha or Namaz-e-Shukrana (Islamic prayers) within their homes and greet each other. “There shall be no public gatherings to greet one another as has been the practice in the past because of the lockdown restrictions,” the Mufti said.On the call given by Ulemas and Muftis from all schools of Islamic thought, the Muslims in Hyderabad have been offering Taraweeh prayers at their homes during Ramzan month.In Uttar Pradesh too this Eid will be like never before with lockdown in place and appeals from both Shia and Sunni clerics to keep it a low key affair and instructions to offer Eid namaaz indoors.Maulana Khalid Rasheed Firangi Mahali, chairman of Islamic Centre of India and imam of Aishbagh Eidgah, has appealed to Muslims to avoid the crowd and celebrate the upcoming Eid festival at their homes while following social distancing norms issued by the Centre in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.“I had also requested the community to avoid ‘Alvida namaz’ (prayer offered on last Friday of Ramzan) at mosques in view of the pandemic and I am happy that they followed also,” said Maulana Khalid Rasheed Firangi Mahali.The usual celebrations were missing in Kashmir too as very few people could be seen in the markets. Sheikh Ashiq, president of Kashmir Chamber of Commerce Federation and Industries, said that Eid used to be a big business activity. “Ahead of Eid businessmen used to get different items in bulk and sales for the Eid used to cross between Rs 300 to 500 crore.’’ He said that for the businessmen it used to be a big stimulus. “Our losses are vast if we compare from lockdown to lockdown.’’Nawab Malik , Maharashtra Minority Affairs Minister, too on Saturday urged people not to gather in basements, parking areas, or any other place to offer prayers during Ramzan, saying social distancing is the need of the hour.“Our religious leaders already urged people not to violate lockdown rules and to contribute in the best possible way to fight this challenge. Muslim community will not demanding any exemption and ready to celebrate Eid without any gatherings,” said Malik.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-this-eid-no-gale-milana-no-prayer-gatherings-no-handshakes/story-7aVKsWzipwE1Vnv94HK6XN.html
23-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: BJP, Congress youth wings go all-out to outdo other in Covid-19 relief and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP, Congress youth wings go all-out to outdo other in Covid-19 reliefThe frontal organisations of both the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition Congress are trying to outdo each other in relief distribution and quick response to distress calls during the coronavirus-induced lockdown across the country. Read moreBengaluru weekly curfew: What’s allowed, what’s notThe ‘weekly curfew’ as part of the phase four of lockdown began in Bengaluru Saturday evening in line with the Karnataka government’s decision to shut down the state completely every Sunday until May 31. Read moreShardul Thakur hits nets after long break due to Covid-19 lockdownThe first practice session for two months, in the non-red zone of Maharashtra’s Palghar district, was a different experience for India pacer Shardul Thakur on Saturday. Read moreEid Mubarak 2020: How to celebrate Eid amid lockdown 4.0The holy month of fasting for Muslims around the globe, Ramadan, is coming to a close. After around 29-30 days of fasting, the culmination of Ramadan comes in the form of a grand feast and celebration, better known as Eid ul-Fitr. Read moreStep aside butterflies, there is a new gorgeous flying insect in town. It’s a rosy maple mothThe animal kingdom is full of beautiful creatures and one such amazing insect paid a visit to Rebecca Lavoie. A Twitter user, Lavoie, shared an image of a gorgeous rosy maple moth and now it has mesmerised people. Read moreBihar girl who carried father on cycle for 1200 km, gets a call for trialsThe girl from Bihar who carried her father on a bicycle to native place, got a call from Cycle Federation for trials. The 15-year-old Jyoti Kumari had carried her ailing father on a cycle to Bihar during lockdown. The girl covered a distance of almost 1200 km on the cycle. Jyoti said she is happy to have gotten a call for trials and will be going to Delhi in the next month. Watch moreApple Glasses ‘Steve Jobs Heritage Edition’ in the worksApple Glasses have been rumoured for months now and the product is expected to launch between 2021 and 2022. A new leak now suggests that there will be a “Steve Jobs Heritage Edition” of the Apple Glasses. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-bjp-congress-youth-wings-go-all-out-to-outdo-other-in-covid-19-relief-and-all-the-latest-news/story-fUxkxTi5Ess1tv7E5JEvkJ.html
23-05-2020||India||No red zone in Jharkhand, 21 districts in orange and 3 in green zones||Following the centre’s new guidelines allowing states to categorise areas in their territory into different zones, Jharkhand decided not to place any of its districts in the red zone and instead categorised all 21 affected districts as orange zones.The state’s three Covid unaffected districts-- Khunti, Pakur and Sahebgunj—were put in the green zone.Ranchi, Garhwa and Hazaribag, classified as red zone districts during the third phase of lockdown, have now been converted into orange zones.“Presently the state has no red zone district as none of the 24 districts have reported more than 200 positive cases. Therefore, all 21 affected districts are placed in the orange zone and three other districts, which have not reported any positive case so far, are declared green zones,” said state health department’s principal secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni.He added, “The state currently has 106 containment zones in which 1.09 lakh people reside. A total of 19,200 samples have been tested which shows that as many as 198 people from these containment zones were infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus.”For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAs per the guidelines of ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), the green zones will be districts with either zero confirmed cases till date; or with no confirmed case in the last 21 days. Whereas, districts will be marked as red zones or hotspots on the basis of six different parameters including more than 200 active cases, high doubling rate and sample positivity rate greater than 6%.Feedback from the district officials will also be taken into consideration. Those districts, which are neither red nor green, are categorised as orange zones.Jharkhand has so far reported 330 positive cases including 191 active ones, 136 cases have recovered and three people have died. The state has been witnessing a steep surge in Covid-19 cases after May 1 when stranded migrant workers started returning to the state.According to the state disaster management department, about 1.38 lakh migrant workers have arrived so far with more to come. About 3 lakh workers have expressed interest in returning to Jharkhand from different states.“As many as 19,686 migrant workers have so far been tested for Covid-19 and 147 of them were found infected with SARS-COV-2 virus. About 8% of these patients have returned from Mumbai, a Covid-19 hotspot,” health secretary Kulkarni said.He added that the state government was putting all migrant workers in quarantine centres and tests are being conducted on those found symptomatic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-red-zone-in-jharkhand-21-districts-in-orange-and-3-in-green-zones/story-z8MyhzB8vKwKeqWmaMGJFK.html
23-05-2020||India||In Kashmir, an Eid without fervour under the shadow of Covid-19||As in all other places, it will be an Eid like no other in living memory in Kashmir also.The lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19 has meant that there are few shoppers and with the economy heading south, not many are willing to spend either.Unlike the usual buzz around Eid in Kashmir, when markets used to hum with thousands of shoppers, there is just quietness around this time. With the fervor missing, Eid is set to be a sombre festival, though many people could be seen thronging around the designated bakeries and confectionery shops. But in many places, officials swung into action and sealed many shops for violations of social distancing..Kashmir Chamber of Commerce Federation and Industries president Sheikh Ashiq said that Eid used to be a big business activity in Kashmir. “Ahead of Eid, businessmen used to get different items in bulk and sales used to be between Rs 300 to 500 crores which was a big stimulus for businessmen. But now our losses are vast if we compare from lockdown to lockdown.’’Prior to Eid, business worth hundreds of crores of rupees used to be conducted across the valley as every household used to make purchases. “This time only people were buying essentials items and many shopkeepers had not even made the Eid delicacies including bakery products due to Covid-19,’’ said Wajhat Ahmad, a hotelier.Compared to previous days, a surge in the traffic movement was visible on Saturday. However, most shops were closed and only a few shops selling groceries and confectioneries were open especially those which had official permission.“This is the first time when I feel the hustle and bustle of Eid is missing. Only 10 percent of people are shopping in the markets. With closure of shops, the people prefer limited shopping in their places,’’ said Abdul Gaffar, who owns a confectionery shop in the iconic Lal Chowk area. Even many prominent bakeries remained shut. “Our staff had gone home and there was no demand for bakery products so we didn’t prepare any items,’’ said manager of a prominent bakery on the Residency Road.Meanwhile, Srinagar district administration took action against over 50 stores and 80 vehicle owners for violation of restrictions. The action was taken during an inspection that the District Magistrate Dr Shahid Iqbal Choudhary conducted.The DM inspected markets at several places including Sanantnagar, Hyderpora, Chhanpora, Bagh-e-Mehtab, Jawahar Nagar, south city and Batmalloo. “During the inspection it was found that a large number of non-essential and non-permitted shops including readymade garments, furniture, hardware, and others were illegally operating. Violations of social distancing norms and hygiene were also seen at many department stores and bakeries,’’ a senior officer of Srinagar district administration said.Even at many places there was a shortage of essentials and especially chicken and meat. “It’s unfortunate that chicken which used to sell Rs 130 rupees a kilogram was sold at Rs 180 and meat was not also available as many butchers hadn’t opened their shops. It doesn’t look like Eid is tomorrow,’’ said Nisar Ahmad, a businessman. “This is the second time in an year when we will be celebrating Eid like this, the last Eid we couldn’t celebrate due to curfew was imposed after the Article 370 was abrogated and this time Eid us under lockdown of Covid-19.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kashmir-an-eid-without-fervour-under-the-shadow-of-covid-19/story-9z1YQbCzQKqmJuslSlKYtI.html
23-05-2020||India||Covid 19 update: Karnataka imposes 14-day quarantine,tougher restrictions for arrivals from 6 worst-hit states||The Karnataka government has made 14-day home quarantine mandatory for all passengers coming into the state except for those arriving from high virus prevalence states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, who will have to undergo seven days of institutional quarantine and seven days of home quarantine.Those coming from the six states that are worst hit by coronavirus will be allowed to complete the second week of quarantine at home if their Covid test comes out to be negative when tested 5-7 days after their arrival. However, pregnant women, children under 10 years of age, senior citizens over 80 years of age and terminally ill patients will be allowed to be in home quarantine but only if they are found not infected with coronavirus when tested immediately after their arrival in the state.Businessmen coming to state for urgent work will also be exempted from institutional quarantine as long as they furnish a test report confirming their negative status. The test report, however, cannot be more than two days old from the date of travel and must be issued by an ICMR approved laboratory.The strict measures were announced on a day when the state recorded its single biggest day rise with 216 new Covid-19 positive cases. Almost all of them are returnees from Maharashtra, except for 12 people. More than half of the 1,307 active Covid-19 cases in the state have been recorded in the last one week after the return of a large number of migrants from the neighbouring states.The state till date has registered 1,959 patients of coronavirus including 42, who died and 608, who were discharged.An official of the state health department said 442 passengers who arrived by air on Saturday from Doha, Jakarta, Male and Kula Lumpur had been quarantined.Meanwhile, there was some chaos and confusion near palace grounds located in the heart of Bangalore as thousands of people mainly from Odisha and the northeastern states thronged it in the hope of catching a Shramik train back to their native places. A state health department official, who did not want to be identified, said the confusion was the result of a “miscommunication”.The official said that about 1,500 people, registered on the Seva Sindhu app for migrants looking to return, had been sent SMS asking to assemble near palace grounds for a medical check-up and onward bus journey to the train station for catching their respective Shramik trains.For Coronavirus Live Updates“However, they forwarded the messages to their friends whose turn had not yet come. This resulted in a huge number of people assembling near the grounds,” he said.When HT spoke to several of the migrants on Saturday afternoon, they said, they had been waiting since 6 am in the morning with no food or water or any toilet facilities but only with their luggage, in the hope that they could board a train and head back to their native states.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Karnataka’s medical education minister K Sudhakar, who landed at the spot, tried pacifying the migrants. KPCC President D K Shivakumar, who also visited the spot, reiterated the party’s offer to foot the travel bill and castigated the government for “not making proper arrangements and making them wait under the hot sun without food and water”.On Friday the Karnataka government headed by BS Yediyurappa had announced that it would bear the cost of travel for all migrants looking to return to their native states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-karnataka-imposes-14-day-quarantine-tougher-restrictions-for-arrivals-from-6-worst-hit-states/story-bW59YpAf73PNWQrL7xeQeI.html
23-05-2020||India||BJP, Congress youth wings go all-out to outdo other in Covid-19 relief||The frontal organisations of both the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition Congress are trying to outdo each other in relief distribution and quick response to distress calls during the coronavirus-induced lockdown across the country.The Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) and the Youth Congress have been flooding the social media platforms with posts regarding their relief activities during the pandemic.Medicines for a cancer patient in Bihar’s Rajendra Nagar and for another with a neurological ailment in Mumbai’s Goregaon; money and food for a group of 18 people, including children from Uri in Jammu and Kashmir, and for nine others, including a pregnant woman from Nagaland who ran out of essentials during the lockdown are on top of the BJYM’s list of quick responses.Taking a cue from its parent political outfit, the BJYM has set up helplines to offer aid to those in need. A toll-free helpline that works 24x7 was set up and social media platforms were used to disseminate information about the ‘BJYMCares’ initiative launched on April 1.“We realised that the pandemic is a great equaliser; and we could use this as an opportunity to use our ideological training in seva (voluntary work). So we set up a system where our members could reach help down to the mandal level,” said BJYM president Poonam Mahajan, who is also a Lok Sabha MP from Mumbai North Central.On the other hand, the Youth Congress since the beginning of the nationwide lockdown on March 25 too has supported the needy, distributing food, groceries, water and medical facilities to stranded migrants and the poor, including the Hindu refugees from Pakistan living in the national capital.The Youth Congress turned its Delhi headquarters into a 24x7 food bank, installed a roti (bread) making machine to ensure that a large number of people are served food.“On the instructions of our leadership, we will continue to provide help to the migrants and the poor and try to minimise the far-reaching consequences of this draconian lockdown imposed upon the people and do so till the nation wins this fight against deadly coronavirus,” said Youth Congress president Srinivas BV.The BJYM has also formed a national coordination team with states being clubbed into six zones. A team of 100 people monitor online requests in different shifts, BJYM functionaries said, adding requests are routed to the teams on the ground and a report sent to the national team. The turnaround time is short with medicines, packed food and ration being provided in most cases within 30 minutes to an hour.Over the last few weeks, the BJYM, which claims to have over 10 crore members, has focused on distributing homemade masks, distributing personal protection equipment apart from helping migrants sort out train registrations. “No call for help goes unheard or unassisted,” said Mahajan.For its part, the Youth Congress has also started campaigns such as ‘Meri Zimmedari’, ‘Hume Garv Hai’ and 1 crore mask distribution. Under the ‘Meri Zimmedari’ campaign, the Youth Congress instructed its volunteers to provide relief in any form possible to the needy, through ‘Hume Garv Hai’ it felicitated Corona warriors and sanitation workers.The Youth Congress has so far distributed once crore masks to the people, Srinivas said, adding these masks were produced at its Delhi headquarters and offices across the country by those who lost jobs due to the lockdown.The BJYM has also collected more than 58,000 blood units donated by its workers and volunteers and a list of more than 1.5 lakh donors are on standby to meet exigency.Like the BJYM, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad or ABVP, the students’ wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), too organised blood camps.An ABVP functionary said volunteers have been distributing masks, sanitisers, ration and cooked food in collaboration with local administration. “We also reached out to landlords who have provided accommodation to students and appealed to them to forego their rents. We have also been receiving calls for help from students from the Northeast,” said ABVP general secretary Nidhi Tripathi.The medical divisions of ABVP, Medivison and Jigyasa, in collaboration with local administration in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur and Bikaner, Bengaluru, Kerala, Gujarat and Haryana, offer free aid; while in Pune, volunteers are involved in door-to-door scanning,The ABVP, which claims to have over three million members, is also organising remedial classes and online guest lectures.The Youth Congress too organised blood donation camps and facilitated travel of migrant workers. Similarly, medical supplies and food is also being provided for those returning to their homes through trains at different railways stations and bus terminals.“The entire Youth Congress family, right from the block level to the national level, is working with great enthusiasm and determination. We are determined to continue this fight against corona, its effects and the government apathy and relief is being given to all without any discrimination,” Youth Congress national media in-charge Amrish Ranjan Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-congress-youth-wings-go-all-out-to-outdo-other-in-covid-19-relief/story-wiZI1ESpoAZbX4IF0sY15H.html
23-05-2020||India||Kerala sees highest single-day spike with 62 new coronavirus cases||Kerala recorded 62 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Saturday, the highest single-day spike since the viral outbreak was first reported in the state in end-January, raising concern for the state government to call an all-party meeting on Wednesday to discuss strategies to fight the pandemic.The state has reported 794 Covid-19 positive cases, of which 275 are still active, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday. Among the 62 new cases, 18 people have returned from abroad, 31 came back from other states, while 13 contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, in Kerala, the CM said.The state government is also worried that seven healthcare workers have tested Covid-19 positive among the 62 new cases. The authorities have declared nine more places in the state as hotspots, where strict containment measures have been enforced.Palakkad district has reported the maximum number of new Covid-19 positive cases at 19, followed by Kannur in north Kerala (16).“A spike in Covid-19 positive cases was expected, as people have started returning to their native places from abroad and other states amid the easing of lockdown restrictions. We’ve to strengthen our containment measures. People and society need to play a bigger role. If we enforce quarantine norms strictly, we can win this war,” the CM said while announcing that an all-party meeting has been called on Wednesday to tackle the pandemic.Earlier, the Congress had criticised the CM for “taking all decisions unilaterally” and the opposition was never consulted.Kerala is likely to report more Covid-19 positive cases in the coming days, as domestic flight service operations, which were suspended since the lockdown restrictions were imposed on March 25, will resume from Monday.However, the state government has made it clear that it would insist upon entry passes and compulsory home quarantine facility for all domestic air passengers. Those who fail to obtain passes would have to undergo institutional quarantine for two weeks.The state government’s proposed move is at odds with Union Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri, who has said that domestic air travellers need not be quarantined, as they would travel by short-haul flights.The state government has tightened its surveillance norms and taking strict action against those who flout quarantine norms. Over 200 people have been booked in the last two days for violating home quarantine norms. The state government recently launched a motorbike squad to monitor people, who are under quarantine at home.Besides, the authorities are strict about letting people travel from the worst Covid-19-hit states in the country such as Gujarat, as a Shramik Special train was twice rescheduled and cancelled last week. Though the Gujarat government had said the trains were cancelled at Kerala’s behest, CM Vijayan skirted the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-sees-highest-single-day-spike-with-62-new-coronavirus-cases/story-Puc1zTMdQfRVKh1Mpmle0L.html
23-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally goes up by 30,000 this week||Between Monday and Saturday India’s Covid-19 tally went up from 95,000 to 1,25,000 while the global count reached 5 million.A total of 3,720 people have died so far in the pandemic while 51,784 have recovered.Maharashtra continues to be the worst hit state in India, accounting for 44,582 cases of out of the 1.25 lakh cases. The only silver lining that the state has is that the Covid-19 mortality rate has fallen from 4.76% to 3.49%, in the past one month, according to the data from the Maharashtra Health Department.But during the same period, the number of deaths went up drastically to 1,454 on Thursday, from 269 deaths on April 22. On Saturday, Maharashtra’s death toll was 1,517.Tamil Nadu with almost 15,000 cases, Gujarat with over 13,000 and Delhi with almost 13,000 cases are three other states with high numbers of Covid-19 cases.During the week, the Covid-19 tally in Odisha crossed the 1,000 mark and Goa saw the return of the disease after the first seven patients were cured last month. Goa’s tally now stands at 54.Kerala, which continues to have the highest recovery and lowest mortality rates, is also battling to contain rising after a large number of Malayalees returned from overseas and other states. Kerala’s tally has reached 732 with 220 active cases.Assam also has seen sharp rise this week with the total now at 259. At one point the tally had doubled to 204 in four days prompting the government to improvise its quarantine programme.In Kashmir, five doctors tested positive for Covid-19, sparking fear among the population. Four of the doctors had treated a patient who died of Covid-19.Meanwhile as the race continues to find a vaccine for Covid-19, researchers say that a vaccine developed in China, that has reached phase one clinical trial appears to be safe and may protect people from the coronavirus, the New York Times reported.The report, based on a Lancet study, cited an early-stage trial conducted by researchers at several laboratories involving 108 participants aged between 18 and 60. In the trial, those who received a single dose of the vaccine produced certain immune cells, called T cells, within two weeks while the antibodies needed for immunity peaked at 28 days after the inoculation.Also on Saturday, China reported zero new coronavirus infections for the first time since it started reporting data in January.Covid-19 cases in China have dwindled dramatically from the peak in mid-February as the country appears to have brought the virus largely under control.In the United States, New York’s Governor Andrew Cuomo dropped the state’s absolute ban on gatherings of any size on Friday.Under a new order, up to 10 people are now allowed to be together as long as they abide by other social distancing guidelines adopted during the coronavirus pandemic. New York has been one of the worst hit cities in the US.The order represents one of the biggest steps yet the state has taken to loosen rules adopted in March that have barred anyone but essential workers from getting together unless they live in the same household.On Friday, Brazil’s health ministry said there were 3,30,890 confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country. That figure took it past Russia, which had the second-highest number of cases in the world on the Johns Hopkins University tally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-goes-up-by-30-000-this-week/story-KPpgtoNakGiKVrZQ1E4aSP.html
23-05-2020||India||Bihar bound Shramik special trains run late, passengers violently protest scarcity of food, water||Passengers travelling in Shramik Special train from Bengaluru to Darbhanga, Bihar resorted to violence and damaged railway property at three places in Unnao on Saturday, while protesting scarcity of food and water during their travel, said Ravindra Kumar, district magistrate Unnao.The migrants complained that the train was running much behind the schedule and alleged that even the toilets had no water. The migrants along with their families are travelling on the train for the last four days in dire situations, he said.The passengers targeted Unnao railway station where they pelted stones damaging the room of the station master and some furniture in the station. The train had been stopped at the Unnao outer for more than an hour and when it reached Unnao railway station, the passengers went on a rampage, railway officials said.The railway protection force (RPF) and government railway police (GRP) personnel pacified the passengers and the train started its onward journey.Similarly, incidents of violence were also witnessed at Ajgain and Sonik railway stations. They passengers destroyed the cement benches and pelted stones on the railway property, officials said.The railway officials have been directed to make all necessary arrangements, including potable water at the platforms as per norms, said DM. The workers were pacified after the officials assured them of all possible help.Later, the DM and SP also visited the roadways bus stop and directed the concerned officials to make arrangements for drinking water.In Auraiya, nearly 1000 workers entered a residential area to get drinking water. The locals ran away from their houses as they saw the approaching workers, who had arrived by the special train heading to Chapra from Dadri.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesStationmaster of Kanchausi railway station, Vishambhar Dayal Pandey said the train was stopped for two hours to let the superfast trains pass first. The local police had a tough time in getting the workers out of the residential pocket.These incidents have been reported on a day when the railways ministry held a press conference in Delhi to claim it had providing millions of free food packets to passengers and transported close to 45 lakh migrants on inter and intrstate Shramik specials so far. It acknowledged delays experienced by trains heading to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and said alternative routes had been operationalised to deal with the issue.Also Read: Railways diverts UP-bound Shramik train via Odisha due to heavy traffic congestion||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-bound-shramik-special-trains-run-late-passengers-violently-protest-scarcity-of-food-water/story-TQeM2REcqqJ32MOXPKFLjN.html
23-05-2020||India||Gurdaspur district: 38-year-old man tests positive for Covid-19||A 38-year-old man, a resident of Jagowal Bangar village in Kahnuwan bock of Gurdaspur district, tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Saturday.Dr. Kishan Chand, civil surgeon, Gurdaspur, said the patient works at an oil refinery in Mumbai and had come home in a private car to his native village four days ago. The district health department employees would start collecting swab samples of all those who came in contact with the Covid-19 positive patient, he added.The district administration is preparing to seal Jagowal Bangar village, as a precautionary measure. The Dhariwal-based community health centre has been converted into a makeshift Covid-19 healthcare facility, where three patients are undergoing treatment, Dr. Chand said.Gurdaspur district has reported eight Covid-19 positive cases, of which five patients have been admitted to Civil Hospital in Batala. The district has recorded three Covid-19 related deaths to date, Dr. Chand added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurdaspur-district-38-year-old-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-tbvtMskOLD1yYIXWuQvihO.html
23-05-2020||India||4 crore migrant workers in India; 75 lakh return home so far: Home ministry||The Centre on Saturday said around four crore migrant labourers are engaged in various works in different parts of the country and so far 75 lakh of them have returned home in trains and buses since the nationwide lockdown was imposed. Joint Secretary in the Union Home Ministry, Punya Salila Srivastava, said the railways have engaged over 2,600 ‘Shramik’ special trains since May 1 for transportation of the migrant workers from different parts of the country to their destinations.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage “According to the last census report, there are four crore migrant workers in the country,” she said at a press conference here. Elaborating on the steps taken by the central government for the convenience of migrant workers since March 25, when the nationwide lockdown began, Srivastava said 35 lakh migrant workers have reached their destinations using ‘Shramik’ special trains, while 40 lakh have travelled in buses to reach their destinations. The joint secretary said that on March 27, the Home Ministry had sent an advisory to all states and Union Territories (UTs)  that the issue of migrant workers should be handled with sensitivity and ensure that they don’t move during the lockdown. The states and UTs were also told to provide them food and shelter, she said. On March 28, the Home Ministry issued an order empowering the states and UTs to use funds under the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) for providing food and shelter to the migrant workers. By April 3, a total of Rs 11,092 crore have been released by the central government to the states and UTs under the NDRF, Srivastava said. She said the Home Ministry has also set up a 24x7 control room to monitor migrant workers’ issues across the country under the supervision of the joint secretary level officers.States and UTs were also told to set up similar control room, she said. The joint secretary said the Home Ministry again sent an advisory on March 29 asking the states to provide food and shelter to the migrant workers. The states were also told to make wide publicity so that the migrant workers know the facilities available for them. Subsequently, another advisory was sent banning transportation of migrant workers by trucks and made the SPs responsible for any violation. Srivastava said the Home Ministry on April 19 allowed movement of workers within a state and on May 1, inter-state movement through trains.  A nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to combat the coronavirus pandemic. It was first extended till May 3 and again till May 17. The lockdown has now been extended till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-crore-migrant-workers-in-india-75-lakh-return-home-so-far-home-ministry/story-O70DBsXCfwFvhSxQX99s9I.html
23-05-2020||India||From quarantine to picking up alphabets, migrants in Bihar take 1 step at a time||A quarantine centre at HSDAV School in Bihar’s Narkatiaganj has started a learning programme to impart education to a motley group of 40 migrant workers, owing to the effort put in by a group of government officials.“The whole concept behind this programme is to convert a disaster into an asset. The programme was started from May 15,” Raghvendra Tripathi, block development officer (BDO), of Narkatiaganj said.A few of the migrant workers have even learnt how to scribble their signatures, a few days into the programme.According to Brajnath Sahani (36), “Owing to poor financial status, none of my siblings had the luxury to study. We had to take care of the expenses of the house. But while growing up, it always felt bad to give thumb impressions on documents.” Sahani is now in his seventh day of stay in the quarantine centre and has recently learnt to scribble his signature.ALSO READ | Bihar says migrant workers arriving from 7 states to be kept in quarantine camps“I will continue to learn further with the help of my son,” said Sahani, a resident of Katgharwa village in Narkatiaganj block, who arrived at the quarantine centre on May 15 after his return from Chennai, where he was engaged as a daily wage earner in a construction company.Deprived of education in his childhood, Sanjay Paswan, a resident of Bhaswari village in Narkatiaganj block said, “To be honest, I did not realise the value of education earlier but better late than never.” Paswan worked as daily wage earner in Haridwar.The district administration has offered booklets, note books and pens among other necessary items to the migrant workers, who are keen to continue with their learning.“I had a notion that learning at an advanced stage will be a difficult task. But, it is just the opposite. The workers have good grasping power and want to learn more and are very eager,” Babu Ram Prasad Yadav, a caretaker at the quarantine centre, who helps in teaching said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-quarantine-to-picking-up-alphabets-migrants-in-bihar-take-1-step-at-a-time/story-E4Bi4fOnAiEhn07QQLmTVL.html
23-05-2020||India||Pakistan plane crash survivor has Uttar Pradesh and Kamal Amrohi connection||There were only two survivors in the Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) plane that crashed on Friday, one of them has an India connection. Zafar Masood, the president of the Bank of Punjab, who survived the crash has roots in western Uttar Pradesh’s Amroha and belongs to the family of Kamal Amrohi of “Pakeezah” fame. Masood escaped with injuries on his hip and collar bone. His family belongs to Saddo Mohalla in Amroha.His distant relative Aadil Zaffar, who lives in Amroha, informed that Masood’s family migrated to Pakistan in 1952. Aadil, who is a documentary filmmaker, is the first cousin of Masood’s mother Sehnaz Saeed. He met Masood in 2015 in Karachi and said the banker is very fond of India and had plans to visit India to see his ancestral home. “Masood’s miraculous escape was like a gift of Allah to families on both sides ahead of Eid. I informed the family members immediately after the crash. We all were traumatised and shaken because Masood was also travelling in the same plane. The crash was devastating. Then came the news of two survivors and one of them was Masood,” said Aadil. Presently, Masood is in a hospital undergoing treatment. His family has shared his photograph with their cross border relatives.Tajdar Amrohi, son of Kamal Amrohi, also expressed his happiness over the miraculous escape of Masood and sent his condolences to the next of kin of those who were killed in the crash. “It was indeed the mercy of god who blessed him with life after such a devastating crash,” said Tajdar.Aadil Zaffar said that Kamal Amrohi had two cousins: Raees Amrohi and Taqi Amrohi. Taqi was chief editor of Pakistan’s leading Urdu daily ‘Jung’ and Zafar Masood is son of his daughter, Sehnaz Saeed. Masood’s grandfather Masood Hasan was a lawyer and his father Munawwar Sayeed was a popular TV artist of Pakistan.Masood’s mother Sehnaz last visited Amroha in 2014 and stayed for over a month. Aadil Zaffar had also visited the family in Karachi in 2012, 2014 and 2015. As relations between the two countries deteriorated, family members from both sides stopped visiting. Both families are descendents of saint Syeed Hussain Sarfuddin Shah Vilayat whose ‘Dargah’ is situated in Amroha and popularly known as ‘Bicchu wali Dargah’. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-plane-crash-survivor-has-uttar-pradesh-and-kamal-amrohi-connection/story-EoHS0lUfMBDwQdJZMO27PL.html
23-05-2020||India||Govt rejects talks of an additional cess on GST to raise revenue to fight coronavirus||Officials in the finance ministry have rejected speculations over the imposition of an additional calamity cess to generate financial resources to fight coronavirus pandemic and claimed the idea was antithetical to government efforts to provide relief to businesses, including tax related reliefs.The officials in the finance ministry who didn’t wish to be named, categorically denied such a move, while dismissing stories in the media that claimed that the central government was considering a calamity cess on GST to tide over the economic crisis created by Covid-19 pandemic.A cess is an additional tax that is levied in special circumstances to generate revenue for non-budgeted expenditures.The officials said that in the present economic scenario during the Covid-19 pandemic, any proposal to introduce a calamity cess would itself create an adversity and be counter-productive to the government’s efforts to revive the economy.Explaining the reasoning, the officials said that sales are already very low during the lockdown, which is being implemented in varying degrees across the country, and the Industry is already facing a deep crisis due to a lack of demand and the likely labour challenges that might manifest more acutely in the near future. Therefore, tinkering with the taxes or cess would not be a prudent option at all. They opined that an additional cess was likely to further dampen the consumers’ sentiments and could also weaken the markets’ strength, especially when the Government is pushing to boost consumption.The officials added that experts have suggested that taxes and cesses should not be interfered with unduly in the present circumstances.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThey added that according to the ministry’s understanding, such a measure may prove to be myopic and not result in any long-term gains.A look at the well-established tax practices internationally and the responses by governments during the pandemic will reveal that such imprudent fiddling has not been tried in any tax regimes across the world, including those with the GST model, the officials said, before summing up that none of the countries, developed or developing, have increased taxes to counter economic impacts of Covid-19.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19A few days ago, the finance ministry had to initiate disciplinary action against a group of senior officers who gone public with their suggestions to mop up revenue through several measures including hiking taxes for the super rich. The government had then clarified that it had neither authorised the group to come up with a proposal or given it permission to go public with it, a move, it said led to panic among the general public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-rejects-talks-of-an-additional-cess-on-gst-to-raise-revenue-to-fight-coronavirus/story-nyugxea1zex6btcYlFRKxL.html
23-05-2020||India||Army deployed in Cyclone Amphan hit areas of Bengal for restoration work||The Army was deployed in Kolkata and neighbouring districts on Saturday for restoration of essential infrastructure and services in the wake of the destruction caused by Cyclone Amphan, a defence official said.Five columns of the Army were deployed in different parts of the city and North and South 24 Parganas districts, he said.These three parts of the state reported the maximum damage due to the cyclone.The deployment was made following a request by the West Bengal government, according to the official.“The Indian Army has provided three columns to assist the Kolkata city administration in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan,” he said.Army personnel equipped with road and tree clearance equipment were deployed at Tollygunge, Ballygunge and Behala in south Kolkata, he added.Army columns were also deployed for restoration work at New Town in North 24 Parganas district and at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district, he said.An Army column has 35 men, including officers and junior commissioned officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-accepts-mamata-banerjee-s-request-sends-5-army-columns-to-help-restore-infrastructure-in-kolkata/story-EE1sFZ3Svv6eOUkMjS8mDP.html
23-05-2020||India||2 migrants came out of quarantine centre in Bihar to rape teenager, nabbed||Bihar police on Friday arrested two migrant labourers for allegedly gang raping an 18-year-old girl with five other locals of Jogani village of Rohtas district.The two migrants had been staying at a village school which had been turned into a quarantine centre in the village which is about 150 km southeast of the capital Patna.A case for rape, assault and rioting under Sections 376, 354 a, b and c of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the two migrants, Chanchal Yadav and Suresh Kumar Yadav, and village youths identified as Arvind Yadav, Vijay Yadav, Mukesh Yadav, Amit Yadav and Chullli Paswan on the basis of the victim’s statement on Thursday.Chanchal and Suresh were arrested from the quarantine centre on Friday and raids were on to arrest the other accused, sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), Bikramganj, Raj Kumar said.“The girl was sent to Sasaram sadar hospital for medical examination and age determination test and reports are awaited,” the SDPO said.The incident occurred on Wednesday night when the victim had gone out of her home. Arvind Yadav had threatened the girl at knife point if she raised an alarm, following which he called the two migrants and other village residents.According to the victim’s statement to the police, they also took pictures and recorded the crime on video and threatened her of posting it on social media if she informed her family about the incident.Police did not say how the two migrants managed to leave the quarantine centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-migrants-came-out-of-quarantine-centre-in-bihar-to-rape-teenager-nabbed/story-6BOuuusuQDYlJIPfL8zDEM.html
23-05-2020||India||Kashmir woman took Rs 80,000 to protect man from detention, got arrested for extortion||Jammu and Kashmir police have arrested a woman for extorting money from a man claiming she could protect him from getting detained by the police, officials said on Saturday. Mehbooba Banu, a resident of Kadder in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district was arrested after a complaint was filed against her for extortion and intimidation.“A person namely Nazir of Tungdunoo had been called by the police for questioning in connection with a militancy related input. When nothing surfaced against him, he was allowed to proceed home without charges,” a police spokesperson said, explaining the extortion case. The official said that Mehbooba Banu, along with her family members, approached Nazir and his family claiming that police will detain him again and that they should pay her one lakh rupees to ensure they don’t detain him again. She said she will transfer the money to the cops to protect him from further detention.The poor family collected 80,000 rupees and gave it to her.“Apprehending that Nazir’s family may approach the police with a complaint, the woman sent two of her relatives, wearing masks, to threaten Nazir and his family not to go to the police,” the spokesperson said. After police received the complaint, a case under sections 420 (cheating and dishonesty), 451(house trespassing), 500 (defamation), 506 (criminal intimidation), 109 (abetment) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against the accused.“The said woman who grabbed the money of poor people dishonestly and fraudulently has been arrested in the instant case. Investigation is on, more arrests shall follow,” the police spokesman said. Following the incident, the police have requested the public to report all cases of extortion. “We have a zero tolerance policy against extortion, especially, when it is being done in the name of the police. Any citizen may call up SP Kulgam directly on his phone number 84930-51292. Their identity shall be kept confidential,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-woman-took-rs-80-000-to-protect-man-from-detention-got-arrested-for-extortion/story-ZVxnLDdkGA1N1WNx3FlfvL.html
23-05-2020||India||A thoughtful treat for the little ones!||Kids living in a shelter, Welfare Home for Children in Sarita Vihar, recently ran out of food items in the lockdown. The members of Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) got to know this and surprised them with cartons filled with their favourite treats. The little ones sent a hand drawn card in return that said, ‘Thank you, angels!’Achla Khanna, founder of the welfare home, says, “With reserves drying up and volunteers missing, the coronavirus outbreak has resulted in an uphill battle for all orphanages. These volunteers from the government body helped us within 24 hours of our request.” The goodies came as a pleasant surprise to the kids who were fed up of having the same food everyday. The kids had a juice and wafers party and thanked these angels who helped them in such trying times. The donors who regularly visited these homes to give funds and essential items have stopped coming due to the lockdown.Also, caretakers of the orphanages have become anxious about the virus. Sushma Singhvi of Gunjan Foundation, says,”The kids don’t understand social distancing easily. With schools shut and no avenues of entertainment, it is very tough on the kids. Also, to make them sit apart and not touch anything that could transmit the virus is challenging.”But sweet gestures like the one, Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) did for the children of welfare home keeps the faith alive that everything will be fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lifestyle/a-ray-of-hope-and-sunshine/story-ASpXE7weD8BW6POEaicuxJ.html
23-05-2020||India||After Karnataka, now Chhattisgarh wants domestic air passengers quarantined||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday wrote to Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri expressing concern over resumption of domestic flight services scheduled from Monday, without any standard operating procedure (SOP) and asserted that it should be made operational only after strict and effective guidelines were in place. “Provide details of each flight and details of passengers to the states first,” the Chhattisgarh chief minister said in his letter. He also asked for clarity on whether the 14-day mandatory quarantine would be at a paid centre or a state-run facility for incoming passengers on domestic flights. ALSO READ | Domestic travellers with green status on Aarogya Setu needn’t be quarantined: Aviation minister Hardeep Singh PuriIn his letter to the Civil Aviation Minister, the chief minister said that it had come to his notice through different media that the Civil Aviation ministry had decided to resume domestic flight services from May 25.Baghel reiterated that no separate standard operating procedure (SOP) had been issued for passengers who would be travelling from one state to the other on domestic flights. He said the further spread of the coronavirus infection could not be averted if domestic flight services are resumed at the scheduled time when the nation has been witnessing a spike in a number of states as far as Covid-19 positive cases were concerned.ALSO READ | Air passengers from 6 states to undergo ‘institutional quarantine’: DGP KarnatakaIn his letter, Baghel asserted that the civil aviation ministry should resume operating flights only under effective measures and guidelines to curb the spread of Covid-19. He urged the minister that details of each flight, having elaborate information about passengers travelling should be shared with the states keeping in mind the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases.He also suggested that the 14-day quarantine at either a paid or a state-run quarantine facility should be made mandatory for all incoming passengers on domestic flights. The Chhattisgarh chief minister said at the time of booking of tickets, all passengers should be informed about the mandatory quarantine period to be completed and its conditions. The chief minister added that resuming domestic flight services under strict and effective guidelines would in the long-run help all state governments in taking measures to curb and control the spread of the coronavirus infection.Earlier, Karnataka’s Director General of Police had said that all passengers coming to Karnataka via domestic flights from Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh would be required to undergo a 7-day “institutional quarantine” which would then be followed by home quarantine.On Saturday morning, the office of the Karnataka DGP announced the move in a post on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baghel-writes-to-civil-aviation-minister-wants-strict-rules-before-domestic-flights-begin/story-QQeqnJr0qJWSuDGN0Mvu0O.html
23-05-2020||India||40-ft whale carcass weighing 10 tonne washes ashore in Odisha||The carcass of a 40 -feet-long critically endangered whale washed ashore in Gahirmatha marine sanctuary area in Odisha’s Kendrapara district, a senior forest official said on Saturday.The gargantuan mammal that weighed around 10 tonne was spotted on the coast at Agarnasi Island, he said.“The mammal’s body bore injury marks. The species figures in the list of IUCN Red list of threatened marine species. The forest department will conduct the post mortem examination of the endangered marine animal,” Rajnagar Mangrove (wildlife) Forest Division DFO Bikash Ranjan Dash.As there are injury marks, the mammal might have perished after being hit by either ship or trawler propellers, he said.The mammal is a schedule-I species under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, the DFO said.“We are still undecided whether to bury or not the carcass after its post mortem and are also planning to preserve the skeletal remains of the mammal for posterity.After necessary legal formalities, we would seek suggestion from department high-ups regarding preservation of the skeletal remains of the whale,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-ft-whale-carcass-weighing-10-tonne-washes-ashore-in-odisha/story-2lB4R5uLOn7mPHrlsaihgK.html
23-05-2020||India||Railways diverts UP-bound Shramik train via Odisha due to heavy traffic congestion||The Vasai Road-Gorakhpur Sharmik Special train to Uttar Pradesh, which left the city on May 21, was diverted to a different route via Odisha due to heavy traffic congestion.The train that left Vasai Road station in Mumbai on May 21 was diverted via Bilaspur, Jharsuguda, Rourkela, Adra and Asansol stations, Western Railway PRO Ravindra Bhakar told PTI.The Uttar Pradesh-bound train was diverted from its original route through Kalyan, Jalgaon, Bhusaval, Khandwa, Itarsi, Jabalpur and Manikpur stations, due to heavy traffic congestion, he said.Incidentally, when the train reached Rourkela station in Odisha on Saturday morning, reports said passengers were confused and suspected that the driver had lost his way.Taking note of the traffic congestion, the Railway board has decided to temporarily run the trains originating from Vasai Road, Udhna, Surat, Valsad and Ankleshwar stations of Western Railway and some stations in Konkan Railway and Central Railway on the diverted route through Odisha, the official clarified.Due to heavy traffic congestion on Itarsi-Jabalpur-Pt.Deen Dayal Dayal Nagar route, trains will now run on the diverted route through Bilaspur, Jharsuguda and Rourkela stations in Odisha, he said.The Railways has been operating ‘Shramik Special’ trains since May 1 for migrant labourers who were stranded in different parts of the country amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-diverts-up-bound-shramik-train-via-odisha-due-to-heavy-traffic-congestion/story-C3f8N1XXXDl8cRh7ALAkeN.html
23-05-2020||India||After Ashwagandha, experts claim Kangra Tea has properties to block Sars-Cov-2||After the well known herb Ashwgandha, now, Kangra tea has been marked as a potential coronavirus blocker. A senior research professional associated with a reputed bioresource technology institute has claimed that Kangra Tea, well known for its other medicinal properties, may also be able to boost immunity against coronavirus by blocking the virus activity better than the anti-HIV drugs currently being used as preventive care for patients and health care professionals.According to a communication released by the Ministry of Science and Technology, India’s premier medical research institute, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is considering replacing hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) with anti-HIV drugs to improve immunity and possibly reduce viral replication. However, Kangra tea could prove to be a more effective weapon against the disease, says a well known expert.“The chemicals in Kangra tea could also be effective in boosting immunity as they can block coronavirus activity better than anti-HIV drugs,” said Dr Sanjay Kumar, Director, Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT), based in Palampur, Himachal Pradesh.Dr Kumar made the claim during a webinar organized at IHBT on the occasion of the International Tea Day.The claim, along with a comparison with HIV drugs and hydroxychloroquine, comes at a time when the Centre has decided to expand its use as a preventive medication for asymptomatic healthcare workers who are engaged in providing services even at non-Covid-19 hospitals, for frontline staff who are deployed on surveillance duty in the containment zones and for paramilitary and police personnel who are engaged in fighting coronavirus.The endorsement of Kangra tea as a potential virus killer or fighter comes days after a group of researchers of IIT-Delhi revealed that herb Ashwagandha contains certain bio-actives that interact with SARS-CoV-2 virus in a way that prevents it from multiplying. According to experts, Ashwagandha, which is also popular as an aphrodisiac, has a natural compound called withanone (Wi-N), with the potential to block Covid-19’s enzyme responsible for replication. It is being alleged that Ashwagandha, if used along with an active ingredient of propolis called Caffeic Acid Phenethyl Ester (CAPE) can block the replication process of the virus.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesDr Kumar, while discussing the benefits of Kangra tea along with the medicinal properties of tea for human health, spoke of the technologies developed and transferred by IHBT for combating Covid-19 disease.“Using computer-based models, the scientists screened 65 bioactive chemicals or polyphenols that could bind to a specific viral protein more efficiently than commercially available anti-HIV drugs approved for treating Covid-19 patients. These chemicals might block the activity of the viral protein that helps the virus to thrive inside human cells,” said Dr Kumar.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19IHBT, a constituent of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), has also produced and supplied the alcohol-based hand sanitizer containing tea extract and natural aromatic oils through its technology partners. The Institute has developed herbal soap with tea extract, natural saponins (phytochemicals found in most vegetables) and without SLES (sodium laureth sulphate), SDS (sodium dodecyl sulphate) and mineral oil. This soap provides anti-fungal, anti-bacterial, cleansing and moisturizing benefits. The soap is being produced and marketed by two companies based in Himachal Pradesh.“Tea catechins production process which has been transferred to M/s Baijnath Pharmaceuticals, and Ready to Serve Teas and Tea wines which could be game changer for Kangra tea”, added Dr Kumar. Catechins are natural antioxidants that help prevent cell damage and provide other benefits. The first flush of Kangra tea, grown at a height ranging from 900 metres to 1400 metres above the sea level in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh, is known for quality, unique aroma and tinge of fruity flavor. A little milder than Darjeeling tea in terms of flavour, Kangra tea has more body and liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-ashwagandha-experts-claim-kangra-tea-has-properties-to-block-sars-cov-2/story-fiQug1BFcVbdxYy5gOZeDP.html
23-05-2020||India||22 of 76 Haryana natives deported from US test corona-positive: Minister Vij||Twenty-two of 76 Haryana natives deported back from the US have tested positive for coronavirus infection, state Health Minister Anil Vij said on Saturday. Seventy-six Haryana people were part of a group of over 160 Indians who had arrived at Amritsar in Punjab by a special chartered flight earlier this week. “Twenty two of these 76 have been found having COVID-19,” Vij told reporters. After they were deported from the US and arrived in India earlier this week, Vij had said all will undergo COVID-19 tests before they are quarantined in their home districts. Most of the deported Indians had entered the US from its southern border with Mexico and had exhausted all legal options to stay in the US. They were arrested by the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement sleuths while trying to enter America illegally. The 76 Haryana natives were later brought to Panchkula where they underwent the COVID-19 and other medical tests. While those found COVID negative will be quarantined in their home districts, the 22 COVID-19 patients will undergo treatment at a dedicated hospital in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-of-76-haryana-natives-deported-from-us-test-corona-positive-minister-vij/story-I6boyceWa71X9FA9Dv7Z8M.html
23-05-2020||India||Goa seeks ICMR nod to conduct antibody tests on arriving air passengers||The Goa government has urged the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) authorities to allow it to conduct rapid antibody tests on all passengers after the domestic flight services resume on Monday.The domestic flight services were suspended on March 25 after the central government imposed nationwide lockdown restrictions to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. State health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the move was aimed at ensuring that there was no community transmission in the state. “I’ve requested the ICMR and the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation to permit us to conduct an antibody test of air passengers, who will be issued a Covid-19 negative certificate to enter Goa after domestic flight operations resume on Monday,” Rane said.“Rapid antibody tests will help us identify asymptomatic patients at the airport. It’ll avoid community transmission,” he added.So far, 47 people have tested Covid-19 positive after the state government started conducting tests on all those, who have returned to Goa since May 14 amid the easing of lockdown restrictions. Over 50% of the 47 Covid-19 positive people have returned to Goa via Shramik Special trains.At present, Goa has 38 active Covid-19 positive cases after nine people from the second wave of infections have recovered and discharged from the dedicated Covid-19 hospital in south Goa.The state has reported 54 Covid-19 positive cases, including seven in the first wave of viral infection in April, who have all recovered since then. Earlier, Union Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri had announced that states should not quarantine passengers upon their arrival, as these are short-haul flights. However, some states such as Karnataka is in favour of quarantining air passengers, especially if they are flying out of worst-hit Covid-19 states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, etc.Goa is conducting swab sample tests on all those entering the state and then quarantining them until the ICMR allows conducting TrueNat rapid antibody tests.Kiosks have been set up at the airport, checkpoints on roads, and at the port for the collection of swab samples. Rail passengers are escorted via buses to hospitals, where they are undergoing tests.It takes a few hours for the results of swab samples to be made available.Rapid antibody tests are a blood test for the presence of antibodies. The ICMR had suspended antibody tests after the state complained of inaccurate results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-seeks-icmr-nod-to-conduct-antibody-tests-on-arriving-air-passengers/story-vGamL4H4qHm6lluqVxbYaK.html
23-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: No respite from scorching heat wave in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘No respite from scorching heat wave in Delhi over the weekend, temperature likely to soar to 46°C’: IMDThe national capital has been reeling under the effect of heat wave conditions this past week and no respite is likely in the days to come. According to the India Meteorological Department, mercury levels touched 45 degrees Celsius on Friday in parts of Delhi and the same is expected on Saturday as well. Read moreHalf of Delhi’s 92 containment zones turn orange, offer hope of normalcyHalf of Delhi’s 92 active containment zones have not reported a single case in the last 14 days and could turn green over the next fortnight or so, a senior Delhi government official said on Saturday. Read more‘Will try to resume international flights before August’: Hardeep PuriAviation minister Hardeep Puri on Friday said that he will try to resume international passenger flights before August. Just this week, the resumption of domestic flights was announced. The operations begin Monday. Read more‘Intent to pick holes’: FM Nirmala Sitharaman on fiscal package criticismThe intent is not to understand but to pick holes, said Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in response to the questions about the fiscal stimulus package of Rs 20 lakh crore being called “too little, too late”. Read moreCovid-19 vaccine development at early stage in India; breakthrough unlikely within a year: ExpertsAs Indian firms scramble to develop a vaccine for coronavirus, experts feel that research in the country is still at a nascent stage and any concrete breakthrough is not likely within a year. Read moreCyclone Amphan loss estimated at $13 billion in India, may rise in Bangladesh: OfficialsA powerful cyclone that tore through India’s eastern state of West Bengal this week has caused a damage of 1 trillion rupees ($13 billion) to infrastructure and crops, state officials said. Read moreIran to reopen religious, cultural sites as Covid lockdown restrictions easeIran on Saturday moved to open businesses, religious and cultural sites as it eases restrictions imposed to contain the coronavirus pandemic. Holy shrines — some of which became focal points of the coronavirus epidemic in Iran - will reopen Monday. Read moreWatch: Manipur govt sets up quarantine centres for transgendersManipur government has set up a dedicated quarantine centre for transgenders in Imphal. In a first, Health and Family Welfare Dept has set up two institutional quarantine centres. Read moreWho needs a hooman parent when you have such a nice cat sibling. WatchSiblinghood is probably one of the most complex yet rewarding dynamics some have the honour of experiencing. This video of two cat siblings hanging out represents the beautiful intricacies of this dynamic extremely appropriately. Read moreCyber attacks increased by 37% in India in Q1 2020 as compared to Q4 2019: ReportA new report by the Kaspersky Security Network (KSN) reveals that the company detected and blocked 52,820,874 local cyber threats in India between January to March 2020. Read moreSports Minister Kiren Rijiju talks about the future of IPL in 2020The future of the Indian Premier League in 2020 has been talked about in great lengths by the cricketing world. The cash-rich league is one of the biggest sporting events in the world while generating a massive amount of revenue for BCCI and cricketers. Read moreDRDO Recruitment 2020: Apply for 185 scientists vacancies from May 29The online application process for the recruitment of Scientist B at Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) was scheduled to begin on May 22, but due to some technical glitch, the application window will be activated on May 29, 2020. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-no-respite-from-scorching-heat-wave-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YEMiXCeFkdRD9x0EIdakaL.html
23-05-2020||India||Centre accepts Mamata Banerjee’s request, sends 5 Army columns to help Kolkata||The Defence Ministry on Saturday decided to send five columns of Indian Army to help Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to restore infrastructure in state capital Kolkata. The Centre’s decision followed a request from the West Bengal government that appeared to have been overwhelmed by the magnitude of the relief work needed in the state battered by cyclone Amphan.In a string of tweets, the home department said the Bengal had mobilised just about everyone it could within the constraints of the lockdown in a unified command mode but it needed more help.The National Disaster Response Force had earlier said they were putting together 10 more teams to help the state. The state already has 26 NDRF teams in the cyclone affected areas of Bengal.“Based on the request from the government of West Bengal, Indian Army has provided five columns to assist the Kolkata City Civil Administration in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan,” a person familiar with the development told Hindustan Times. Each column has about 35 personnel.“More than a hundred teams from multiple departments and bodies working for cutting fallen trees, which is the key to restoration of power in localities,” the home department tweeted. GOWB mobilizes maximum strength in unified command mode on 24×7basis for immediate restoration of essential infrastructure and services asap. Army support has been called for;NDRF and SDRF teams deployed; Rlys,Port & private sector too requested to supply teams and equipment(1/3)It added that the Bengal government had also reached out to the railways, port authorities and the private sector to join the gigantic task ahead.Cyclone Amphan, the most severe storm in the Bay of Bengal since the super cyclone of 1999, made landfall around 20km east of Sagar Island in the Sunderbans on Wednesday afternoon, cutting off road links, snapping telecommunications and power lines. It killed about 85 people in West Bengal including about 15 in state capital Kolkata.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had told Prime Minister Narendra Modi who visited the state on Friday that the cyclone had, according to the government’s back of the envelope calculations, caused destruction worth Rs 1 lakh crore. PM Modi, who announced an interim relief assistance of Rs 1,000 crore, had praised Banerjee’s handling of the double whammy for Bengal, which is already battling to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The Bengal government had earlier in the day asked the railways ministry to stop the Shramik Special trains from reaching the state till May 26, pointing that the district administration was already stretched to its limits “As the district administrations are involved in relief and rehabilitation works, it will not be possible to receive special trains for the next few days. It is therefore requested that no train should be sent to West Bengal till May 26,” Bengal’s top bureaucrat Rajiva Sinha told the Railway Board in a letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-army-support-mamata-banerjee-s-bengal-sends-sos-to-centre/story-u3YkYhxub6ywo9wFdGHWTI.html
23-05-2020||India||Railways to carry 36 lakh migrants in 2,600 Shramik specials in next 10 days||Indian railways has prepared a schedule to transport another 36 lakh migrant labourers to 16 destination states from originating points in 19 states over the next 10 days, revealed the railway ministry. The ministry in a media address on Saturday afternoon added that it had already transported a total of 45 lakh migrants through inter and intrastate services provided since May 1.The announcement of the Shramik special schedule comes at a time when railways has also announced a gradual resumption in its normal passenger services with 100 pair of trains from June 1 in addition to 15 pairs of Rajdhani special services in operation to address the rising demand for interstate travel with the easing of restrictions from lockdown clamped to contain the spread of coronavirus pandemic.“A total of 2,600 Shramik Special trains will run for the next 10 days, originating from 19 states for destinations in 16 states, carrying 36 lakh passengers,” the official said.The official also shed light on the controversy around payment of fares for Shramik Specials and said that 85% of costs to run a Shramik special are borne by the Central government and the remaining 15% of operation costs are being borne by the state governments in the form of fares. He added that after some initial hiccups, coordination has been established with state governments on this issue. He added that the railways has provided 4.7 million free meals to passengers and other needy people.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The railway official said that 80% of the Shramik trains run so far serviced destinations in Bihar and UP, the two states with the highest population of the migrant workforce.The official added that given the demand for more Shramik specials, 50% of modified Covid care train coaches will now be used to run trains for transporting the migrant workforce.Railways had converted more than 5,000 wagons into Covid Care Centres to augment the country’s dedicated health infrastructure to fight coronavirus spread. The official said these coaches will now be used as Shramik Specials as they are lying unutilized as health care centres, he, however, added that these coaches could be reconverted into covid care centres if the need arises.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesListing other contributions made by the railways in the country’s fight against Coved 19 pandemic, he said a total of 17 Railway Hospitals had been converted into independent Covid Care Hospitals in addition to the infrastructure raised by states.A total of 5,000 beds across the railway hospital networks are available for Covid patients along with the facility to quarantine 10,500 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-latest-railways-to-carry-36-lakh-migrants-in-2-600-shramik-specials-in-next-10-days/story-Xc171rY9xsWvNh7IP1Tu0I.html
23-05-2020||India||Two Maoists killed in encounter in Chhattisgarh||Raipur: Security forced killed two members of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district in the Bastar region on Saturday morning.Slain Maoists were identified as Gundadhur, an LGS (local guerrilla squad) commander of Malangir area committee, and Aaytu, a security guard of Vinod, a divisional committee member, the police said.Gundadhur was carrying a reward of Rs5 lakh on his head, the police said.“The encounter started at 12.45am near Mankapal village, when a team of District Reserve Guard (DRG) personnel was out for their routine anti-Naxal patrolling operation. The Maoists fled into a jungle after a heavy exchange of fire. Later, the two bodies were found lying in the jungle,” said DM Awasthi, director-general of police (DGP), Chhattisgarh. On Thursday, security forces had gunned down two Maoists in an encounter in the Dantewada district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-maoists-killed-in-encounter-in-chhattisgarh/story-RtfD5n54AZPAbXhRnkiIyI.html
23-05-2020||India||Remdesivir tops list of Covid-19 drug contenders, say scientists||With a vaccine still a long distance away, efforts to repurpose old medications used for other ailments provide hope of an early counter to Covid-19, say scientists, placing the antiviral remdesivir on top of the list of possible contenders.     As Covid-19 continues its spread -- crossing 5.2 million cases and 3,38,000 fatalities on Saturday -- several categories of drugs are under clinical trial. Of them, remdesivir, which initially went into trials for treating the deadly Ebola virus five years ago, has shown promise by modestly speeding recovery from Covid-19, experts said.    More than 130 drugs are under experimentation to treat Covid-19, some may have the potential to stop the virus while others may help calm overactive immune responses that damage organs, according to a tracker maintained by the Milken Institute, an independent economic think tank in the US,   “Right now, there is only one effective approach… which is to repurpose already approved drugs for other diseases if they can be used for Covid-19. One example is remdesivir,” Ram Vishwakarma, director of the Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine, CSIR, Jammu, told PTI.Remdesivir is helping people recover faster, and is lowering the death rate among critically ill patients, Vishwakarma said, adding that it can be life-saving.  “We do not have time to develop new drugs. New drug development takes five-10 years so we are using existing drugs and conducting clinical trials to find if any of them are effective,“ Vishwakarma said.Some molecules available for treating diseases like HIV or other viral infections can be quickly checked against the novel coronavirus, he explained. If found effective, they can be used against Covid-19 with the appropriate approval from drug control bodies.When drug company Gilead Sciences sought to begin clinical trials for remdesivir to treat the novel coronavirus, it immediately got approval from the US FDA.    According to Vishwakarma, the other drug showing promise is favipiravir, a broad-spectrum antiviral approved in Japan, which is also under clinical trials for its effectiveness against Covid-19.India is also playing its role. The Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), Hyderabad, has developed the technology to make favipiravir, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Director General Shekar Mande announced this month.  CSIR is conducting clinical trials for favipiravir, remdesivir and an anti-inflammatory drug called colchicine, which is commonly used to treat gout, said Vishwakarma.  “A number of drug trials are happening in India, which we are doing with pharmaceutical companies,” Vishwakarma said.Of the drugs under trial, remdesivir has shown the most promising results, agreed Subhabrata Sen, professor at the Department of Chemistry in Shiv Nadar University in Uttar Pradesh.   Sen, whose lab is involved in the discovery of biologically active molecules, told PTI that some of the drugs being tested are antivirals, and some are anti-malarials and antibiotics.    Of the antivirals in the tracker list, some are new molecules under trial, whereas others are old drugs being repurposed and tested for their effectiveness against Covid-19.Remdesivir, according to a study published in the New England Journal of Medicine in April, mimics the genetic material of the coronavirus., When the virus copies its RNA or genetic material, the drug replaces some of the pathogen’s building blocks. According to the authors of this study, the drug prevents new virus copies from being produced.Preliminary results had shown that patients who received remdesivir had a 31 per cent faster time to recovery than those who received placebo.However, another study published in the journal Lancet in April cautioned that interpretation of these findings is limited since the remdesivir study was stopped early after the scientists were unable to recruit enough patients due to the steep decline in cases in China.The authors of the Lancet study concluded that more evidence from ongoing clinical trials is needed to better understand whether remdesivir can provide meaningful clinical benefit. There are other drugs being tested too.Some drugs developed to treat HIV, such as lopinavir and ritonavir, are also being tested to cure COVID-19, Vishwakarma said.  A study published in Lancet this month said a treatment involving a combination of the drugs interferon beta-1b, plus the antiviral combination lopinavir-ritonavir and ribavirin, is better at reducing the viral load or quantity of the virus than lopinavir-ritonavir alone.  But these, too, were early findings, observed only in patients with mild to moderate illness, so the scientists behind the study stressed the need for larger trials to examine the effectiveness of this triple combination in critically ill patients.Another study published last month in the journal Science noted the effectiveness of two small molecule drug candidates named 11a and 11b which could block the SARS-CoV-2 M protease enzyme, which the virus uses to make copies of itself.  The molecules could stop the virus from replicating in monkey cells, and have been found safe for administration in rats and beagles, with the study concluding that both the drugs warrant further studies.  Scientists have also tested the effectiveness of therapies involving the use of antibodies that can bind to some parts of the virus, and block their entry into host cells.  In a study, published last month in the journal Cell, scientists reported that antibodies derived from the immune system of the South American mammal called llamas can block the entry of the novel coronavirus into host cells.  This study found that llamas, which belong to the same category of mammals as camels, produce special kinds of antibody molecules that bind tightly to a key protein on the novel coronavirus.    However, the scientists believe its efficacy is yet to be proved in human clinical trials.  Last week, scientists from the Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Genomics at Peking University in China, revealed a new method to identify multiple antibodies from recovered Covid-19 patients.  Using a single-cell genomics method, the researchers could rapidly identify antibodies from convalescent plasma, a component of patients’ blood.  When the researchers tested these antibodies in mice, they found that some of them could neutralise the virus.  Another team from the University of Washington in the US found recently that a combination of antibodies, including those from a patient who had recovered from the 2002-03 SARS pandemic virus infection, can effectively block the novel coronavirus.One of these molecules, named S309, showed particularly strong neutralising activity against SARS-CoV-2, they said, adding that it can act in combination with another, less potent antibody that targets a different site on the virus. However, these results too are yet to be validated in human clinical trials.  Among other therapeutics currently under trial or in use, Sen said US President Donald Trump’s “game changer” drug hydroxycholoroquine was promising “until it demonstrated serious side effects in the form of cardiovascular complications”, rendering it ineffective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-tops-list-of-covid-19-drug-contenders-say-scientists/story-aXtePI0YF5WUbehAnUbuuK.html
23-05-2020||India||‘Intent to pick holes’: FM Nirmala Sitharaman on fiscal package criticism||The intent is not to understand but to pick holes, said Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in response to the questions about the fiscal stimulus package of Rs 20 lakh crore being called “too little, too late”.The FM underlined that the idea is to restart economic activity, put some cash in peoples hands, and infuse liquidity in the system. She was in conversation with party colleague Nalin Kohli answering various facets of the recently announced economic package.“We compared announcements made by other countries. We should be not confused about this. Every country has brought in a basket of things, some fiscal, some monetary...They have also gone into liquidity being infused. We are not different form them. The proportion might vary. We have come with measures which will get more liquidity into the market. People will get money in hand and kickstart demand,” the FM said. Elaborating the government’s approach, the FM said the government has heard everybody and then gone about stimulating economy, restarting companies and giving relaxations. On being told that automobile, retail, entertainment, among others, feel that they got left out, Sitharaman said she did not come up with sectoral references. “Have not excluded anyone. People in any sector can approach banks and get loans,” she said.The banks, she said, have been told to disburse loans and not fear the 3Cs: the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG). “Have spent time with banks that fear of three 3Cs - CBI, CVC, CAG - should not be in their mind. We discussed threadbare where this fear comes from. If a decision goes wrong, banks are assured that no action will be taken if the decision is not malafide,” said the FM.On the charge that the bulk of announcements focus on poor, the marginalised and that the middle class is not on government’s radar, Sitharaman stressed that it is not the case. “The initial panic was on the EMIs, so worked with the RBI and they responded. I tend to think middle class is there in every segment, like in farm related allied activities, say, you could be part of dairy activity, an intrepreneur,” said the FM.She said relief was also provided to the middle class in the budget announcements and pointed to the income tax changes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intent-to-pick-holes-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-on-fiscal-package-criticism/story-04p750BzeKZDCPiBEXL6zJ.html
23-05-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine development at early stage in India; breakthrough unlikely within a year: Experts||As Indian firms scramble to develop a vaccine for coronavirus, experts feel that research in the country is still at a nascent stage and any concrete breakthrough is not likely within a year.The Indian government and private firms have stepped up efforts to develop a vaccine to halt the spread of COVID-19 which has claimed over 3,700 lives with more than 1,25,000 cases in the country.PM CARES Fund Trust has decided to allocate Rs 100 crore for support to coronavirus vaccine development efforts.Referring to a vaccine to fight the virus, a PMO statement had said that it is the most pressing need and Indian academia, start-ups and industry have come together in cutting-edge vaccine design and development.The Department of Biotechnology has been made a central coordination agency to identify pathways for vaccine development. Naming the Indian firms working on vaccines for COVID-19, Gagandeep Kang, executive director of the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, Faridabad, had said last month that while Zydus Cadila is working on two vaccines, Serum Institute, Biological E, Bharat Biotech, Indian Immunologicals, and Mynvax are developing one vaccine each. The WHO has listed Serum Institute of India, Zydus Cadila, Indian Immunologicals Limited and Bharat Biotech from India among the firms involved in developing a vaccine.Leading virologist Shahid Jameel said India’s vaccine manufacturing capacity is quite remarkable and at least three Indian companies - Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech and Biologicals E are at the forefont, working with international partners to manufacture a vaccine for COVID-19. “Research on a COVID vaccine in India is at a very early stage of development and any candidates are likely to reach animal trials only by the end of the year,” he told PTI. However, Indian vaccine companies have a lot of capacity and expertise, and are likely to play a significant role in bringing new COVID-19 vaccines to the market. This experience is important for institutions, industry and regulators to work together, and prepare for the future, said Jameel, a Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize winner for Science and Technology and the current Chief Executive Officer of Wellcome Trust/Department of Biotechnology’s India Alliance.CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) Director Rakesh Mishra said, “From what we know, we are not at an advanced stage of vaccine development at the moment.” “There are lots of ideas and companies initiating vaccine development process but there is nothing on trial in terms of vaccine candidates,” he told PTI.There are many efforts going on with different approaches like somebody wants to use the whole virus or a particular protein so there are multiple processes being deployed, he said.“Many Indian companies are collaborating with foreign institutions.Other countries are at much advanced stage than us. Some are going into third stage trials. There is no company testing vaccine in India yet and they are in the pre-clinical stage of preparation,” he said.India is quite behind because of a number of reasons like the coronavirus came to India two-three months later so “we did not have the (inactivated) virus to test or even the urgency”, Mishra said, adding that the Chinese and US are quite ahead in the vaccine development. “If a comparison has to be made we are well behind international efforts,” he said.The novel coronavirus strain was isolated and characterised at the Indian Council of Medical Research’s National Institute of Virology, Pune, and the vaccine candidate has been transferred to Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) to develop a fully indigenous vaccine for COVID-19. “Once the vaccine is ready it will go for animal trials to be followed by human clinical trials to assess its safety and efficacy which will take at least one year,” a senior ICMR official told PTI.The BBIL is working towards developing killed virus vaccine which usually provides good immunogenicity, the official said, adding that by entering the body it will create antibody against the infection.The polio drops which are given to children have live attenuated virus, while the polio injection contains killed virus, the official said explaining the different approaches used in developing a vaccine.“The BBIL is continuously working in this direction and as soon as they get the right formulation they will move towards animal challenge studies followed by human clinical trials,” the official said.Kang, in a webinar held by India Alliance, said there are two separate aspects that relates to vaccines of COVID-19, one is to use existing products and the second is to see if new vaccines can be made. “In terms of projects to develop vaccines there are around 90 plus projects around the world that have initiated to develop new vaccines which use different kinds of technologies. Some are using old technologies like make an inactivated virus and spike protein and other using new technologies that allow you to respond rapidly like using messenger RNA vaccines,” Kang said.Every new technology is being applied for making COVID-19 vacines, he said.The Indian firms along with their foreign collaborators are racing against time to develop a vaccine against COVID-19 with over 52 lakh cases and over 3.35 lakh fatalities across the globe. PTI UZM/PLB/ASK ZMN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-development-at-early-stage-in-india-breakthrough-unlikely-within-a-year-experts/story-Hkvm4M6H8eXosP1Kz8dyIL.html
23-05-2020||India||Mumbai businessman orders N95 masks online, loses Rs 2.93 lakh||A businessman from Mumbai who ordered N95 masks after seeing an advertisement on a popular social media platform ended up losing Rs2.93 lakh in a case of cyber-fraud, police officials have said. Earlier this month, another businessman from Mumbai lost Rs12.29 lakh while trying to procure N95 masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits online. According to police in MHB Colony, the 35-year-old businessman, a resident of Borivali (West), registered a first information report (FIR) with them on May 21. According to his complaint, he had seen an advertisement for N95 masks. A copy of the FIR was reviewed by HT.“We have freezed the bank account of the accused and the money of the complainant has been saved. We are trying to trace the accused,” said Pandit Thakare, senior police inspector of MHB colony police station.He contacted the person who had issued the advertisement through Facebook Messenger and got his mobile number. The person said he owns a mask manufacturing company in Raigad.According to the complaint, the businessman said he wanted to buy 200,000 N95 masks but the person who claimed to be the mask manufacturer said he had only 100,000 masks and if a booking was not made immediately, he would sell them to someone else. The businessman booked 100,000 masks at a cost of Rs1.65 crore but said he would complete the deal after meeting the seller in person. The seller, however, said this would not be possible because of the Covid-19 lockdown and that he would deliver the masks by truck to Borivali. The businessman asked him to send a video of the masks as proof. The seller sent him a video of a truck containing masks. Based on this video, the businessman sent Rs2.93 lakh in installments as advance payment till May 12. Following these payments, the other person kept delaying the order. After a few days passed, the businessman got angry and the seller said he was cancelling the deal and would return the money. A few more days passed by but the seller did not return the money or deliver the masks. The helpless businessman told him that he would file a police complaint, to which the seller said he was free to go ahead. As more days passed by, the businessman kept contacting the seller, who gave no response. On May 21, the businessman approached police in MHB Colony and lodged an FIR for cheating and impersonation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyber-fraud-mumbai-businessman-orders-n95-masks-online-loses-rs2-93-lakh/story-hZbuIxV3ogk81cZMjTdZgN.html
23-05-2020||India||‘No respite from scorching heat wave in Delhi over the weekend, temperature likely to soar to 46°C’: IMD||The national capital has been reeling under the effect of heat wave conditions this past week and no respite is likely in the days to come. According to the India Meteorological Department, mercury levels touched 45 degrees Celsius on Friday in parts of Delhi and the same is expected on Saturday as well. The Met department, in its city weather forecast bulletin, suggests that the temperature in Delhi is likely to rise as high as 46 degree Celsius on Sunday and continue for the following two days along with heat wave conditions. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said heat wave condition is likely to continue over Delhi-NCR over the weekend due to hot and dry northwesterly winds prevailing over northwest India.The temperature may take a slight dip later next week with a possibility of rain and thunderstorm around Friday (May 29) in the national capital, the weather department predicts. As per the IMD forecast, heat wave conditions are also likely in isolated areas over Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, Telangana and Rayalseema on Sunday.In large areas, a heat wave is declared when the maximum temperature is 45 degrees Celsius for two consecutive. Severe heat wave condition is when the mercury touches the 47 degrees Celsius-mark for two consecutive days.In small areas, like Delhi, a heat wave is declared when the temperature soars to 45 degrees Celsius even for a day, according to the IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-respite-from-scorching-heat-wave-in-delhi-over-the-weekend-temperature-likely-to-soar-to-46-c/story-Zdpropyky0sYpi6NPkHHEN.html
23-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan loss estimated at $13 billion in India, may rise in Bangladesh: Officials||A powerful cyclone that tore through India’s eastern state of West Bengal this week has caused a damage of 1 trillion rupees ($13 billion) to infrastructure and crops, state officials said.Neighbouring Bangladesh, which also fell in Cyclone Amphan’s path on Wednesday, initially said it had suffered a loss of 11 billion taka ($130 million). But this could rise, government officials said.The two countries have lost at least 102 people in the cyclone, the most powerful in over a decade, mostly because of house collapses and electrocution. More than 3 million people were evacuated before Amphan made landfall, preventing a large number of deaths.The cyclone has affected more than 13 million people - some losing houses, crops and lands - and over 1.5 million houses have been damaged, two West Bengal government officials told Reuters. In North 24 Parganas, a district in southern West Bengal, 700 villages were flooded and 80,000 people lost their homes, the Times of India newspaper reported.Hundreds of thousands are in relief camps across the state, the officials said, amid concern that lax social distancing norms could fuel a spread of coronavirus cases.In Kolkata, the state capital, authorities struggled to remove debris from roads and clear trees that fell as the cyclone, packing winds of 133 km (83 miles) per hour, pounded the city of 14 million for hours.The cyclone also destroyed farmland in Bangladesh’s low-lying coastal areas, damage that will likely endanger livelihoods, non-profit ActionAid said.“Communities need urgent support as they are without basic necessities such as food, clean water and materials to rebuild their homes,” Farah Kabir, the country director of ActionAid Bangladesh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-loss-estimated-at-13-billion-in-india-may-rise-in-bangladesh-officials/story-ljF5KUNUqlmXwkYLkOSnAP.html
23-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: A house in powerless Kolkata locality is lit with inspiration for aatmanirbhar Bharat||At a time when an entire neighbourhood in east Kolkata has plunged into darkness since Wednesday after cyclone Amphan hit the city, one house in the locality is still lit with power generated domestically, in a true demonstration of the mantra of self-sufficiency.The house belongs to a noted renewable energy expert who has installed rooftop solar panels and produces 1 kilowatt of power when the sun shines brightly.“We can run at least six lights, two fans and the television set. We can even charge our mobiles. The power comes from the solar panels installed on our roof top. I can also operate a small pump to fill the overhead tank during emergency,” said SP Gon Chowdhury, a renewable energy expert and a Green Oscar awardee.The entire locality of Madurdaha in east Kolkata, barring a few pockets, has plunged into darkness since Wednesday when cyclone Amphan had hit with winds gusting up to 130 km per hour. Locals said that a high tension electric wire, which supplied power to the area, snapped when a large tree uprooted by the storm fell on it. Even the local police station is running on an electricity generator.“We are totally aatmanirbhar in power supply in such emergency situation at least. When no other house in my neighbourhood has power connection, we can at least have something to rely upon. We don’t need to depend on the power supply corporation in such crisis,” he added.In April this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while launching the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India campaign), had said that the pandemic has offered India a valuable lesson on the importance of self-reliance and self-sufficiency. The country, each state within it, each district within every state, and each village within every district must aspire to attain the twin goals, he had said.The power in Chowdhury’s house runs on the grid connection in normal situations. But a combination of solar power and grid not just helps him to save power bills but also manage such crises better.“Kolkata being near to the sea is cyclone-prone. The intensity and frequency of cyclones are on the rise because of climate change. I believe every house should have such arrangements to run at least a light and a fan. It doesn’t cost much. On the contrary it helps to save power bills as solar power costs less,” Chowdhury added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-a-house-in-powerless-kolkata-locality-is-lit-with-inspiration-for-aatmanirbhar-bharat/story-a3j47UBVdIPvcmMKu8SMhO.html
23-05-2020||India||Half of Delhi’s 92 containment zones turn orange, offer hope of normalcy||Half of Delhi’s 92 active containment zones have not reported a single case in the last 14 days and could turn green over the next fortnight or so, a senior Delhi government official said on Saturday.The city government started notifying localities that report Covid-19 cases as containment zones from late March. Since then, officials said 126 localities were declared as containment zones. Over the last few weeks, authorities have removed 34 of these areas from its containment zones list, reducing the number of active zones to 92.Containment zones comprise apartment blocks, gated communities, slums, streets, even entire neighbourhoods. They are complete quarantine zones and no one is allowed to step out even to buy essential goods such as milk, vegetables, fruits etc. All the entry and exit points and even the internal lanes are barricaded. The authorities allow only a number of selected vendors to supply groceries and other essentials to the neighbourhood with the help of RWA and civil defence volunteers.In these zones, health workers conduct house to house surveys, carry out contact tracing to identify potential cases and carry out tests apart from paying special attention to sanitation in the area.The number of localities under containment zones has increased from 80 a week ago to 92 after more localities reported Covid-19 cases and were placed under a hard lockdown.“Our analysis of the containment zones implies that the focussed action taken by the administration in containment zones is paying off,” a senior government official said.A total of 13 of the 45 containment zones that have not reported any fresh cases over the last 14 days and are classified as ‘orange’ containment zones are in the South District, the official said.If these 45 zones do not report cases over the next two weeks, about 2.5 lakh more people would be free to get back to their normal lives. An overwhelming majority of them are in two containment zones of the Central Delhi District - Sadar Bazar and Nabi Karim - that are home to 1.7 people. People in these two zones have been living under a hard lockdown for over 40 days.Three other containment zones in Central Delhi District - Chandni Mahal, Bara Hindu Rao and Nawabganj - continue to remain under what is classified in the government’s analysis as red containment zone because fresh cases continue to be reported from these areas.Containment Zones that have not reported Covid-19 cases for 14 days:AF Block Shalimar BaghGali No 3 Shalimar VillageH No-62 B Block Gali No-4 Shastri ParkA-97,98,99 Near Buland Masjid, Shastri ParkE-51 Main Road and E-224 Gali No-8 Shastri ParkT-606, Gali No-18 GautampuriBlock No XH No. 303/6 Gali No. 1 to H. No. 289 Gali No.3 Yadav VillaSadar BazarNabi KarimEntire affected street near Gandhi ParkEntire affected street of Gali No. 5, 6 & 7 L1 Sangam ViharAffected area around H No A-176 Deoli ExtensionShop No. J-4/49 Khirki Extension, Khirki VillageJain Mohalla Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715 Chirag DelhiBoundary Start from B-4/200 and cover the whole locality till backside of HumayupurHouse No 859/20 L-II Sangam ViharH No 153/B 4th floor Savitri NagarEntire area affected at Gali no 2,3,& 4 of Deoli ExtensionH.NO F-258, campa cola Gali, Lado SaraiF-313, Near Shiva Mandir Lado Sarai & F-274, 2nd floor Lado SaraiApartments in Samshi Talaab, Ward no 8 MehrauliJamila Masjid BaoliG, H AND I Block, Police Colony, Model TownSanjay Enclave, JahangirpuriH. No. 300 St No.-3 Krishna Puri Main Road Mandawali to H. No- 739/16 Gali. No.-3 Krishna Puri MandawaliH/2-98 C1 Bengali Colony, MahavirRoom No. 13, Plot 1294, Opp DC Office, KapasheraRZF-756/7, Gali No. 01 Band, Raj Nagar-II, Dwarka, New DelhiC-2/119 Block JanakpuriNizamuddin West (G and D Block Areas)Complete area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar & nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir NagarH.No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 khadda Colony, Jaitpur Extn, Part IIH.No. 1144 to 1134 & 618 to 623, Khadda Colony, Jaitpur Extn. Part-IIGali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar ExtnMahela Mohalla, Madanpur KhadarH-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave.E-Block (House No. 48A to 84A), Abu Fazal Enclave.House No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash.House No. F-138 & F-139, Gali No.01 (Shiv Mandir Wali Gali) Harsh Vihar, Hari Nagar ExtensionE Pocket GTB EnclaveF-70-90 Block Dilshad ColonyPratap Khand Jhilmil ColonyGali no. 3,4,5 East Ram Nagar, ShahdaraDayanand Vihar H.No.15 to 101Gali No 18, H. No 701/23 to 500/36 B, Vijay Park, Maujpur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/half-of-delhi-s-92-containment-zones-turn-orange-offer-hope-of-normalcy/story-UIDw568nr7ne2LmLEhWEjK.html
23-05-2020||India||PM Modi calls Sri Lanka’s president, Mauritian counterpart; promises help during Covid-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke with Sri Lanka’s president Gotabaya Rajapaksa and PK Jugnauth, his counterpart in Mauritius, continuing to engage with neighbouring countries during the coronavirus pandemic.“Had an excellent talk with President @GotabayaR. Sri Lanka is fighting COVID-19 effectively under his leadership. India will continue to support our close maritime neighbour in dealing with the pandemic and its economic impact,” the Prime Minister tweeted.“We agreed to accelerate Indian-assisted development projects in Sri Lanka, and also strengthen investment links,” he said.Modi also thanked Mauritian PM Jugnauth and promised to help the island country.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“Thank you, Prime Minister @PKJugnauth for our warm conversation today! Congratulations for successfully controlling COVID-19 in Mauritius,” PM Modi tweeted.“Our people share warm and special ties, based on shared culture and values. Indians will stand by their Mauritian brothers and sisters at this difficult time,” he posted.Modi’s calls to the leaders come after the March video conference of the leaders of the Saarc to work out a strategy to contain the coronavirus pandemic and to deal with its economic implications.The Prime Minister had suggested setting up of an emergency fund to battle Covid-19 in the south Asia region and made an initial offer of $10 million as India’s contribution. He also offered technical and manpower assistance to the eight-member states of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation who had joined a video conference to discuss a joint strategy to deal with the pandemic in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-sri-lanka-s-president-mauritian-counterpart-promises-help-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-pdlLiCqNtVMGEgCMr9SO2N.html
23-05-2020||India||Exquisite handicrafts produced during the lockdown despite hardships to artisans, says Naqvi||The union ministry of minority affairs on Saturday said it will restart the Hunar Haat or crafts fair for artisans and craftsperson from September, focusing on the theme local to global.The crafts fairs have been put on hold in the wake of the corona pandemic.Union minister for minority affairs, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the Haats have provided employment to more than 5 lakh artisans, craftsmen, and culinary experts and offer a market and opportunity to master artisans and craftsmen from remote areas.He said the process to allow consumers to buy Hunar Haat products online is underway. “The ministry has started the process of registering these artisans and their indigenous products on GeM (government e marketplace). Several export promotion councils have shown interest in providing international markets at large scale for handmade indigenous products of these artisans and craftsmen,” Naqvi said.The minister went on to say though the pandemic has impacted the earning of the artisan and craftsperson, they used the lockdown to create exquisite, indigenous products that will be sold at the fairs when they resume.Protocol for social distancing, hygiene, sanitisation and use of masks will be ensured at the fairs that will be organised in Chandigarh, Delhi, Prayagraj, Bhopal, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Raipur, Puducherry, Shimla, Goa, Kochi, Ahmedabad and Lucknow among other places.Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, had made an unannounced visit to one such Hunar Haat organised at India Gate in February. He also made a mention of the fair in his radio programme and said it is a platform showcasing art and craft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exquisite-handicrafts-produced-during-the-lockdown-despite-hardships-to-artisans-says-naqvi/story-cmQrZZeEiRqyCxh4qXzUsL.html
23-05-2020||India||‘Only naam ka satya’: Omar’s swipe at SP Malik for claims on JK rural polls||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah on Saturday accused the erstwhile state’s former governor Satya Pal Malik of “lying” and “shooting his mouth off” with claims that the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party boycotted the 2018 panchayat elections under Pakistan’s pressure.“PM had said that we will conduct panchayat elections (in J&K). I broke protocol and went to Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti’s residence. They refused to participate under Pakistan’s pressure. Terrorists also threatened yet the election was held successfully,” Malik, who is now the Governor of Goa, told ANI.Omar Abdullah who was released from detention in March after seven months, was quick to rebut Malik on Twitter.“Only naam ka satya not kaam ka. He never tires of lying. Lied to people of J&K before 5th August & lying now. Hiding behind walls of Raj Bhavan protected from defamation suits so feels emboldened to shoot his mouth off. Let him say all this when he is no longer governor & see,” he tweeted. Only naam ka satya not kaam ka. He never tires of lying. Lied to people of J&K before 5th August & lying now. Hiding behind walls of Raj Bhavan protected from defamation suits so feels emboldened to shoot his mouth off. Let him say all this when he is no longer governor & see. https://t.co/q25xR1526VThe National Conference had boycotted the panchayat and local body elections in Jammu and Kashmir that were held in October and November of 2018 after the Centre and state government did not heed its demand of clarifying their stands on Article 35 A which provided special rights to the former state’s citizens.The PDP had decided not to take part in the urban local body and panchayat elections citing an “atmosphere of fear” over doubts that Article 35A was about to be abolished.Jammu and Kashmir was under Governor’s rule when the panchayat elections were held.On August 5, 2019, the Centre scrapped Article 370 that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir and split it into two union territories and detained top leaders including Omar and Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti who continues to be in detention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-naam-ka-satya-omar-s-swipe-at-sp-malik-for-claims-on-jk-rural-polls/story-gUoldRNYIavPvo6Ww8jQKN.html
23-05-2020||India||20 fresh Covid-19 cases reported from Uttarakhand, none in Rudraprayag so far||Covid-19 cases are rising in Uttarakhand with the return of migrants labourers. Twenty new cases were detected in the state on Saturday, taking the coronavirus tally to 173. All twenty patients who have tested positive are men.The hilly district of Rudraprayag is the only one in the state now to not have any positive cases of coronavirus so far. Covid-19 cases were also reported from Champawat and Pithoragarh on Saturday - districts which were previously untouched by Covid-19.A bulletin released by the state health department mentioned that fresh cases were reported from Almora (3), Champawat (7), Dehradun (2), Haridwar (1), Nainital (2), Pithoragarh (2) and Uttarkashi (3).Also read: Can sanitisers left inside hot cars explode? Here is what you should knowOver 75 migrants labourers have tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand till now. Of the total 173 cases reported, 43 cases - nearly 25% of the cases - have been reported from the hilly districts which has become a matter of concern for officials in Uttarakhand.The Covid-19 recovery rate in the state has also been reducing gradually and dipped by almost 30% in the past ten days. The recovery rate now stands at eight days for the past seven days.On May 4, when lockdown 3.0 began, Uttarakhand had reported 60 cases while the tally now stands at 173.On Friday, seven fresh cases were detected all of whom were men. Three of these cases were reported from Dehradun, two from Haridwar and two from US Nagar. Of three patients in Dehradun, one had returned from Delhi while another from Mumbai. The third patient is a Thalassemia patient. In US Nagar, one had returned from Delhi and another from Mumbai. In Haridwar, one is a resident of Luxer area in the district, while the another one had returned from Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-from-uttarakhand-none-in-rudraprayag-so-far/story-ZncqcvdLehL72gz8Dzv30J.html
23-05-2020||India||‘Relations between CM Thackeray and Guv Koshyari like father and son’: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena leader and the party’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut on Saturday met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan.Later, Raut said that it was a courtesy call that lasted for around 40 minutes and there were no differences between Sena and the Governor.Raut, who met Koshyari after the tussle between the Governor and Uddhav Thackeray led-Maha Vikas Aghadi, comprising the ruling coalition of the Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and the Congress, over the government formation last year, remarked that the relations between the two are like father and son.“The relations between the Governor and chief minister Thackeray are cordial and they respect each other. There’re no differences between the two. Their relationship is like a father-son duo,” Raut told media persons.Later, Raj Bhavan authorities also tweeted about Raut’s courtesy call.The meeting assumes significance as Raut had criticised the Governor for the delay in appointing Thackeray as Maharashtra CM after the MVA unanimously elected him as its leader on November 26, 2019.The Governor on Friday had taken exception to the higher and technical education minister and Shiv Sena leader Uday Samant’s letter to the University Grants Commission (UGC), urging it not to conduct the final year examinations for college and university students because of the unprecedented coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Governor Koshyari urged the CM to resolve the issue of holding examinations in the larger interests of the students amid speculation that the incident is the latest point of friction between the MVA and Raj Bhawan.Raut, however, tried to downplay the Samant’s UGC letter row. “The letter is the minister’s personal opinion. While the Governor is also entitled to his own opinion. The issue will be resolved soon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relations-between-maha-cm-and-governor-like-father-and-son-sena/story-XuSfYC8zuFHYc5YVyR3rKO.html
23-05-2020||India||Maharashtra CM, governor like father and son, says Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena senior leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday met with Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan in Mumbai.A Raj Bhavan statement described the meeting between the Sena MP and the governor as a “courtesy call”.Raut’s visit came on the heels of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray skipping a meeting called by the governor to assess the state government’s preparedness to tackle Covid-19 crisis on Wednesday.Earlier this week, the Opposition BJP had visited the governor and complained that the state government had failed in checking the spread of the virus.Meanwhile, Raut told reporters that it was a courtesy visit.“The governor and the chief minister had no conflict between them. Their relations are like that of a father and a son, and they will remain like that,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cm-governor-like-father-and-son-says-shiv-sena/story-L0mEJ3qgvFdOjZdSGuemCO.html
23-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh health dept notifies red, green, orange and containment zones||The health department in Chhattisgarh has released a fresh classification of red, orange, green and containment zones in the state to contain the recent spike in the number of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Chhattisgarh on Friday recorded 40 new Covid-19 patients, the highest till now in the state. Officials claimed that most of the cases detected were of migrant workers returning to their respective districts.Chhattisgarh’s tally of Covid-19 is now at 172, out of which 110 are active and 62 patients have been discharged after recovery, a medical bulletin released on Friday night said.The health department said in a notification on Friday evening that 44 containment zones have been notified as by the state government.There are four development blocks in red zones as per the notification—Daundilohara block in Balod district; Takhatpur and Masturi block in Bilaspur district; and Korba block of Korba district.The notification further classified 80 development blocks and cities in 25 districts as orange zone and the rest of the 146 development blocks as a green zone.“As per the guidelines issued by the Union health and family welfare ministry on May 17, the zones are marked red, orange or green based on the numbers of active Covid-19 cases, the rate at which it is doubling and samples being tested per 1 lakh population of the said area,” the notification said.Senior health officials said the zones will be reviewed every Monday and that the present classification was done on the basis of the situation on May 22.“The classification has been made block-wise and town-wise not district-wise, which was earlier done by the central government. The zones are made keeping in mind the present situation and geographical area,” said an official of the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-health-dept-notifies-red-green-orange-and-containment-zones/story-OnsYv2tXhcdPKHs132eYvK.html
23-05-2020||India||‘Will try to resume international flights before August’: Hardeep Puri||Aviation minister Hardeep Puri on Friday said that he will try to resume international passenger flights before August. Just this week, the resumption of domestic flights was announced. The operations begin Monday.“We will try to start good percentage of international passenger flights before August,” Hardeep Puri said during a Facebook Q&A session.According to data by Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), domestic flights in the first phase will operate on all routes, taking off from a total of 35 origin cities and landing in 39 destination airports.The government has fixed fare limits for next three months to ensure there is no overcharging by airlines in view of an expected rush of passengers and heightened demand for tickets, Puri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-try-to-resume-international-flights-before-august-hardeep-puri/story-EWiICPWCoqyaM5KhmnqCfO.html
23-05-2020||India||Four Indian cosmonauts resume training in Russia for Gaganyaan mission||The four cosmonauts shortlisted for Gaganyaan, India’s first manned space mission, have resumed their training in Russia, after it was put on hold due to COVID-19 scare. Russian space corporation, Roscosmos in a statement said, “Gagarin Research & Test Cosmonaut Training Center (GCTC) on May 12 resumed training of the Indian cosmonauts under the contract between Glavkosmos, JSC (part of the State Space Corporation Roscosmos) and the Human Spaceflight Center of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO).” All four Indian cosmonauts were in good health. “GCTC continues to observe anti-epidemic regulations according to which sanitary and hygienic measures are carried out at all the GCTC facilities, social distancing measures are applied and the presence of unauthorized persons is restricted; all employees and cosmonauts must wear medical masks and gloves,” it added. Roscosmos also tweeted a picture of the cosmonauts wearing space suit bearing Indian flag. Four Indian Air Force fighter pilots are currently under training in Moscow, and are likely to be potential candidates for the Gaganyaan project. The Rs 10,000-crore ambitious project is expected to be launched in 2022, the year of the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence Roscosmos further said, this week, the GCTC specialists are providing theoretical classes on the basics of astrogation, the basics of manned spacecraft control and the Russian language to the Indian cosmonauts. The contract for the training of Indian cosmonauts between Glavkosmos and the Human Spaceflight Center of ISRO was signed on June 27, 2019, and their training in Russia started on February 10, 2020. Since the end of March, due to the outbreak of COVID-19 infection, a lockdown was recommended for the Indian cosmonauts which they carefully observed, it said. Earlier, officials had said that after the training in Russia, the cosmonauts will receive module-specific training in India, where they would be trained in crew and service module designed by ISRO, learn to operate it, work around it and do simulations. PTI KSU ROH ROH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-indian-cosmonauts-resume-training-in-russia-for-gaganyaan-mission/story-FtONd2aacouh0GzKeQeR2M.html
23-05-2020||India||Pharma department warns against profiteering and hoarding of N-95 masks||The department of pharmaceuticals has warned manufactures, importers and suppliers against overpricing and hoarding of N-95 masks, after receiving complaints that the item was being sold at exorbitant rates. The government has already declared the masks an essential commodity due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The department of pharmaceuticals, in a directive, asked states to ensure that N-95 and surgical masks, gloves and hand sanitisers are available in sufficient quantities and their sales price doesn’t exceed the maximum retail price mentioned on the pack. “This refers to the grievances being received regarding hoarding, black marketing and differential higher pricing of N-95 masks in the country…It is hereby informed that N-95 mask has been notified as an essential commodity on March 13 under the Essential Commodities Act…hoarding, black marketing of the essential commodity is punishable offence under the Act,” said the directive issued on Thursday.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageUnder the Essential Commodities Act, those who fail to comply with the directive can be punished with a prison term of a minimum of three months and a fine, and the prison term can go up to a maximum of seven years.The department of pharmaceuticals has received several complaints about the over-pricing of the product and a mismatch between demand and supply because people had started hoarding masks. However, there are clear-cut guidelines from the Union health ministry and the World Health Organization (WHO) that medical masks are meant only for frontline healthcare workers.“We have always reiterated that medical masks are not meant for the general public. It is only meant for doctors and other personnel dealing with either positive patients or suspected and high-risk cases directly,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, has said at several press briefings.The most recent complaint was from the Maharashtra government, which also wrote to the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) last week, asking the price for items such as N-95 masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits should be fixed as they are being sold at higher rates in markets.To meet the demand for safety gear, the government has been procuring N-95 masks in bulk directly from manufacturers, importers and suppliers at bulk rates and ex-factory prices, while other procures such as non-government entities are getting them at differential prices that ultimately trickle down to the consumers, who end up paying a higher price.“Thus, in order to ensure availability of N-95 masks at affordable prices in the country, NPPA hereby directs manufacturers, importers, suppliers of the N-95 masks to maintain parity in prices for non-government procurements, and to make available the same at a reasonable price. Any instance of hoarding, black marketing and higher pricing of N-95 masks reported will be viewed seriously and action shall be initiated by the government under the Essentials Commodities Act, 1955,” the government order stated. A senior government official said the directive was necessary because people were selling the masks at widely different rates. “It has been reiterated that flouting norms could land them in trouble. Profiteering at this time when people are fighting a pandemic is not acceptable,” the official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pharma-dept-warns-against-profiteering-and-hoarding-of-n-95-masks/story-F9ka2jn6iZJwpIafvjOR9J.html
23-05-2020||India||‘Tablighi Jamaat members added to initial spread of Covid-19 in Indore, Bhopal’: Madhya Pradesh CM||The members of Tablighi Jamaat contributed to the initial spread of coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh, particularly in cities like Indore and Bhopal, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said in an interview.CM Chouhan said that the Jamaatis, who attended a religious gathering in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March, which emerged as a coronavirus hotspot in the country, travelled to other areas in the country and contributed to the spread of the virus. “They did not act responsibly,” Chouhan told news agency PTI. He said these Jamaatis further added to the problem by not cooperating with government and not coming forth for timely testing.On the Covid-19 situation in the state, Chouhan said that the administration is monitoring the situation continuously.“Situation seems to be improving and stable now. More than 1,500 patients of Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain have recovered and are well now,” Chouhan said.Also read: India records another biggest-single day spike with 6,654 new Covid-19 casesMadhya Pradesh is struggling with the rising number of Covid-19 cases. With 6,170 coronavirus cases in the state as of Saturday morning, the state stands sixth on the national Covid-19 tally after Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi and Rajasthan.Three thousand and eighty-nine people have recovered from Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh or have been discharged from the hospital while 272 people have lost their lives. Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain are the top affected districts in the state.Amid the coronavirus crisis, the state administration is also prepping for assembly bypolls for 24 seats which is due in a few month’s time.The date for elections has not been finalised as all elections have been put on hold because of the coronavirus pandemic. The bypoll was necessitated after 22 Congress MLAs resigned and joined the BJP. Two seats fell vacant after the demise of a BJP and a Congress MLA.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-members-added-to-initial-spread-covid-19-in-indore-bhopal-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-8gNpkKByCtLnAk9W589GCO.html
23-05-2020||India||‘Bluntly tell government to do its duty’: Chidambaram advises RBI governor||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday advised Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das to “bluntly tell the government to do its duty (and) take fiscal measures” to firepower the national economy struggling due to coronavirus and the resultant lockdown imposed to combat its spread.“Governor @DasShaktikanta says demand has collapsed, growth in 2020-21 headed toward negative territory. Why is he then infusing more liquidity? He should bluntly tell the government ‘Do your duty, take fiscal measures’,” tweeted the Congress leader.On Friday, Das admitted that growth will be in “negative territory” this year, the first time anyone in the government or the central bank has admitted that India’s gross domestic product (GDP) will shrink this year.Chidambaram said the “RSS should be ashamed of how the government has dragged the economy into negative growth territory”. Governor @DasShaktikanta says demand has collapsed, growth in 2020-21 headed toward negative territory. Why is he then infusing more liquidity? He should bluntly tell the government ‘Do your duty, take fiscal measures’.The governor cut the policy rate by 40 basis points to 4.0% yesterday, acknowledging the adverse impact on the Indian economy of the coronavirus disease.Das announced the cut, and other measures aimed at keeping “financial markets working, ensuring access to funds to everyone, and preserving financial stability”. Chidambaram, who has also been a former finance minister, hit out at PM Narendra Modi and FM Nirmala Sitharaman for the Rs 20 lakh crore relief package that has “fiscal stimulus of less than 1% of GDP”.The PM had claimed that the relief package was worth 10 percent of the GDP. “Even after RBI’s statement, is the @PMOIndia or @nsitharaman lauding themselves for a package that has fiscal stimulus of less than 1% of GDP?,” said Chidambaram in another tweet.Yesterday, Sonia Gandhi, while addressing a meeting of 22 like-minded parties, also described PM Modi’s May 12 announcement of the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package as a “cruel joke” on the country.“This package is about 10 percent of India’s GDP. With this various sections of the country and those linked to economic system will get support and strength of 20 lakh crore rupees. This package will give a new impetus to the development journey of the country in 2020 and a new direction to the Self-reliant India campaign,” said the PM while announcing the package.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluntly-tell-government-to-do-its-duty-chidambaram-advises-rbi-governor/story-QgKVly0Q1GcYR2Dukt3siJ.html
23-05-2020||India||Live: Nushrat Bharucha, her mom and grandma on ‘elder care’ in Covid times||Worried about taking care of the elderly while staying with them during the lockdown?WATCH | Live: Nushrat Bharucha, her mom and grandma on ‘elder care’ in Covid timesJoin the conversation with popular Bollywood actor Nushrat Bharucha, her mother (Tasneem Bharucha, 63) and grandmother (Laila Bharucha, 83), who’ve been staying together during the lockdown. Our health expert on the panel is Dr Manish Kulshrestha, Senior Consultant and Unit Head, General and Laparoscopic Surgery, Fortis Hospital.The Spotlight series brought to you by HT City puts the focus on the biggest concerns in the post-Covid era.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/live-nushrat-bharucha-her-mom-and-grandma-on-elder-care-in-covid-times/story-IQKdinRT7XiF1Z7FEllB1L.html
23-05-2020||India||Live: Actors Suresh, Vivek Oberoi on ‘caring for the elderly’ in lockdown||HT City, your one-stop destination for all things lifestyle, puts the spotlight on one of the biggest concerns in the post-Covid era - the right care for the elderly living on their own.WATCH | Live: Actors Suresh, Vivek Oberoi on ‘caring for the elderly’ in lockdownJoin the conversation as Bollywood veteran Suresh Oberoi and his son and actor Vivek Oberoi - who live in their respective homes away from each other - share their concerns with Dr SKS Marya, Chairman, Orthopaedics, Max Healthcare Hospitals in this episode of HT Spotlight.This is the first in a series of conversations and webinars that HT City Spotlight is bringing to you on issues that are centre stage during the current Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/live-actors-suresh-vivek-oberoi-on-caring-for-the-elderly-in-lockdown/story-wePfzK2OiHeHDjcTZDn4oL.html
23-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Cong releases video on Rahul Gandhi’s interaction with migrants and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress releases video on Rahul Gandhi’s interaction with migrant workersThe Congress on Saturday released a video of an interaction between former party chief Rahul Gandhi and a group of migrant workers walking back to a village in Uttar Pradesh from Haryana amid the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown. Read moreBihar says migrant workers arriving from 7 states to be kept in Covid-19 quarantine campsKeeping in view the rise in coronavirus cases, Bihar government has announced that migrants labourers returning from seven states will be lodged in quarantine camps. Read moreDoctor dies at Pune’s Sassoon hospital after testing Covid-19 positiveA 56-year old general practitioner doctor from Maharashtra’s Keshavnagar, who practised in Ghorpadegaon, died at Sassoon general hospital on Friday after testing positive for Covid-19. Read moreThree new Covid-19 cases surface from containment zone in ChandigarhThree new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Bapu Dham Colony, a containment zone, on Saturday morning taking the total count of infections in the city to 222. Chandigarh now has 41 active cases. Read moreUS discussed conducting its first nuclear test in decades: ReportThe Trump administration discussed last week whether to conduct its first nuclear test explosion since 1992, the Washington Post reported late on Friday, citing a senior official and two former officials familiar with the matter. Read moreBCCI will win; they’ll get their way if they want to: Chappell on IPL replacing T20 World CupFormer Australian captain Ian Chappell is known for his hard stance against the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and he has said that the BCCI with its clout might get to host the IPL if the T20 World Cup is postponed by the ICC. Read moreAn iOS bug is stopping some users from opening their apps on iPhone, iPadThere is a bug that is preventing some iOS apps from opening. iPhone and iPad users can see a message - “This app is no longer shared with you” when they try to access an app. Read moreEid ul Fitr Ramadan 2020 Muslim moon: How Ramadan and Eid will be different in coronavirus lockdown 4.0Ask any Muslim how they feel about Ramadan and Eid, and irrespective of their level of piety, their faces will light up and they will give you details of all their Ramadan memories with the excitement of a child. Read moreHuge virtual wave crashes against glass box in Seoul, it’s mesmerising to watchA 3D illusion of a wave swirling inside of a big glass box has now memerised people. Placed overlooking a heavily trafficked section in Seoul, South Korea this art installation is absolutely stunning, to say the least. There’s a chance that it will leave you amazed too. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cong-releases-video-on-rahul-gandhi-s-interaction-with-migrants-and-all-the-latest-news/story-448ljD0aKXHtf2WvTu4JgO.html
23-05-2020||India||Mother poisons 2 kids, commits suicide in UP||A woman allegedly committed suicide after administering poison to her two children here as she was upset over a family dispute, police said on Saturday. Luxmi gave poison to her son Rudraksh (5) and daughter Mahi (7) before consuming it herself at Dudhaheri village under Mansurpur Police Station in the district on Friday, they said. The three were taken to a hospital where the woman was declared brought dead by the doctors and the children are in a serious condition, they said.  The woman had married Pravesh Kumar nine years ago, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mother-poisons-2-kids-commits-suicide-in-up/story-W1tKlmYPI2AAMfyIgwNbmK.html
23-05-2020||India||CM Mamata says don’t send Shramik Specials, officials busy with Amphan relief||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday requested the ministry of railways to not send any Shramik Special trains to the state till May 26 as officials are busy in relief work after the havoc wreaked by Cyclone Amphan.“As the district administrations are involved in relief and rehabilitation works, it will not be possible to receive special trains for the next few days. It is therefore requested that no train should be sent to West Bengal till May 26,” the Bengal CM was quoted as saying by the Press Trust of India.The letter from state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha to Chairman of Railway board V K Yadav on May 22 stated that the state has been severely impacted by Super Cyclone Amphan which caused extensive damage to the infrastructure.At least 86 people in Bengal have died due to Cyclone Amphan. It was the region’s worst weather disaster and the authorities have been scrambling to restore normalcy.West Bengal has received the least number of Shramik Special trains since such service began to ferry migrant labourers back home amid the coronavirus-forced lockdown.Home Minister Amit Shah in a letter had alleged that Bengal was not allowing its migrants to return. Later, it was decided that the consent of the destination state was not required to operate these trains.On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the state and conducted an aerial survey of the Cyclone-hit areas with CM Banerjee. Lending support, Modi said that the central government stands with Bengal in these testing times and announced Rs 1,000 crore for the relief and rehabilitation of people affected by the Cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-mamata-requests-centre-to-not-send-shramik-specials-as-amphan-relief-afoot/story-2xj2n6t86t7NoqEavRPMhP.html
23-05-2020||India||Bihar says migrant workers arriving from 7 states to be kept in quarantine camps||Keeping in view the rise in coronavirus cases, Bihar government has announced that migrants labourers returning from seven states will be lodged in quarantine camps. According to the order by Disaster Management Department, Government of Bihar, migrant labourers coming to Bihar from Surat, Ahmedabad in Gujarat; Mumbai, Pune in Maharashtra; Delhi; Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Noida in Uttar Pradesh; Kolkata, West Bengal; Gurugram in Haryana and Bengaluru, Karnataka will be kept in quarantine camps. Bihar: Migrants returning to the state from Surat, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Pune, Delhi, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Gurugram, Noida, Kolkata & Bangalore to be kept in quarantine camps. People returning from other places to be home quarantined if they don't show #COVID19 symptoms. pic.twitter.com/OCS8IuqxYQThe order stated that District Magistrates may add to the current list of cities depending on the situation. Migrant labourers returning to Bihar from the above-mentioned cities will be lodged in regional quarantine facilities for 14 days, it stated, adding that asymptomatic migrant labourers will be allowed to go home after 14-day quarantine and will be required to observe home quarantine for 7 days. People returning from other places, on the other hand, will be required to follow home quarantine if they don’t show symptoms of Covid-19, the order read. According to the order, strict social distancing norms will be followed at all quarantine facilities. Standard protocol, as laid down by the Ministry of Health, will be followed in cases where migrant labourers show symptoms of Covid-19. So far, Bihar has reported over 2,000 cases of coronavirus. On Saturday, the state Covid-19 tally jumped to 2,177. Eleven people have died from coronavirus in Bihar while 629 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the state or have been discharged from hospitals. The national Covid-19 tally breached the 125,000-mark on Saturday. India has reported 125,101 coronavirus cases till date of which 3,720 patients have died while 51,783 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-says-migrant-workers-arriving-from-7-states-to-be-kept-in-covid-19-quarantine-camps/story-eLUS43omD91weeF2LQkNzL.html
23-05-2020||India||Congress releases video on Rahul Gandhi’s interaction with migrant workers||The Congress on Saturday released a video of an interaction between former party chief Rahul Gandhi and a group of migrant workers walking back to a village in Uttar Pradesh from Haryana amid the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.The interaction took place on May 16 near Sukhdev Vihar flyover in New Delhi. The migrant workers were on their way from Ambala in Haryana to Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi, a distance of about 600 km.Gandhi met them when they stopped to rest after walking more than 100 km. In the 17-minute video, Gandhi is seen sitting on a footpath with the migrants and interacting with them.Watch this short film in which I speak with India’s real nation builders, our migrant brothers & sisters. https://t.co/As99mjVvytFor almost an hour, he listened to their story and hardships, the discrimination they faced, their reasons for deciding to flee their workplace, and why they were forced to walk back to their homes, their fears, dreams and aspirations, the Congress said.At the request of the group, Gandhi and Congress volunteers organised transport and necessary permissions to get them back safely to their village, the party said.On arrival, they were screened by local health authorities and put into 21-day home quarantine. Soon after the interaction on May 16, the party alleged that Delhi Police had detained the workers.The police, however, refuted the claim. “We have not detained any migrant. Rahul Gandhi came and interacted with the migrants. Later, his supporters took the migrants in their vehicles,” said deputy commissioner of police (southeast Delhi) R P Meena.The migrant crisis has triggered a political slugfest between the opposition Congress and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), with both sides accusing each other of playing politics on the issue.In his introduction to the video, Gandhi said Covid-19 has hit a lot of people but the worst affected are migrant workers walking thousands of kilometres back to their homes, without food and water and despite being beaten up and threatened. “But they did not stop and continued to walk back to their homes. I want to give you a glimpse of their thinking, fears, dreams, aspirations and their future,” he said.In the video, Mahesh Kumar, a migrant worker of Jhansi, tells Gandhi he and the other workers had been walking 120 km and stopping at regular intervals. “We are helpless. What can we do? We have to walk,” he says.Another construction worker and his family tell Gandhi they would have left for their homes had information about the lockdown been provided four days before it was imposed. The workers remained non-committal about returning to their workplaces, insisting it is important to save their lives. They claimed they had not received any monetary help from the government.The migrants said more than the Coronavirus, hunger is hurting them and that is why they were not afraid of getting killed on the roads.Gandhi concluded the video with a message to migrant workers: “My brother and sisters, you are the strength of this country, you carry the weight of this country on your shoulders. The entire country wants there should be justice (nyay) with you. It is our duty to empower this strength of the country.”Gandhi also demanded that the government should immediately ensure a direct cash transfer of Rs 7,500 to each of 13 crore families.Gandhi’s conversation with this group of migrants was shaped into a documentary and released on the former Congress chief’s YouTube channel, which he launched recently. The Congress said Gandhi has been extremely active on social media for many years now, becoming one of the 10 most followed politicians in the world on Twitter with 14.2 million followers. Over the past few weeks, he has been regularly releasing longer format videos of his conversations with noted experts, such as former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan and Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee.In the pipeline are a number of new video formats and innovative communication approaches that he will use to take his message to the widest possible audience in India and abroad, the party said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-releases-video-on-rahul-gandhi-s-interaction-with-migrant-workers/story-JrQlka9VeRxcDdtGBI4JjO.html
23-05-2020||India||‘Over 28 lakh samples tested for Covid-19, 1,15,364 in last 24 hours’: ICMR||India has tested over 1.15 lakh samples for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, Indian Council of Medical Research stated on Saturday.As of May 23, 9 am, the total number of samples tested for coronavirus in the country stands at 28,34,798. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours is 1,15,364, the ICMR said. Till date, more than 1.25 lakh people have been infected from coronavirus in the country. On Saturday, the Ministry of Health updated the national Covid-19 tally to 125,101. There are 69,597 active Covid-19 cases in the country while more than 51,000 people have recovered from the deadly contagion. The coronavirus death toll in the country stands at 3,720. India on Saturday reported another highest single-day spike with 6,654 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours. Also read: India records another biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 125,101 Testing (Molecular based) Update - Total number of samples tested is 28,34,798; number of samples tested in 24 hours is 1,15,364: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/q5YvUurORUGlobally, coronavirus cases have breached the 5 million-mark while over 3.4 lakh people have lost their lives to the contagion worldwide. With more than one million Covid-19 cases, the United States is the worst-hit country, followed by Brazil, Russia, Spain, UK, Italy, France, Germany, Turkey and Iran. Also read: ‘No movement pass needed for people with flight, train tickets,’ says Noida PoliceThe original Covid-19 epicentre, China, reported no new coronavirus case for the first time since January. China on Saturday reported zero new coronavirus infections for the first time since it started reporting data in January, news agency AFP reported. India, at present, is under the fourth phase of coronavirus lockdown which will come to an end on May 31. Amid lockdown 4.0, the government has decided to resume domestic flights and limited rail operations. While domestic air travel is set to commence from May 25, as many as 200 trains will start operation from June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-28-lakh-samples-tested-for-covid-19-1-15-364-in-last-24-hours-icmr/story-8qe7obOfamwBgh34PKzmqI.html
23-05-2020||India||How one Indian company could be world’s door to a Covid-19 vaccine||If the world is to gain access to a vaccine for Covid-19, there’s a good chance it will pass through the doors of Serum Institute of India.Serum Institute, the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines by volume, is working on several candidates for the novel coronavirus - including potentially mass-producing the AstraZeneca/Oxford university one that has garnered global headlines - as well as developing its own.The efforts are partly being shepherded by Umesh Shaligram, the head of research and development. His employer is a private company but every day, shortly before midnight, he receives a WhatsApp message from the government asking for updates, and about any new hurdles he faces.The message is usually from K. VijayRaghavan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s top scientific adviser - an indication of the critical, and even strategically important, nature of the race to develop the vaccines the whole world is waiting for.Shaligram promptly responds with a progress report and details any bottlenecks.“Any delays, you just tell them,” said Shaligram, adding the government has been doing everything it can to fast-track clearances, and resolve import delays and other issues.“We have begun to see approvals come through in days, even on a Sunday night, for trials and things like that,” he said, noting some of these processes typically took 4 to 6 months.While most of the attention regarding vaccines typically goes to the pharmaceutical developer, India quietly plays a key role in manufacturing 60%-70% of all vaccines sold globally with the Serum Institute playing a lead role, said the company’s Chief Executive Adar Poonawalla.At the company’s sprawling, 150-acre campus in the western Indian city of Pune, Shaligram and his team are working flat-out. Dozens of buses ferry in hundreds of workers each day to the grounds, which are buzzing with activity even as the city around it remains largely under lockdown.The push comes as the number of cases of Covid-19, both globally and domestically, continue to surge and world leaders look to vaccines as the only real way to restart their stalled economies, even though none have yet been proven to be effective against the coronavirus.Poonawalla, whose family owns he vaccine maker, said scientists, drugmakers and manufacturers were collaborating at an unparalleled scale to spur development and availability.“We are all in a race to battle the disease, there is no one-upmanship here,” he told Reuters, sitting in his office beside his family’s 74-year-old stud farm.Vaccine candidatesSerum, founded in 1966 by Adar’s father Cyrus Poonawalla, has partnered with US biotech firm Codagenix, its US rival Novavax and Austria’s Themis to potentially manufacture three Covid-19 vaccine candidates that are still in development.Another candidate in the works is the experimental vaccine developed by a team at the University of Oxford and now licensed to drugmaker AstraZeneca, with whom Serum are in talks to mass produce the vaccine, which is now in the clinical trial stage.The United States has secured almost a third of the first 1 billion doses planned for the potential vaccine, initially known as ChAdOx1 and now as AZD1222, by pledging up to $1.2 billion.Poonawalla aims to initially produce 4-5 million doses a month, beginning from June, and then gradually ramp up to 350-400 million doses a year.“Hopefully we will build a stock of a few million doses to give to our country and other high-risk areas across the globe come October-November when the trials ought to be concluded,” the 39-year-old said, while giving Reuters rare access to tour his facilities.He added he had been given to understand by the development team that the trials had an 80% chance of success, given that the vaccine is based on a tried-and-tested platform.Based on the information currently available, Poonawalla also said he anticipated AZD1222 would be a single-dose vaccine and not require a booster dose.He sees AZD1222 potentially priced at about 1,000 rupees ($13) per dose in India, but expects it will be procured and distributed by governments without charge.Serum is also working on developing its own in-house vaccine options to tackle the disease, Poonawalla said.Vials, tubes, chemicalsEven if a vaccine does succeed, a treatment to fight Covid-19 would still be required, said Poonawalla, noting some people do not get the desired immune response, even if vaccinated.“You may get mild symptoms, you may get severe symptoms. It depends on your system, but there is a chance,” he added. “Not all vaccines are fully effective.”The Serum Institute produces more than 1.5 billion doses of vaccines every year, for everything from polio to measles.Poonawalla says that gave the company an edge in securing supplies of vials and high-quality chemicals required to make a vaccine in bulk once all approvals are in place.“We have partnered with many of our suppliers to have one to two-year inventories of glass vials and tubing glass stocked in advance, so luckily for us that won’t be an issue.”Any successful vaccine is however bound to be in short supply at first, he stressed.India recorded more than 6,000 new cases of the coronavirus on Friday, bringing its total to over 118,000 cases with more than 3,500 deaths, even as it gradually begins to ease its nearly two-month long nationwide lockdown.There have been more than 5 million infections and over 330,000 deaths reported worldwide.The Indian government stands ready to cover the costs of trials of any vaccine in the country, said Poonawalla, adding that the government had also expressed interest in placing advance orders for a potential vaccine.“We’ve reached out and they have been very positive,” he added. “But we’ve said hold on ... as we don’t want to take government money until we are very confident we can deliver.”Unlocking value in the ‘hype’Serum, one of the few companies ramping up hiring during the health crisis, is also designing a separate facility to make vaccines for pandemic-level diseases that could handle 90% of the current vaccine candidates being developed, beyond just the Covid-19 ones.That facility, which will be ready in the next two to three years, would be able to potentially churn out 700-800 million doses a year, according to Poonawalla.The CEO said he considered taking the company public some years ago to fund some large acquisitions, but changed course when the deals fell through.Now he’s considering a different approach. He is exploring creating a holding entity that will host the company’s pandemic-level technologies, including manufacturing rights, intellectual property and the sale of all of Serum’s Covid-19-related candidates, and selling a minority stake in the venture.“That will unlock value in the main hype,” he said.Poonawalla said he had engaged bankers to test the waters on this, but stressed he would only consider selling a stake to ethical, long-term funds or sovereign funds that do not expect huge returns and want to “make a difference to the world”.“After getting them onboard, I don’t want to be in a situation where I have to charge high prices to give them returns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-one-indian-company-could-be-world-s-door-to-a-covid-19-vaccine/story-WXQQQGA7BMCkSY0oAyY5vM.html
23-05-2020||India||Air passengers from 6 states to undergo ‘institutional quarantine’: DGP Karnataka||In the wake of the resumption of domestic air travel from Monday, Director General of Police, Karnataka has stated that all passengers coming to Karnataka via domestic flights from Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh will be required to undergo a 7-day “institutional quarantine” which will be followed by home quarantine.In a Twitter post on Saturday morning, the office of DGP, Karanataka announced the same. Also read: ‘No movement pass needed for people with flight, train tickets,’ says Noida PoliceIncoming domestic flight passenger from Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi & Madhya Pradesh will undergo 7 day institutional Quarantine followed by home quarantine.“Incoming domestic flight passenger from Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi & Madhya Pradesh will undergo 7 day institutional Quarantine followed by home quarantine,” the tweet read. Earlier this week, the Ministry of Civil Aviation announced that domestic air travel will resume from May 25 with conditions. The ministry has urged “vulnerable people”, like the elderly, pregnant women and children, to avoid travelling. It also said that, as of now, only one-third of operations will be resumed. A comprehensive list of guidelines for air passengers was also issued which laid out the dos and don’t of air travelling amid the coronavirus crisis. As per the guidelines, passengers must wear masks and follow social distancing norms. Only one cabin bag and one check-in baggage will be allowed per passenger. Web check-ins are encouraged and health update on Aarogya Setu - as well as self-declaration - is also a must. This comes when the number of coronavirus cases in the country breached the 125,000-mark on Saturday. According to the Ministry of Health, the Covid-19 tally in the country stands at 125,101. There are 69,597 active cases of coronavirus in the country while 3,720 people have succumbed to death. The number of patients who have recovered or have been discharged from the hospitals has jumped to 51,783.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgp-karnataka-says-incoming-air-passengers-from-these-states-required-to-undergo-institutional-quarantine/story-4iJcrWWUBb6eAfb3okwOmJ.html
23-05-2020||India||India records another biggest-single day spike with 6,654 new Covid-19 cases||India on Saturday reported another highest single-day spike with 6,654 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the infection tally to 125,101, according to data released by the Union health ministry.This is the second time in a week that the tally of Covid-19 cases has surged beyond 6,000 and the third time that the country reported the biggest one-day rise in the number of infections. On Friday, 6,088 new cases were recorded and before that 5,611 infections were seen on Wednesday in the span of 24 hours, health ministry data shows.Also read: Govt expands use of hydroxychloroquine to curb transmission of Covid-19The death toll related to the respiratory disease stands at 3,720 on Saturday after 137 people succumbed in the last 24 hours, the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard showed.The Covid-19 recovery rate has gone up to 41% as 51,783 people have been cured as the country entered the sixth day of the fourth phase of the lockdown.According to government data released by NITI Aayog member Vinod Paul on Friday, lockdown 1 and 2 has managed to significantly slow down the virus transmission rate in the country and avert between 1.4 and 2.9 million Covid-19 cases and 54,000 deaths.“The situation would have been much worse, as the data suggests. We have about 95% confidence level on the data generated out of all this analysis, which is proof enough to say that the country is on the right track. Having said that, this kind of analysis is always prone to improvisations, depending on the kind of data that’s fed,” Paul said.Also read| ‘No movement pass needed for people with flight, train tickets’: Noida PoliceThe government has maintained that lockdown was meant to slow the disease transmission so that it got enough time to upgrade the health infrastructure in terms of hospitals beds, testing capacity and trained human resources, among other things, to better manage the coronavirus pandemic.At least five different agencies were involved in data analysis, providing a range between 1.4 and 2.9 million cases averted, and between 37,000 and 78,000 deaths averted.The analysis also shows that much of the outbreak is confined to a limited area. As of May 21, around 80% of the Covid-19 cases were limited to five states, and 90% of the cases were spread largely across 10 states. The states are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, MP, Rajasthan, UP, West Bengal, Bihar and Karnataka. In the cities, about 70% of the cases are confined to just 10—Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Ahmadabad, Thane, Pune, Indore, Kolkata, Hyderabad and Aurangabad.The deaths follow the same pattern, with 95% of Covid-19 deaths being reported from 10 states and 70% from 10 cities.The 10 worst affected states in terms of deaths are Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. And the 10 cities from where maximum deaths are being reported are Mumbai, Ahmadabad, Pune, Delhi, Kolkata, Indore, Thane, Jaipur, Chennai and Surat.Maharashtra now has more than 44,000 Covid-19 cases and 1,517 people have died in the western state, which is the worst hit in the country. Tamil Nadu has 14,753 infections and Gujarat has reported 13,268 cases of the coronavirus disease so far.With 12,319 Covid-19 cases, Delhi is the fourth worst-hit region in the country. The Union health ministry has also issued an advisory expanding the pool of people to be given anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) as a prophylactic to prevent them from contracting the infection.The earlier HCQ advisory on March 23 cleared its prophylactic use for two high-risk groups: asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases, and asymptomatic household contacts of confirmed cases.Experts have also said the medicine must not be given to patients suffering from heart diseases, hypersensitivity etc. The drug is also not recommended for children under 15 years of age, pregnant and lactating women.Doctors feel more evidence is required before confidence in the drug can be reinstated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-another-biggest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-125-101/story-M6qg8Z6pAEB7UShTFOfZbP.html
23-05-2020||India||RBI cuts key rate, Oxford vaccine trials in next phase: Covid-19 news today||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) cut the policy rate by 40 basis points to 4% and extended the moratorium on the payment of term loans by another three months till the end of August on Friday, acknowledging the adverse impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the lockdown prompted by it on Indian economy. Meanwhile, developers of a Covid-19 vaccine at the University of Oxford said their efforts were progressing very well, while moving to the next phase of human trials.RBI predicts economy to shrink, cuts key rateThe Monetary Policy Committee of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) cut the policy rate by 40 basis points to 4.0% on Friday, acknowledging the adverse impact on the Indian economy of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the lockdown imposed to combat its spread. Read moreOxford vaccine trial progressing ‘very well’, on to Phase IIDays after reports suggested that a promising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine being developed by the Oxford Vaccine Group showed limited success on monkeys but could fail to prevent transmission of the virus, the developers of the vaccine at the University of Oxford described their efforts as progressing “very well”, moving to the next phase after completing 1,000 immunisations by its candidate-vaccine on healthy human adults. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayThe big middle-seat-in-aircraft question in India doesn’t concern armrests, but why the ministry of civil aviation believes it is alright to seat people there. One reason could be that it doesn’t really help the cause of social distancing. Read morePower of states usurped by Centre: Oppn leadersAlleging that the Centre has “unabashedly usurped powers” vested in states, and undermined “the constitutionally guaranteed federal democracy”, 22 opposition parties on Friday presented a 11-point charter of demands to the Union government to deal with the coronavirus disease pandemic and the economic distress resulting from the national lockdown. Read moreHarsh Vardhan takes over as WHO executive board chiefUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday took charge as the chairman of the World Health Organization (WHO)’s 34-member executive board at its 147th session to become the third Indian to currently occupy a senior position in the global health agency. Read moreMHA allows OCI cardholders in certain categories to come back to IndiaThe Central government on Friday relaxed visa and travel restrictions for holders of Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) cards stranded abroad since March due to the Covid-19 lockdown, allowing certain categories to come to India. Read moreGovt expands use of anti-malaria drug to curb transmissionEven as medical journal The Lancet published a paper on Friday saying there were no confirmed benefits of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) being given to Covid-19 patients, the Union health ministry issued an advisory expanding the pool of people to be given the medicine as a prophylactic to prevent them from contracting the infection. Read moreCurbs during lockdown averted up to 78,000 deaths: GovtLockdown 1 and 2 managed to avert between 1.4 and 2.9 million coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 54,000 deaths ,according to government data released by Niti Aayog member Vinod Paul on Friday. Read moreHerd immunity is still far: Global dataOne out of five people in New York City and one in 10 in Wuhan have been infected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and developed antibodies that protect them against reinfection, but the proportion of immune population is still too low even in outbreak epicentres for it to confer herd immunity that slows the spread of infection, according to data from several studies done around the world. Read moreProtection or threat? Experts say Aarogya Setu poses national security riskData of millions of Indians, collected through the Aarogya Setu app, could be vulnerable to threats from adversarial state and non-state actors and pose a national security challenge, according to cybersecurity experts and former intelligence officials. Read more3.5 million enrol for MGNREGS work amid migrant exodusThe number of enrolments for work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) surged almost twentyfold in the period from April 1 to May 20, coinciding with an exodus of migrant workers from the big cities to homes in the hinterland following the Covid-19 lockdown, according to government data and officials in multiple states. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-cuts-key-rate-oxford-vaccine-trials-in-next-phase-covid-19-news-today/story-iVq2nuwVOvLQAr7JOfNE9O.html
23-05-2020||India||Agra administration issues alert to farmers over locust invasion||The Agra administration on Friday has issued an alert to farmers over a likely locust attack in the district. A swarm of locusts is headed towards the area from Karauli in Rajasthan, said an official.“We got information that swarm of locusts is in Rajasthan’s Karauli. We have issued an alert in Agra. We have also asked the farmers to take steps like beating drums in the fields and produce smoke to keep the locusts away,” Ram Pravesh, District Agriculture Officer said.“We have procured pesticides and arranged 50 tractors and 3 fire brigade vehicles,” he added.Even as the district is struggling with the Covid-19 pandemic, the threat from possible invasion of locusts added to the farmers’ woes who appealed administration to help them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agra-administration-issues-alert-to-farmers-over-locust-invasion/story-2ZZ3tFvntdfMMTWvZO5hhN.html
23-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand man who left family 24 yrs ago returns home during Covid-19 lockdown||In what could be termed as a story straight from a Bollywood movie, a 43-year-old man reunited with his family after more than two decades of leaving home in Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar district.Prakash Singh Karki, a resident of Ramadi village, had left home 24 years ago without informing his family. On May 18, he came back to his home from Gujarat unannounced in a hearty surprise, especially for his 68-year-old mother Bachuli Devi. When Karki arrived in the village, residents including the village head Ganesh Kumar were unable to recognise him. Kumar then questioned Karki about his identity and the man named his parents and two brothers. Surprised at learning that it was Karki who had come back, they immediately called his mother. “We failed to recognise him initially but when he named his family members, we were shocked as the boy who had left home had returned as a man, all thanks to the lockdown. When his mother recognised him, it was confirmed that it was Karki who had returned,” Kumar said. “Karki couldn’t meet his father because he is not alive any more. He, however, spoke to his two brothers, one elder and another younger to him. They also accepted him after getting assured that it is him only,” Kumar said. Karki said he was happy about being reunited with his family.“After passing high-school in 1995, I decided to leave home for work. However, I did that without informing my parents and siblings which must have hurt them for which I think there is no forgiveness for me,” Karki said.Narrating his journey after leaving home, he said he first went to Delhi and did menial jobs in different companies for some time. “From there, I went to Himachal Pradesh where I learnt gardening before going to Gujarat which was my last stop and where I was working as an electrician,” Karki said.He said when the lockdown was imposed he decided to return to his family as he still remembered the address of his village. “However, I was not sure whether or not I would be able to find my family there. I just got a pass and arrived here and with God’s grace, I found them and reunited with them after 24 years. I am very happy to see my mother,” he said.Karki says now he won’t “leave his family.”“All this while, I missed my parents and brothers a lot. Now when I have returned, I won’t leave again and stay here only,” said Karki. Bachuli Devi was too happy to see her son again after over two decades. “In 1995, he had left without saying anything to us. His father and I searched him a lot but to no avail after which I lost all hope to ever see him again. But I guess, God is great as I am now with my son as he himself came back,” she said.“Now he will not go anywhere and stay here with me only,” said Devi. Karki has now applied for work under MGNREGA in the village so that he doesn’t have to leave again. “Karki’s MGNREGA job card will be made in the village itself and he won’t leave his family again. At present, he is under mandatory quarantine of 14 days in the primary school near the village where he did his schooling. He will soon be able to live with his family after it gets over,” village head Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-man-who-left-family-24-yrs-ago-returns-home-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-LMsNbBsh6KSojyt9Ba0N0K.html
23-05-2020||India||Odisha brings ordinances to enable contract farming||Odisha has brought in two ordinances that would allow and facilitate the operation of multiple marketing channels through contract farming joining Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Gujarat who over the last one-and-a-half months have changed their existing agricultural marketing laws for comprehensive reforms in the sector.The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, promulgated by the state government aims at registration of farmers with contract farming companies for improving production and productivity by way of land, soil management, seeds, saplings, fingerlings, inputs, feed and fodder, technology and other such services. The ordinance covers sale and purchase of 50 varieties of plant produce and five of animal produce.The Uttar Pradesh cabinet early this month approved a similar ordinance while Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, and Karnataka have promulgated ordinances to relax regulatory aspects of their agricultural produce market committee laws. As agriculture falls under the states list of the Constitution, agriculture marketing in most states is regulated by APMCs established by state governments under the respective acts. APMCs provide infrastructure for the marketing of agricultural produce, regulate the sale of such produce and collection of market fees from such sale.The Odisha ordinance which amends the Odisha Agricultural Produce Markets Amendment Act, 1957 would provide for geographically restriction-free trade and transaction of agricultural produce including livestock across the state and country to give freedom to the farmers to sell their produce in a better manner.Several amendments have been made in the ordinance.The government will constitute a committee called the Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Committee to review the performance of contract farming in the state and to make suggestions to the government for promotion of contract farming activities.The contract farmer or a group of farmers will get support from the company for improving production and productivity by way of land, soil management, seeds, saplings, fingerlings, inputs, feed and fodder, technology and other such service(s) related thereto as specified in the agreement. A contract-farming facilitation group will be formed for every contract to facilitate in selection of inputs, feeds, good agriculture practices, sorting, grading, packing and delivery of produce and such other pre-production, production and post-production activities of the contracted produce.Every contract or agreement entered into by a market committee for the purchase, sale, lease, mortgage or acquisition of an interest in the immovable property would be executed by its chairperson, vice-chairperson and the secretary.The 1957 act provides that in every market area, there should be a market yard, with one or more sub-market yards, for conducting all marketing activities. The ordinance removes this provision and specified that for every market area, there may be: (i) a principal market yard and sub-market yard managed by the APMC, (ii) a private market yard managed by a person holding a license (granted by the director of agriculture marketing), and (iii) electronic trading platforms (where trading of notified produce is done electronically through the internet).It also said the government may grant a license to establish a private market yard for the trading of notified agricultural produce and livestock, at one or more specified locations in the state. It also said the government may delineate a geographical area for a market committee as a delineated market area. It also disempowered the market committee from regulating the marketing of notified agricultural produce and livestock in its delineated market area. Unlike the 1957 act, the new ordinance allows the establishment of a farmer-consumer market yard for the marketing of notified agricultural produce in the retail subject to conditions that the consumer would not purchase more than the specified quantity of agricultural produce at a time.The new ordinance allows collection or aggregation centres in the proximity of farmlands set up by companies with linkages to retail chain, or processing or export unit or premises.The ordinance provides for the appointment of the director of agricultural marketing by the state government. The director will be responsible for the promotion of contract farming, trading and connected activities for the notified agricultural produce, regulating private market yards and electronic trading platforms. He may also grant licenses for these activities.It also provides that market fee for trading under licenses granted by the director of agricultural marketing will be levied as prescribed by the state government.However, farmer leader Ashok Pradhan said the ordinance would not help the farmers in any way.“It’s a big racket. In the first year of contract farming, the offers would be attractive. After that, the big companies would exploit the small and marginal farmers,” Pradhan, a farmer leader from western Odisha, said.“The government regulatory mechanism is bound to get lax after a couple of years and farmer will suffer,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-brings-ordinances-to-enable-contract-farming/story-N10F6PcgfYCS2QKvkyYqRJ.html
23-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The big middle-seat-in-aircraft question in India doesn’t concern armrests, but why the ministry of civil aviation believes it is alright to seat people there.One reason could be that it doesn’t really help the cause of social distancing. Most studies suggest that six feet is the optimal distance between people (to prevent transmission of the coronavirus that causes Covid-19), although there are some that claim that some exhalations could travel 14 feet, maybe even more. Removing the middle seat isn’t going to increase the distance between passengers to six feet. Then, there’s the question of rows. The distance between two rows, even in full-service (as opposed to low-cost) airlines isn’t six feet. Sure, every bit of social distancing helps, but to what extent? (Answer: I don’t know, but it is a question that merits study).Reducing the number of passengers by insisting on keeping middle seats empty is also something that will wreak havoc on the economics of flying — another factor that may have played a role in the ministry’s decision.QUESTION OVER MIDDLE SEATSOne of the reasons the government hasn’t kept the middle seat in flights out of bounds for passengers could be that it doesn’t really help the cause of social distancing. Another factor could also be that removing seats will wreak havoc on the economics of flying.The one legitimate question is why the civil aviation ministry is allowing people over the age of 75 to fly. Sure, there are a lot of healthy people over that age out there (and more power to them), but with trends around the world indicating a clear correlation between age and Covid-19 fatality rates, shouldn’t the ministry have taken at least this decision on the basis of science (and in the interest of a very vulnerable section of the population)? Instead, it seems to have left this to the good sense of individuals.Screening, social distancing in the airport, and wearing masks will help, no doubt, but only to some extent given that most people infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease, remain asymptomatic. Rapid testing is perhaps the only failsafe way of ensuring a traveller isn’t infected (or is immune), but many of these tests are still in their infancy in terms of sophistication and efficacy. It isn’t difficult to foresee a future where a quick test, perhaps at an automated kiosk, is part of the standard check-in procedure at airports, nor one where people who are immune to the disease have cards validating their eligibility to travel — but that isn’t going to happen right now (or very soon).WHY ALLOW THE ELDERLY?A legitimate question is why the civil aviation ministry is allowing people over the age of 75 to fly. With trends around the world indicating a clear correlation between age and Covid-19 fatality rates, shouldn’t the government have taken this decision in the interest of a vulnerable section of the population?Another question that comes up repeatedly in the context of air travel in the midst of the pandemic is the quality of air in aircraft. Almost all modern airplanes have air that is of very high quality, thanks to high-end filtering systems. The air in aircraft is cleaner than that in homes (most home air conditioners use very basic filters) and perhaps even offices and malls. I personally find the air inside aircraft a little too dry, but it is safe. The surfaces inside aircraft are probably as safe as surfaces in other public places — which means they aren’t safe at all. Anyone who wants to fly should be equipped with disinfectant wipes. I’d stopped using them a few years ago — most are not compostable or biodegradable and are very bad for the environment — but have gone back to them with a vengeance. THE FUTURE OF FLYINGIt isn’t difficult to foresee a future where a quick rapid test is part of the standard check-in procedure at airports, nor one where people who are immune to the disease have cards validating their eligibility to travel — but that isn’t going to happen very soon.I used them liberally during a trip I made down south in February (causing some raised eyebrows among the cabin crew and yes, I also wore a mask) but on the last trip I made by air, a week before the first lockdown, I found many others using them.Given that only those who absolutely have to fly will, I think it’s wonderful to have the option.As for the armrest, modern aircraft etiquette has the answer — the middle seat gets both armrests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-lDRzQYFv900GNOFywBBRNP.html
23-05-2020||India||Assam records biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases; tally rises to 259||Assam witnessed the biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 49 people testing positive on Friday, taking the infection tally to 259, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. Out of the fresh cases, at least 46 were reported from different quarantine centers and hospitals in Guwahati, Tezpur, Jorhat and Silchar, he said in a series of tweets. “Alert, three more #COVID19 + cases detected, one each from Nagaon, Sivasagar and Tinsukia,” he said.“In the biggest one-time spike in cases, 26 cases are confirmed #COVID19 +. They are all from Sarusajai Quarantine Centre,” the minister said in a tweet in the evening.Earlier in the day, Sarma said 20 more people had tested positive.Out of these, seven are from Cachar district, six from Sonitpur, two from Sivasagar, and one each from Hailakandi, Dhakuakhana and Udalguri, he said.The remaining two patients had already been admitted to Mahendra Mohan Choudhury Hospital (MMCH) in Guwahati and Silchar Medical College and Hospital (SMCH), he said.Assam now has 198 active cases, while 54 people have been discharged from hospitals after being cured. The state has recorded four fatalities due to the contagion.During the day, Sarma inaugurated an intensive care unit (ICU) dedicated for Covid-19 patients at Nagaon Civil Hospital.Talking to reporters, he said the state government will ensure strict implementation of the seven days each of home and institutional quarantine process.“During home quarantine... nobody will be able to leave the premises during the period. We will give them Rs 2,000 worth of food items. We have formed a village-level committee to monitor this,” the minister said.Sarma said a non-bailable criminal case will be filed against people who refuse to follow the instructions.To screen people arriving from other states, the Assam government has set up five zonal screening camps besides the ones existing at the district headquarter and local levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-records-biggest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-259/story-MOgbrXBIJeS9uHhTQYGU8N.html
23-05-2020||India||Covid-19 testing in Bengal hit as technicians fail to reach labs due to Cyclone Amphan||The number of samples tested for Covid-19 in West Bengal almost halved over the last two days, as most technicians could not reach laboratories making their way through thousands of trees and electric poles that lay scattered across the state, owing to the impact of Cyclone Amphan, a senior official said.While the number of samples tested on Tuesday and Wednesday were 8,712 and 8,722, respectively, the count came down to 4,242 on Thursday and 5,355 on Friday, he said.“Many laboratories chose not to operate on Wednesday evening as a precautionary measure against the cyclone. And on Thursday and Friday technicians at several places could not reach the laboratories due to blocked roads.“In some areas, ambulances carrying the samples could not reach the laboratories... All this brought the testing numbers down,” the health department official said.West Bengal reported at least six more Covid-19 fatalities since Thursday, taking the death toll in the state to 193, a bulletin issued by the department said.Four deaths were reported from the city and two from North 24 Parganas district, it said.There are at least 1,846 active Covid-19 cases in West Bengal, while the total confirmed cases stood at 3,332, the bulletin said.The count of those recovered from the disease in the state is 1,221.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-testing-in-bengal-hit-as-technicians-fail-to-reach-labs-due-to-cyclone-amphan/story-Gx1kZCpGEnYk09ARyi1GXI.html
23-05-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, Assam witnesses first spate of floods||Amid the ongoing spread of coronavirus disease, Assam on Friday witnessed the first spate of floods of the year.According to a bulletin issued by the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 630 persons in two villages of the Kalgachia revenue circle of Barpeta district were affected by the flooding.Rainfall in the past two days due to Cyclone Amphan, which hit the state on Thursday, has resulted in rise in water levels of the Brahmaputra and many of its tributaries.According to the ASDMA bulletin, the Jia Bharali River was flowing above the danger mark in Sonitpur.One section of a road in the Rajaali village in Nagaon district has been damaged by the rising waters of the Borpani River and erosion was reported at three different areas in the Sonitpur district.Till Friday evening, Assam had recorded 231 Covid-19 positive cases. While four patients have died, 55 have recovered, 169 are under treatment and three have migrated back to their states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-pandemic-assam-witnesses-first-spate-of-floods/story-QyFXEF6NUdaBL2r9GEpTgL.html
23-05-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid-19 tally nears 1500-mark with 40 new cases||Forty people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday taking the Union Territory’s tally to 1,489.Officials said that 33 new positive cases were reported from the Kashmir division while seven people tested positive for the coronavirus disease in the Jammu division.A total of 20 people - 18 in Kashmir and two in Jammu- have died of the virus in the Union Territory so far.All districts of the Kashmir division, except Ganderbal, has reported fresh cases taking the division’s tally to 1,271. A jump of 18 cases was recorded in the Shopian district while there were single digit jumps in eight other districts of the Valley.Jammu division’s tally climbed to 218 with fresh cases recorded in Sambha, Rajouri and Poonch districts.“36 more patients have recovered and were discharged from different hospitals - one from Jammu and 35 in Kashmir,” according to an official statement.Of the total 1,489 total cases in the UT, 720 have recovered from the disease, which means the rate of recovery stands at 48%. Of the recovered, 650 are in Kashmir and 70 in Jammu.A total of 603 Covid-19 cases are active in the Valley and 146 in Jammu.At least 1.28 lakh people who came in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 32,077 in home quarantine, 73 in hospital quarantine and 25,132 under home surveillance. Besides, 70,466 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.Two corona positive women had died at two Kashmir hospitals and 59 persons including 21 police personnel and a doctor had tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-s-covid-19-tally-nears-1500-mark-with-40-new-cases/story-IYgSKgTO72NlLxxjYvirdI.html
23-05-2020||India||Delhi HC denies stay on conviction of former Jharkhand CM Madhu Koda||The Delhi high court refused to stay the conviction of former Jharkhand chief minister Madhu Koda on Friday in a coal block allocation case. The conviction disallows him from contesting elections until he is acquitted. Judge Vibhu Bakhru said wider opinion was that persons charged with crimes ought to be disqualified from contesting elections and therefore, it would not be apt to stay the conviction. The judgment also said amendments to the Prevention of Corruption Act (PC) Act could not be applied for offences prior to changes in the act’s provisions. Section 13 (1) (d) of the act had stated that if a public servant, by corrupt or illegal means or otherwise abusing his position as a public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage, he would be guilty of “criminal misconduct”. This particular section was repealed in 2018, which meant that a demand of illegal gratification was no longer a necessary ingredient of the offence of criminal misconduct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-denies-stay-on-conviction-of-former-jharkhand-cm-madhu-koda/story-15eUT0LicI2aPzTZfExSUJ.html
23-05-2020||India||35 migrant workers injured as bus they were travelling in overturns in UP||At least 35 migrants were injured as the bus they were travelling in overturned in Uttar Pradesh’s Nawabganj on Friday. The bus was headed from Rajasthan’s Jaipur to West Bengal when it overturned in Nawabganj in the trans-Ganga area of the Prayagraj district. Police said there were no casualties in the accident. According to reports, one of the tyres of the bus reportedly burst following which the driver lost control on the steering and the bus overturned with migrant workers trapped inside.On hearing cries, locals rushed to the spot and informed the police. Senior police officials reached the spot and started the rescue operation. IG Range Prayagraj KP Singh said the accident took place after one of the tyres of the bus burst.The injured workers have been rushed to the nearby Nawabganj and Kaudihar primary health centres (PHCs) where they are undergoing treatment, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/35-migrant-workers-injured-as-bus-they-were-travelling-in-overturns-in-up/story-MwFhreMZpR5vpShKIOtD2J.html
23-05-2020||India||Impossible to test all incoming passengers says Tripura CM, appeals for home quarantine||Appealing to people to be extra cautious for the next one month, Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Friday said it is impossible for any state to test all incoming passengers and informed that they are being tested at 5:1 ratio. The Tripura chief minister said that his government is screening all passengers returning to Tripura from elsewhere in the country apart from testing random samples among them. He said 14 days of home quarantine is mandatory for people, even if they test negative for Covid-19.“The maximum numbers of tests are being done to ensure safety of all. So, the people, who are not undergoing tests on their arrival from other parts, may also bear the coronavirus. As it appeared, most of the positive cases in Tripura have been found to be asymptomatic,” Biplab Kumar Deb said while emphasizing on the importance of maintaining the 14-day home quarantine as a must.Tripura had a total of 173 Covid-19 patients, of whom 148 have recovered. In the last few days, six people who returned from other states were found positive with coronavirus. “Around 40,000-50,000 people will be returning to the state from different parts of the country via trains and buses. We need to adopt more precautions to prevent transmission of Covid-19 at community level. Nobody should take a risk when it comes to Covid-19,” Biplab Kumar Deb said. He also informed that the government has constituted Corona Awareness and Monitoring Committees at the village level to ensure safety. The committees would also ensure 14-day home quarantine for all people coming from other states. Deb himself would be the chairman of the state-level committee. He further informed that his government is expecting Rs. 4,802.88 crore under five major heads out of the total Rs. 20 lakh crore package announced by the Centre earlier in May. These include different components like direct support to farmers and rural economy, support to urban poor, support to agriculture, industries, entrepreneurs, hike in MGNREGA allocation and borrowing limit. The state is also expecting to receive Rs. 7.35 crore out of a total of Rs 13,343 crore central package for prevention of animal diseases. Besides, the state is also hopeful it will get Rs. 10 crore out of the Rs. 10,000 crore allocated for formalizing micro food companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/impossible-to-test-all-incoming-passengers-says-tripura-cm-appeals-for-home-quarantine/story-D2PHR9rCMN4y5xNudt7ZlN.html
23-05-2020||India||Jet crashes moments before landing at airport in Karachi||A Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) Airbus A-320, on a flight originating from Lahore, crashed into a densely populated Karachi neighbourhood near the airport on Friday afternoon and erupted into a fireball, killing most of the 107 passengers and crew on board, but leaving at least three confirmed survivors. Rescue workers scoured the wreckage of the aircraft and sifted through gutted and damaged buildings in the neighbourhood looking for more likely survivors or bodies, including of residents who may have perished.The aircraft, which made two approaches ahead of landing, initially reported a problem with its landing gear. On its second approach, the pilot informed air traffic control that the plane’s engines had failed. He then gave the distress “Mayday” call as the aircraft veered off its flight path and descended rapidly into the Model Colony neighbourhood before crashing, as seen on video footage shared by a person who captured it using his cellphone.As the plane crashed into a row of houses, it erupted into a fireball that may have killed residents of the area. “We are now focusing on rescue efforts so we don’t know the exact death toll. But there have also been deaths of people who were in the houses that caught fire,” said provincial minister of Sindh Nasir Shah. Shah said that at this stage it was difficult to determine who may have been on board the plane or who may have been a resident of the area and died when the aircraft crashed. By 8pm, at least 40 people were confirmed dead in the crash. This number is expected to rise as more bodies are extricated and brought to the city’s hospitals.In a purported recording of a conversation with the air traffic control (ATC), one of the pilot is heard saying he has lost both engines, before he issues a “Mayday, Mayday, Mayday” distress message. The recording was uploaded on liveatc.net, which compiles recordings of conversations between pilots and ATCs across the world from aviation hobbyists who can listen in to these through particular kinds of radio sets.Local TV stations reported that three people sitting in the front row of the aircraft survived and showed video of a man on a stretcher they identified as Zafar Masood, the head of the Bank of Punjab. One of the other survivors, Muhammad Zuabir, was admitted to a local hospital with burn injuries. He told journalists that prior to crashing, the plane had made two approaches to land. Thick smoke swirled out of the Model Colony neighbourhood. At least four houses were completely gutted and 20 damaged in the crash. Model Colony is located next to the Malir Cantonment area from where military personnel were quick to arrive to start rescue operations.Rescue workers were seen breaking down walls and physically moving cars in the densely populated street where the aircraft crashed to make way for rescue vehicles. Hundreds of people gathered in the area, hampering rescue efforts. A spokesperson for the Pakistan Airline Pilots Association (PALPA) said the captain of the aircraft, Sajjad Gul, was one of the senior most pilots of the airline. Aviation experts surmised that the crash may have taken place because the aircraft ran out of fuel on its second approach or had hit a bird. Civil aviation authorities told the media that they had prepared for a belly landing of the aircraft, which also suggested that the pilot may have jettisoned extra fuel prior to the second approach.PIA officials have ruled out the possibility that the plane was not safe to fly. “We are an international airline and we maintain international safety standards,” a spokesman for PIA told the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jet-crashes-moments-before-landing-at-airport-in-karachi/story-hnwfXSDQmKxEuPDwCILsiO.html
23-05-2020||India||RBI predicts economy to shrink, cuts key rate||The Monetary Policy Committee of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) cut the policy rate by 40 basis points to 4.0% on Friday, acknowledging the adverse impact on the Indian economy of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the lockdown imposed to combat its spread.A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. RBI has so far cut its policy rate by 115 basis points since the crisis began to a historic low.RBI governor Shaktikanta Das also extended the moratorium on payment of term loans (this includes mortgages or housing loans taken out by individuals, even personal loans) by another three months to August 31.The moves are expected to make loans cheaper, and give borrowers a break from monthly loan repayments at a time when they are financially stressed. The interest for these six months will be treated as a loan that will have to be paid by the end of this financial year (March 31).Interestingly, Das admitted that growth will be in “negative territory” this year, the first time anyone in the government or the central bank has admitted that India’s gross domestic product (GDP) will shrink this year. Chief economic advisor Krishnamurthy Subramanian has maintained that GDP growth will be 1-2% this year and the International Monetary Fund predicted, on April 14, that India would grow by 1.9%. Goldman Sachs on Sunday said it expected India’s economy to contract 45% on an annualised basis in the quarter ending June, and by 5% in the financial year.“The end-May 2020 release of NSO [National Statistical Office] on national income should provide greater clarity, enabling more specific projections of GDP growth in terms of both magnitude and direction,” Das said.Das announced the cut, and other measures aimed at keeping “financial markets working, ensuring access to funds to everyone, and preserving financial stability” in a digital video address on Friday, his third since the lockdown began on March 25.Stock-market investors weren’t impressed but bonds rallied. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark Sensex fell 0.84% to 30,672.59 points at the close of trading.The yield on the most-traded 2029 bonds dropped seven basis points to 5.96% at the close after falling more than 15 points intraday, while that on the new 10-year notes slid three basis points, Bloomberg reported. Bond prices and yields move in opposite directions. The rupee fell 0.5% to 75.9650 per dollar.Das said that the economy has been hit hard by a collapse in demand and disruption in supply. Private consumption has fallen sharply, he added. But India’s foreign exchange reserves remain $487 billion, the governor said — an indication that the country is unlikely to face a crisis of the nature it did in 1991 when this was down sharply and barely adequate to fund a few days of imports. The current reserve is adequate to fund a year of imports, Das said.India’s central bank has previously announced measures to tackle the economic crisis resulting from the pandemic (and the lockdown) on March 27 and April 17. According to the government, around ~8.01 lakh crore crore of the ~20 lakh crore Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Campaign) announced by the government through last week is accounted for by monetary measures of the RBI.On Thursday, the central bank announced measures aimed at improving the functioning of markets, to support exports and imports (the first is down by 60% in April and the second by 58%, the governor pointed out), to ease financial stress, and to help state governments financially. These include exemptions from borrowers being classified as defaulters and the loans as non-performing assets for another three months, and an extension of the timeline for resolution of bad loans.The governor admitted that inflation in pulses, milk and vegetable oil has accelerated, primarily because of supply disruption, but added that the monetary policy committee expects this to ease in a few months, although he cautioned that early remedial measures may be needed in the case of pulses. Growth, he added, remains the bigger concern, and while the second half of the financial year could see some “growth impulses”, much would depend on how the pandemic plays out.Das reassured markets that as inflation comes out, it would open up room for RBI to do even more.When the “chips are down”, everyone, everywhere in the world turns to the central bank, Das said.RBI “remains vigilant”, he said, to “use all its instruments and even fashion new ones to address “the dynamics of an unknown future”.Two government officials, requesting anonymity, said the finance ministry may persuade public sector banks (PSBs) to quickly transmit the rate cut to borrowers. Lower EMIs for purchasing apartments and automobiles would boost demand. “Raising consumption through lower EMIs is one of the strategies of the government to boost growth,” one of the officials said. Niranjan Hiranandani, president of the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham), said: “There has been a total collapse in demand in both urban and rural India since March 2020. The continued proactive measures taken by RBI will help address these issues and revive the economy in the second half of the year.” Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) president Sharad Kumar Saraf said the RBI measures would provide “a much needed respite” to the industry. The measures announced by the central bank would “definitely reduce pressure on cash flows and liquidity for entities”, said Rajosik Banerjee, partner and head of the financial risk management practice at KPMG India.Mihir Vora, director and chief investment officer at Max Life Insurance, cautioned that credit risk-aversion in the financial markets may persist; high-rated borrowers will continue to get easy funding and lower-rated entities struggle to raise funds. “More direct fiscal support to businesses, workers and stressed segments will be needed to, 1) contain job losses, 2) stimulate the demand-side of the economy, 3) encourage private sector investments to counter the demand shock due to the domestic lockdown and fall in exports,” Vora said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-predicts-economy-to-shrink-cuts-key-rate/story-iTnO0AmJrV6xFzVXax7KeO.html
23-05-2020||India||Curbs during lockdown averted up to 78,000 deaths: Govt||Lockdown 1 and 2 managed to avert between 1.4 and 2.9 million coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 54,000 deaths ,according to government data released by Niti Aayog member Vinod Paul on Friday.Paul was highlighting results of various epidemic modelling exercises done by experts to measure the gains of the lockdown imposed in the country starting on March 25 and extended three times.“This data is based on the impact of lockdown and other measures taken between lockdown 1 and 2. Even though various agencies have conducted the analysis but the results more or less are indicative of the same conclusion that lockdown has managed to significantly slow down the virus transmission rate in the country,” said Paul.“The situation would have been much worse, as the data suggests. We have about 95% confidence level on the data generated out of all this analysis, which is proof enough to say that the country is on the right track. Having said that, this kind of analysis is always prone to improvisations, depending on the kind of data that’s fed.”At least five different agencies were involved in data analysis, providing a range between 1.4 and 2.9 million cases averted, and between 37,000 and 78,000 deaths averted.The analysis also shows that much of the outbreak is confined to a limited area. As of May 21, around 80% of the Covid-19 cases were limited to five states, and 90% of the cases were spread largely across 10 states. The states are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar and Karnataka.In the cities, about 70% of the cases are confined to just 10 -- Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Ahmadabad, Thane, Pune, Indore, Kolkata, Hyderabad and Aurangabad.The deaths follow the same pattern, with 95% of Covid-19 deaths being reported from 10 states and 70% from 10 cities.The 10 worst affected states in terms of deaths are Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. And the 10 cities from where maximum deaths are being reported are Mumbai, Ahmadabad, Pune, Delhi, Kolkata, Indore, Thane, Jaipur, Chennai and Surat.“What data tells us is currently is that it is an urban disease as mostly cities have been affected so far, and our interventions have to be accordingly planned at the level of cities, municipalities and even at the block level. However it is easier to contain the spread in villages because of low population density,” said Paul.The government has always maintained that lockdown was meant to slow the disease transmission so that it got enough time to upgrade the health infrastructure in terms of hospitals beds, testing capacity and trained human resources, among other things ,to better manage the outbreak.Even though India is well-prepared to handle the situation, Paul says now is the time to be extra cautious.“We were under lockdown so far, but now that we are lifting it gradually, there will be challenges in curtailing the transmission because the virus is in circulation and we have no immunity against it. Also, it is not a matter of days, weeks or months but much longer, so we have to be extra careful and strictly follow the preventive measures such as maintaining physical distancing, following hygiene practices, wearing masks etc. The idea is to make it difficult for the virus to spread,” says Paul.Experts agree that gains have been made, and what shape the outbreak takes now depends on human behaviour.“Mathematical modelling is usually a way of telling what could have been the case if certain measures were taken to prevent disease from spreading during an outbreak. Lockdown was a measure to ensure our health system wasn’t burdened and it has achieved its purpose. Now the onus lies on people to consolidate the gains made,” said Dr AC Dhariwal, former director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curbs-averted-up-to-78k-deaths-govt/story-WZvTor9LWE8KDeHxs1RVyH.html
23-05-2020||India||Army chief visits Ladakh after border skirmish at LAC||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday visited Leh, the headquarters of 14 Corps in Ladakh, for a security review of the sensitive sector amid tensions between India and China along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC), two officials said on the condition of anonymity. He returned to Delhi later in the day.The visit came a day after India rejected China’s allegation that Indian troops initiated tensions and crossed LAC in Ladakh and Sikkim sectors and accused the Chinese army of hindering patrols on the Indian side.Soldiers on both sides are showing restraint and efforts were underway to de-escalate, said one of the officials cited above.India and China have deployed additional troops, especially in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, after a face-off near Pangong Tso on May 5-6. India bolstered its troop levels after the Chinese side brought in reinforcements and also reportedly pitched tents and erected temporary positions in the Galwan Valley as part of its efforts to establish a presence there.China’s foreign ministry first accused Indian troops of trespassing across LAC on Tuesday, saying Beijing had to take “necessary countermeasures” after the Indian army allegedly obstructed normal patrols by Chinese troops.A government spokesperson on Thursday said, “Any suggestion that Indian troops had undertaken activity across LAC in the western [Ladakh] sector or the Sikkim sector is not accurate.”HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring up between India and China in north Sikkim, where 150 soldiers were involved in a standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured during the confrontation.Scores of soldiers from the two countries clashed near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6 and a few were injured in the scuffle that involved around 250 men. While a flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions spread to other parts of eastern Ladakh, including the Galwan Valley.Talks between local commanders have failed to ease tensions and diplomatic channels are at work to end the standoff, officials said. The current situation along LAC marks the first major flare-up since the 73-day standoff between India and China at Doklam near the Sikkim border in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-reviews-ladakh-situation/story-YwgqYyq7Aq1hENEZsJlaoI.html
23-05-2020||India||Protection or threat? Experts say Aarogya Setu poses national security risk||Data of millions of Indians, collected through the Aarogya Setu app, could be vulnerable to threats from adversarial state and non-state actors and pose a national security challenge, according to cybersecurity experts and former intelligence officials. This, they believe, is due to issues in India’s security capabilities and cyber hygiene practices. Indian government officials reject these concerns, saying their encryption standards have adequate protection against data or network breaches.This difference of opinion is at the heart of a controversy surrounding tracing apps that store sensitive personal data to aid in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) -- with one side saying that the potential risks are either non-existent or a small compromise; and the other arguing that the information is far more valuable and dangerous than governments comprehend, not just from a privacy perspective but also on the security front.Aarogya Setu is meant to trace close contact between people so that they can be reached in the event any of them is infected with Covid-19. According to government officials, at least 110 million people have signed up on it, and while a rule making it mandatory for office-goers to install it was partially relaxed last week, on Wednesday the government said air passengers must install it if they are taking a flight. “National databases in general are a huge cause of concern. Sometimes, leaks don’t even appear on the dark web. They are simply scooped away for doing passive profiling of citizens of adversarial countries,” said Pukhraj Singh, a cyber threat intelligence expert, who was involved in the detection of the breach at the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant last year.The concerns expressed by Singh were endorsed by two former intelligence officers who have held senior positions in the National Intelligence Grid (Natgrid) and the National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO) – two of India’s main agencies tasked with digital intelligence gathering. The threat is particularly serious due to the nature of information involved, one of the former intelligence officers cited above said. He added that users part with information that can directly identify them, where they have been, and what health conditions they suffer from, making it a target for common cyber criminals who can offer these up on the dark web for a price, as well as state-backed hackers for espionage.Government officials again rejected these concerns, saying that their data encryption standards have adequate protection against breaches.A VERITABLE GOLD MINESince its launch in early April, Aarogya Setu has had at least 106 million sign-ups, according to government officials. The process requires users to declare their mobile numbers, name, gender, age, and whether they belong to a set of high-risk professions, such as law enforcement or health care.The application then routinely asks people to “self-assess” their health by answering questions such as whether they have any of the symptoms associated with Covid-19 or if they have a history of diabetes, hypertension or obesity – factors that make people more susceptible to the disease.The second retired intelligence official described three scenarios in which such breaches can be dangerous. “The first risk comes from any hacker who wants to profit from the data. For instance, someone can leak the data about the number of people who identified as diabetics and sell it to a company making insulin for targeted ads, or to an insurance company to deny claims.” He said that the second is what the government itself can do. “Unfortunately, no matter what legal protocols you put in place, the sovereign can always find ways to use this data for purposes that they were not meant for.”But it is the third use which potentially is the most hazardous, he said. “The third, and the highest risk, is from geopolitical adversaries who can use this data for a wide variety of reasons. They can misuse it to identify and target particular citizens, such as a bureaucrat or a politician, or they can simply scare people into not trusting their government with any data”, this person said, asking not to be named.“Most state-initiated hacks are not even known to the public. What you hear about normally are amateurish attempts. The really sophisticated ones have been very hard to detect,” this person added.Cyber criminals are known to use such data to determine multiple point of information about an individual, which can then be used to bypass identity checks for crimes such as bank account theft. IMPENETRABLE MYTHFundamentally, data breaches can happen in two ways. The most common method is deceiving someone into divulging sensitive information or giving a hacker privileged access – a tactic commonly known as a phishing attack. Such tactics have been used in the past by hackers to obtain back-door access – by fooling, for instance, an IT management staff – to sensitive networks used by banks or government offices.The other is code-based attacks on computer networks, which usually make use of flaws in software, or what are known as exploits. In some of the most sophisticated attacks, the exploit is done through a zero-day vulnerability – a backdoor that only the attacker knows about.Both these methods have proven to work – often in combination – to compromise the more secure of systems. Zero-day hacks have been carried out by state-linked hackers and is a risk that cannot be ruled out, the second intelligence agency veteran quoted above said.Till now, officials have not detected such an attempt on health data in India. “The data is fully secure; our encryption and data storage policies will ensure that there is no breach. Sensitive data of our citizens is kept in a manner where there is no unauthorised access to the data,” said Abhishek Singh, CEO of MyGov, one of the government agencies involved in the Aarogya Setu project. RISE OF FAKE APPsThere is a third risk factor associated with the Aarogya Setu push – modified or impostor applications that look like Aarogya Setu but are spying tools. These have been spread using the same techniques as phishing, often through messaging applications or via links sent over WhatsApp. While this might not expose the entire database, it could compromise individuals who are successfully targeted.The Union home ministry issued a warning in late April — the same month Aarogya Setu was launched — about such fake apps being sent to Indian soldiers and paramilitary personnel through WhatsApp, media reports said last month.“In the current version of the app, there is no protection against an internal modification. So, it’s quite easy to create a modified version of the app. Of course, a modified version of Aarogya Setu can become viral. Especially now, (since) Aarogya Setu is a big topic in India,” said Baptiste Robert, a France-based cyber security researcher who is more commonly known by his nom de guerre Elliot Alderson.Robert first found flaws in an earlier version of the Indian app that allowed access to internal programme files, which could lead to an attacker accessing the data the Aarogya Setu collects.“The distribution of a modified app creates new threats. Depending on the modifications done, it can either kill the purpose (of Aarogya Setu) and remove the tracing functionality, (or) it can be used by attackers. By adding malicious code, they can infect victim’s phones and steal their personal info,” Robert added.On May 14, researcher at anti-malware product developer ESET shared screenshots showing one such impostor application with the same logo and name as the real Aarogya Setu, but was actually spyware. “It’s SpyNote - RAT (remote access trojan) tool. It’s not created by IN govt... [Spynote can] log user keystrokes, steal SMS, wipe device, steal contact list, take camera pics, record audio, install additional apps, reset device PIN and make calls,” wrote Lukas Stefanko,MyGov’s Singh said impostor applications were being spread and people were being asked to download it, “which is not right”. “These imposter apps cannot come on PlayStore and we have ensured that. People usually download top-rated apps from PlayStore and the Aarogya Setu is highly rated,” said Singh. SECURITY IMPLICATIONSResearcher Pukhraj Singh recounted several of the past hacks (see box) that extracted government personnel data, medical records and banking information. “It has hugely upset American intelligence collection programs, especially the ones relying on HUMINT (human intelligence). Maintaining intelligence cover has become close to impossible now,” he said.“The problem is that we see databases in isolation. (But) they are like lobes to a nervous system. The more databases adversaries have access to, the more they are able to control the system,” Singh said, adding that India needs to “undertake a kind of cost-benefit assessment and a whole-of-government posture review to know what we are really doing with the data that is being collected”.The second of the two former intelligence official quoted above concurred with the position. “Every country will have a certain capability to manage its database. Unfortunately, in the Indian administration, networks and systems are managed by L-1 contractors, or a service provider who offered the lowest prices. This creates a lot of inefficiency,” he said, adding that the issue has persisted for decades.The second former intelligence official added: “We must build up an ecosystem based on very strong encryption, for both data security as well as network security. Protection of such databases depend on the capabilities in this fields. Unless you have very strong encryption frameworks made domestically, you will keep having all kinds of vulnerabilities.”The other significant issue is cyber hygiene. In the past month, Robert brought to light open databases with details of citizens meant to be under home quarantine in three states: Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. The databases contained locations of these individuals and their names in some cases. All of these were removed after the French researcher tweeted about.The second former intelligence official said stronger efforts for data minimisation and anonymisation can be made in the interim.Data minimisation refers to the principle of collecting only the basic information required for a tool’s purpose. In Aarogya Setu’s case, privacy activists say the collection of location records, profession details and granular demographic data does not follow this principle.(With inputs from Amrita Madhukalya)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aarogya-setu-protection-or-threat/story-QmpSP3H60ohkLV3l5ywhBI.html
23-05-2020||India||UP, Rajasthan in fresh row over migrants’ buses||The Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan governments sparred on Friday over a Congress attempt to arrange 1,000 buses for the transport of migrant workers walking to their homes in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled UP after being stranded by the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Rajasthan Congress president and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot accused the Yogi Adityanath government of engaging in petty politics by denying entry to the vehicles which the Congress wanted to run at its expense.The UP administration claimed many of the buses were Rajasthan-registered vehicles and accused the Congress of misusing the government machinery in the neighbouring state. The Congress eventually summoned back the buses. “Taking help doesn’t diminish someone’s stature. UP government did politics and blamed Congress. We condemn it,” Pilot told journalists in Jaipur. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had decided that the party’s state units will bear the expense of the buses, which were arranged by general secretary Priyanka Gandhi. The buses weren’t arranged by the Rajasthan government, but by the Congress for transporting stranded migrants, Pilot said.“The entire country watched the UP government’s attitude, they levelled charges on the opposition, that too for helping. They created unnecessary hurdles, arrested people and registered FIRs, which shows a narrow mindset that is regrettable,” Pilot said.In Lucknow, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said the Rajasthan government had charged UP the full cost of arranging 90 buses for transporting students stranded in the coaching school hub of Kota. He claimed that Priyanka Gandhi’s offer of providing buses to migrant UP workers was a political stunt and her show of empathy for them was a sham.“On the one hand you do not have the courtesy to drop our students stranded in your state at the UP border and you instead ask us to pay the cost for ferrying students, on the other hand you try to show off your sense of public service and sensitivity by offering buses for migrants in UP,” Sharma said at a press conference.He demanded an apology from the Congress “for misleading the nation, especially the migrant workers, for its dual character.”A large number of the 1,000 buses that the Congress had offered were unfit for use or uninsured or fake, the UP government claimed. Rajasthan agreed to provide the buses for Kota students on condition that UP will bear the cost and asked for it in writing. “Shouldn’t the Rajasthan government have showed the courtesy of dropping these students free of cost on the UP borders at least if not at their home,” asked Ashok Katariya, the state minister of transport.Rajasthan transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said the fuel bill for transporting the students from Kota to UP had come to around Rs.36 lakh, of which the UP government had till date paid Rs. 19 lakh. He said the Rajasthan government spent Rs 2.6 crore in all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-raj-in-fresh-row-over-migrants-buses/story-k4Fq7u9FdC62vHRDonuMXO.html
23-05-2020||India||Govt expands use of hydroxychloroquine to curb transmission of Covid-19||Even as medical journal The Lancet published a paper on Friday saying there were no confirmed benefits of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) being given to Covid-19 patients, the Union health ministry issued an advisory expanding the pool of people to be given the medicine as a prophylactic to prevent them from contracting the infection.“The Joint Monitoring Group and National Task Force have now recommended the prophylactic use of HCQ in the following categories: a) all asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in containment and treatment of Covid-19 and asymptomatic healthcare workers working in non-covid hospitals/non-covid areas of covid hospitals/blocks; b) Asymptomatic frontline workers, such as surveillance workers deployed in containment zones and paramilitary/police personnel involved in Covid-19 related activities; and c) Asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases,” the advisory said.The earlier HCQ advisory on March 23 cleared its prophylactic use for two high-risk groups: asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases, and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases.“As a prophylactic drug, the medicine has shown results in India which is why it is advised for a larger group now. The Lancet paper that has come out will have implications for treatment regimen not prophylaxis,” said an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) official, who did not wish to be identified.ICMR began a ‘demonstration study’ on the efficacy of HCQ as a prophylactic medicine against Covid-19 in March to see if it will prevent people, especially those in close proximity with a positive case from acquiring the infection.“What we have been doing in India is different from the studies done anywhere else in the world in the sense that we have been checking whether it could work as a prophylactic medicine, whereas everywhere else it was given to positive patients as a treatment option. The results look like favourable in our population,” said the official.The Joint Monitoring Group under the chairmanship of Directorate General of Health Services, the government of India, and representatives from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), ICMR, National Centre for Disease Control, etc reviewed HCQ’s prophylactic use in the context of expanding it to healthcare and other frontline workers.“A retrospective case-control analysis at ICMR has found that there is a significant dose-response relationship between the number of prophylactic doses taken and frequency of occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 [that causes covid-19] infection in symptomatic healthcare workers who were tested for SARS-CoV-2 infection. Another investigation from 3 central government hospitals in New Delhi indicates that amongst healthcare workers involved in covid-19 care, those on HCQ prophylaxis were less likely to develop SARS-CoV-2 infection, compared to those who were not on it,” said the fresh health ministry advisory.“The benefit was less pronounced in healthcare workers caring for a general patient population. An observational prospective study of 334 healthcare workers at AIIMS, out of which 248 took HCQ prophylaxis (median 6 weeks of follow up) in New Delhi also showed that those taking HCQ prophylaxis had lower incidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection than those not taking it.”“At National Institute of Virology, Pune, the report of the in-vitro testing of HCQ for antiviral efficacy showed reduction of infectivity/log reduction in viral RNA copy of SARs-CoV2,” said the health ministry document.In an earlier interview to HT, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan also said early reports from the pharmacovigilance programme indicate that there were no unexpected spikes of adverse reactions from the use of HCQ in the country.Experts have also said the medicine must not be given to patients suffering from heart diseases, hypersensitivity etc. The drug is also not recommended as prophylaxis for children under 15 years of age, pregnant and lactating mothers.For treatment purposes, the ICMR expert said, “It must be reviewed for treatment regimen in view of the emergence of new strong evidence. But for us in India, it is for prophylaxis.”Doctors feel there is some more evidence required before confidence in the drug can be reinstated.“We are not giving the drug now as enthusiastically as it was given in the beginning given the kind of evidence before us. We will have to look into all aspects of the evidence available. We will talk to experts on this,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, a critical care specialist at Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-expands-use-of-anti-malaria-drug-to-curb-transmission/story-OLcIsC5PZSZTLjXWGoyf8M.html
23-05-2020||India||3.5 million enrol for MGNREGS work amid migrant exodus||The number of enrolments for work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) surged almost twentyfold in the period from April 1 to May 20, coinciding with an exodus of migrant workers from the big cities to homes in the hinterland following the Covid-19 lockdown, according to government data and officials in multiple states.Some 3.5 million people applied for work under the federal programme during the period, compared to just 180,000 in the same duration last year, according to the MGNREGS website, but there may not be enough work to accommodate all the applicants.Only about 1.5 million applications for new job cards were received during the entire financial year of 2019-20. The number of cumulative job applications as of May 20 was 43.3 million and only half of them have been provided work so far, according to the government data. MGNREGS , under which at least one member of every rural household is guaranteed 100 days of manual work a year, acts as pointers to the state of the rural economy and the living conditions of the marginalised sections in the absence of any real-time data.The surge has coincided with the exodus from cities of migrant workers left jobless by the lockdown imposed on March 25 to check the Covid-19 pandemic in late March. Tens of thousands of workers walked or cycled back to the countryside; Indian Railways has been running special Shramik trains transport them home beginning May 1.The government has allocated an additional Rs 40,000 crore to MGNREGS amid the increase in demand for work under the programme. Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, where a bulk of the migrant workers have returned to, have reported the maximum increase in demand for jobs. Officials in these states said the demand for the work has been highest since the scheme was launched in all districts in 2008. Many states have directed district authorities to create additional work and get approvals for it within a fortnight in view of the surge. District authorities are expected to budget annually for MGNREGS on the basis of the applicants for new job cards in February and March.Jharkhand’s special MGNREGS commissioner Sidharth Tripathy said the situation is different this year as the demand for work started growing in April once the migrants started returning home. “Nobody had anticipated such a situation,” Tripathy said. He added that the administration had been engaging MGNREGS workers in pre-monsoon works such as maintaining of ponds or digging of wells. “We have also taken additional road construction work to employ MGNREGS workers...”His Rajasthan counterpart, P C Kishan, said normally there is a slight increase--3 to 5%--in new job applications when the financial year starts in April. “This year, we have issued two lakh [200,000] new job cards since April 1, which is equal to those issued in entire 2019-2020 [financial year]. This is not normal.”Bihar’s rural development department secretary Arvind Kumar Chaudhary said the government had employed MGNREGS workers for flood management works since the first week of May. Officials in Odisha said they will employ migrant workers to deal with the damage Cyclone Amphan has caused in the state as well as for pre-monsoon and road construction works.According to the MGNREGS website, Rajasthan has provided the maximum number of new jobs cards-- 210,000--over the first 45 days of this financial year. “We are focusing on the rural job guarantee scheme to provide financial security to rural populations in the current scenario. This has resulted in 24.31 lakh [over 2.4 million] labour engaged in MGNREGS,” said Rajasthan’s deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot.Chhattisgarh, which has employed over 2.8 million people under the scheme, plans to increase the number of days of work if needed. “We are clear if people want, we would provide additional work under MGNREGS for workers in our state even if we have to pay from our own pocket,” said chief minister Bhupesh Baghel.Baghel, who has asked the Centre to increase the employment days in a year from 100 to 150, said district administrators had been asked to ensure that migrants get work under MGNREGS. Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state that accounts for over half-a-million new job seekers, has asked districts officials to accommodate additional MGNREGS workers. “Providing work for all workers may not be possible. We would provide them employment in a staggered manner so that more families can be covered ...,” said an official on condition of anonymity.The job guarantee scheme provided a fallback option for returning migrant workers. Ratnakar Yadu said he was working with a construction company in Chhattisgarh’s Bilaspur town, but when work stopped after the lockdown, he enrolled in MGNREGS at his village. “At least I am doing some work and earning some money,” he said.Kashiram Ahirwar, 38, a resident of Madhya Pradesh’s Tikamgarh district, too, is hoping for work under the programme. “As no construction activity is going on and harvest season is also over here, my only hope is MGNREGS,” he said. Balveer Ahirwar, 23, a resident of Ladwari in Tikamgarh, said his brother returned after losing his job due to the lockdown in Delhi after a week-long journey. “We have no money left and five quintal wheat from my father’s farm also did not fetch enough money. We have been pleading to the sarpanch [village head] to give us work. But he says that works have not been sanctioned...”Jabbar Ahmad, 43, who returned to Bihar’s East Champaran from Surat, said he is looking for a job under the scheme. “I am a trained worker for a cotton factory but I am looking for a job under MGNREGS...”East Champaran district magistrate Shirsat Kapil Ashok said many trained people, including some contractual teachers, were asking for work under MGNREGS. Reetika Khera, a development economist at the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, said the additional allocation for the scheme is a welcome decision but added that around Rs.15,000 crore will be used to clear pending dues from the last financial year. “The states need to create enough works to employ all those who have been enrolled. If needed, MGNREGS workers can be used for agriculture purpose as there is a shortage of farm labourers.”Activist Nikhil Dey said the number of new job applications under MGNREGS since March are almost equal to those received in a year. “Apart from the migrants returning home, even locals are seeking jobs under MGNREGS because of lack of employment opportunities anywhere,” he said.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-5mn-enrol-for-mgnregs-work-amid-migrant-exodus/story-WvcKNyIwjuKggt6aT9PANL.html
23-05-2020||India||Second Parliament official tests positive, annexe to be sanitised||A senior Parliament official working in editorial and translation (E&T) services has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), people familiar with the matter said.The official had been going to work until May 12 on the fifth floor of the Parliament annex building, which is about 100 metres away from the main Parliament building.This is the second case of a Parliament staffer testing positive for Covid-19. A senior housekeeper tested positive last month. Unlike the housekeeper, the E and T official had attended his office regularly before he was sent into quarantine, the people cited above said.The case, according to one official, was reported on Thursday and since Friday morning, arrangements were being made for sealing a block of offices on the fifth floor of the annex. Thorough sanitization of the entire building is being undertaken, but the functioning of the Parliament secretariat is not expected to be disrupted.Efforts are also on to identify people who have worked with the official and to keep them under observation.Last month, when government offices reopened at the end of lockdown 2.0, the Parliament secretariat too opened with just one-third of its staff and strict health norms in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-parliament-official-tests-positive-annexe-to-be-sanitised/story-SnhPD9Dl0ZXM9xr2Tg8psN.html
23-05-2020||India||Harsh Vardhan takes over as WHO executive board chief||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday took charge as the chairman of the World Health Organization (WHO)’s 34-member executive board at its 147th session to become the third Indian to currently occupy a senior position in the global health agency.Vardhan will chair meetings of the board but the assignment isn’t a full-time one. He will be chairman for a year. The other Indians in senior roles at WHO are Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, WHO Geneva, and Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, who is serving her second five-year term as the regional director, South East Asia Region, which is one of six WHO regions.Harsh Vardhan succeeded Dr Hiroki Nakatani of Japan. Apart from being India’s health minister, Vardhan also heads the ministries of science and technology, and earth sciences in the BJP-led NDA government.“I congratulate Dr Harsh Vardhan for being elected as the chair of the executive board of WHO. He will lead the board to the next level of excellence. I wish every success for the new chair,” said Nakatani while handing over the post. The World Health Organization is a specialised agency of the United Nations responsible for international public health. The agency is headquartered at Geneva in Switzerland. The 34-member executive board of the agency is technically qualified in the field of health, with members usually being elected for a three-year term, and each of them being designated by a member state. The mandate of the executive board is to advise on the listed matters, and implement decisions and policies of the World Health Assembly.India is one of the 194 member states at WHO, Dr Harsh Vardhan will hold the post for a year (2020-21). “I am sure that constant engagement with member states and other stakeholders will reinforce reforms and help accelerate progress towards achieving sustainable development goals and universal health coverage with the most productive, efficient and targeted utilisation of resources…” said Harsh Vardhan while taking charge.“My heart is heavy as lakhs of people have lost their lives to this deadly pandemic. Despite making great strides in science and technology we are still at the mercy of these pathogens. This is a great human tragedy and the next two decades may see many such challenges. All these challenges demand a shared response, because these are shared threats requiring a shared responsibility to act,” he also said.WHO is governed by two decision-making bodies: the World Health Assembly and the Executive Board. The Health Assembly is WHO’s decision-making body, and consists of representatives from its 194 member states.The member states or countries of WHO are divided into six groups that represent six different regions in the organisation: African Region; Region of the Americas; South-East Asia Region; European Region; Eastern Mediterranean Region; and Western Pacific Region.“Dr Harsh Vardhan has a rich experience in public health. He is the pioneer of India’s successful pulse polio program and has been in the forefront in the fight against tobacco and many other issues. The world can now gain from his expertise and experience,” said SEA regional director, Dr Singh.The post of the executive body’s chairman is held by each group by rotation.The executive board usually meets twice in a year. In January, the main board meeting is held to set the agenda for the World Health Assembly that is held in May.A second shorter meeting is held in May, immediately after the World Health Assembly, to discuss administrative matters.India became a part of WHO on January 12, 1948. The first session of the South East Asia Regional Committee was held on October 4-5, 1948.“My association with WHO dates back to early 1990s; I have even served as an advisor to the organisation and feel deeply honoured to have trust and faith of all of you,” Harsh Vardhan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-takes-over-as-who-executive-board-chief/story-kKCCYlRd4OCEkq5isKeArM.html
23-05-2020||India||Power of states usurped by Centre: Oppn leaders||Alleging that the Centre has “unabashedly usurped powers” vested in states, and undermined “the constitutionally guaranteed federal democracy”, 22 opposition parties on Friday presented a 11-point charter of demands to the Union government to deal with the coronavirus disease pandemic and the economic distress resulting from the national lockdown.These demands include a direct cash transfer of Rs 7,500 to all families outside the income tax bracket and the immediate restoration of parliamentary functioning and oversight.At the end of what was its first meeting after the lockdown was imposed on March 25, the Opposition sharply criticised the government’s handling of the pandemic — with Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who chaired the meeting, alleging that power was concentrated in the Prime Minister’s Office, there was disregard for the plight of migrant workers, and the lockdown had been initiated with no exit plan. In a statement at the end of a marathon meeting held through video-conferencing, the “like-minded parties” said they believe that this is neither the time for the central government to indulge in showmanship nor one-upmanship.“It is important that the Centre reaches out and engages in a dialogue with all political parties in a systematic manner, listen seriously to the suggestions that we have to make, activate parliamentary institutions like standing committees, and be genuine in helping the states financially and otherwise,” the statement added.The meeting was attended by former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader HD Deve Gowda; three serving chief ministers — Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha’s Hemant Soren; former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah; Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar; Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief MK Stalin, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Communist Party of India (CPI) general secretary D Raja; Sharad Yadav of the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), and Tejashwi Yadav of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), among others.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also participated in the meetings along with other senior Congress leaders.However, the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) skipped the meeting despite being invited. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was not invited.The Opposition has demanded, among other measures, the free distribution of 10kg food grains to the needy; increase in number of days under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme to 200; free transportation for all migrant workers to their home states; accurate and relevant information on Covid-19; reversal of all unilateral policy decisions, particularly the annulment of labour laws; release of substantial funds to state governments; communication of the Centre’s exit strategy from the lockdown; and a clear and meaningful economic strategy focused on revival and poverty alleviation.Earlier, the Congress president, in her opening remarks, said the initial optimism of the Prime Minister that the war against the virus would conclude ‪in 21 days has turned out to be misplaced. “It seems that the virus is here to stay until a vaccine is found. I am also of the view that the government was uncertain about the criteria for lockdowns, nor does it have an exit strategy. Successive lockdowns have yielded diminishing returns,” she claimed.Gandhi claimed that the defining image of the Covid-19 pandemic has been that of millions of migrant workers, many with children, walking hundreds of kilometres, without money, food or medicines, desperate to reach their home states. She claimed that the government has disregarded the opposition’s demands and suggestions. “Our pleas have fallen on deaf ears...There is not even pretence of consultation with stakeholders or debate in Parliament. We deplore these unilateral moves.”Gandhi said a number of renowned economists are predicting that 2020-21 will end with negative growth of up to minus 5%. “The consequences will be catastrophic. That the present government has no solutions is worrying but that it has no empathy or compassion for the poor and vulnerable is heartbreaking,” she added. “The government has also abandoned any pretence of being a democratic government. All power is now concentrated in one office, the PMO. The spirit of federalism, which is an integral part of our Constitution, is all but forgotten.” Thackeray — who attended an umbrella Opposition meeting for the first time since the new political alignment took place in Maharashtra — blamed the Centre for doing politics, even as states run by the opposition parties were cooperating with the Centre. Banerjee also said that this was not the time to do politics or discriminate between states, according to a person familiar with the meeting proceedings. For his part, Pawar said the state governments are relaxing the conditions of lockdown but factories are not in a position to resume as workers have migrated to the villages. “We need to strategise to bring them back,” he said.The BJP dismissed the Opposition’s claims and allegations.Union minister Prakash Javadekar said that at a time when the whole country should be fighting the pandemic together, opposition parties were continuing with negative politics. “The Congress and their allies used to question the central government about why the lockdown has not been extended and now they are asking why the lockdown is being extended. First they used to ask us why are people not being allowed to return to their native states, now when nearly 50,00,00 people have reached their native places they are trying to politicise the issue by sending a few buses for transporting people,” he said.Mumbai-based political analyst Abhay Deshpande said the meeting represented an attempt by the opposition parties to form a pressure group to ensure adequate financial aid from the central government to non-BJP ruled states. “They want to collectively put pressure on the Centre to give adequate assistance to opposition-ruled states,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-of-states-usurped-by-centre-oppn-leaders/story-zOPDBSxHIsidgCuy5wCR5M.html
23-05-2020||India||Herd immunity is still far: Global data||One out of five people in New York City and one in 10 in Wuhan have been infected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and developed antibodies that protect them against reinfection, but the proportion of immune population is still too low even in outbreak epicentres for it to confer herd immunity that slows the spread of infection, according to data from several studies done around the world.“Based on data from many countries that have done serosurveys, it is clear that only a small proportion of 5%-10% people have been exposed to this virus. It will be difficult to achieve herd immunity without a vaccine, the number of people who get ill or die may be unacceptably high,” said Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, World Health Organization.Building herd or mass immunity slows or stops the spread of an infectious disease within a population, usually through vaccination. It is an established public health strategy that works by vaccinating at least 70% of people within a community, who then don’t fall sick even when exposed to the virus. If a great majority of people are protected, there are very few unprotected people left to infect, which ends disease transmission and protects even those who are not protected.“A number of seroprevalence studies (that look for antibodies to Covid-19 and assess the overall level of population exposure) have now been completed in both the US and elsewhere, and they suggest that outside of cities hit by the pandemic, overall infection rates and exposure remain relatively low,” tweeted @ScottGottliebMD, former commissioner, US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA), on Friday. People who have experienced even mild coronavirus disease develop neutralising antibodies primed to seek and destroy the Sars-CoV-2 virus that leads to Covid-19 and protect them against reinfection. “From what we’ve seen so far, the virus produces a strong immune response and the antibodies produced offer long-term protection, which is why the epidemic had declined wherever it has peaked. If you look at the curves and draw a perpendicular from the peak, half the cases are before the peak and half are after. It’s a mirror image, and herd immunity is not achieved at the peak, but when the curve hits the X-axis after numbers decline,” said Dr T Jacob John, former professor of virology and emeritus professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.Serological or blood tests can be done at the point of care for mass testing of people at risk, including health workers, to identify those who are already immune, so they can be deployed to care for infected patients to minimise the risk of Covid-19 outbreaks in hospitals.With the National Institute of Virology in Pune developing an Elisa-based rapid test to detect IgG (Immunoglobulin G) antibodies for surveillance, it is possible to scale up antibody testing to determine the extent of the pandemic.“India so far is only testing for the virus, and not antibodies. We won’t know the extent of subclinical infection in the general population until we test everyone for IgG, which are antibodies that appear roughly after the third week. One Elisa-based IgG kit can test 90 plus samples in one go, so it’s an excellent tool for surveillance,” said Dr John.Community surveillance of the general population can track if the pandemic has spread from urban to rural areas in India flowing mass migration from cities. “Multiple asynchronous epidemics are happening in India, so the peaks will vary, but we believe it will be in end July-early August,” said Dr John.Antibody test kits arrived in India on April 16 after several delays, but the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) asked states to suspend antibody testing on April 27 following its evaluation of kits of Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics in field conditions showed results with wide variations in sensitivity. Apart from surveillance to detect asymptomatic cases, antibody tests help screen healthcare workers and others in essential services to determine if they have developed antibodies and can continue or return to work.Since then, the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation of India has approved USFDA-approved test kits from pharma companies Roche Diagnostics and Abbott Laboratories, which are expected to arrive in India by the end of the month.The Roche test, called Elecsys Ant-SARS-CoV-2, has 100% sensitivity and can identify Covid-19 antibodies in the blood sample of someone exposed to the disease in less than 20 minutes two weeks after the infection. Early data from an ongoing study funded by Abbott Laboratories showed its ID NOW rapid test, which is also used in the White House, accurately detects the virus 94.7% of the time, and correctly gave negative results 98.6% of the time, the company said in a statement on Thursday.“Herd immunity will not happen till the infection peaks and falls, so until we have a vaccine, masks, hygiene, and social isolation are the only protection from infection,” said Dr John.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/herd-immunity-is-still-far-global-data/story-YC1wm9ctrOcziPyKVwCAcM.html
23-05-2020||India||Ministries pitch proposals for work-from-home framework||Three days of work from the office and two days from home, reduced childcare leave and Make in India laptops for government employees are among the suggestions the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) has received for its work-from-home framework in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. Over two subsequent review meetings on Wednesday and Thursday, the department received feedback from nearly 80 ministries and departments for the draft proposal pitched on May 13. “Two meetings were held where feedback has been received from over 110 stakeholders,” a senior official who was part of the meetings said on condition of anonymity . “The data will be analysed before a final policy is decided, but most are in favour of work-from-home for at least some time now.” According to the DARPG Twitter handle, the department’s additional secretary V Srinivas chaired the second interministerial meeting, comprising representatives from 37 ministries, on Thursday. “The Information and Technology ministry has suggested an alternate day week, that is, three days from office and two days work from home,” the senior official cited above said. On Monday, the Department of Personnel and Training issued instructions for alternate day work weeks with 50% attendance and staggered timings for officials and staff below the rank of deputy secretary. “A recommendation of reduced childcare leave, as most officials are working from home and Make in India laptops has also been made,” said a second official. Encryption for laptops, time discipline and a dress code were also discussed at the meeting. “We also talked about creating a small office space at home,” said the first official. The department is waiting for a response from the ministry of home affairs on security features because a number of confidential documents may have to be accessed remotely. “We have recommended that office laptops be used as they are encrypted,” a DARPG official said, adding that the use of private laptops is also being discussed. A further response from the Department of Expenditure is also awaited as financial sanctions need to be sought to provide reimbursement for data usage by the officials, a recommendation made in the work-from-home framework. The official added that various logistics have to be worked out, including creating a support inventory such as cloud space for files and determining the level to which the virtual private network will be extended. The draft proposal had recommended moving files to the digital platform, e-office, which has been the fulcrum of all government work during the Covid-19 lockdown. However, it suggested that the National Informatics Centre and MHA evaluate existing security protocols to remotely access classified files. It also asked that the ministries and departments consider allowing eligible officers and other staff to work from home for 15 days a year as a policy decision for the future.“The response has been very encouraging,” said the DARPG official. “We have received comprehensive comments and the overall push is to continue to work from home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministries-pitch-proposals-for-work-from-home-framework/story-KXP4V0rJv6eZGtLGsxjIvI.html
23-05-2020||India||Supreme Court seeks govt’s reply on plea to ban Zoom video calling app||The Supreme Court (SC) on Friday sought the response of the central government and Zoom Video Communications on a plea seeking a ban on the use of the Zoom videoconferencing software, citing privacy and security concerns.The petitioner, Harsh Chugh, who is a part-time tutor, said the use of Zoom should be banned for both official and personal purposes until a law addressing data security issues is put in place.“Issue notice returnable in four weeks”, the bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said.In April, the home ministry issued an advisory stating that the Zoom app, which government officials have been barred from using, was “not safe” for use by private individuals.The government’s missive came after the national cybersecurity agency – Computer Emergency Response Team of India (CERT-in) – flagged the cyber vulnerability of the popular app, being used by tens of thousands of professionals working from home due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Officials pointed out at the time that the NIC (National Informatics Centre) platform was being used for most government video conferences.Government officials have been asked not to use any third party app and services for meetings. The CyCord portal was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in December 2018 for sharing all cyber-related matters among law enforcement agencies, government organisations and other stakeholders.The Zoom app, which is owned by the US-based Zoom Video Communications, enables video conferences and online chat facilities. The use of the platform is free for video conferences with up to 100 participants within a 40-minute time limit. For longer or larger conferences with more features, paid subscriptions are available.Chugh told the apex court that the sudden boom in the use of Zoom application because of the lockdown restrictions, which were imposed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, has severely compromised security in cyberspace by leaking the personal data of its users.“Poor privacy and security of the application have enabled the hackers to get access to the meeting, classes, and conferences being conducted online through this application. Zoom is reported to have a bug that can be abused intentionally to leak information of users to third parties,” the plea said.The petition pointed out that the Zoom application saw exponential growth in its users from 10 million in December 2019 to 200 million in March 2020 due to the pandemic-induced lockdown restrictions.The petitioner alleged that the application has made false claims that its calls are end-to-end encrypted.Chugh also claimed that Zoom practices data hoarding, including mass storage users’ personal data.The petitioner pointed out that various high courts across the country are still using the application, despite the MHA advisory.“The Bombay high court recently decided to live stream hearing on a trial basis. The bench of Justice GS Patel made the hearing of listed matters on April 9 publicly accessible. The hearing in the court of Justice Patel could be accessed by anyone and everyone via the Zoom application. Similarly, the Kerala High Court has also started live-streaming of court hearings through this application”, the plea stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-govt-reply-on-plea-to-ban-zoom/story-2ZLzxAd6Vkp3DbNyiNV4YN.html
23-05-2020||India||Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha record big spikes as migrant workers return home||The eastern Indian states of Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha have seen the fastest growth in Covid-19 cases since May 1, when the railways started bringing back stranded migrant workers, compared to any other state in India, shows Covid-19 data from different states.However, compared to the western Indian states of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan and southern state of Tamil Nadu, the absolute number of the cases in the eastern states is still very low. A reason for this could be the very low number of tests per million of the population conducted in these eastern states compared to the more developed western states. In Bihar, where the number of those testing positive for Sars-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, has seen a fivefold jump, the total number of positive cases on Friday was 2,105, which is less than the daily increase in positive cases in Maharashtra (on Friday, this was 2,940). Jharkhand, where the cases have seen a fourfold increase in the past 20 days, the total number cases are 309, less than the average per day increase of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat (on Friday, this was 363). In the neighbouring tribal state of Odisha, the cases between May 1 and May 20 went up nine times, taking the total number of cases to 1,189.Nationally, between May 1 and May 20, the number of Covid-19 cases has increased from 37,262 to 1,18,226. The biggest contribution to the spike came from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat.In these eastern states, one of the reason for the sudden increase in cases has been the return of migrant workers, especially from the Covid-19 hot spot areas of Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Surat and Chennai. In Bihar, close to 57% of the total cases were of the migrant workers, in Jharkhand it was 48.5% (upto May 21) and in Odisha over 95% total cases from May 1. In Jharkhand, besides migrant workers, many cases were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. The state’s first case was a Malaysian woman, who was part of 22 member group who arrived in Ranchi after attending the event. The group had gone to two mosques in Ranchi’s Hindpiri locality. Further contact tracing in the area led to discovery of a number of cases. Of the 105 reported in Ranchi, over 80% were concentrated in Hindpiri locality. On May 1, the railways started Shramik Special trains bringing passengers back and workers were also sent back through buses. Many workers also came back by trucks and walked back to their homes in these states. Since their return, these eastern states saw a spurt in Covid-19 cases, pushing the administration to put lakhs of people in institutional quarantine.Till Thursday, Bihar has set up 10,353 block quarantine camps, where 7.45 lakh people were living for the stipulated period of 14 days. It is here that the samples of symptomatic persons and others are taken randomly for testing. “Preventing the migrants from directly going home, after reaching the state, has helped us contain the spread of the virus,” said Anupam Kumar, secretary information and public relations department.As Bihar has scaled up testing, more Covid-19 cases have been reported. Of the 58,905 samples tested till Friday, 3.57% (2105 cases) had reported positive. This ratio was 1.79%, as on May 3, official data showed. “In the last one week, (May 15-May 21), the number of new infections has grown by an average 13% every day,” said Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Uday Singh Kumawat. In Jharkhand, close to 2.90 lakh people, a majority of them migrant labourers, have been staying in institutional and home quarantine. On May 1, the number of such people was only 93,813. Of the 2.90 lakh people, who have been observing quarantine, 71,123 are in institutional quarantine, shows official health bulletin. “It has been noticed that many workers, who were tested positive, had arrived from red zones like Mumbai and Surat,” said Dr A K Singh, state president of Indian Medical Association (IMA).As on May 20, the Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand were spread over 12 of 24 districts. Ranchi district alone had 83 cases then. The pandemic swiftly gripped the other nine districts as migrant workers started reaching home. Of the 309 cases, 147 were of migrant workers who came in Jharkhand after May 5, a bulletin released by the state health department of May 21 said. The seven day growth rate of the disease in Jharkhand stood at 5.84% against the national average of 5.36% and the doubling period too came down to 12.20 days against the national average of 13.28 days. Singh said Jharkhand needs to scale up testing to reflect the true impact of the Covid19 outbreak.Between May 1 and May 21, more than 2.2 lakh migrant workers returned to Odisha from different states. Ganjam where over 72,000 migrant workers arrived from Gujarat, the number of Covid-19 cases has crossed 300 while Jajpur, another district with significant migrant returnees from Bengal the numbers have gone past 200. “Odisha’s Covid-19 number is expected to rise to 10,000 by June,” said Odisha’s Covid-19 spokesperson, Jayanta Panda, adding that all cases have been reported from quarantine centres and containment zones. Unlike the western states with a high number of Covid-19 cases, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand have low testing rates. As of May 21, Bihar was testing 466 out of every one million people, said Kumawat. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has directed officials to ramp up testing facilities from an average of 2,000 to 10,000 per day, and to test as many migrants as possible. This rate for Jharkhand was 570 per million people and 2660 per million people in Odisha. According to worldometers.info, India is testing 1973 people per million population.Of the 530,000 migrants that arrived till May 18, Bihar had tested only 1.57% (8,337) of them. Jharkhand has tested about 2% of 2.5 lakh migrant workers, who have returned. This rate for Odisha was 30% of the 2.2 lakh workers, who have returned. As Covid-19 cases surge, health officials say they are now not much perturbed by the rising numbers. “If Covid-19 infection will not rise then there will be no herd immunity. For herd immunity, two-thirds of people in a locality or area need to be exposed, which is going to happen,” said Panda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-jharkhand-and-odisha-record-big-spikes-as-migrant-workers-return-home/story-6PfyWmDaJPbpkgeZpqTVhN.html
23-05-2020||India||Govt sounds alarm as locusts enter Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh||Crop-munching locust swarms have entered Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, and Madhya Pradesh a month in advance and pose a major threat to standing crops and vegetables, the Union environment ministry warned in a statement on Friday. It said Rajasthan is the most affected state and added the swarm has entered earlier than expected. “States are adopting various means for controlling the swarm,” the statement said. Soumitra Dasgupta, the ministry’s additional director general (wildlife), said though they do not deal with locusts, they were informed by ground staff and wildlife wardens about the swarms. “So, we have shared the information from the western states,” said Dasgupta.HT on Friday reported India is on the alert for the desert locusts, which according to the UN pose a “severe” risk to the country’s agriculture this year. A top pest-monitoring agency has also flagged signs of an early-than-usual summer invasion of the species of grasshoppers from across Pakistan and prompted the government to consider importing equipment from the UK, apart from deploying drones, satellite-derived tools, special fire-tenders and sprayers at pre-identified border locations.Locusts can fly up to 150 km daily and a one square km swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people in terms of weight in a single day.A surge in locust attacks since last year is being attributed to favourable breeding weather caused by a large number of cyclones in East Africa. India, China, and Pakistan face the most risk in Asia, according to the UN. Locust attacks are known to cause a considerable drop in agricultural output. In its update on Thursday, the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), said locusts’ breeding was continuing in southern Iran and south-west Pakistan, where control operations are in progress against hopper groups and bands. “As vegetation dries out, more groups and swarms will form and move from these areas to the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border in several waves from now until at least early July. Good rains are predicted during the first half of June along the Indo-Pakistan border [and] that would allow egg-laying to occur. This should reduce the further eastward movement of swarms that have already arrived in Rajasthan, India.”K L Gurjar, deputy director, plant protection, Locust Warning Organisation, Union agriculture ministry, said the locusts that have arrived are sub-adults flying very high and covering huge distances fast. “They have reached up to Morena and Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh with the help of westerly winds. Swarms were also seen in Haryana bordering areas like Jhunjhunu. These have come from Pakistan, Baluchistan and Iran, which are their breeding area. Because they are sub-adults, there is a risk of egg-laying which we are trying to contain. Our teams are spraying insecticides and tracking their movement.” Madhya Pradesh principal secretary, department of farmer welfare and agriculture, Ajit Kesari said, “The government of India has released Rs 51 lakh for purchase of chemical. We are keeping stock of chemicals in all the districts. Our instructions to all these districts are to track the locusts and spray chemical wherever they settle at night. Thus, their number is decreasing by the day. Also, wherever they settle the area is chemically treated to destroy eggs also. Meanwhile, government of India has warned Maharashtra given the possibility of the swarms heading in that direction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sounds-alarm-as-locusts-enter-raj-mp/story-E0zCNMqgLmU2Nlrtn5GX4H.html
23-05-2020||India||Gauhati high court grants statutory bail to Sharjeel||Three months after he was arrested by Delhi Police from Bihar for his “cut-off-Assam” remark, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam was granted statutory bail by Gauhati high court on Friday.“Statutory bail has been granted to my brother Sharjeel Imam in the FIR registered by Crime Branch, Guwahati police. This is the first step towards his release,” his brother Muzzammil tweeted.The granting of bail, however, doesn’t mean he will be out from jail immediately. There are several cases against Sharjeel lodged in different states of the country.According to reports, the statutory bail was granted by court as the police failed to file charge sheet against Sharjeel within the stipulated 90 days and also didn’t seek extension of his custody.Following his arrest, Sharjeel was brought to Guwahati on February 20 by Assam Police.Assam Police had registered a case against Imam after a video of him stating that Assam should be cut-off from the rest of India, during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protest, went viral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-high-court-grants-statutory-bail-to-sharjeel/story-AWF6nDI95DkX2eAD9OPW4K.html
23-05-2020||India||Parts of Delhi sizzle at 45°C, no quick respite likely: IMD||Several Indian cities faced heat wave conditions with maximum temperature hovering over 45 degree Celsius on Friday and no respite is expected in the next few days.Heat wave conditions gripped Palam and Lodhi Road in Delhi with the two weather stations recording maximum temperatures of 45.4 degrees C and 44.4 degrees C respectively, five degrees above normal. The Safdarjung weather station also recorded the highest maximum temperature for the season at 43.8 degrees C, four degrees above normal.“We cannot expect any relief from hot weather in northwest India till May 27. The maximum temperature will range from 42 to 45 degrees C. Around May 29, a western disturbance is likely to cause clouding. The dry hot north-westerly winds and clear skies are leading to maximum temperatures peaking,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, Delhi. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), in its Friday bulletin, said on Thursday the highest maximum temperature was recorded at 46 degrees C in coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam while the highest maximum temperature on Friday was recorded at Churu in west Rajasthan at 46.2 degrees C. Heat wave conditions are very likely over Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh during the next five days with severe heat waves in some pockets over West Rajasthan during the next 24 hours. Heat wave conditions are likely over parts of peninsular India and Vidarbha during next three or four days; over East Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh after 24 hours and over southern parts of Uttar Pradesh after 48 hours. The worst health impacts of the heat wave will be borne by migrant workers who are headed home on foot or by other transport, experts said.According to National Disaster Management Authority, around 2.3 million migrant workers have travelled by train between May 12 and May 21, the data for those walking back or travelling in buses cannot be estimated said, Pawan Kumar Singh, joint advisor, national disaster management authority (NDMA). Many workers are also walking back to their villages from train stations.“They are very vulnerable to heat strokes if they are walking. They will have to drink a lot of water and take rest frequently. They should choose cooler parts of the day to walk like mornings and evenings. It is best to quarantine them when they reach their villages and migrants should wear masks and wash their hands frequently to prevent infection. Even in Gujarat, we initially saw migrants walking back to nearby villages from Ahmedabad but now they are walking very large distances,” said Dilip Mavlankar, Gandhinagar’s Indian Institute of Public Health director.Priya Deshingkar, Professor of Migration and Development, University of Sussex, on Friday in a conference organised by Centre for Science and Environment on the current migration crisis, said: “The current exodus of migrants is the largest we have seen since Partition. Hundreds of thousands have decided to travel back on foot, tempos, trucks and whatever transport they can find, in terrible conditions. While they were initially prevented from travelling because of fears related to the spread of Covid-19, they are now being asked to stay back because of fears of the impact on the economy that depends on cheap migrant labour.”The India Meteorological Department (IMD), Nagpur division declared heat wave conditions for Nagpur, Akola and Chandrapur, all recorded maximum temperatures over 45 degrees Celsius in Vidarbha subdivision on Friday. “When the actual maximum temperature remains 45 degrees Celsius or more irrespective of normal maximum temperature, we declare heatwave,” said ML Sahu, deputy director-general of meteorology, IMD Nagpur.In Uttar Pradesh, the Met department has issued for warning of heatwave conditions in the next 48 hours. Heatwave condition is very likely at isolated places over the state, the weather office said. The day temperature remained above normal in many cities of the state. At 46.1 degree Celsius, Jhansi was hottest in the state. It was 3.1 degrees Celsius above normal. Taj city Agra was 45.4 degrees Celsius, Prayagraj 45, Kanpur was 44.5 degrees Celsius, Aligarh and Banda was 44 degrees Celsius.The neighbouring Madhya Pradesh recorded maximum 46 degree Celsius temperature at Nowgong in Chhatarpur district. As per the meteorological department, as many as 28 towns in the state record maximum temperature between 41 and 46 degree Celsius. The department forecast that heat wave may be witnessed in parts of Khargone, Khandwa and Burhanpur in Nimad region in the next 24 hours.The maximum temperature of Patna and Gaya, two prominent cities of Bihar, continued to hover around 42⁰C before it was brought down to 33-35⁰C owing to a few spells of showers a couple of days ago.The two Telugu states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh started witnessing extreme heatwave conditions from Thursday. According to IMD officials in Hyderabad, the maximum temperature of 45.6 degrees Celsius was recorded in Khammam as on Friday morning. Adilabad, Nalgonda and Ramagundam recorded 44 degrees Celsius, followed by Nizamabad (43.9), Bhadrachalam (43.8), Mahabubnagar and Medak (43.6). Hyderabad recorded the hottest day of the year so far with 42 degrees Celsius.Even, prominent hill stations including Shimla, Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie of Himachal saw warmer than usual days as temperatures increased by two degrees on Friday. Himachal’s director, Meteorological Department Dr Manmohan Singh said the maximum temperatures are very likely to increase in the coming days and are very likely going to be more than 40 degrees in lower hills of the state.With 39.7 degrees maximum temperature, Una was the hottest place in the state and Shimla recorded 27.1 degrees maximum temperature while Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 28.4, 29.2 and 22.4 degrees maximum temperature. Kufri, near Shimla recorded 20.2 degrees maximum temperature. In Punjab, Bathinda recorded the highest of 43.6 degree Celsius followed by Amritsar 41.6 and Ludhiana 40.8. (Inputs from States)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parts-of-delhi-sizzle-at-45-c-no-quick-respite-likely-imd/story-QMEihX0Q1Ob662vHZ6qnLP.html
23-05-2020||India||Unusually warm Bay of Bengal allowed cyclone Amphan to gain strength||Before the formation of cyclone Amphan, the sea surface temperature in some pockets of the Bay of Bengal in the first two weeks of May was recorded to be as high as 34 degrees C, possibly for the first time ever, scientists from the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), Hyderabad, said.Even after Amphan passed and its intensity has fizzled out, the temperature in parts of the Bay of Bengal remain as high as 31.5 degrees C, which is above the normal of 28 degrees C for May, and may favour the monsoon, which is near Car Nicobar now. “I have seen sea surface temperature going up to 32 degrees C earlier but not 34 degrees C. It’s very, very warm and favoured the cyclone in all ways,” said Satheesh Shenoi, director, INCOIS. The devastation from Amphan may be massive, inundating large stretches of low lying areas, but INCOIS is not able to give figures and data of storm surge or inundation this time because the outbreak of Covid-19 has prevented it from sending a team to the cyclone-affected areas“Based on details from the ground, we can say that storm surge must have been between 4 to 6 metres in North and South 24 Parganas. We are in a peculiar situation. Usually, immediately after a cyclone, our team rushes to the coast to measure storm surge with our instruments. For inundation, field studies are done to check the mark of water on trees, buildings etc. We can only estimate now that low lying areas of Sunderbans must have been inundated substantially at least for some time because there are narrow bunds and storm surge must have been very high,” added Shenoi.“This time, Bay of Bengal has been unusually warm. The cyclone was moving only on warm waters which gave it this scale of energy,” Shenoi said.“Most modelling studies are indicating that category 4 and 5 cyclones are increasing globally while category 1,2 and 3 cyclones are declining. This is something we have to live with as the oceans warm up,” said V Vinoj, climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Technology, Bhubaneshwar.A study led by School of Earth Sciences, University of Melbourne, last year said that based on projections, tropical cyclone numbers will decrease while their maximum intensities will increase and future sea level rise will exacerbate the impact of storm surge on coastal regions.“In the past two to three years, we are noticing a rise in tropical cyclones over the Arabian Sea. There are various research papers that are saying that intensity of tropical cyclones has increased but some studies have also contradicted those findings. So I will not be able to comment on that,” said Sunita Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.Last year there were seven severe cyclones (over the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal), the first time as high a number was being recorded since 1976, according to data from the India Meteorological Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unusually-warm-bay-of-bengal-allowed-cyclone-to-gain-strength/story-c6MQvXZAvp62LTeZIeiRIK.html
23-05-2020||India||PM announces Rs 1,500 crore relief for Amphan-hit Bengal, Odisha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced Rs 1,500 crore for the relief and rehabilitation of people affected by Cyclone Amphan in West Bengal and Odisha, and assured the states of more support after conducting separate aerial surveys with chief ministers Mamata Banerjee and Naveen Patnaik on Friday.West Bengal is fighting well, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) quoted Modi as saying in a series of tweets, which also underscored the fact that the state is faced with the two-pronged challenge of fighting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and rebuilding areas battered by the cyclone. Modi’s remarks were seen as praise for Banerjee, one of his staunchest critics.“The government of India will work shoulder-to-shoulder with the state administration. We are announcing the release of an advance assistance fund of Rs 1,000 crore,” Modi said in Hindi after a review meeting in Basirhat in North 24 Parganas. Later, he announced immediate assistance of Rs 500 crore for Odisha.Cyclone Amphan, the most severe storm in the Bay of Bengal since the super cyclone of 1999, has left a trail of destruction and damage in the two states. It made landfall around 20km east of Sagar Island in the Sunderbans on Wednesday afternoon, packing winds gusting to a top speed of 185 kilometres per hour, cutting off road links, snapping telecommunications, leaving parts of West Bengal without electricity, and inundating coastal hamlets. It killed about 80 people in West Bengal and at least two in Odisha.It was around 11am that Modi reached the Kolkata airport, where he was received by Banerjee and governor Jagdeep Dhankar on the first leg of his day-long tour. Differences took a back seat when Modi and Banerjee, fierce opponents on two sides of the political spectrum, boarded a helicopter to survey the worst-hit areas of North and South 24 Parganas districts. Accompanying them was Dhankar, whose endorsement of central policies has time and again put him in the crosshairs of the ruling Trinamool Congress.“At times we have to move beyond politics, attend to constitutional obligations and work together as state and central governments. We have to maintain that relationship. We have to follow the federal structure,” Banerjee said before the arrival of Modi.“While we have received reports of 80 deaths; 60 million people in the state have been directly affected. This (cyclone) has done more damage than any other natural disaster,” she said.At the review meeting with Banerjee in Basirhat after the survey, Modi declared that Rs 2 lakh each will be given to families of the deceased from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. Those injured will get Rs 50,000 each.“We all want West Bengal to move ahead. Centre will always stand with West Bengal in these testing times,” the PMO quoted Modi as saying. “We are battling a pandemic on one hand and there is a cyclone situation in some parts. Dealing with the pandemic requires social distancing whereas battling the cyclone requires people to move to safer areas,” the PMO said in another tweet. “Despite these contradictions, West Bengal is fighting well…”Banerjee said her state suffered losses of more than Rs 1 lakh crore due to the storm that has left tens of thousands homeless. “Most of the areas we surveyed were totally ravaged. I have briefed the Prime Minister in detail about the post-cyclone situation in the state,” she told reporters at the airport after seeing off Modi.Banerjee said she “reminded the Prime Minister about Rs 53,000 crore the central government owes to the state for various social security schemes”. “If they (Centre) give some money to us, we can work,” she said.Dhankar, who donated Rs 50 lakh to the chief minister’s relief fund, welcomed the “atmosphere of cooperation”. “I see light at the end of the tunnel. I am sure that when the central team comes for inspection (of the post-cyclone situation) it will be received with a red carpet,” he said in the evening.In Odisha too, Modi conducted an aerial survey after holding a review meeting with governor Ganeshi Lal and CM Patnaik, and announced the Rs 500-crore package for the state. In addition to that, Modi said, further assistance will be provided for long-term rehabilitation measures after the Centre receives a detailed report. “Everyone is fighting Covid-19. In such a time, we had a super cyclone in some parts of India. This became very worrying. At the same time, due to the well-established processes in Odisha, many lives were saved. I congratulate the people and Government of Odisha,” the PMO tweeted Modi as saying.According to the preliminary estimates by Odisha, the storm affected 4.4 million people and over 100,000 hectares of farmland in the state. Separately, president Ram Nath Kovind spoke to Banerjee and Patnaik, and assured them that the nation stands united in supporting their affected people.On Friday, the air force said it modified aircraft/helicopters for relief operations and is on standby. It said its crisis management cell is coordinating with the civil administration and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams on the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-announces-1-5k-cr-relief-for-amphan-hit-bengal-odisha/story-EuE2KIsOg73azcLW4bluZM.html
23-05-2020||India||For Bengal’s migrant workers back from other states, Cyclone Amphan is a nightmare||A week ago, more than 100 migrant workers had returned to Haroa, in Basirhat sub-division of North 24-Parganas district, from the states of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Maharashtra. 32-year-old Jasimuddin Islam, a resident of Biswanathpur who has a family of four, found his place at a quarantine centre after coming back from Tamil Nadu, walking and hitchhiking. His yearning to reach home became unbearable on Thursday after hearing that Cyclone Amphan had left their tiled-roofed, brick-built house completely grounded.“I broke into tears on hearing the news. Everything is over. The job is gone. Whatever I had earned has been spent during our stay in Tamil Nadu and the return journey. And now the roof above the family’s head is also gone,” said Islam. At Karanjali area in South 24-Parganas, dozens of migrant workers returned from Maharashtra on Friday morning, only to know that their home and their ponds had been devastated.“I returned virtually penniless and now even my home is gone,” said Maheshwar Biswas, a migrant worker in Karanjali area who took work as a mason in Maharashtra.At Sagar and Gosaba area in South 24-Parganas, and Sandeshkhali and Hingalganj in North 24-Pasrganas a number of cyclone centres had been turned into quarantine centres for suspected Covid-19 carriers, especially migrant workers who recently returned from other states. More than 5,000 migrant workers had returned to the Kakdwip and Canning sub-divisions of South 24-Parganas district.“I couldn’t stand the scene when migrant workers who are presently at quarantine centres broke into tears after hearing that their houses had been grounded by the cyclone. We have no words to console them,” said Sandeshkhali MLA Sukumar Mahato.Some of the migrant workers, like Osman Mallick and Biswanath Talukdar of Minakhan in North 24-Parganas, who had been allowed to go home after completing the period of institutional quarantine, had to leave home again, this time for cyclone centres in schools. The storm has left their homes uninhabitable.“We have no job, no money, no savings and no home. Where do we go?” said Bidyut Sardar, a resident of Sarabaria village in Minakhan who returned from Karnataka about two weeks ago.Jaynagar’s Lok Sabha MP Pratima Mandal said that the crisis faced by migrant workers living in cyclone-hit areas was “of great magnitude”.“The more news of such losses are coming in, the more helpless we are feeling. There are hundreds of them who have lost everything and we don’t yet know how much relief we can offer them,” Mandal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-bengal-s-migrant-workers-back-from-other-states-cyclone-amphan-is-a-nightmare/story-vc5ch6kvcl9C6tBghSmvlI.html
23-05-2020||India||Woman tries to stop husband’s bus, falls, dies. Unaware, he drives away||A 30-year-old woman died in mysterious circumstances after she tried to stop her husband’s Mumbai-bound bus, in which he had brought migrant workers home in Hazaribagh, police said on Friday.Kunti Devi did not want her husband Basudev Mahto to go back to Mumbai, fearing the rise in coronavirus cases there, and tried to stop the bus. While the husband was revving up the bus engine to leave, she accidently fell on the ground and died, police said.The incident took place at Sarukudar village in Hazaribag’s Vishnugarh block around 5pm yesterday. However, police were informed about the incident around 10pm at night.Mahto, who works as a bus driver in Mumbai, brought 25 Jharkhand migrant workers to Hazaribagh. After dropping the passengers at a quarantine centre, he went to meet his parents, wife and the two children at Sarukudar village.Pramod Kumar Sinha, Bishnugarh police station in-charge, said that during questioning of few witnesses and villagers on Thursday night they came to know that the wife was not ready to let her husband return to Mumbai and had become adamant.Mahto reportedly did not stop after the incident. “Since we got the information late and did not have the number of the bus, we could not stop it. He could not be reached on his mobile,” Sinha said. The officer added that they are investigating to find out the location of Mahto in Mumbai.“My wife was not ready to let me go back to Mumbai. I told her that I would come back in a week after bringing another lot of migrant workers from there. But she was not ready to listen. She said either I allow her to come along or give my mobile to her,” Mahto told police.“The argument continued and I took over the driver’s seat. As I got ready to leave, she got inside the bus. Anyhow, I got her down from the bus. I thought she went back home. But, she came in front of my bus. I could not hear her. As the vehicle began moving, she fell on the ground. I never thought that she would die,” Mahto told police.A section of the villagers, however, alleged that Mahto crushed her wife to death. “We did not find any sign that the woman was crushed. There was head injury and prima facie it seemed a case of accident,” he said.Hundreds of migrant labourers are returning to Jharkhand everyday by trains and buses. As per the government records, 1.5 lakh migrant workers and students stranded outside the state have returned to Jharkhand since interstate movement of trains and buses was allowed by the Centre on April 29. Around seven lakh migrant workers have registered with the state government to return home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-tries-to-stop-husband-s-bus-falls-dies-unaware-he-drives-away/story-HQ18PuXXzRjuhYSnbrE90O.html
23-05-2020||India||Second case involving Parliament staff, senior officer found Covid-19 positive||A senior officer of Parliament working in the editorial and translation (E&T) services tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive recently.The officer had attended office till May 12, which is located on the fifth floor of the Parliament annex building that houses most of the parliamentary officials and chambers for House panel meetings.This is the second Covid-19 positive case involving a Parliament staff after a senior housekeeper had contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, in April, making it the first case among the 3,000-odd staff working in the Lok Sabha secretariat.But unlike the senior housekeeper, the E&T official had attended his office regularly before he was put under quarantine, people familiar with the matter said.The annex building is located about 100 metres away from the main Parliament building and is connected with a dedicated road, which was earlier a part of the Talkatora Road.The E&T’s staff’s infection, according to an official, came to light only on Thursday and since Friday morning, all necessary arrangements for sealing a block of offices on the fifth floor of the annex and a santisation drive of the building have been carried out. Contact tracing has also started in earnest.Parliament opened with one-third staff after the lockdown 2.0 expired on May 3.The housekeeping staff, who tested Covid-19 positive in April, was not working in the Parliament complex but in one of the establishments of the Lok Sabha secretariat at 36 Gurudwara Rakab Gunj Road.The special Housekeeper, according to three officials, was at home since the budget session of Parliament was adjourned on March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-case-involving-parliament-staff-senior-officer-found-covid-19-positive/story-6JKHrlVzaCO2ggPhAh6nVO.html
23-05-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in India exceed 100,000, but low fatality ratio offers hope||The number of known coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India crossed 100,000 on Monday, two-and-a-half months after the outbreak began taking hold in the country, which then went into an unprecedented lockdown that slowed the outbreak to a significant extent. The milestone was a grim reminder of the challenge India, which has the second highest population in the world, faces as it rolls back some of the curbs in place since March 25 to allow economic activity to resume. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the 78 days since the outbreak began, total infections were at 100,311 and 3,081 people succumbed to the disease till Monday, but the trend indicates the situation may be less serious than the global scenario, where the proportion of deaths is double what has been seen in the country on an average. “We have successfully managed to delay the peaking of the curve by imposing lockdown and other public health measures in a timely manner. There are several mathematical models which are predicting the course of the pandemic in India, but till now, we have managed to avoid the dramatically high numbers that several models predicted,” said.Union Health minister Harsh Vardhan. “It is difficult to predict numbers as they will depend on the adherence of restrictions on mobility and inter-mingling, personal hygiene, and prevention of exposure to infection by people in different areas. Additionally, it will also depend on the proportion of those infected among migrants and travellers from outside and within.” he added.In the national capital, 299 new cases pushed Delhi’s tally above the 10,000 mark. As on Monday, Delhi has 10,054 cases and 160 deaths, putting the mortality rate close to 1.6%, which is roughly half of the national average of 3.09%. Delhi has one of the highest testing rates in the country, with 6,919 tests per million population. The national testing rate for India is 1,540 tests per million population, according to Indian Council of Medical Research.Based on data reported till Monday evening, India’s case fatality rate stood at 3.07%. Across the world, where 4.8 million infections have led to at least 317,000 deaths, the fatality rate is at 6.57%. In United States, the country now hardest hit, the fatality stood at 6%. For China, where the virus first began spreading, the figure is 5.56%, “The Covid-19 outbreak in India could have been far worse. If you look at the number of deaths we have averted, India has done remarkably well. This is mainly because of early measures like the nationwide lockdown,” said Dr Giridhar R Babu, professor and head of life course epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India.As India relaxes some more of the curbs that were put in place on March 25, experts said the coming weeks will be crucial to determine whether the country can hold onto these gains. “Lockdown helped reduce the rate of transmission, but what we do now will be of utmost importance. The focus should be on problem states like West Bengal, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, particularly Mumbai,” Babu added.A weekly tracker of Covid-19 infection trends by disease modeling experts at Imperial College London indicated that the rate of transmission of the disease in India came down to below 1 (the authors identified it as 0.98), a threshold that is key to stop the virus from growing exponentially. On May 11, the model predicted there would be 801 deaths in India for the week ending on Sunday. Reported deaths for the week, based on HT’s dashboard of cases, stood at 812. In the week till Sunday, the speed at which the outbreak grew would take India 13.7 days to double its number of cases. But that could change for the worse as the country allows more offices to reopen and public transport to resume. New infections among the hundreds of thousands of migrants returning to their villages and hometowns from urban centres is also feared to seed cases in rural parts of the country that had till now been largely free of infections.A second expert said that India’s aggressive measures need to continue. “Careful risk assessments should identify hotspots and clusters, and continued efforts should be made to further strengthen capacities to respond, especially at sub-national levels. The core public health measures for Covid-19 response remain, rapidly detect, test, isolate, treat and trace all contacts,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, World Health Organisation South East Asia Region, of which India is a part.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-exceed-100-000-but-low-fatality-ratio-offers-hope/story-WKtH4uhMTXZNfqp3sKxvZP.html
23-05-2020||India||Private vehicle use may surge after crisis||In the next couple of months, as cities start to reopen, the most perceptible change may be in how their people commute. Researchers have established a significant link between the spread of infectious diseases and travelling in buses or metro trains, where people routinely share enclosed spaces with many others.The risk of an outbreak linked to mass transit grows when people spend more time in a bus or a train, and use or pass through stations that typically see a heavy rush of passengers, according to a 2018 study published in the journal Environmental Health.“The transmission of infectious diseases is dependent on the amount and nature of contacts between infectious and healthy individuals. Confined and crowded environments that people visit in their day-to-day life (such as town squares, business districts, transport hubs, etc) can act as hot spots for spreading disease,” said the authors Lara Gosce and Anders Johanson in the study that found people who took the London Underground from boroughs with high-footfall stations were more susceptible to flu-like illnesses.The study formed the basis of a recent paper by MIT professor Jeffrey E Harris, who found a similar correlation between Covid-19 infections and the use of the New York subway system. “New York City’s multitentacled subway system was a major disseminator – if not the principal transmission vehicle – of coronavirus infection during the initial takeoff of the massive epidemic,” Harris wrote in a paper for the National Bureau of Economic Research of the US.Such findings and concerns are now forcing transit authorities to reconsider how – and if -- India can restart public transport in a way that crowding is reduced.“Considering social distancing of a minimum of 1 metre per passengers would mean increasing Delhi Metro services by almost seven times and bus services by five times,” said Amit Bhatt, director of urban transport at independent research organisation WRI India. “But this is not possible. There is a need to take on-board safety measures to protect commuters and on-board staff. This could include sanitizing all locations used for public transport service and to protect staff from exposure to ensure the continued functioning of services,” he added.Officials of the Union government have said that they are considering doing away with single-use tokens in order to reduce touch points between people, while the Central Industrial Security Force – which oversees security on the network – is looking at contactless frisking and making the government’s digital contact tracing app Aarogya Setu mandatory for commuters. But most of these proposals are still in preliminary stages, as reopening public transport remains one of the more distant outcomes as cities slowly begin to reopen. “We are exploring all possible options to minimise the transmission of the infection among commuters. But no concrete decision has been taken as yet. Moreover, public transport service will be restored based on the relaxation in lockdown norms,” said a senior Delhi government official on the options before the Delhi Transport Corporation, which runs the Capital’s buses.Most experts believe that for the time being, and possibly over the next few years, people may pivot to using personal vehicles. “Once the lockdown is over, people would like to travel in their personal vehicles as it is the safest mode of transportation to protect oneself from the Sars-CoV-2 infection,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine at Safdarjung HospitalAccording to a survey conducted by the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy in early March in China’s Guangzhou, a little over a third of the metro and bus commuters were using public transit systems but after the outbreak, 40% had shifted to cars, taxis and ride-hailing, and the rest to walking and biking. In France, where authorities plan to lift the nationwide lockdown in phases from May 11, the authorities are urging people to use bicycles to commute. “We want this period to take a step forward in cycling culture, and that the bicycle is the little queen of deconfinement in a way,” the minister for ecological transition Élisabeth Borne said, according to Bloomberg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-vehicle-use-may-surge-after-crisis/story-UBLtje27Tii8UOZSb9V6gN.html
23-05-2020||India||Social distancing here to stay, small groups may be key||Four months into the worst pandemic in a generation that has shut down nations and forced half of humanity indoors, there is no definitive end in sight. A vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is at least a year – if not two or more -- away. The most successful of therapies identified till now have limited benefits at best. Achieving herd immunity could possibly lead to millions of deaths worldwide – 246,827 had already succumbed till Sunday – and hence not realistically possible. Combine this with the seemingly unstoppable nature of the Sars-Cov-2 infection that has ripped its way through the globe and there is only one feasible option: Large-scale social distancing that requires a fundamental rethink of the ways in which we socialise, work and function in society. Scientists and medical experts unanimously agree that social distancing -- the practice of ensuring a minimum distance of 6 feet between two people to ensure that one person cannot contract the infection from another -- helped save tens of thousands of lives in China and elsewhere. Social distancing strategies are the core of national policies in China, South Korea, Australia and Hong Kong that lifted some curbs in the last fortnight. Some European countries such as France, Italy and Spain plan to allow more people to move around later this month. While masks, temperature checks and hand sanitizers have become ubiquitous, experts and authorities are now looking at social distancing strategies that are more focused and less disruptive than sweeping shutdowns that cripple national economies, batter incomes and can drive millions into poverty. But such large-scale strategies require a re-imagination of the ways people interact, workplace practices, shift timings and classroom compositions.According to demography and sociology researchers from three European universities, one of the most crucial principles behind these measures would be to split up people into smaller, insulated clusters of population. The suggestion is based on evidence of how people behave in social networks: Most people interact largely with the same set of people over the day, with some contact with individuals from another cluster. If contact between such clusters of people are minimised, an infected person is likely to expose a smaller number of people to the coronavirus than usual. “Our models demonstrate that while social distancing measures clearly do flatten the curve, strategic reduction of contact can strongly increase their efficiency, introducing the possibility of allowing some social contact while keeping risks low,” say the researchers in a study shared on arXiv, a moderated online archive of papers that have not been fully peer reviewed. “We can make judgements on which of our contacts are long-range ties that should be avoided or, if necessary for work, should be treated with utmost care: People that live far away, people that don’t know any of our other contacts, or people that we have not seen in a longer time – these are contacts that carry the biggest risk,” said Per Block, the lead author of the study and a researcher at University of Oxford’s Leverhulme Centre for Demographic Science And Department Of Sociology.The strategy, Block adds, can be adapted to most interactions people have in everyday life, whether it is for schoolchildren, essential workers, office-goers or people merely meeting their friends. “For essential workers it means keeping composition of work shifts constant over long periods of time and distributing people on shifts based on proximity and similarity. “For workplaces, it means staggered start, break and end times by different departments or units – keep contact in small groups, and reducing contact between them. “For schools, this would mean closed classroom composition, varied break times, distribution of children to similar groups…,” Block added, citing co-author Melinda Mills.Such a strategy, however, may be challenging in a country like India where household sizes are larger and many people often cram into a single room. “On a principle level, I think it is fair to say that larger households require more discipline and coordination among household members, since the contact partners of each individual household member are often not in contact,” said Block, adding that the insights in their paper can serve as a basis for policy recommendations by people on the ground who are more aware of population-specific context.Some workplaces have begun reorganising their offices on the basis of such principles. “Instead of having one large office, what we’ve done, even prior to Covid, was to have smaller offices in different cities… and we were connected through cloud and digital technologies. Now the next step post-Covid is that even within a single city, we are planning to open offices in different places which can access talent that lives closer,” said Manit Rastogi, founder of Morphogenesis, an architecture firm. Rastogi’s company has offices spread out across three cities, and more locations will follow a ‘hub and spoke model’ post-lockdown. “The idea is that these are smaller offices: to use a random number, 4-5 different offices, with 20 people each, living locally. So no one will have to travel more than a 5-7km radius. These are the spokes. The hub in turn, is the repository of the information being fed realtime from the spokes,” he added.Letting people interact in some manner is also crucial from a mental health perspective. Prolonged social distancing is likely to lead to “mental health outcomes; especially for those who do not have a robust support system in place and are struggling through this process alone,” said Dr Samir Parikh, director, department of mental health and behavioural sciences, Fortis Healthcare. (With inputs from Dhamini Ratnam and Rhythma Kaul)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-distancing-here-to-stay-small-groups-may-be-key/story-sFhEkY8xiUjpebjnAbOlhO.html
23-05-2020||India||Test health workers, hospital staff once a week to reduce transmission risk: Study||Health workers deployed in high-risk environs such as hospitals should be tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) once a week, according to a new study by researchers in the United Kingdom who say that doing so could reduce the risk of them spreading the infection further by 25%.On Sunday, at least 29 health workers – including 12 doctors and 11 nurses -- tested positive for Covid-19 at a single hospital in New Delhi. The findings are part of a study on what testing strategies countries can adopt to reduce the spread of Covid-19. The researchers, from Imperial College of London which is one of the centres collaborating with the World Health Organization for infectious diseases modeling, identified health care workers (HCWs) – doctors, nurses and hospital staff – as people who need to be tested at regular intervals.“We find that testing is most useful when targeted at high-risk groups such as health care and care home staff, where regular screening in addition to testing of symptomatic individuals may prevent an additional 25-33% of their contribution to transmission in hospital and the community,” said the study’s lead author, Nicholas Grassly, in an email to HT.Grassly added that while widespread testing to detect the virus as well as the antibodies will help understand the scale of the pandemic and play a crucial role in how lockdown measures are lifted or rolled out, it is unlikely to reduce the spread of infections in itself. For that, testing will need to be focused. “This study shows that regular testing of health care workers, for example once a week, could reduce their contribution to transmission by 25%, provided that test results are delivered quickly (less than 24 hours after the swab is taken). This is in addition to the reduction in transmission seen when healthcare workers self-isolate after developing symptoms,” said Marga Pons Salort, who also authored the study. “If tests were to be done at the end of a shift and results made available before the next shift, then the time delay between testing and isolation would effectively be zero, increasing effectiveness to 25-33%,” the study also said.The researchers note that the need to continuously screen healthcare workers stems from the nature of the disease: approximately 20-50% of infected people are without symptoms while they may be just as infectious, and nearly 40% of infections occur before symptoms set in. In India, according to the Union health ministry’s testing protocols, only symptomatic health care workers will be eligible for a Covid-19 test. The protocols, however, allow individuals who have been in direct contact or are taking care of a confirmed Covid-19 patient to be tested between 5-14 days after the first time they were exposed to the infected person.According to a study in China’s Wuhan, where the coronavirus causing Covid-19 first infected a human, close to 30% of health care staff were infected at one of the city’s main hospitals. They then spread the infection to family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-health-workers-hospital-staff-once-a-week-to-reduce-transmission-risk-study/story-iqHE8RCuDMXzRJ0l7GhkDJ.html
