24-05-2020||India||Odisha relaxes norms for public transport even as Covid-19 cases surge||With Odisha’s Covid-19 cases touching 1363, the state government on Sunday announced a series of relaxations in inter-state and intra-state transportation mainly buses, taxis, auto-rickshaws and two-wheelers, making it easier for people to travel. According to the standard operating procedure announced by the state government, intra-state movement of two-wheelers, private vehicles, auto-rickshaws, official vehicles and taxis (including cabs by aggregators like Ola, Uber etc.) have been allowed except in Covid-19 containment zones. Four wheelers and auto rickshaws can take up to two passengers apart from the driver..Intra-state and city buses can ply with passengers not more than their seating capacity while inter-state buses can ply as per the agreement with neighbouring states. All passengers travelling across the state by any mode of transport will compulsorily have to wear face masks and people with visible symptoms will not be permitted to travel.However, bus owners said it won’t be possible to ply buses from Monday as most employees are away due to lockdown. “We are yet to discuss with the state government over restarting operations. The final decision will be taken after talks with regional associations,” Odisha Private Bus Owners Association spokesperson Debasish Nayak said. Similarly, All Odisha Auto-rickshaw Owners Association also expressed displeasure over the government’s decision to not allow more than 2 passengers apart from the driver in auto-rickshaws from tomorrow. “We have lost income for the last 2 months. The government first needs to give us some compensation for the loss of income and also allow more passengers in the auto,” Padman Samal, secretary of the association said.The relaxation for public transport came on the day Odisha reported 67 new cases with the virus spreading to 29 of the 30 districts. The state has so far reported 1336 cases of which 832 patients are in various Covid-19 hospitals.The relaxation of the lockdown is expected to result in a surge of cases as people will come in contact with each other. Two days ago, Dr Jayant Panda, spokesperson of the Odisha health and welfare department had said that Odisha’s tally may surpass 10,000 by the end of June due to return of migrant workers from Covid-19 hotspots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-relaxes-norms-for-public-transport-even-as-covid-19-cases-surge/story-eDoodVr4XaLtRF7sVrj46H.html
24-05-2020||India||Manipur’s Covid-19 tally goes up to 32 with three new cases||Three more persons including a woman tested positive for Covid-19 in Manipur,taking the state’s tally to 32, health department officials said on Sunday.Out of the 32, 28 are active cases. Four patients have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals.“Two active cases of Covid-19 (one male and one female) were confirmed last night at the VRDL (Virus Research & Diagnosis Laboratory), RIMS(Regional Institute of Medical Sciences). The male is (32yr) is from Jiribam district. The female (25yr) belongs to Thoubal district,”Dr Kh Sasheekumar Mangang, Additional Director and Spokesperson of state health department said in a statement.Another active case (18-year-old) was confirmed on Saturday night at the VRDL, JNIMS (Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences), the statement said. The teenager who belongs to Churachandpur district had returned from Chennai.The state’s first two positive cases of Covid-19 had recovered and were discharged from hospitals last month.“The current recovery rate is 13.79 percent.”The number of Covid-19 cases in the state has been rising after the arrival of stranded people of the state from various parts of the country. According to official reports, more than 10,000 people have returned to Manipur from different states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-covid-19-tally-goes-up-to-32-with-three-new-cases/story-Y2ZBiiTe2m1w8IGzexsgNJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Question in Goa Board Std X English paper touches raw nerve, Goa BJP outraged||A question in the English paper conducted by the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education that implied that it was impossible to get jobs in Goa without offering a bribe and suggested emigration to Europe as a way out, has kicked off a political storm in the state with the ruling BJP vocally demanding action against the teacher who set the paper. The English examination which was held on Saturday involved a question in the grammar section of the paper and offered a three-sentence conversation between two friends while asking students to change the conversation to indirect speech using reporting verbs.“What are your future plans, my friends?” (Royson to Kedan).“I have applied for a Portuguese passport my friend as there are few job opportunities in Goa.” (Kedan to Royson)“You have taken the right decision. Without influence and money, it’s very difficult to get jobs in Goa.” Royson to Kedan. BJP state general secretary and former MP Narendra Sawaikar demanded disciplinary action against the paper setter, scrutinizer and all those who are associated in the process of the English question paper. “It is apparent that the objectionable questions and the form in which they have been asked is an intentional attempt by the paper setter and the scrutinizer to influence the young minds with a motivated agenda,” Sawaikar told reporters on Sunday.“In spite of the fact that the paper setter is employed in Goa and draws his salary from the taxes paid by the Goans,[he] is attempting to pollute the children. Such mindset should not be tolerated in the education and more particularly in the examination system,” Sawaikar said, urging the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education to “debar the paper setter and the scrutinizer and others associated in the paper setting, in setting question papers in future.”Commenting on the controversy, Chairman of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education said the Board would “look into the matter.”“We will look into the matter after the conclusion of the examination and if it is necessary we will take action,” Samant said.Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat has however said that the question is “a reflection of the current situation in Goa under BJP Goa.” “No job opportunities here and then step-motherly treatment to those who go abroad earning bread and butter and then contribute to our economy. Hope Goa CM takes note,” Kamat said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/question-in-goa-board-std-x-english-paper-touches-raw-nerve-goa-bjp-outraged/story-6fru9xqkRoCiBdaqxoM8oK.html
24-05-2020||India||Bengal records biggest single-day spike of 208 new Covid-19 cases, state tally at 3,667||With the state struggling to limp back to normalcy four days after Cyclone Amphan battered Bengal, the number of Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday recorded the highest daily spike with the state reporting 208 new cases in 24 hours for the first time.The spike comes as a major concern for the state, as the cyclone-hit districts are also the ones most-affected by Covid-19.On Sunday evening 208 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease, taking the state’s tally to 3,667. West Bengal recorded more than 100 cases for the first time on May 6, reporting 112 cases and has now detected another 2,211 cases, with an average of 123 cases per day.Kolkata, North 24-Parganas and Howrah that account for 2,934 of the total 3,667 cases in the state have also been badly hit by the cyclone. These districts have most of the containment zones in the state.Among Sunday’s new cases, 52 were from Kolkata, 48 from Howrah and 21 from North 24-Parganas. South 24-Parganas, the worst cyclone-affected district, recorded only 4 new cases but that was due to too few samples being tested from the district, as large parts of it remained cut-off from the rest of the state even on Sunday, according to a senior official of the state health department.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said that the state faces a great challenge in containing the spread of the disease, enforcing the lockdown and simultaneously doing relief and restoration work for the damage caused by Cyclone Amphan.“It’s going to be a humongous battle against nature to contain Covid-19 at this hour. We are getting reports from the districts that people are focussed on post-cyclone restoration. They are not caring about masks and social distancing. Thousands of people have been rendered homeless. They are trying to remove fallen trees and electric poles and repair breached embankments. The faster the restoration takes place, the earlier social distancing norms can be implemented again,” public health expert Rezaul Karim said. On Sunday, the state witnessed demonstrations in Kolkata, Howrah and North 24-Parganas, in areas where several people tested positive for Covid-19. Angry residents demanded immediate restoration of power and water supply.“We urge people to have patience and not to hit the streets. We are trying our best to give relief to people but we should not forget that the storm was of great magnitude and we still are battling Covid-19,” urban development minister Firhad Hakim said.West Bengal has so far recorded 272 deaths, including 72 attributed to co-morbidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-records-biggest-single-day-spike-of-208-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-at-3-667/story-ebqVkkjKIQ7u6dMgAkWLUJ.html
24-05-2020||India||As number of returnees surge, Assam ramps up Covid-19 testing facilities||With thousands returning by roads and railways and domestic flights resuming from Monday, Assam has ramped up facilities to test all those coming back to the state.Assam has conducted nearly 60,000 tests at the seven government testing facilities since mid-March till Sunday afternoon. The state has reported 393 Covid-10 cases so far. There have been four fatalities while 58 have recovered.Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that at present nearly 2,500 tests were being carried out daily and in the next 7-10 days the figure would double to around 5000 tests daily with addition of three private labs to the existing seven government facilities.“It was a pleasant surprise to see Kerala CM mentioning they had tested 52,000 till Saturday while our figure had crossed 56,000. There’s no competition with Kerala, but since that state is cited as a role model, it felt good to know we tested more samples than them,” said Sarma in a press conference.“The credit of this goes to all our healthcare workers and technicians who have been working tirelessly for two months now. I congratulate them on this feat,” he added.Since lifting of the ban on inter-state movement, Assam has seen a huge spike in cases in the past week. Of the total positive cases, nearly 300 were of people who had returned to the state by road and trains post May 4.“The spike has happened in the past seven days and hence our recovery rate has dropped to 16% in comparison to the national figure of 41%. The death rate in Assam is 1.14%,” said Sarma.“At present almost all 33 districts in the state have recorded positive patients except Dhemaji while Hojai tops the list with 77 cases. Thankfully, nearly 90% of our total cases have been reported from quarantine facilities. Therefore we have been able to prevent community spread of infection through our policy of ruthless quarantine,” he added.Till Sunday nearly 44,000 people had entered Assam by road from other states in the region and across the country. Another 16,000 people have come back by trains in the past few days.From Monday when domestic flights resume, the state is expecting at least 2,000 people to return daily by over two dozen flights to Guwahati’s Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport.“Our community surveillance program has covered 25,000 villages in the state and found symptoms of fever in nearly 23,000 people. Thankfully, none of them have been detected positive for Covid-19. This shows that there is no community spread yet in Assam,” Sarma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-number-of-returnees-surge-assam-ramps-up-covid-19-testing-facilities/story-witlTQWPioOtjbAtQT1YCJ.html
24-05-2020||India||India hopes 3-day ceasefire in Afghanistan will be further extended||India has joined other countries such as the US, Germany and Iran in welcoming a three-day ceasefire in Afghanistan, saying it hopes the truce will be further extended in order to address the humanitarian situation in the war-torn country.The Taliban announced the ceasefire for Eid-ul-Fitr on Saturday evening. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani welcomed the ceasefire and extended an offer of peace from his government. He also instructed Afghan security forces to comply with the three-day ceasefire and to “defend only if attacked”.The external affairs ministry said in a statement on Sunday: “India welcomes the understanding reached for a ceasefire in Afghanistan for three days during the Eid. We hope that this ceasefire would extend further and become permanent to address the dire humanitarian situation resulting from the coronavirus pandemic and pave the way for durable peace and stability for the people of Afghanistan.”The statement added, “India stands with the people of Afghanistan in their quest for enduring peace, security, sovereignty, and prosperity.”On Sunday, Ghani announced his government will release up to 2,000 Taliban prisoners as a goodwill gesture in response to the ceasefire, and take further steps in the peace process. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo welcomed the announcement of the truce by the Taliban and the Afghan government’s offer to reciprocate. “We worked hard to achieve this moment, and I hope that this respite from conflict gives Afghan people the space and security they deserve to celebrate Eid, while allowing the Taliban and the government the opportunity to take additional steps toward a peaceful future for their country,” he said in a statement.Iran welcomed the truce and said it hoped the gesture will help build further confidence in the peace process.The Taliban had last called for a ceasefire during Eid in June 2018. However, violence has significantly increased in Afghanistan since the US and the Taliban signed a deal in February and the world community has been calling for a reduction in violence so that the fraying peace process can be taken forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hopes-3-day-ceasefire-in-afghanistan-will-be-further-extended/story-Frddlga71yWrZLnufsGcvO.html
24-05-2020||India||Post marathon meeting, Puri gets states on board to resume domestic flights||As domestic flights were scheduled to begin from May 25 onwards, the fate of flight operations from states including West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra seemed uncertain till Sunday morning as the three state governments had opposed the Centre’s flight resumption plan.In a marathon meeting held from Sunday morning till late night, with the state governments, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri negotiated terms and conditions set by each state to convince them all to come on board for resuming flight operations, senior officials involved in the process said. “Negotiations were held with the state governments and they all came on board, as we also agreed to certain terms and conditions. State governments like Maharashtra had genuine concerns as it has the most number of Covid-19 cases but we agreed to run fewer flights to Mumbai. Only 25 flights will operate to Mumbai. West Bengal too had concerns due to the damage caused by Cyclone Amphan and we agreed to delay flight operations from the state government,” the official said.ALSO READ | As flight ops resume, Kolkata to stay off aviation map till WednesdayPuri said there will be limited flights from Mumbai and West Bengal.“It has been a long day of hard negotiations with various state governments to recommence civil aviation operations in the country. Except Andhra Pradesh which will start on 26/5 and West Bengal on 28/5, domestic flights will recommence across the country from tomorrow. Starting tomorrow, there will be limited flights from Mumbai and as per approved ⅓ schedule from other airports in the state. Limited operations to West Bengal will commence on 28th May 2020,” Puri tweeted.“As per request of the state government, operations in Andhra Pradesh will recommence on a limited scale from May 26. For Tamil Nadu, there will be maximum 25 arrivals in Chennai but there’s no limit on number of departures. For other airports in TN flights will operate as in other parts of country,” he added. On Saturday, Maharashtra and West Bengal had warned the Centre against resuming flight operations from May 25.“It’s extremely ill-advised to reopen airports in red zone. Mere thermal scanning of the passengers, inadequate w/o swabs. Impossible to have autos/cabs/buses ply in current circumstances. Adding positive passengers will add Covid-19 stress to red zones. #MaharashtraGovtCares,” Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had tweeted adding that allowing passengers to travel from green zones to red zones and “putting them to risk of exposure doesn’t make sense”.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had also appealed to the Centre to defer flight operations in West Bengal in view of Cyclone Amphan that has ravaged parts of the state. In guidelines issued late on Sunday the state government said, “On arrival, health screening shall be done for all the passengers. Asymptomatic passengers will be permitted to go with the advice that they shall self-monitor their health for 14 days.” The state government has decided that Kolkata and Bagdogra Airport will not operate any flights till May 28 as they have asked the government to stop flights till May 30.Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had on Saturday also cautioned Puri, requesting him to avoid domestic flights into the state till May 31. On Sunday morning the state government issued guidelines on resumption of domestic flights. The state’s standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be in addition to the instructions of the civil aviation ministry and include a 14-day home quarantine for asymptomatic fliers and institutional isolation for those without facilities for home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-marathon-meeting-puri-gets-states-on-board-to-resume-domestic-flights/story-K12oZdRfQWgMEeFjtLgVaP.html
24-05-2020||India||Air passengers coming to Assam will be quarantined for 14-days||The Assam government will enforce mandatory facility and home quarantine for 14 days for passengers arriving by air from Monday.Nearly 4,000 passengers (around 2,000 of them to Assam and the rest to neighbouring states) are expected to arrive daily at Guwahati’s Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport from Monday. “As of now we expect 20 or 32 flights to operate on May 25. But since we don’t have any confirmation of that yet, we are constrained on what to expect and plan accordingly. It will take at least 10 minutes to screen one person and it might take up to 24 hours to check 1,500 people. So people coming back should expect some difficulty on the first day,” said Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. Pilots, crew and technicians associated with operating flights would be exempted from quarantine. Same would be the case of persons who arrive and depart from Guwahati the same day provided they submit a declaration about it. If found violating the declaration, criminal proceedings would be initiated.Government officials coming on duty would also be exempted from quarantine, but their departments will have to arrange for isolated lodgings during their stay and they won’t be allowed to roam around freely. Passengers whose parents are in hospital or have deaths in their immediate family will be exempted from facility quarantine, but they will have to undergo home quarantine for 14 days.Senior citizens above 75 years, children below 10 years and their family members and handicapped persons will also be exempted from facility quarantine, but will need to undergo home quarantine. Passengers who have come from abroad and have already undergone 14 days facility quarantine in Delhi, Mumbai or any other city will also be exempted from facility quarantine.If someone has done RT-PCR test in the past 72 hours prior to their flight and has negative test results, they don’t need to spend time in facility quarantine and will undergo only home quarantine. Passengers have the option of staying in paid quarantine in 3 five star hotels in Guwahati. Others will be sent to hotels and quarantine facilities where the government will be taking care of their needs. Preference for hotel beds will be given to senior citizens and women. “Passengers will have to undergo 7 days facility quarantine and 7 days of home quarantine. But if test results come negative, some of them might be allowed to leave the facility quarantine early and spend the rest of the 14 days in home quarantine,” said Sarma. “Things will get better in the next few days. There might be some discomfort in the first 2-3 days therefore I request people to delay their journey if possible. We will enforce ruthless quarantine and there will be no compromise on protecting the health of people in Assam for the sake of those who are coming back,” he added. Sarma said that since trains and flights have resumed, the state government might close the road border with West Bengal from the start of next month allowing only goods carriers and persons travelling for medical emergencies to enter.Assam has recorded 359 Covid-19 cases till Sunday evening. Over 271 of those cases are of people who have returned to the state by roads and railways since the ban on inter-state movement was lifted on May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-passengers-coming-to-assam-will-be-quarantined-for-14-days/story-i166xSae0fUvGE8BNqdeAK.html
24-05-2020||India||Hyundai India, Maruti workers contract coronavirus, exposing restart risks||Workers at two of India’s biggest carmakers have tested positive for the novel coronavirus days after restarting operations, exposing the risks companies and the government face in kickstarting the economy.Three employees at Hyundai Motor Co’s Indian plant have tested positive for the virus, the South Korean automaker said on Sunday. Maruti Suzuki India Ltd, which sells one in every two cars in the country, said late on Saturday one employee at its plant in the northern city of Manesar had tested positive and there was the possibility of a second case.The cases show the risks and challenges Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government faces in restarting automobile production in an effort to revive the economy after a near two-month lockdown to fight the spread of the coronavirus.Maruti, majority owned by Japan’s Suzuki Motor Corp, said there was no impact on business operations. The carmaker restarted work at its Manesar plant earlier in May. Hyundai, which restarted operations at its plant on the outskirts of the southern city of Chennai on May 8, said the three employees started showing mild symptoms of coughs and colds in the first week.“All the necessary measures are being taken for contact tracing, self-isolation and complete sanitation,” Hyundai’s India spokesman said in a statement.Test results of sixteen more workers who possibly came into contact with the infected employees are expected over the next two days, a senior government official told Reuters. “The state’s policy is to not let the industry stall,” said P Ponniah, the top bureaucrat in the Kancheepuram district where Hyundai’s plant is located.He said parts of the plant visited by the employees would be sanitised, a process likely to take 3-4 days during which time staff would be barred from those areas.Hyundai’s employees union has written to management and the Tamil Nadu state government, urging the company to immediately test all workers at its own expense, president E Muthukumar told Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyundai-india-maruti-workers-get-coronavirus-showing-restart-risks/story-qN8KP0wgQhvh3o3cc5gpHL.html
24-05-2020||India||Centre seeks migrants’ list in 1 hour after Uddhav Thackeray says not enough trains||Railways minister Piyush Goyal, on Sunday sought details of migrants registered with the Maharashtra government within an hour so that the railways can run 125 special trains from Monday as planned.In a tweet where he tagged Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Goyal regretted that the Maharashtra government could not give the list even after an hour’s deadline.“Sadly, it has been 1.5 hours but Maharashtra Govt. has been unable to give required information about tomorrow’s planned 125 trains to GM of Central Railway. Planning takes time & we do not want train to stand empty at the stations, so it’s impossible to plan without full details,” Goyal tweeted late evening.Goyal informed that the Railways will operate 125 special Shramik trains. He had asked Thackeray to share the list of migrants with their relevant details like - originating and destination stations, the number of migrants travelling, medical certificates with the Centre within an hourThe Centre has come under fire after the lockdown two-month lockdown triggered a mass migration of workers, many of them on foot and bicycles.Goyal in another tweet said he hoped for Maharashtra’s cooperation for the benefit of migrant labourers.“I hope that the Government of Maharashtra will fully cooperate in the efforts made for the benefit of migrant labourers,” Goyal said.Thackeray had earlier criticised the Centre for not providing enough trains for the migrants to return home despite several requests. He also said the state was yet to receive Centre’s share of the train ticket cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-seeks-migrants-list-in-1-hour-after-uddhav-thackeray-says-not-enough-trains/story-I4wfIShFYevFV5EgklJbEM.html
24-05-2020||India||Impoverished couple tries to sell 2-month old baby in Hyderabad, arrested||Driven by poverty and lack of work during the lockdown, a migrant couple in Hyderabad tried to sell their two-month-old baby boy for Rs 22,000 through a mediator on Sunday.The Jeedimetla police arrested the couple Madan Kumar Singh (32) and Saritha (30) from Uttar Pradesh, who came to Hyderabad a few years ago to work as construction labourers and have been staying at Bathukamma Banda near Jagadgirigutta.Another woman identified as Seshu, who was brokering the deal, was also taken into custody. The child was the couple’s second son, the first one is seven-years old.“We have rescued the child and shifted him to Sishu Vihar being run by the Women and Child Welfare Department authorities,” P V Padmaja Reddy, Deputy Commissioner of Police of Balanagar, told Hindustan Times.She said enquiries revealed that the couple was facing acute poverty conditions. “We are investigating as to whether there were any other reasons for the sale of the child,” the DCP said.The police said the couple had apparently thought they would not be able to raise the second child due to lack of resources. The child’s mother, however, told the police that her husband was also addicted to alcohol and was pestering her for money to buy liquor.“The couple managed to find a broker Seshu, who reportedly found a childless couple who agreed to buy the child for Rs 22,000. On receiving a tip off, we caught Seshu who was taking the child for a medical examination,” police said.Andhra Pradesh Balala Hakkula Sangham president P Achyuta Rao said it was the responsibility of the state government to come to the rescue of daily wage workers who were suffering from poverty due to lockdown. “The department of women and child welfare should launch an awareness campaign about the Cradle Scheme among the poor people who were resorting to selling of new-born babies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/impoverished-couple-tries-to-sell-2-month-old-baby-in-hyderabad-arrested/story-EMJaMxa8ci4uvvPXtTWF9H.html
24-05-2020||India||Kerala reports one more death, 53 new Covid-19 cases||Kerala has reported another covid-19 death and 53 new cases on Sunday, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. With latest case, death toll has gone up to 6 in the state. Though the state maintained a healthy graph with lowest mortality and highest recovery rates cases shot up with the return of expatriates from the middle-eastern countries and people stranded in other parts of the country.A 53- year-old woman, a resident of Wayanad, who returned from Dubai last week died in the medical college hospital in Kozhikkode. Doctors said she was suffering from cancer and diabetes and was on ventilator for last three days. Her husband and other relatives are in quarantine.Among 53 new cases Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur (north Kerala) reported 12 cases each, said the CM adding 18 are foreign returnees, 30 came from other states and five contracted the disease from the infected. Active cases went up to 322 and people under observation also rose to 90,000 after a gap of a month. At least 90,000 people have returned to the state and more are expected in coming days.With more trains and opening of domestic air travel, the state has made it clear that entry passes will be must for all domestic passengers like rail travellers. The government had opened a website for this two weeks back. Those who come without this pass will have to undergo institutional quarantine. Similarly it made home quarantine a must for those who stay in the state for a longer period. For business travellers and others who come here for brief stopover it is not necessary, the CM had said two days back adding it can’t take chances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-one-more-death-53-new-covid-19-cases/story-GvKgblxVpxjh7RtCvHuy1M.html
24-05-2020||India||Not Covid-19, but fear of the disease kills two in Karnataka||Fear of contracting the dreaded coronavirus has led to two deaths in two separate incidents in Karnataka, officials said.In the first instance a father-son duo N Anthony (70) and Francis Rego (42) of Ramanbail village of Sirsi taluk in Uttara Kannada district who were both suffering from cough and breathing issues decided to take a ‘native herbal medicine’ as they were apprehensive that a conventional medical doctor might ask them to get checked for Covid-19. After consuming the herbal concoction Francis Rego died and his father who was rushed to Sirsi government hospital is battling for his life.Sirsi police who have registered a case said that they are investigating and getting details of what the two men had drunk and on whose advice.In a separate incident a 53-year old native of Koppa in Chikmagalur who was sent to a quarantine centre on May 20, after he displayed fever and cough hung himself in the toilet of the building in the early hours of Sunday fearing he had Covid-19. The results of his throat swab test which came a few hours later in the morning indicated that he did not have the virus. His body has been shifted to the district government hospital for post-mortem and authorities said that they are investigating the matter.Meanwhile, Karnataka continued to record a high number of Covid-19 cases with 130 more being registered on Sunday, even as the state observed curfew-like conditions with very little movement of traffic. The government has said that till the end of May all businesses and non-essential services will be shut on Sundays to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission.The state has recorded 2,089 Covid-19 cases so far which include 42 deaths and 654 recoveries. A large number of cases have been attributed to migrants returning to the state primarily from Maharashtra.Interestingly Mandya district in Southern Karnataka with 226 active cases has overtaken the capital city Bangalore which has 127 active cases. The state, therefore, has made it mandatory for all inter-state travellers to compulsorily undergo a 14-day quarantine.There were subdued Eid celebrations in coastal Karnataka which observed the festival on Sunday while other parts of the state will observe it on Monday.Prayers were offered at homes with no congregations at any of the major mosques across the coastal belt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-covid-19-but-the-fear-of-the-disease-kills-two-in-karnataka/story-AomDtnvDJwNeuaUXofFyvN.html
24-05-2020||India||Doubling rate of Covid-19 cases currently over 13 days: Harsh Vardhan||The doubling rate of COVID-19 cases in the country is currently at above 13 days, which is a significant improvement compared to the 3.4 days, which existed in the pre-lockdown phase, according to Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday.“If the doubling rate in India before the lockdown was between 3.4 days, today the doubling rate is more than 13-days. Lockdown and all its guidelines have acted as a potent social vaccine,” Dr Harsh Vardhan said.The Union Minister said that the nationwide lockdown was imposed in the country at the opportune moment as compared to other countries where it was imposed either late or partially.“Lockdown was imposed in India at the right time. Other developed countries wasted many days to take this decision. In some countries when the situation went out of control they took the decision of lockdown and in most places it was partial lockdown,” he said.India witnessed the biggest ever spike of 6,767 positive cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases to 1,31,868, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.As many as 147 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 3,867. Out of the total number of cases, 73,560 are active and 54,440 have been cured/discharged and one migrated.Maharashtra continues to remain the worst-affected state with 47,190 COVID-19 cases. It is followed by Tamil Nadu (15,512), Gujarat (13,664), and Delhi (12,910).The nationwide lockdown, imposed as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of COVID-19 in March, has been extended till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doubling-rate-of-covid-19-cases-currently-over-13-days-harsh-vardhan/story-Aww8y0H9aPt3sf2ATQYC0M.html
24-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9PM: In a U-turn, Maharashtra permits 25 flights to be operated from Mumbai airport and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. In a U-turn, Maharashtra permits 25 flights to be operated from Mumbai airportMaharashtra on Sunday allowed a total of 25 flights to be operated in and out from the Mumbai international airport beginning tomorrow May 25, when domestic flights will start partial operations amid lockdown, Maharashtra Minorities Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said on Sunday. Read more. As flight ops resume, Kolkata to stay off aviation map till WednesdayAs domestic flight operations resume in India on Monday, there will be no flights to and from Kolkata which is struggling to restore infrastructure after the devastation cyclone Amphan swept through the southern part of the state on May 20. Read more. Surge in Shramik trains to UP, Bihar clog network, railways cite congestionWith several Shramik Special trains bound for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar being delayed and diverted over the past two days, the ministry of railways on Sunday said the convergence of trains to these destinations have caused congestion in the network adding that the total number of trains to the region has increased. Read more.Take out saliva but ensure more bowler-friendly pitches are prepared: Irfan PathanFormer India fast bowler Irfan Pathan has urged the ICC to focus on producing more bowling-friendly surfaces now that the practice of using saliva to shine the ball is to be shelved. Read more. Deepika Padukone, Ranveer Singh are having a great Sunday, watch her plant kisses on ‘world’s most squishable face’Actor Deepika Padukone is feeling particularly lovey-dovey this Sunday. She has shared a brand new video on Instagram which shows her planting kisses on actor husband Ranveer Singh’s face. Read more. TikTok app listing on Google Play Store now has 24 million user reviews, down from 28 million couple of days agoRecently we saw TikTok’s overall app review rating go up from 1.2 to 1.6. According to reports, this happened after Google removed a million user review ratings from Play Store, most of which were 1-star ratings for TikTok. Read more. Romance makes a return amid social distancing“I am only looking to get married now. I’ve wasted enough time playing the dating game,” says Sahil. He’s deleted all his dating apps and says he’s sure of what he wants. Read more. Mumbai Police shows how not to wear a mask using Robert Pattinson’s pic from The BatmanMumbai Police is at it again. In their latest post, the department has used a reference from an upcoming Hollywood movie to share an important message. This time their cautionary post is about masks. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-in-an-u-turn-maharashtra-permits-25-flights-to-be-operated-from-mumbai-airport-and-all-the-latest-news/story-et1dLuoXOvwQxKmA7qmEHN.html
24-05-2020||India||In a U-turn, Maharashtra permits 25 departures, 25 landings to be operated from Mumbai airport||Maharashtra on Sunday allowed 25 flights to land and 25 more to take off from the Mumbai international airport beginning tomorrow May 25, when domestic flights will start partial operations amid lockdown, Maharashtra Minorities Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said on Sunday.“The Mumbai International Airport will operate 50 flights in and out on a daily basis starting Monday onwards. The number of flights will be increased steadily,” Malik said.“Starting May 25, 2020, CSMIA will resume 25 commercial passenger flight movements on departure and 25 on arrival. The initiative comes after the directive issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation as well as after the state minister gave approval to recommence domestic flight operations to and from Mumbai,” a Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) spokesperson said.The minister, a senior NCP leader, made the statement hours after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that he had sought more time from the Civil Aviation Ministry to restart domestic flight services at the Mumbai airport.ALSO READ | Hours before domestic flights resume, Thackeray seeks more time for Mumbai airportEarlier in the day, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said that it was “extremely ill-advised” to reopen airports in red zones amid the coronavirus pandemic.Barely hours before domestic flight services are due to begin in the country on a staggered basis from Monday, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray earlier on Sunday had said that the state needed more time from the Civil Aviation Ministry for restarting operations at the Mumbai International Airport.Thackeray had earlier also emphasised that the minimum possible domestic flights should be allowed from the Covid-19 hit state.“I spoke to Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri today and told him that the Mumbai international airport needs more time to resume domestic flight operations,” Uddhav Thackeray had said in an online news briefing.Maharashtra happens to be the worst-hit by the coronavirus pandemic, with Covid-19 positive cases crossing the 50,000 mark on Sunday. At least 1,635 people have succumbed to the deadly coronavirus infection till date in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-an-u-turn-maharashtra-permits-25-flights-to-be-operated-from-mumbai-airport/story-ydEkQeL6eh97HZwq6xdP5I.html
24-05-2020||India||As flight ops resume, Kolkata to stay off aviation map till Wednesday||As domestic flight operations resume in India on Monday, there will be no flights to and from Kolkata which is struggling to restore infrastructure after the devastation cyclone Amphan swept through the southern part of the state on May 20.“As West Bengal Govt is involved in restoration work after #Amphan Cyclone, State Govt requested MoCA (ministry of civil aviation) to defer resumption of flights from Kolkata Airport. Accordingly, flights will resume from Kolkata from 28 May, with reduced schedule,” the Kolkata Airport said, according to ANI.The cyclone had also flooded a portion of the airport.Restoring infrastructure is the state government’s top priority now.Several columns of the army have been deployed for the restoration work in and around Kolkata after the government sought its help.Also read: Hours before domestic flights resume, Thackeray seeks more time for Mumbai airportEarlier this week, the Centre decided to resume domestic flight operations in the country. Flight operations were suspended when the lockdown began in March.The Union home ministry has released a list of guidelines for air, rail and bus travellers in the country that focuses on detecting symptomatic passengers and ensuring their treatment. While operations at the Kolkata airport were hit by cyclone Amphan, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray Is not very keen about the resumption of air travel.In an address to the state on Sunday, Thackeray also emphasised that the minimum possible domestic flights should be allowed from Maharashtra.Under its May 19 lockdown order, the state allowed only certain kinds of flights and passenger flights were not among them .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-flight-ops-resume-kolkata-to-stay-off-aviation-map-till-wednesday/story-we5nMu16U4Rhci9x1JKd0I.html
24-05-2020||India||Bidita goes back to singing!||‘Babumoshai Bandookbaaz’ actor Bidita Bag has made the most of the lockdown period. The actor has shot for two short films on mobile at her home and has picked up singing once again besides, doing other things.“I am a trained singer and was a performing artiste since childhood. I lead the prayer in my school and was invited to perform during Durga Puja and other traditional ceremonies. But when you stop practicing the talent in you takes a backseat. You need regular riyaz to continue singing.After ages I took out my keyboard and restarted singing. I’m practicing but as of now I am too apprehensive to go back to singing completely as I know I won’t be able to deliver at the moment,” she said over phone.Bidita has done four projects in Lucknow – Babumoshai Bandookbaz, web series ‘Bhaukaal’, yet to release film ‘I Am Draupadi’ (working title) and in February she shot for ‘Lakeerein’. The two short films she shot at her home are ‘Happy Quarantine’ and ‘We Need to Talk’. “I have shot my part from my home on mobile camera. I did make-up, costume, cinematography and lighting part like a pro. Besides, I am the creative producer of both the films. So, there has been some good utilisation of quarantine.”In ‘Happy Quarantine’ she plays Jennie (of Aladdin) while, ‘We Need to Talk’ is about relationships. Story of the latter is derived from real incidents and its two characters have their own back story where one’s marriage got delayed while other’s was broken,” tells ‘The Sholey Girl.’The actor was dubbing for ‘Fauji Calling’ with actor Sharman Joshi when the lockdown happened. “A lot has been happening on personal front too. My brother is stuck in Delhi, bhabhi in Sri Lanka and parents are in Kolkata while I am alone in Mumbai’s containment zone. Also, after the Amphan Cyclone in Kolkata, I am not able to establish contact with my parents as all power and telecommunication is down. Thankfully, they are safe!”Bidita is feels it is fine to live alone and do house chores. “I am used to doing all household tasks and comfortably stay home when there is not much work. It was only after I fractured my leg, I got a maid for some help. During the ongoing crisis I’m deeply saddened with those employers who are not readily paying their domestic help and staff as this is the time when they need our support the most,” she said.She had some good work in hand to be started in May-June. “I have not heard anything from them till now so wondering if those projects will happen again or not! For actors it’s surely a tough-time ahead. I just want to lead a normal life. I don’t know what will be the new normal. There is constant worry for work but still we should be more considerate towards people who work for us be it our make-up person, attendant and others as they are my responsibility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bidita-goes-back-to-singing/story-Z99DvlJGL4ZKRcC41mvCOK.html
24-05-2020||India||Surge in Shramik trains to UP, Bihar clog network, railways cite congestion||With several Shramik Special trains bound for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar being delayed and diverted over the past two days, the ministry of railways on Sunday said the convergence of trains to these destinations have caused congestion in the network adding that the total number of trains to the region has increased. “Most of the destinations in UP are around Lucknow-Gorakhpur sector and in Bihar around Patna. Of 565 trains running since yesterday, 266 were going to Bihar and 172 to Uttar Pradesh,” the ministry said. This comes a day after a Gorakhpur-bound Shramik Special train from Maharashtra ended up in Rourkela, Odisha adding two days and five states to the original journey, leaving its passengers clueless. The ministry had yesterday clarified that the train was diverted via Rourkela to “clear congestion”. A migrant special on the same day scheduled to reach Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh was diverted to Muzzafarpur in Bihar. Several trains have had to be re-routed due to this over the past two days, officials say as a single division, North Eastern Railway zone, has had to cater to bulk of the traffic bound for the two states. “To ease the congestion a few trains were diverted via Mathura, Jharsuguda. Further, route rationalisation order has been issued to avoid congestion on routes with heavy traffic. Round the clock monitoring at the Railway Board level, zonal railway level and divisional level is being done to ensure that trains are not delayed,” the ministry said. “The train running staff have also been sensitised to ensure punctual running of Shramik Special trains. With these efforts, the congestion position has eased considerably and the mobility of trains has drastically improved.”The Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS) control rooms have been struggling to coordinate with traffic management due to the congestion, with a surge in demand for migrant special trains towards Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Chairman, Railway Board VK Yadav on Saturday announced the railways will run 2600 timetabled Shramik Trains over the next 10 days. “The division is running more trains than it does even during normal times, more than 200 trains are running towards Eastern UP and Bihar leaving the Shramik train routes congested. There is a lot of demand for trains for these regions as more migrants are lining up. Apart from the traffic, these trains are not regular timetabled services and hence coordination of traffic becomes more chaotic. It also takes at least 2-3 hours for the passengers to board and de-board that causes further delays,” the official said. Nearly 80% of the total Shramik Special trains are destined for the two states, the railways ministry said adding that the “congestion position has eased considerably and the mobility of trains has drastically improved”.Indian Railways has run around 2813 Shramik Special trains till Sunday, ferrying nearly 37 lakh passengers. “Nearly 60 per cent trains originated from Gujarat, Maharashtra and Punjab and are majorly destined for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. 80 per cent of total Shramik trains are destined for various destinations in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar (1301 for UP and 973 for Bihar),” the railway ministry said. “Convergence of trains to these destinations caused congestion in the network. Further, increased time taken in de-boarding of passengers due to the various health and social distancing protocols at the stations is leading to congestion at terminals which further affects network congestion,” it added. There have also been several complaints by passengers aboard the Shramik Trains that have been diverted of being stranded without any arrangement of food and water. “Due to the surge in east bound trains leading to network congestion, trains got delayed and this affected the meals distribution schedule. IRCTC and Railways have mobilized resources to ensure regular supply of meals and water to the Shramik trains and minimize inconvenience to the passengers,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surge-in-shramik-trains-to-up-bihar-clog-network-railways-cite-congestion/story-phduE7dAy5L1FQHndKuSXN.html
24-05-2020||India||IMD warns of severe heatwave conditions for next five days||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of severe heatwave conditions across 12 states and union territories in the country over the next five days.The heatwave is predicted to sweep through Punjab, Haryana Chandigarh, Delhi, Western and eastern Uttar Pradesh, west and east Rajasthan, western and eastern parts Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Vidharbha and Mararthwada in Maharashtra, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Rayalseema regionDelhi recorded a maximum temperature of 46°C on Sunday and is likely to record a similar temperature on Monday.Heat wave is considered if the maximum temperature of a station reaches at least 40°C or more for plains, 37°C or more for coastal stations and at least 30°C or more for hilly regions.The Met office said dry northwesterly winds are prevailing over northwest and central India since the last two days and it is likely to continue for the next 4-5 days. Under its influence, heatwave to severe heat wave conditions are likely to prevail over plains of northwest India and adjoining Central India.Rainfall activity has significantly reduced over south Peninsular India, giving rise to development of heat wave conditions over parts of that region also.On Saturday, West Rajasthan, isolated pockets over Haryana, Delhi, East Rajasthan and Vidarbha reported heat wave conditions. The highest maximum temperature of 46.6°C was reported at Churu (West Rajasthan).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-warns-of-severe-heatwave-conditions-for-next-five-days/story-wwE4izgLERVb89ySc824XN.html
24-05-2020||India||Virtual courts not a substitute to physical courts: Justice DY Chandrachud||The sudden outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic forced the Supreme Court to resort to virtual court hearings to ensure the safety of lawyers, litigants and media personnel, Supreme Court judge justice DY Chandrachud said on Sunday.But virtual court hearings will not replace or be a substitute to physical courts, justice Chandrachud made it clear at a webinar organized by Nyaya Forum of National Academy of Legal Studies and Research, Hyderabad on the topic ‘Future of Virtual Courts and Access to Justice in India’.“I want to dissuade people from the idea that virtual court hearings are some sort of a panacea. They will not be able to replace physical court hearings. We had to resort to virtual court hearings because Covid-19 descended without warning and we had no other choice. We had to protect those who come to court – lawyers, litigants, media personnel, para-legal, interns”, he said.The Supreme Court, which is under complete shutdown due to the Coronavirus threat, has been hearing only extremely urgent cases since March 23 via video conferencing without the personal presence of lawyers. The top court had issued a circular on March 23 suspending entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only extremely urgent cases will be taken up for hearing through video conferencing during the lockdown period.The video conferencing is conducted by the court through ‘Vidyo app’ which can be downloaded on mobile phones and desktop.On the use of technology in courts, justice Chandrachud said that technology is an inseparable adjunct to rule of law and will have to be employed as a critical element in court design. But it should be inclusive and should replace court procedures into manageable chunks, he added. “Our court procedures are tardy and unintelligible to common people”, justice Chandrachud conceded.Justice Chandrachud, who is also the chairperson of the e-committee at the Supreme Court, said that the digitization of courts including e-filing must be standardized across the country.The filing of cases in Supreme Court is set to undergo a radical change with the introduction of the new e-filing module in the near future. The module will provide personalized information to every advocate-on-Record of cases which have been filed by them, their own causelist of cases, details of pleadings filed by them and pleadings filed by others in cases in which they are appear.The service will be available round the clock which would mean that a lawyer can file a case anytime of the day and any day irrespective of whether the registry is working or not.“We as judges have a vital role to ensure that young members of the Bar are trained and we have to do the hand-holding ourselves”, justice Chandrachud said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-courts-not-a-substitute-to-physical-courts-justice-dy-chandrachud/story-8YrTg4dmP2IKzFJMnDrdqK.html
24-05-2020||India||Floods affect more than 10,000 in four districts of Assam||Amid the ongoing lockdown to control spread of Covid-19 pandemic, heavy rainfall in most parts of the state during the weekend has affected 10,800 persons in four districts of Assam.According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 46 villages in seven revenue circles have been affected in Lakhimpur (3), Goalpara (2), Sonitpur (1) and Darrang (1) districts.While water level of most rivers in the state including Brahmaputra and its tributaries have increased in the past two days, only the Jia Bharali was flowing above the danger level at Sonitpur.Floods have affected 23,000 domestic animals and poultry and cases of damage to roads and erosion have been reported from the affected districts.“I have directed district administrations to immediately set up special units, consisting officials from various departments and government agencies, to tackle flood and enhance our collaborative efforts to carry out rescue and relief efforts in the flood affected areas,” Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floods-affect-more-than-10-000-in-four-districts-of-assam/story-qnpUIExFYAi0GOkA3wxtlI.html
24-05-2020||India||Worker who returned from Mumbai dies of suspected Covid-19 in Jharkhand||A 19-year-old migrant worker who had returned from Mumbai, died of respiratory complications late Saturday night in Jharkhand’s Koderma district prompting officials to send his samples for Covid-19 test.“The youth had come from Mumbai privately on a truck on May 16 and went straight to his village in Satgawa block. When it came to our knowledge, he was picked up and sent to the quarantine centre set up at the block’s Panchayat Bhawan,” said Koderma deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholakh.He added, “On Saturday, he developed some Covid-19 symptoms including respiratory trouble and dysentery and was brought to the district’s Sadar hospital for treatment. His condition further deteriorated and he was shifted to the city’s Jaiprakash Hospital for better treatment but he died late night.”“Since he had symptoms of coronavirus infection, his samples were taken for testing to confirm if the death was due to pandemic,” the deputy commissioner said, adding, “Test result is awaited.”The body was reportedly cremated as per the health department’s protocol for Covid-19 casualties.Koderma district had reported its first Covid-19 death on Saturday after another migrant worker, who too had returned from Mumbai, tested positive for SARS-COV-2 virus after his death on Thursday.The 39-year-old man had died of cardiac arrest on May 21. Since he came from Mumbai, a Covid-19 hotspot, his samples were taken and tested for Covid-19. The test report, which came on Saturday, showed positive.Jharkhand has so far reported 353 positive cases including 141 recoveries and four deaths.On Sunday, three more positive cases were reported from East Singhbhum district taking the state’s tally to 353.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worker-who-returned-from-mumbai-dies-of-suspected-covid-19-in-jharkhand/story-cKovlJu6EoACUkg1TPPxcP.html
24-05-2020||India||HC seeks BMC’s response on using developer’s property as quarantine centre||The Bombay high court has directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to respond to a plea by a developer from Andheri seeking clarification on how long the civic body would keep possession of a building constructed under the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) scheme.The BMC had taken possession of the completed building in the first week of May to use it as a Covid-19 quarantine facility but did not inform the developer of the duration of its use or amount of compensation it would pay, the developer then approached the court.A division bench of justice R D Dhanuka and justice Abhay Ahuja while hearing a petition filed by Sahyog Homes was informed by advocate Nilesh Gala through video conferencing that the developer had undertaken an SRA project at Andheri and had completed construction of a couple of buildings. However, construction of other buildings were held up as the civic body had not issued other certificates required to continue work on the project.Gala further submitted that as the building acquired by the BMC did not have an Occupation Certificate or a No Objection Certificate, the civic body would be solely responsible in the event of any untoward incident and the developer could not be held answerable for it. He further submitted that in light of this the court should direct the BMC to expedite granting of certificates for the completed buildings in the project as well as disclose the duration till when the building would remain in its custody.Additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan submitted that the state had not been served a copy of the petition. After hearing the petitioner’s claim she informed the bench that a similar petition had come up earlier on May 11 with almost identical prayers and hence both petitions could be heard together.After hearing the submissions, the bench directed the BMC’s advocate Rupali Adhate to file an affidavit within two weeks and to mention the period for which the building was requisitioned and the compensation amount that would be paid to the petitioner and posted the petition to be heard along with the earlier petition on June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-seeks-bmc-s-response-on-using-developer-s-property-as-quarantine-centre/story-uLOwdO9Fq66Nb34HPb2H7K.html
24-05-2020||India||NDRF salvages 150 wine bottles stolen from Gujarat police station, dumped in canal||An expert team of divers from the National Disaster Response Response Force (NDRF) continued to search a water body in Gujarat’s Mehsana district on Sunday to recover alcohol bottles stolen from a police station and dumped there, police officials saidThe NDRF team of divers which was deployed by the Gujarat police on Saturday has so far managed to recover 150 of the 1,200 bottles stolen.Gujarat is a dry state, where liquor sale is prohibited. NDRF is a premier national force that specializes in rescue operations during disasters. Mehsana superintendent of police, Manish Singh said they had received a tip-off on Thursday that some liquor bottles have been stolen from the Kadi police station and have been dumped in Narmada Canal passing through Narsinghpura area which is close to the police station.“As the matter was sensitive, I had informed my inspector general of police (IGP), Gandhinagar. After which a special investigation team (SIT) was formed to find out where the bottles were stolen from, who dumped them in the water body and who were involved,” Singh said, adding that the investigations were on.Another police official said on the condition of anonymity that there were complaints that illegal liquor business was thriving in Mehsana town because of the connivance of the staff of Kadi police station with local bootleggers. The local police had seized liquor worth Rs one crore in the district in the past two years but they were not destroyed.“As per government orders, the liquor confiscated has to be thrown away within a year in presence of senior district officials. But that was not done in Mehsana,” the officer said. “Foreign liquor cartons seized in past were kept in the store room of the police station. During lockdown, when inter-state borders were sealed, these liquor bottles were sold with the help of local bootleggers. Complaints were received at the office of the director general of police and inspector general of police a few days back that around 1,200 bottles of foreign made liquor were missing,” the official said. A complaint was lodged at Kadi police station that liquor has been stolen, he added.As the police started investigation, two police officers went missing and police received information that a large number of liquor bottles have been dumped in Narmada drain, Singh said. He added that NDRF’s help was sought to recover the bottles after the fire brigade team failed to find them on Friday. “The NDRF has deep divers and they have so far recovered over 150 bottles,” he said.In Gujarat, where only tourists can buy liquor after filling a form, smuggling and sale of liquor can land a person in jail for 10 years with a fine of Rs five lakh. The punishment was enhanced in 2017 after the government found that there was smuggling of liquor in Gujarat was rampant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-salvages-150-wine-bottles-stolen-from-gujarat-police-station-dumped-in-canal/story-SH1R7xn2kJXAT9omPksoKI.html
24-05-2020||India||Will build ‘Modi temple’ with PM’s idol, says BJP MLA who launched ‘Modiji ki Aarti’||Uttarakhand BJP MLA Ganesh Joshi, who launched ‘Shri Modiji Ki Aarti’ recently, on Sunday announced that he will soon build a ‘Modi temple’ dedicated to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with his idol in it after the lockdown ends. Joshi who is a ruling party legislator from Mussoorie constituency had earlier launched ‘Modi aarti’ (prayer dedicated to Modi) at a function organised by him to felicitate Covid-19 warriors on Friday. Joshi said he launched the aarti penned down by a Modi supporter Dr Renu Pant in presence of state higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat.Following the development, he and BJP came under attack from Opposition party Congress which has called it a prime example of ‘sycophancy’. However, Joshi refused to budge and on Sunday announced said that he will soon build a temple dedicated to PM Modi. “I have immense respect for PM Modi who is not just our nation’s leader but a world leader also. Even US President Donald Trump is in awe of him. I have done nothing wrong in launching his aarti and will soon build a temple with his idol in it after the lockdown,” said Joshi. Lauding the prime minister, Joshi also said, “He works 18 hours a day which clearly states that he is blessed with some divine power. My initiative to build a temple dedicated to him is just to pay respect to him.”The MLA claimed that he has kept Narendra Modi’s photograph near the deities at the prayer room at his home,“At home, I have kept his photograph near other deities in the prayer room. After offering prayers, I pay my respects to him also. I have also kept his photograph in my office since 1999 when he was just a party office-bearer. I have unparalleled devotion towards him,” he said. On the launching of aarti for Modi, he said, “One of my aides received it on his WhatsApp and showed it to me. I liked it very much and got it printed on small pamphlets to launch it formally. In the future, if I get anything similar, I will do the same again.”The aarti launched by Joshi talks about how “World is scared of Modi’s power and how his opponents fear to even come close to him.” It also praises him as a leader with whom even “Trump is awestruck.” It also lauds him for “Building Ram Mandir and revoking Article 370 in Kashmir.”Dubbing the publicising of a prayer devoted to the prime minister as ‘sychphancy’, Suryakant Dhasmana, Congress state vice president said, “It is the height of sycophancy and ‘andh bhakti’ (blind devotion). If it was done by any party worker then we would have no issue regarding it. But it was done at an event attended by a state minister and a ruling party MLA which states that they believe in fascism which is all about worshipping a leader in place of God.”Dhasmana also attacked BJP and Joshi for ‘hurting Hindu sentiments’ claiming the aarti is ‘nothing but Lord Hanuman’s aarti with his name replaced with Modi’s.’“They could have penned a totally new one but they decided to just make changes in Hanumanji’s aarti by replacing his name with that of PM Modi’s. First they came out with a slogan of Har Har Modi in disrespect of Lord Shiva and now this. They have clearly hurt sentiments of Sanatan Dharma which is not tolerable at all,” said Dhasmana. Joshi, however, refuted Congress’ attacks and said, “Who are they to lecture us? We don’t need any certificate from them but from the public.”The state BJP leadership has however distanced itself from this issue. Party state spokesperson Ajendra Ajay said, “That aarti is not any official document of the party. It was penned down by a staunch supporter of PM Modi which was just launched by our MLA at an event organised by him in the presence of minister Dhan Singh Rawat.”Despite several attempts Dhan Singh Rawat could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-build-modi-temple-with-pm-s-idol-says-bjp-mla-who-launched-modiji-ki-aarti/story-HI7LGb93NbKEHfcME20C0M.html
24-05-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh CM to take feedback on his one-year term from Monday||YSR Congress party president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who would be completing a year in office on May 30, has called upon the people to review the welfare and developmental schemes taken up by his government in the last one year.Starting Monday, the government will take up a series of brainstorming sessions in the name of “Mana Paalana-Mee Soochana” (Our government-your suggestions) till May 29, seeking to interact with a cross-section of people including experts, intellectuals and other stakeholders to review the schemes.According to state planning secretary GSRKR Vijay Kumar, the chief minister will interact with all stakeholders and take feedback from them at all levels on whether the schemes impacted the lives of citizens like they were supposed to.Also read: Passenger train services to begin from June 1 - All you need to know“The government intends to assess the ground realities and impact of its numerous initiatives and also to get feedback from different stakeholders like user groups/beneficiaries to further consolidate the efforts and devise a future action plan,” Vijay Kumar said.As per the agenda for the daily discussion, ‘governance and welfare’ will be discussed on Monday, ‘agriculture and allied activities’ on Tuesday, ‘education’ on Wednesday, ‘industries and infrastructure’ on Thursday and ‘health’ on Friday.On May 30, which marks the completion of the first year of YSR Congress government, the chief minister will inaugurate Rythu Bharosa Kendra, which would look after disbursement of direct cash transfer scheme for farmers.Vijay Kumar said these sessions would be conducted both at the state and district level. While state-level sessions will be chaired by CM Jagan in the forenoon session, district in-charge minister will chair the district level sessions in the afternoon. “The chief minister and the ministers will take feedback directly from the beneficiaries and other stakeholders,” he said.In tune with the Covid-19 regulations, not more than 50 people including beneficiaries and experts would attend the sessions, the planning secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-cm-to-take-feedback-on-his-one-year-term-from-monday/story-KjVyILtZbumfbgmfwuCu0N.html
24-05-2020||India||Hours before domestic flights resume, Thackeray seeks more time for Mumbai airport||Barely fifteen hours before domestic flight services resume in the country on a staggered basis from Monday, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray  on Sunday said that the state needed more time from the Civil Aviation Ministry for restarting operations at the Mumbai International Airport.The chief minister also emphasised that the minimum possible domestic flights should be allowed from Maharashtra.“I spoke to Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri today and told him that the Mumbai international airport needs more time to resume domestic flight operations,” Uddhav Thackeray said in an online news briefing.ALSO READ | Uddhav Thackeray slams BJP, says won’t indulge in politics over Covid-19“Till the time MIAL (Mumbai International Airport Limited) plans and fine-tunes the airport operations, the aviation ministry should initiate minimum possible domestic flights from Maharashtra from May 25, which are purely emergent in nature like for international transfer of passengers, medical emergencies, students, and cases on compassionate grounds,” the Maharashtra chief minister said.The Shiv Sena chief also indicated that at least 13 more international flights would be landing at the Mumbai airport by June 7.Earlier this month, the Civil Aviation ministry had announced resumption of domestic flight services from May 25 as part of the Centre’s efforts to gradually open air travel.Domestic and international flights had been suspended nearly two months ago in March due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus infection.According to Maharashtra government officials, the state has not yet amended its May 19 lockdown order which allowed only certain kinds of flights to ply.The Maharashtra government had only excluded domestic medical services, domestic air ambulance and flights for security purposes from the lockdown as permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).Maharashtra happens to be the worst-hit by the coronavirus pandemic, with Covid-19 positive cases touching 47,190 on Saturday. At least 1,577 people have succumbed to the deadly coronavirus infection so far in the state.Mumbai alone has over 28,000 coronavirus positive patients with the death toll in the city at 949.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hours-before-domestic-flights-resume-thackeray-seeks-more-time-for-mumbai-airport/story-SHjYvx0qPcURONpqGX8g4N.html
24-05-2020||India||Heatwave grips parts of country, Maharashtra’s Sonegaon hottest location in India: 10 points||Parts of North India, Vidarbha, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat will continue to reel under the effect of a heatwave with no respite likely in days to comes, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin on Sunday afternoon. According to the IMD, heatwave conditions were observed over parts of Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Gujarat on Sunday. Here are the top developments:1. Maharashtra’s Sonegaon in Nagpur recorded the maximum temperature in India on Sunday at 46.2°C. Nagpur was the hottest location in the state and the second-hottest in India on Saturday.2. Highest maximum temperature of 46.7°C was reported in Pilani (East Rajasthan) on Saturday. 3. The IMD has issued a “red” warning for Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan for the next two days. 4. An orange warning for heatwave has been issued for east Uttar Pradesh, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s Regional Meteorological Centre.5. As per the IMD, the national capital witnessed the maximum temperature of 46°C on Sunday. The heatwave conditions are likely to continue in Delhi for the following two days.Also read: Top hottest cities in India amid heatwave warning till next week6. The temperature may take a slight dip later next week with a possibility of rain and thunderstorm around Friday (May 29) in the national capital, the weather department predicts.7. The maximum temperature in Delhi is likely to hover around 46°C until May 26. Some respite may be expected over the weekend. 8. “Till May 27, there will be no respite. The maximum temperature can go up to 46- 47 degree Celsius in the Capital because of dry, hot winds blowing. From May 28 night, a western disturbance will affect us which may cause dust storm or thunderstorms. Low level easterly winds may also bring some relief after May 28,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, Delhi. 9. According to the weather department, heatwave conditions are likely in parts of northwest, central and peninsular India in next four to five days.10. The weather department’s colour-coded warnings – green, yellow, orange and red - are based on the intensity of the weather system.According to the IMD, heat wave is considered if the maximum temperature of a station reaches at least 40°C or more for plains, 37°C or more for coastal stations and at least 30°C or more for hilly regions. Heatwave is declared based on:Departure from normal temperature • Heatwave: Departure from normal is 4.5°C to 6.4°C • Severe heatwave: Departure from normal is >6.4°C Based on actual maximum temperature (for plains only)• Heatwave: When actual maximum temperature ≥ 45°C • Severe heatwave: When actual maximum temperature ≥47°CTo declare heatwave, the above criteria should be met at least in 2 stations in a meteorological sub-division for at least two consecutive days, the IMD states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heat-wave-grips-parts-of-country-maharashtra-s-sonegaon-hottest-location-in-india-10-points/story-eTMKNQ5fhgNsMQGZDNr95N.html
24-05-2020||India||Amphan leaves Bengal’s crisis-ridden jute mills battered and bruised||Already reeling under the ongoing lockdown, many jute mills in Bengal have suffered structural and material losses during cyclone Amphan that hit Kolkata and surrounding districts on May 20.Among the worst-hit mills are a few the state’s oldest ones located in South 24 Parganas and Howrah districts, Raghavendra Gupta, chairman Indian Jute Mills Association (IJMA), told HT on Sunday. Set up in 1884, IJMA is the apex business chamber for India’s jute industry.Bengal is the highest producer of jute in the country. The fresh crisis comes at a time when mills in Bengal were under pressure from other states to produce bags on an emergency basis for transportation of Boro rice and relief materials being supplied to people during lockdown.“Although there is no report of any damage to machinery, structures of the mills and stored raw jute suffered damage. We are yet to calculate the extent of loss but supplies of jute products will be definitely hit. All the 60 operational jute mills in the state had started production (with limited manpower) during the lockdown,” said Gupta.Incidentally, last week IJMA said that during the lockdown the industry suffered a nationwide loss of Rs 1250 crore.“The jute Industry is grappling for survival after being in lockdown for over one and a half months now. Already 1.5 lakh metric tonnes of production of jute goods has been lost estimated to be valued at Rs.1,250 crore. With the cash flows drying up, jute mill companies are finding it extremely difficult to make ends meet,” IJMA said in a statement on May 19.On April 3, the Centre urged the Bengal government to direct jute mills to resume operation in view of shortage in supply of packaging materials. In a letter, the Centre said, “Procurement operations of foodgrain, for which availability of packaging material like jute bales are immensely required by major procuring states like Punjab, Harayana, Uttar Pradesh and Madya Pradesh where procurement operations will begin from April and peak season is for only two-three weeks only,” the letter said.On April 5, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to open jute bag manufacturing units in Bengal and ensure transportation of jute bags through special goods trains to his state. Rao told Modi that there was a severe scarcity of bags and Telangana needed 20 crore jute bags to procure paddy.The Bengal government, however, issued permission to the jute mills to resume operation with limited manpower. Initially, permission was given to deploy only 15 per cent people which was later increased to 50 per cent in phases.Gupta told HT last week that the future of over three lakhs jute mill workers and 40 lakhs jute farmers hang in balance and if the situation persists it may result in permanent sickness and closure of mills.“Jute industry’s loss has been plastic industry’s gain. Continuous dilutions under the provisions of the Jute Packaging Act has taken place over the lockdown period. Already about 3 lakh bales of orders for jute bags have been diverted to PP/ HDPE industry. If the lockdown situation continues any longer, further dilutions cannot be ruled out,” IJMA said in a recent statement.“The damage done by Amphan is going to hit relief work. This is a new crisis,” said a senior state food and supplies department official who did not want to be named. The department’s minister Jyotipriyo Mullick could not be contacted despite repeated attempts because of failure in mobile network.According to IJMA, the carryover of raw jute at the end of the jute crop year 2019-20 is expected to be over 22 lakh bales. “With reports of normal sowing this year, across all jute growing areas, the prices of jute fibre has fallen below the Minimum Support Price of Rs. 4,225 per quintal for TDN3 grade,” said IJMA in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amphan-leaves-bengal-s-crisis-ridden-jute-mills-battered-and-bruised/story-69KVEJ5fjDJIz8etVvK31M.html
24-05-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray slams BJP, says won’t indulge in politics over Covid-19||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday put his former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in his line of fire for playing politics while the state government was battling the Covid-19 pandemic.Thackeray, in his address to the State, said that his government will not indulge in politics “as it does not suit the culture of Maharashtra”. The chief minister also said that the Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, which now has 47,190 cases, are likely to rise further by May end.Maharashtra has been clocking over 2,000 fresh cases daily since last week, but the Centre’s projection that the state would have around 1.25-1.50 lakh cases has not come true“I am still of the opinion that these are testing times, and that nobody should indulge in politics now. Even if you do, we will not because we have got the responsibility of Maharashtra and the people of Maharashtra have faith in us. And I will never let that faith (in us) go in vain,” Thackeray said.“As I have honestly said the Centre is helping us (State). We are still facing issue like GST refund, it is still to reach us. Should I make it an issue? Earlier PPE kits were not coming; there is still a deficiency in the supply of medicine. Should I yell over it? We are still to get the money for the trains. If we start doing this, then this is not humanity… Just playing politics for the sake of it does not suit the culture of Maharashtra. I will preserve Maharashtra and its culture. It does not fit in my principle to play politics at times of difficulty and I will not do it,” the CM said.The BJP, led by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, had staged Maharashtra Bachao (Save Maharashtra) agitation on May 22 and demanded a financial package worth Rs 50,000 crore for farmers and daily wage earners.In a veiled jibe at the BJP, Thackeray said that the state government is not going to announce “empty packages” but do “actual” work.“Some people are asking why have you not announced a package? We are giving everything. At the moment, the crisis in front of us is related to public health. Till now many packages worth lakhs and crores have been announced. It is packaged nicely when you open it is an empty box. Our Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government is not the one to announce empty packages,” he said in his address on Sunday afternoon.Thackeray also outlined the state government’s steps taken for the people and migrant labourers including widening the scope of Shiv Bhojan scheme, following up with the Centre to give foodgrains for people who do not have ration cards, Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana, etc. He said that 5.5 to 6 lakh migrant workers have been provided food till now. “These steps are beyond any package. getting food and medical treatment is important. All these schemes are for all classes because virus does not know any class or religion. The public insurance scheme gives 100% free treatment to all. This is a package. Should we announce it and advertise it or should we keep working,” Thackeray asked.Speaking about the measures to tackle Covid-19 outbreak, Thackeray said that the state has prepared for a surge in numbers by the end of this month. “There was a projection that Maharashtra could have 1.25-1.50 lakh coronavirus positive cases by May end. But, currently we have 33,786 [active] Covid-19 cases, around 13,404 have recovered. This is thanks to the lockdown and discipline maintained by you,” he said. “Cases will increase now, we are preparing and created hospital infrastructure for it. By the end of May, we will make 14,000 beds available, currently, we have already created around 7,000 beds including 3000 in our field hospitals.”The CM also appealed to people to celebrate Eid inside their homes and not come on the streets. “Several exemptions have been made but it’s important not to crowds shops when they open. We will still need to follow instructions, otherwise, we will have to close it again. We need to get our life back on track. Congregations, religious functions are still not allowed. Celebrate at home to emerge out of this situation in a better and effective way,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-slams-bjp-says-won-t-indulge-in-politics-over-covid-19/story-Cz5SnaWarXUnTo0d0FfEaO.html
24-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Follow guidelines, Hardeep Puri tells flyers as flight ops set to resume and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Follow guidelines, Hardeep Puri tells flyers as flight ops set to resumeAhead of domestic flights resuming on Monday, aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri reminded flyers to strictly follow the latest travel guidelines issued by the Union home ministry. Read more‘Fight against Covid-19 to be tougher now, prepared with extra health facilities’: Maharashtra CMMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday held an online briefing on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the state and said that the fight against Covid-19 is going to be a “tougher one” but the administration is prepared with extra medical facilities. Read moreRecharge: This column does not existIf you haven’t already, check out ThisPersonDoesNotExist.com. The site displays a new human face every time you refresh the page. You might encounter a curly-haired young woman, a bespectacled gentleman, a freckled brown granny, a black teen grinning like he’s in a toothpaste ad. Read moreStep inside Shah Rukh Khan and Gauri Khan’s elegant sea-facing home Mannat with these picsIt’s one thing to have a nice home and totally another when it becomes the biggest tourist landmark of your city. Shah Rukh Khan and Gauri Khan’s home Mannat is perhaps the most iconic house in all of Mumbai where thousands of fans arrive every day for a selfie with the Bollywood star on a lucky day. Read moreReliance JioMart launched: Availability, how to order, registering details and other questions answeredJioMart, the latest e-commerce platform by Reliance is now official and available in more cities across India. Being in tests since the past few weeks in Mumbai, it is now available in some other tier 1 and tier 2 cities as well. Read more‘Online bullying is not OK,’ Wrestling community mourns death of 22-year-old wrestlerThe professional wrestling community mourned the loss of young Japanese pro-wrestler Hana Kimura after she lost her life on Saturday. Read moreUS Navy successfully conducts laser weapon test, destroys unmanned droneUS Navy warship successfully tested a new high-energy laser weapon. USS Portland - LPD 27 conducted a successful Laser Weapon System Demonstrator (LWSD) test and disabled an unmanned aerial vehicle in the first system-level implementation of a high-energy class solid-state laser. US Navy has been developing directed-energy weapons since the 1960s. Watch the full video for more.Want to know why your dog always follows you around? This doggo may have an answerMost pet parents will agree with us when we say that interpreting the thoughts of our furry friends is often an impossible task. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-follow-guidelines-hardeep-puri-tells-flyers-as-flight-ops-set-to-resume-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0stAr3E2WGCmW0fM0uoJ0H.html
24-05-2020||India||IMD predicts heatwave, issues red alert for several parts of north India||With temperatures surpassing the 45 degrees Celsius-mark across several parts in north India, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued a “red” warning for Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan for the next two days. The IMD has also issued an orange warning for heatwave for east Uttar Pradesh, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s Regional Meteorological Centre. He cautioned that temperatures could soar up to 47 degrees Celsius in some parts over the next 2-3 days. This is also for the first time this summer season that a red warning has been issued for heatwave, Srivastava said. This season, the temperatures did not rise the way it usually does in north and central India because of significant rainfall activity during April that continued till mid-May. On Saturday, Pilani in Rajasthan recorded 46.7 degrees Celsius.“Heatwave conditions over some parts with severe heatwave over isolated pockets are very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Telnagana during the next five days,” the IMD said in its daily bulletin. It added that heatwave conditions in isolated pockets over Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Gujarat, central Maharashtra and Vidarbha, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Rayalseema and north interior Karnataka are also likely during the next 3-4 days. A heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature is at least 40 degrees Celsius and the departure from normal temperature is 4.5 degrees Celsius to 6.4 degrees Celsius. For the plains, a heatwave is declared when the actual maximum temperature is 45 degrees Celsius and severe heatwave when it is 47 degrees Celsius or above. The IMD issues colour-coded warnings depending on the intensity of any weather system in ascending order – green, yellow, orange and red. Srivastava said the red warning has been issued to caution people not to step out during 1 pm to 5 pm, when the intensity of the heat is the most. Naresh Kumar, a scientist with the National Weather Forecasting Centre of the IMD, said due to dry north-westerly winds and a trough between Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu, conditions are favourable for heatwave to severe heatwave. Kumar said relief is only expected after May 28 as a western disturbance is likely to bring some rainfall. A western disturbance is a cyclonic storm that originates in the Mediterranean and travels across Central Asia. When it comes in contact with the Himalayas, it brings rains to the hills and plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-heatwave-issues-red-alert-for-several-parts-of-north-india/story-KHfXuqtAqCCqmayuyQFOrJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Passenger train services to begin from June 1: All you need to know||The Railways will begin running 200 passenger trains from June 1, bookings for which have started from 10 am on May 21. These train services will be in addition to the existing Shramik Special trains  and special AC trains started by the Railways earlier to help stranded migrant workers in various states get back home. Jan Shatabdi trains, Sampark Kranti, Duronto Express and other regular passenger trains are among those that will ply from next Monday. No linen, blankets and curtains shall be provided inside the trains. Only passengers with confirmed tickets shall be allowed to enter railway stations. On arrival at their destination, the passengers will have to adhere to strict health protocols as prescribed by the destination state or Union Territory.ALSO READ | Railways to start 200 non-AC special passenger trains daily from June 1Tickets can be booked online through the IRCTC website, CSCs and ticketing agents. Reservation counters have been opened by the Railways in a phased manner from May 22, keeping in mind local needs and conditions.Here’s all you need to know about resumption of train services from June 1:1. These trains will be fully reserved having AC and non-AC classes and General Coaches.2. Normal fare will be charged for General Coaches, Reserved and Second Seating (2S).3. There will be no unreserved coach in these trains.4. Running of Shramik Special trains to continue to be handled by various state governments.5. Other regular passenger services including all mail, express, passenger or suburban services will continue to remain suspended.6. Railways will ensure separate entry and exit gates at all stations as far as possible.7. Standard social distancing guidelines, safety and hygiene protocols to be followed by all passengers.8. Movement of passengers and the driver of the vehicle to and from the railway station to be allowed only on confirmed railway tickets, in accordance with Home Ministry guidelines. 9. The Advance Reservation Period will be a maximum of 30 days.10. RAC and waiting lists will be generated as per guidelines framed by the Railways post lockdown.11. Waiting list ticket holders will not be permitted to board the train.12. The Railways will issue no unreserved tickets and no tickets will be issued on board the trains.13. No tatkal and premium tatkal booking of tickets will be permitted by the Railways.14. The first chart will be prepared at least 4 hours before the scheduled departure of the train. 15. Passengers to reach the station at least 90 minutes in advance.16. All passengers will be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic ones will be allowed to board the train.17.Only passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the railway station.18. All passengers must wear masks at the entrance of the station and during travel.19. Passengers must observe social distancing both at the station and on trains during travel.20. Fares will be refunded if a passenger is found unfit for travel due to symptoms of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passenger-train-services-to-begin-from-june-1-all-you-need-to-know/story-Qgu3Z2lnoSHXoy2vEAOo3O.html
24-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh witnessed biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Saturday||Chhattisgarh witnessed the biggest single-day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases on Saturday as per the medical bulletin released by the health department.Total 44 people were found coronavirus positive in Chhattisgarh on Saturday, including a woman junior doctor posted in a government hospital in Bilaspur.On Friday, the state had reported 40 fresh coronavirus patients, most of them were migrant labourers.The total Covid-19 tally in Chhattisgarh has jumped to 216 in the state, of which 152 are active cases. Total 64 patients have been discharged after recovery.Also read: ‘States can develop their quarantine protocol’ - Govt on domestic travel “Most of the cases, which were detected in the last two days, were migrants labourers because they are returning back from all parts of the country. More than 4 lakh labourers are about to return to Chhattisgarh in the next one month, hence cases will definitely increase. We are all prepared for it,” health minister TS Singh Deo told Hindustan Times.On Saturday, ten cases were reported from Rajnandgaon district, nine each from Mungeli and Bilaspur districts, four each from Raigarh and Koriya districts and three each from Surguja andGaurela-Pendra-Marwahi (GPM) districts, the state medical bulletin released on Saturday night claimed.The rest of the cases were found in Balodabazar and Jashpur districts.A junior doctor at Chhattisgarh Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS) Bilaspur was also found Covid-19 positive on Saturday, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-witnessed-biggest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-on-saturday/story-VBmwq2GdA8Bt71n2jXYneJ.html
24-05-2020||India||PM Modi’s humanity of washing feet of safai workers has vanished now, says Sanjay Raut||Taking a swipe at the Centre over the plight of migrant labourers amidst the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the humanity shown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi by washing the feet of conservatory workers seems to have vanished now.In his weekly column published in the Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, Raut said, “Prime Minister Modi had washed the feet of four conservatory workers in Varanasi and showed us the humanity. It seems this humanity has vanished in the last three months”.The PM had washed washed the feet of safai karamcharis (sanitation workers) during Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj last February as a mark of respect for their work.Raut, who is the executive editor of the ‘Saamana’ and chief whip of the Sena in Parliament, also sought to draw parallels between “politicisation” of displacement of Kashmiri Pandits and the plight of migrant labourers, who are bearing the brunt of the lockdown.“The issue of Kashmiri Pandits being forced to leave their homes and living as refugees in their own country has been politicised frequently. Today, some six crore migrant workers are forced to live the similar way,” he said.“Those who get angry with Adolf Hitler’s cruelty and treatment to Jews should tell us what have they done for these migrant workers. If the ruling government is not moved by the sufferings of migrant workers in all states then this Coronavirus has ended the humanity,” he said.Raut also targeted BJP leaders from Maharashtra over their “frequent” meeting with state governor B S Koshyari instead of interacting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who heads the Shiv Sena.“The Opposition in Maharashtra is consistently claiming that the Thackeray-led government has failed. They should not forget that governments of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat are actually the biggest failures in containing COVID-19 cases.“And since Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah hail from Gujarat, they cannot escape this responsibility,” he said.Raut said that everybody is sailing in the same boat as far as the current COVID crisis and its adverse impact on the economy are concerned. “We have to work together to contain the outbreak,” he added.Raut also slammed former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP who had criticised NCP chief Sharad Pawar for questionning the “Atma Nirbhar” package in the latter’s recent letter to the prime minister.“Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis is getting agitated with letters of Sharad Pawar. Who has stopped him from writing letters to Prime Minister Modi?” he asked.Rut said the only agenda of Fadnavis is to dissolve the Sena-led tripartite government with the help of the governor.“If the Opposition keeps patients their lockdown will also end soon,” Raut said cryptically.He also said that Opposition party (read BJP) is ridiculed the most on social media “which is not a good sign”.Raut also asked Fadnavis to meet the CM and Sharad Pawar once.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-humanity-of-washing-feet-of-safai-workers-has-vanished-now-says-sanjay-raut/story-d9aGxTuiyczjOckMPkMAYM.html
24-05-2020||India||Kerala woman’s death after second snake bite turns out to be a murder||The death of a young Kerala woman, who suffered two snake bites in a span of two months, turned out to be a well-planned and executed murder, said Kerala police which probed the case after the deceased woman’s father filed a complaint alleging foul play. The shocking incident has got all ingredients of a crime thriller, said a senior official who was part of the investigating team.The crime branch said the woman’s husband, along with a local snake handler and another accomplice, was arrested in connection with the murder. S Uthra (25), a resident of Anchal in Kollam district, had suffered a second snake bite while she was undergoing treatment for the first. The woman’s parents had filed a police complaint against her husband and in-laws alleging foul play a week after her death.Also read: ‘PM Modi, Kejriwal wish Kerala CM on birthdayAccording to the police, the incident took place on May 7. Though many eyebrows were raised, the husband dodged the police and filed another complaint against her brother saying it was his doing to usurp the family property. Initially, it was a viper bite and the second time it was a cobra that proved fatal for Uthra. The woman suffered the first snake bite while at her husband’s house in March and the second one at her family house on May 7.The crime branch said the woman’s husband, Sooraj, who worked at a private bank, had brought a snake from Suresh, a local snake handler of the area after paying Rs 10,000. According to the officials, Sooraj took the snake to the house and reportedly let it loose in the bedroom. “It is a strange case. Three persons are in our custody. Since the investigation is on we can’t reveal details now,” said Kollam rural police superintendent S Harishankar.They said he was planning her murder for the last five months and the first bite was also part of his design to do away with her.In their complaint, the parents said Uthra had gone to bed with her husband, in the morning she was found unconscious. She was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors said she died of a snake bite. When the room was examined, a big cobra snake was found which was later killed by Sooraj. The husband denied noticing the snake or witnessing any commotion.The parents alleged that their daughter was harassed quite often for dowry. They also said some ornaments that they presented during the wedding were missing from the locker. The couple was married two years ago and have a one-year-old son.According to the parents, the couple slept in an AC room and it was difficult to believe that Sooraj failed to notice the snake. The parents said their daughter was at the family house since she was undergoing treatment for the earlier bite. They also alleged that some snake handlers of the area were in touch with their son-in-law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-woman-s-death-after-second-snake-bite-turns-out-to-be-a-murder/story-XkZ3nRCmltnqWreopQtT9N.html
24-05-2020||India||Jammu, Srinagar airports get 4 more officers to handle incoming passengers||A day before domestic flight operations resume in the country, the Jammu and Kashmir government has appointed two senior officials to assist Jammu’s Deputy Commissioner Sushma Chauhan to make arrangements for handling incoming passengers.Commissioner of Jammu Municipal Corporation, Avny Lavasa and Vice Chairman Jammu Development Authority, Babila Rakwal will be the two officers assisting the Deputy Commissioner.Director Industries and Commerce, Kashmir, Mahmood Shah and Vice Chairman Lakes and Waterways Development Authority, Tufail Mattoo have also been assigned to assist Principal Secretary Housing and Urban Development (Nodal Officer, Srinagar Airport) in this regard.The officers will carry out their new assignments in addition to their own duties.The Jammu, Srinagar and Leh airports have made elaborate arrangements for the resumption of domestic flights.Passenger flights in the country were suspended with effect from March 25 when the nationwide lockdown came into force to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh had earlier announced that domestic flights would resume from May 25 onwards in a calibrated manner and the Airport Authority of India has issued Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to the airport operators across the country.The Union home ministry has issued a 12-point guideline on domestic air, rail and bus travel that focuses on screening passengers for Covid-19 symptoms at boarding and exit points of airports and railway and bus stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-srinagar-airports-get-4-more-officers-to-handle-incoming-passengers/story-CVaoKYUZqM1R7pRGbxUFmK.html
24-05-2020||India||Hyundai’s three employees at Chennai plant test positive for Covid-19||Hyundai Motor India Ltd (HMIL) on Sunday said its three employees at Chennai-based manufacturing plant have tested positive for Covid-19.The second largest carmaker in the country had resumed operations at Irungattukottai-based plant (near Chennai) on May 8.“In the first week of our plant operations, three of our employees have shown mild symptoms of cough and cold and were immediately asked to meet medical expert team for further evaluation. They subsequently tested positive for Covid-19 and immediate medical attention was provided to them,” HMIL said in a statement.All three employees are recovering fast towards normalcy and as per the safety protocol, essential information was shared with the district health authorities, it added.In addition to that all the necessary measures are being taken for contact tracing, self-isolation and complete sanitation, the South Korean firm said.Well-being of employees is of utmost priority to the company and as a responsible brand it is adhering to all the guidelines set by the Centre, state and district health authorities, HMIL said.On Saturday, Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) had stated that an employee at its Manesar-based manufacturing plant has tested positive for Covid-19.The company is also investigating a second case of infection at the facility.MSI had re-opened Manesar facility earlier this month after around 50 days of closure due to coronavirus-led lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyundai-s-three-employees-at-chennai-plant-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-izHTSEvCv18hlOKPDnHg1M.html
24-05-2020||India||Coal mining underway in Assam elephant reserve before wildlife board clearance: RTI query||Last month, the National Board of Wild Life (NBWL) recommended coal mining to be allowed in a portion of the Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve in Assam. But a right to information (RTI) query has revealed mining in the area was already underway even before the approval came.NBWL allowed Coal India Limited (CIL) to conduct opencast coal mining in 98.59 hectares of the reserve forest. CIL had been carrying out mining in 57 hectares of the reserve forest and the fresh recommendation allowed it to do mining in another 41 hectares, which was unbroken.But reply to a RTI query by environment activist Rohit Choudhury has revealed mining related work has already begun in 17 hectares (or nearly 39% area) of the 41 hectares claimed by CIL to be unbroken. “It was confirmed that about a 9 hectare area out of 41.39 hectares has already been broken up and operated and another approximately 7 hectare area has been cleared,” mentions a November, 2019 site inspection report by Shillong office of union ministry for environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC).North Eastern Coalfields, a subsidiary of CIL had got lease for coal mining over an area of 4 sq miles in the Saleki area of Dehing Patkai for a period of 30 years from 1973. Though the said lease expired in 2003, CIL applied for lease/diversion of forest land only in 2012 seeking permission for coal extraction in 98.59 hectares.CIL mentioned that 12.93 hectares of the total area had been broken up till 2003, 44.27 hectares broken between 2003 and 2012 and 41.39 hectares to be broken for coal mining after seeking approval.Prior to site visit by MoEFCC team in October 2019, CIL admitted it was already conducting mining in 57.20 hectares (12.93 till 2003 and another 44.27 till 2012) of the total area without obtaining mandatory approval from the Centre and in violation of both state and central laws.Site inspection revealed that besides illegal coal mining by CIL, local residents were also illegally extracting coal in the area through rat-hole mines. According to CIL figures, nearly 12500 tonnes of coal was being extracted from the area on an average every month during 2019-20.The inspection report by WI Yatbon, deputy inspector general of forests, Shillong office of MoEFCC concluded that the North Eastern Coalfields of CIL had done illegal mining in the areas, which had been broken, for years and also in areas it claimed to be unbroken.The decision to allow mining taken by NBWL’s standing committee, chaired by union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, on April 17 through video conference (because of the lockdown) has irked activists and environmentalists.“The clearance was given hurriedly via video conference without proper discussion. The Assam government should have objected to the move, but it seems they are adamant on destroying the environment and forests of the state,” said Rohit Choudhury, a RTI and environment activist.An online campaign opposing NBWL’s decision and proposed coal mining is underway now with hashtags #SAVEDEHINGPATKAI and #IAMDEHINGPATKAI trending on Facebook and Twitter. In view of the campaign and the opposition to the mining move, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal directed forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya on May 20 to visit the area and take stock of the ground situation.“The Assam government is committed to protect the environment and biodiversity of the state and will not compromise on its stand in the name of development initiatives,” the CM said in a statement.Fresh coal mining is expected to have a negative effect on flora and fauna in Dehing Patkai elephant reserve, which is part of Dehing Patkai wildlife sanctuary spread across 111 sq km in Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts. It is said to be the largest tropical lowland rainforest in India.Besides elephants, leopards, hoolock gibbons, pangolins and bears, Dehing Patkai is also home to over 200 species of birds, various replies and many species of butterflies and orchids. The habitats of these species as well as foraging routes of elephants are expected to be affected by the coal mining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-mining-underway-in-assam-elephant-reserve-before-wildlife-board-clearance-rti-query/story-95YaVdGpEVKjEbxkriI1UM.html
24-05-2020||India||Follow guidelines, Hardeep Puri tells flyers as flight ops set to resume||Ahead of domestic flights resuming on Monday, aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri reminded flyers to strictly follow the latest travel guidelines issued by the Union home ministry.“Latest guidelines on domestic & international travel have been issued by @MoHFW_INDIA. I hope travellers strictly follow these self-regulatory norms & strengthen India’s hands in this fight against COVID19. Remember, each one of us is a soldier against the pandemic,” Puri tweeted.The home ministry has issued a 12-point guideline for domestic travel by air train and buses. Under the guidelines, dos and don’ts shall be provided along with tickets to the travelers by the agencies concerned and all passengers shall be advised to download the Argoya Setu app on their mobile phones.“The states/UTs shall ensure that all passengers shall undergo thermal screening at the point of departure and only asymptomatic passengers shall be allowed to board the flight/train/bus,” the guideline said.During boarding and travel, all passengers shall use masks and follow “hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene and environmental hygiene.”Airports/railway stations/bus stations should be regularly sanitized/disinfected and there should be thermal screening at exit points.“Asymptomatic passengers will be permitted to go with the advice that they shall self-monitor their health for 14 days. In case they develop any symptoms, they shall inform the district surveillance officer or the state/national call centre (1075),” it said.Those found symptomatic will be isolated and taken to the nearest health facility and assessed for clinical severity and those with moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to a dedicated Covid health facility and managed accordingly.Those having mild symptoms will be given the option of home isolation or isolated in Covid Care Centre as appropriate and tested as per ICMR protocol. If positive, they will continue in Covid Care Centre and will be managed as per clinical protocol. If negative, the passenger may be allowed to go home, isolate himself/herself and self-monitor his/her health for further 7 days. In case of any symptoms, they have been advised to district surveillance officer or the state/national call centre (1075).Although the guidelines are extensive, a note at the end of it said state governments can develop their own protocol with regards to quarantine and isolation as per their assessment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/follow-guidelines-hardeep-puri-tells-flyers-as-flight-ops-set-to-resume/story-QkWcikolVLpFE5aNhFvWjO.html
24-05-2020||India||Cops who thrashed man in Madhya Pradesh suspended after video goes viral||Two constables of Madhya Pradesh Police were suspended and an inquiry ordered after a video clip showed the policemen mercilessly beating a man in Chhindwara. The man alleged to be in an intoxicated state.Head constable Krishna Dingre and constable Ashish posted at Piplyanarayanwar police outpost under Lodhikheda police station in Chhindwara.They were suspended on Sunday. Earlier on Saturday, they were shifted from field duty to the police lines.The man who was allegedly beaten up was taken to the district hospital for medical examination after which he was dropped at his residence. His condition is fine, said police.Chhindwara is home turf of state Congress president and ex-chief minister Kamal Nath and his son and Member of Parliament Nakul Nath.The video triggered massive reaction on social media with many users demanding harsher punishment for the cops.“Unwatchable! Seeing how brutally these cops are thrashing this man these police officers not only be dismissed from service but jailed also. They deserve same treatment,” said a Twitter user Abu Abdullah.“In 70 years, our governments have given to us same British police,” said another social media user.The man who was thrashed, has been identified as Nanu, a mason and resident of Piplyanarayanwar in Chhindwara town. The 30-year-old was allegedly beaten up more than 10 days ago. One of the two policemen was seen hitting the man with his lathi (cane) in his head and other parts even after he fell unconscious and was seen not moving while being hit by the constable.Another video shows policemen dropping off Nanu at his residence by a police department vehicle at the night and his old mother supporting him to take inside home.A man was heard saying, “Go and sleep. Come to the police outpost tomorrow when your alcohol hangover is over.” Additional Superintendent of Police, Chhindwara, Shashank Garg said, “The video is old in which head constable Krishna Dongre and constable Ashish were seen beating a man. Sub-divisional officer of police SP Singh has been deputed with an inquiry into it. As we have learnt the man was used to creating a ruckus in intoxicated state in his locality and police had been called to control him in the past.”Superintendent of Police (SP), Chhindwara Vivek Agrawal said, “The incident is unfortunate. As we came to know about it, I immediately suspended the police personnel and ordered an inquiry into the incident. There will be exemplary punishment against them if they are found guilty in the inquiry.”When asked about injuries caused to the man the SP said, “No serious injury was found in medical examination. However, since the incident is old it might be a reason why no serious injury was found.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-seen-thrashing-man-on-camera-in-madhya-pradesh-video-goes-viral/story-km6U8eTMoKWJTKM8nNwHOK.html
24-05-2020||India||Tamil Nadu issues additional guidelines for domestic air travellers including 14-day quarantine||Tamil Nadu has come up with additional guidelines for people who plan to fly down to the state from Monday onwards when flight services stopped due to the coronavirus pandemic will resume after two months.This comes after Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had written to aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, requesting him to avoid domestic flights into the state till May 31.The ministry of civil aviation has also issued instructions to be followed by passengers and major stakeholders, including airport operators, for compliance. The state’s standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be in addition to the instructions of the civil aviation ministry and include a 14-day home quarantine for asymptomatic fliers and institutional isolation for those without facilities for home quarantine. All domestic air travellers coming into Tamil Nadu will also have to register themselves on the TNePass portal, the state government said, according to news agency ANI.Karnataka, Punjab, and Kerala have decided on a 14-day quarantine for domestic passengers, with variations. Karnataka’s is restricted to travellers from areas with a high incidence such as Delhi; Punjab and Kerala have mandated a 14-day quarantine for anyone entering the state on any means of transport.Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Telangana are also considering quarantines.Following are the guidelines issued for domestic air travellers coming to Tamil Nadu:1. It is mandatory for all the domestic air travellers flying into Tamil Nadu to register their details online in TNePass Portal. After obtaining the flight tickets, the travellers shall register their details TNe-pass portal following the link https://tnepass.tnega.org duly selecting the airport of arrival in Tamil Nadu.[in TN epass portal select Flight Train registration, fill in their details and Submit)2. The passenger while applying for TN epass shall give the declaration to the following effect, for getting TN epass:* I/We am/are not residing in any containment zone* I/We am/are not suffering from any fever cough any respiratory distress.* I/We am/are not under quarantine.* If I/We develop any of the above-mentioned symptoms we shall contact the concerned health authorities immediately.* I/We have not tested COVID-19 positive in last two months.* I/We am/are eligible to travel as per the extant norms.* I/We make my mobile number/contact details available to the TN epass.* I/We understand that if I/We undertake the air journey on false information, without meeting the eligibility criteria, I/We would be liable to penal action.* I/We undertake to adhere to the health protocol and quarantine norms prescribed by the Government of Tamil Nadu.3. If more than one person travels in a group, the details of all persons shall be entered using the add family member option in the TNePass Portal.4. Travel permit will be issued with a QR Code in the registered mobile number email.5. The airline staff shall insist on the details of entry pass obtained from IN e pass before issuing the boarding pass. A separate request has been made to the airlines and operators Regarding this.6. Travellers can use own vehicle or rented vehicle for travel from the airport to their home. The vehicle number must be indicated in the portal7. Travellers on arrival in Tamil Nadu airport shall show the registration of TN e-Pass at the registration desk at the airport. Passengers who are without an entry in TN ePass will not be permitted to move out without making entry.District Collectors shall make available necessary infrastructure in the exit gates of airports to check and take followup action on this.8. After undergoing medical screening for any symptoms of Covid-19, asymptomatic persons shall undergo home quarantine for 14 days. Travellers who register for institutional quarantine shall be sent for institutional quarantine (government or paid facility)9. All persons entering the State shall remain under home quarantine for 14 days from the date of arrival. However, if the individual does not have facilities for home quarantine, he will be sent to institutional quarantine. He should indicate the same in the TNePass portal.10. Pick up vehicles for arriving passengers will be permitted to enter Airport with one person (excluding driver of the vehicle) at a designated place subject to social distancing norms. If the persons who pick up the passenger comes into physical contact with the traveller, they shall also remain under Home Quarantine for 14 days.Infrastructure requirements at entry airports:a) Temperature checking must be carried out with Infrared thermometerb) There should be a proper queue system to reach the desks.e) All luggage should be disinfected by the airport authoritiesd) All the officials who directly deal with passengers shall use PPES, masks and protective geare) All symptomatic passengers to be sent to Isolation facilities in a designated ambulancef) Staff must be exclusively posted for a period of two weeks for Airport surveillance and they must undergo two weeks home quarantine upon finishing dutiesg) Any COVID 19 related symptoms in health staff must be promptly reported to state and they must be tested with RT PCRh) All staff who are directly dealing with passengers shall use PPE/Masksi) Passengers must be made to walk to the health desks in a group of 20 maintaining proper social distancingj) Wheel Chair facility be made available for the needy.k) Public address systems to Airports may be used for informing the passengers of the details.l) Airport staff shall follow all the Covid-19 protocolProcedure for going out of Tamil Nadu:All domestic air travellers shall undergo medical screening as stipulated by Airport Authority and persons with symptoms will be sent to a health facility for testing and treatment. Only asymptomatic persons will be allowed to board the flight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-issues-additional-guidelines-for-domestic-air-travellers-including-14-day-quarantine/story-0oTGuMWxhr1OEcEfn9gZoJ.html
24-05-2020||India||BJP expels Karnal leader Chander Parkash Kathuria for 6 years||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has expelled its leader from Haryana’s Karnal, Chander Parkash Kathuria, from the primary membership of the party for six years.However, the reason behind Kathuria’s expulsion from the BJP was not mentioned in the letter issued by state unit president Subhash Barala. The action against Kathuria was taken two days after a video surfaced on social media showing him allegedly falling down from the balcony of an apartment in Chandigarh’s Sector 63 while trying to come down with the help of a piece of cloth. “Yes, he has been expelled from the party for six years on the basis of a video, which raised questions on his character,” Jagmohan Anand, the BJP’s Karnal unit district president, said.Kathuria did not respond to this reporter’s phone calls and text messages for his reaction over his expulsion from the BJP.He reportedly fractured his foot while trying to come down the balcony and was admitted at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh.The reason behind his attempts to escape from the balcony could not be ascertained yet.Sources, however, said he was visiting a woman for some official work and another person visited the flat. Kathuria did not want to run into him so he tried to come down from the second-floor balcony but lost his grip and fell down.The 51-year-old leader, the former chairperson of Sugerfed, was a special invitee of the BJP’s state executive committee.Kathuria, who hails from Sector 13 in Karnal, had sought BJP ticket from the Karnal Lok Sabha seat in the last parliamentary election. He had also contested the assembly election from Karnal unsuccessfully on BJP ticket in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-expels-karnal-leader-chander-parkash-kathuria-for-6-years/story-ggK79zXwwDSHJSDh1MyhZM.html
24-05-2020||India||‘States can develop their own Covid-19 quarantine, isolation protocol’: Govt’s on domestic travel||The government on Sunday, in its release on domestic travel, said that state governments will be able to “develop their own quarantine and isolation protocols as per their assessment”. This came amid concerns raised by various states as the government lifted curbs on air travel and is set to run 200 passenger trains from June 1 amid Covid-19 lockdown. States like Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Karnataka, among others, maintained that passengers arriving via domestic flights will need to be quarantined. It is comprehensive list of guidelines for passengers, undertaking domestic travel via flights, trains or through inter-state bus services amid Covid-19 lockdown, the Ministry of Health stated that all domestic travellers are required to follow social distancing at all times and wear protective masks. Aarogya Setu mobile app should be installed by all passengers. Asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to go home, observe their health for 14 days and report in case symptoms arise. Passengers displaying mild symptoms will be given the option of home isolation or to isolate at Covid-19 Care Centres at various public and private facilities.  The guidelines come in the wake of resumption of domestic air services from Monday and with 100 pair of trains resuming service on June 1. Also read: Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine trial has 50% chance of success, says project leaderHere’s taking a quick look at the guidelines:1) Dos and Don’ts shall be provided along with tickets to the travellers by the agencies concerned.2) All passengers shall be advised to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile devices.3) Suitable announcement about Covid-19 including precautionary measures to be followed shall be made at airports/railway station/bus terminals and in flights/trains/bus.4) The States/UTs shall ensure that all passengers undergo thermal screening at the point of departure and only asymptomatic passengers are allowed to board the flight/train/bus.5) During boarding and travel, all passengers shall use face covers/mask. They will also follow hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene and maintain environmental hygiene. With domestic civil aviation starting on 25th May, here are the latest guidelines on domestic travel issued by @MoHFW_INDIA. Travellers are requested to strictly follow these self-regulatory norms & help in India's fight against #COVIDー19 #WeShallOvercome#IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/3xwkazvvUc6) At airports/railway stations/ bus terminals required measures to ensure social distancing shall be taken.7) Airports/railway stations/bus terminals should be regularly sanitized/disinfected and availability of soaps and sanitizers shall be ensured.8) Thermal screening at exit point shall be arranged.9) Asymptomatic passengers will be permitted to go with the advice that they shall self-monitor their health for 14 days. In case, they develop any symptoms, they shall inform the district surveillance officer or the state/national call centre (1075).10) Those found symptomatic will be isolated and taken to the nearest health facility. They will be assessed for clinical severity at the health facility.11) Those having moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to dedicated Covid-19 health facilities and managed accordingly.12) Those having mild symptoms will be given the option of home isolation or to isolate in the Covid Care Centre (both public & private facilities) as appropriate and tested as per ICMR protocol. If positive, they will continue at Covid Care Centre and will be managed as per clinical protocol.If negative, the passenger may be allowed to go home, isolate himself/herself and self monitor his/her health for further 7 days. In case, any symptoms develop they shall inform the district surveillance officer or the state/national call center (1075).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-can-develop-their-own-covid-19-quarantine-isolation-protocols-says-health-ministry-in-guidelines-on-domestic-travel/story-BBxvSfy6unK74T0PPTI7lO.html
24-05-2020||India||India will have to play key role in mass production of coronavirus vaccine: France||India will have an important role to play in the mass production of medicines and vaccines for coronavirus infection once the treatment for the deadly disease is found, French Ambassador Emmanuel Lenain has said. Dozens of researchers across the globe are racing against time to come out with a vaccine for coronavirus that has infected nearly five million people and killed over 3,30,000 globally. “It is very important for states to coordinate if we want the COVID-19 vaccine and/or medicines to be produced and distributed equitably worldwide. India will have an important role to play as a producer of medicines and vaccines,” French Ambassador Emmanuel Lenain told PTI in an interview. India is a leading manufacturer of vaccines and generic drugs globally. Several research institutes in India are also working on separate programmes to find a vaccine for the coronavirus. The French Ambassador’s comments also came in the backdrop of efforts by a large number of countries as well as the 27-nation European Union to ensure equitable access to any vaccine or medicine for treatment of coronavirus infection through their mass production under voluntary patenting. The issue figured prominently at the recent two-day conference of the World Health Organisation where many countries pressed for making the vaccine available to all countries and not only to those who have deep pockets. “France and India have supported the European resolution (at the WHO) for universal, timely and equitable access to all necessary products for countering the pandemic, and underscored the role of extensive immunisation against COVID-19 as a global public good,” he said. Since the coronavirus crisis broke out, India has been pitching for a coordinated global approach in containing the pandemic. India has already supplied 446 million Hydroxychloroquine tablets and 1.54 billion Paracetamol tablets to 133 countries, drawing praise from a number of global leaders. Last week, India’s Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the coronavirus pandemic has reaffirmed India’s role as a “pharmacy of the world”. In the interview, Lenain also said that the coronavirus crisis has shown that France and India’s push for multilateralism is the right option for the current century. “None of the major issues that structure the future of the world like healthcare and environment can be dealt with in an isolated manner,” he said. “I am delighted that the reform of the WHO, which France encourages, has found favour in India. India and France have coordinated well and continue to do so. However, we can do much more together,” he said. The COVID-19 crisis has shown the importance of international cooperation on humanitarian issues and the two strategic partners have been working together under the G20 as well as in the WHO on finding ways to check the spread of the coronavirus, the ambassador said. He also said that France is “very grateful” to India for allowing the export of certain critical drugs for treating patients in intensive care. Asked whether there was a need for global investigation to find the origin of the coronavirus, Lenain said, “Post-crisis, there will, of course, be a time for analysing the alert mechanism to see how it can be improved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-have-to-play-key-role-in-mass-production-of-coronavirus-vaccine-france/story-SXl3ANcHo2IOvmZbR0xX9N.html
24-05-2020||India||People’s discipline, lockdown helped keep Maharashtra’s Covid-19 numbers in control: CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday thanked the people of the state for maintaining discipline during the lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Uddhav Thackeray also said that the lockdown has kept the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, is the worst-affected in the country, in check.Maharashtra on Saturday detected 2,608 new Covid-19 cases, the second-highest single-day spike, taking the state’s tally to a staggering 47,190, according to state health department data. The death toll in the state has climbed to 1,577.“There was a projection that Maharashtra could have 1.15 lakh coronavirus positive cases by May end. But, currently, we have 33,786 Covid-19 cases, around 13,404 have recovered. This is thanks to the lockdown and discipline maintained by you,” Uddhav Thackeray said during a Facebook Live session.“The cases will increase now. We are preparing and have created hospital infrastructure for it. By the end of May, we will make 14,000 beds available and currently, we have already created around 7,000 beds, including 3,000 in our field hospitals,” he added.Saturday was the seventh consecutive day when the state reported more than 2,000 new Covid-19 cases, according to state health department data.Mumbai reported 1,566 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, slightly lower than the count reported on Friday, taking the financial capital’s tally to 28,817. The capital city’s death toll is at 949 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-s-discipline-lockdown-helped-keep-maharashtra-s-covid-19-numbers-in-control-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-02W4yTpNyFuPfhAnIZJCrL.html
24-05-2020||India||‘Fight against Covid-19 to be tougher now, prepared with extra health facilities’: Maharashtra CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday held an online briefing on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the state and said that the fight against Covid-19 is going to be a “tougher one” but the administration is prepared with extra medical facilities.Thackeray said that it was wrong to impose lockdown suddenly. On the lockdown deadline of May 31, he said that “we can’t end it all at once”Thackeray thanked the people of Maharashtra for showing their discipline and following the lockdown. He said that the Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra were projected to be around 1.15 lakh by May end but currently, “we have 33,786 Covid-19 cases, around 13,404 have recovered,” he said. “This is due to the lockdown and discipline maintained by you all,” the chief minister said.  Also read: 67% of India’s Covid-19 cases come from 4 statesThe fight against COVID19 is going to be tougher now but there is no need to panic as we are prepared with extra health facilities: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray as positive cases cross 47,000 in the stateThe number of active patients is 33,786 and over 13,000 have recovered. pic.twitter.com/siCrEZcPjnThackeray cautioned against the rise in Covid-19 in the state and said that the administration is preparing and creating hospital infrastructure for an increase in load of Covid-19 cases.“By the end of May, we will make 14,000 beds available, currently we have already created around 7,000 beds including 3,000 in our field hospitals,” he said. The chief minister also cautioned against the approaching monsoon season which is likely to trigger a host of related ailments and seasonal infections. Maharashtra continues to bear the brunt of increasing coronavirus infections. Till Sunday morning, as per the Ministry of Health, the state reported 47,190 Covid-19 cases - highest in the country. Covid-19 fatalities in Maharashtra have risen to 1,577 while more than 13,000 coronavirus patients have beaten the infection and have been discharged from hospitals across the state. Mumbai, Thane, Pune are the worst-hit districts in Maharashtra. Covid-19 cases have crossed the 28,000-mark in Mumbai while 949 patients succumbed to death due to coronavirus in the country’s financial capital. Thane has reported over 6,000 cases of infections and 85 fatalities. In Pune, Covid-19 cases have jumped to 5,347 while 257 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fight-against-covid-19-to-be-tougher-now-prepared-with-extra-health-facilities-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray/story-Vx6kjBYdrpcjLsSwI8zJcN.html
24-05-2020||India||Delhi’s coronavirus tally crosses 13000, health minister says ‘41 Covid-19 zones de-contained’||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said that 508 new Covid-19 infections were reported in the national capital till May 23 midnight. The coronavirus tally in Delhi now stands at 13,418, while 261 people have died due to coronavirus in Delhi, the minister added. Jain also talked to reporters about the Covid-19 containment zones in the national capital, stating that the number of containment zones now stands at 83.House numbers 600-800 in Hari Nagar, Rani Bagh and two houses at street number 8, Shastri Park have been declared as new containment zones. “Till now, 41 zones have been de-contained,” Jain said.  Also read: 67% of India’s Covid-19 cases come from 4 statesWith 508 new cases, the total number of COVID19 positive cases in Delhi is now 13,418 (till midnight of 23rd May), total death toll 261: Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain pic.twitter.com/3dZDjOJ6lLEarlier this week, the South Delhi district administration added two more areas to the list of Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi. South Delhi’s Zamrudpur in Greater Kailash and Dakshinpuri were added as Covid-19 containment zones. This comes when the Delhi government has partially lifted restrictions on movement across the national capital amid lockdown 4.0 in a bid to restart economic activity. Delhi: The number of containment zones in Delhi now stands at 87 with the addition of house numbers 600-800 Hari Nagar, Rani Bagh, and two houses at street number 8, Shastri Park. Till now, 41 zones have been de-contained.Public transport, barring Delhi Metro, has resumed operation in Delhi on conditions. Standalone shops have also lifted shutters. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal urged citizens to show discipline amid the coronavirus crisis ensure that the virus does not spread further. He said that no relaxations will be provided in Covid-19 containment zones. Large gatherings, places of worship, malls, educational institutes, theatres, dine-in restaurants, barbershops and salons are still shut in Delhi amid the fourth phase of the lockdown. “Vulnerable people” such as the elderly, pregnant women, children are urged to avoid stepping out of their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-coronavirus-tally-breaches-13-000-mark-health-minister-says-41-covid-19-zones-de-contained/story-fSyn6xTCeFjTKx33zL1SNP.html
24-05-2020||India||Four associates of LeT militants arrested in J-K’s Budgam district||Security forces on Sunday arrested four associates of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, an official said.“Police in Budgam along with security forces have arrested four terrorist associates including top terror associate of proscribed terror outfit LeT and recovered arms and ammunition from their possession,” a police spokesperson said. The arrested persons have been identified as Waseem Ganie,  Farooq Ahmad Dar, Mohammad Yasin and Azharudin Mir, he said. The spokesperson said incriminating material including arms and ammunition was recovered from their possession.As per the police records, the arrested persons were involved in providing logistical support and shelter to active terrorists of LeT operating in the area, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-associates-of-let-militants-arrested-in-j-k-s-budgam-district/story-cuEMfqJNPSK6HkMTW3iaeJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Delhi court allows ED to interrogate Christian Michel||A Delhi court has allowed the Enforcement Directorate to interrogate alleged middleman Christian Michel at the Tihar central jail here, where he is lodged in connection with the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam case.Special Judge Pulastya Pramachala on Saturday allowed the ED to interrogate Michel on May 25 and 26 in the jail premises.The court allowed the ED’s plea moved by the agency’s special public prosecutor N K Matta after he submitted during a hearing held through video conferencing that the accused was required to be confronted with certain documents during its ongoing probe in the case.Michel, extradited from Dubai, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on December 22, 2018.On January 5, 2019 Michel was sent to judicial custody in the ED case. He is also lodged in judicial custody in the CBI case related to the scam.He was arrested in the UAE and extradited to India on December 4, 2018. The next day, he was produced before the court which allowed his custodial interrogation by the CBI.  Later, he was arrested by the ED.Michel is among the three alleged middlemen being probed in the case by the ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The others are Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa.The CBI has alleged that there was an estimated loss of Euro 398.21 million (about Rs 2,666 crore) to the exchequer in the deal that was signed on February 8, 2010 for the supply of VVIP choppers worth Euro 556.262 million.The ED, in its charge sheet filed against Michel in June 2016, had alleged that he received EUR 30 million (about Rs 225 crore) from AgustaWestland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-allows-ed-to-interrogate-christian-michel/story-S5uAl41cYdi5OU9TP2H39I.html
24-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Spike in Covid-19 cases in eastern UP, all 75 districts affected and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Spike in Covid-19 cases in eastern Uttar Pradesh, all 75 districts affectedIndia saw its biggest spike of Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 6,767 new infections reported in the last 24 hours, taking the nationwide tally to 1,31,868. The number of Covid-19 cases saw a spike in Uttar Pradesh too, with the state’s tally reaching 6,017. Read more‘11 rail passengers from Mumbai test positive for Covid-19 in Goa, active cases at 50’: State health ministerGoa health minister Vishwajit Rane on Sunday said that 11 passengers who arrived from Mumbai on Saturday via Rajdhani Express have been reported positive for Covid-19. With fresh Covid-19 infections, the number of active coronavirus cases in Goa has jumped to 50, Rane said in a tweet. Read moreAnother tiger carcass found in Assam’s Kaziranga; fourth death this yearAuthorities in Assam’s Kaziranga National Park have found the carcass of a semi-adult male, taking the number of tiger deaths in the park to four this year. P Sivakumar, director of the park, said the carcass of the two-year-old tiger was found in the Burapahar range of the 430 sq km park, the biggest habitat of one-horned rhinos in the world. Read moreIsraeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu’s corruption trial opens today in Jerusalem courtThe corruption trial of Benjamin Netanyahu opens on Sunday in a Jerusalem court, where he will become the first serving Israeli prime minister to face criminal prosecution, in a case he calls a political witch-hunt. Read moreReliance’s JioMart website goes live, expands services to more citiesReliance Jio has launched its new e-commerce portal, JioMart, and started accepting orders in dozens of metropolitan cities amid the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more‘Take stress out of Virat Kohli’s life’: Former India pacer bats for Rohit Sharma as captain in T20IsFormer India fast bowler Atul Wassan believes India should consider having split captaincy as leading the team across all three formats could be a load on one single player. Virat Kohli currently leads India in Tests, ODIs and in T20Is as well. Read moreApple’s AirPods Studio headphones may launch next month during WWDC conferenceWe have heard a lot about Apple’s over the ear headphones (tipped as AirPods Studio) in the past few months. From its interchangeable components to price, the leaks and analysts have predicted it all. Read morePeople urging Hrithik Roshan to watch a dance video to hug curtain impressing Anand Mahindra, best viral videos of the weekThe Internet is a place which, among other things, is a treasure trove for all sorts of viral videos. While some of these videos may make you gasp in wonder, others will leave you emotional and teary-eyed. Read moreEid 2020: Muslims share how coronavirus lockdown will affect their holy celebrationsUAE-based software engineer Fariyal Shaikh shows me a picture of her six-year-old Ayesha’s henna, “She asked for Corona 2020 and Ana (from Disney’s Frozen) for henna this time, so I bought a stencil.’’ Read moreWatch: Rejected by several hospitals, 73-yr-old woman recovers from Covid-19 in Mumbai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-eastern-up-all-75-districts-affected-and-all-the-latest-news/story-QAoWAZiGodiA035wz1kTGL.html
24-05-2020||India||Bombay High Court orders blocking of objectionable video on social media||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the police to immediately block a video clip which contained inflammatory content and was allegedly aimed at creating communal unrest. The video clip was posted on some social media sites by a purported supporter of All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM). The bench comprising justices RD Dhanuka and Abhay Ahuja was hearing a petition filed by a city resident named Imran Khan.Khan moved the high court seeking direction to the authorities to immediately delete the hate speech video uploaded by one Abu Faisal, who claims to be an AIMIM supporter. Khan sought appropriate action against Faizal in accordance with law for uploading the objectionable video. He has also sought a direction to the authorities to permanently block Faizal’s access to social media.Khan’s counsel, advocate Vivek Shukla, pointed out the wild statements made by Abu Faizal in the video. Faizal, in the video, claimed that the media has been directed to target Muslims and defame Islam under the garb of the coronavirus pandemic. Shukla expressed apprehension that the video uploaded on social media would create hatred between Hindus and Muslims. Shukla said that no action has been taken by the police although a complaint was made by the petitioner.According to Khan, in the video, it has been alleged that a vicious campaign is led by the RSS in the country to supposedly control the Muslim population. Khan said in the video, Faizal is seen provoking and encouraging his Muslim brethren to assault non-muslim doctors. The bench said the petition prima facie indicated serious allegations about an inflammatory speech by said Abu Faizal for creating hatred between Hindu and Muslim communities, and against the police for inaction.The court has now directed the Mumbai Police to look into the allegations and the video clip available on Youtube and Facebook. The police have been directed to file an affidavit in reply in a week. It also directed the authorities to investigate Faizal if the police find any substance against him based on the allegations made by the petitioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-orders-blocking-of-objectionable-video-on-social-media/story-nyqCZt0FjN0myzWHem1u4L.html
24-05-2020||India||‘I can apologise or you can cut off my head’: Mamata Banerjee on protests over Cyclone Amphan response||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has urged people in areas hit by Cyclone Amphan to have patience as the administration is working tirelessly to restore water and power supply. She maded the remarks after protests erupted in state capital Kolkata and other cyclone-hit areas.“This is huge disaster. Our teams are working very seriously. At least 1,000 teams are working in the state. Along with them local youths are also working,” she said on Saturday evening.“The police, besides maintaining lockdown and law and order, are also helping in the restoration process,” Banerjee said at the state secretariat.Cyclone Amphan has claimed 86 lives in West Bengal and caused havoc in at least 14 districts, mainly in South 24 Parganas, Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore districts.Many areas in south Kolkata are without power since the cyclone ravaged the state. So, there were protests in many parts of the city - from Behala in the south to Belgharia in north Kolkata. The protests continued for the second consecutive day on Saturday. The protesters, many of whom were women, said they are under extreme hardship as there was no electricity and water for the past three days and repeated calls to power utilities CESC and WBSEDCL went unanswered.In a few places, clashes between the police and angry protesters were also reported.When asked about the situation of electricity in Kolkata, Banerjee said, “I know you are inconvenienced, I can apologise to you, or you can cut off my head. We are also human, we are working very hard. We are staying awake all night. 1 crore people are homeless. How are those people enduring who have no drinking water?” she said.People should understand the ground reality and have patience, the chief minister said.“I have called up the Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation (CESC) at least 10 times. Even I do not have proper phone network... I cannot watch television at home,” Banerjee said.Scores of Army personnel were deployed in Kolkata and neighbouring districts of West Bengal on Saturday to help the authorities restore normalcy in the wake of the protests.The West Bengal government had asked the Centre to deply Army in the state for restoration of essential infrastructure and services in the wake of the destruction caused by Cyclone Amphan.Five columns of the Army were deployed in different parts of the city and North and South 24 Parganas districts - the three worst-hit districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-can-apologise-or-you-can-cut-off-my-head-mamata-banerjee-on-protest-over-cyclone-amphan-response/story-mJdbfejdgEQmS66jFQYdFP.html
24-05-2020||India||‘As good as dungeon’: Gujarat high court on condition at Covid-19 hospital||The Gujarat high court lashed out at the state government, saying the conditions at the Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad is “pathetic” and it is “as good as a dungeon, may be even worse”.The court’s made the observation on Friday, it was made available on Saturday. The court had taken suo motu congnizance of a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) on Covid-19 pandemic.Ahmedabad’s Civil Hospital recorded 377 Covid-19 deaths till Friday.The division bench of Justices JB Pardiwala and IJ Vora came down hard on the Vijay Rupani government on conditions prevailing at the hospital, and said it was “distressing and painful”.“It is very distressing and painful to note that the condition prevailing, as on date, in the Civil Hospital, is pathetic... We are very sorry to state that the Civil Hospital Ahmedabad, as on date, appears to be in an extremely bad shape,” the court observed.“As we said earlier that the Civil Hospital is meant to treat the patients. However, it appears that as on date, it is as good as a dungeon. May be even worse than a dungeon. Unfortunately, the poor and helpless patients have no option,” it said.Gujarat reported 396 more Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 13,669.A state government official said the count includes 6,169 patients who have been cured and discharged and 829 deaths.Nine districts in Gujarat reported fresh cases on Saturday, with Ahmedabad reporting 277 cases. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad district reached 10,001.Death toll of Covid-19 patients in Ahmedabad has risen to 669, while in Surat it has risen to 60, the second highest in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-good-as-dungeon-gujarat-high-court-on-condition-at-covid-19-hospital/story-2nqQn7sjMTEzbunJJsCyFJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Sadhu’s body found inside his ashram in Maharashtra’s Nanded, investigation on||A body of a sadhu (seer) was found inside his ashram in Maharashtra’s Nanded late on Saturday night, news agency ANI reported. “The sadhu’s body was found at his Ashram in Nanded’s Umri late last night,” ANI quoted Nanded Superintendent of Police Vijaykumar Magar as saying. He further said that an investigation has been launched.The incident comes more than a month after three people, including two seers, were lynched by more than 500 people at Gadchinchale village, in Palghar district. The incident took place on April 16.So far, more than 160 accused have been arrested by the state CID which is probing the Palghar lynching case. Ten arrested minors have been sent to children’s remand home in Bhiwandi.When produced before the Dahanu court on May 12, the accused mentioned in the first information report (FIR) number 76/2020 (attempt to murder charge) have been remanded in judicial custody, while the accused mentioned in FIR number 77/2020 (murder charge) have been remanded in police custody till May 26, said Parmanand Ojha, counsel for the three victims.Gaurav Singh, the Superintendent of Police (SP) who was in-charge when the Palghar lynching incident took place, was sent on compulsory leave by home minister Anil Deshmukh on May 8. Singh has been transferred out of the district but is still awaiting his posting.Dattatreya Shinde has replaced Singh as the new SP of Palghar.Previously, the Maharashtra home ministry had suspended five police personnel, including the Kasa police in-charge assistant police inspector (API) Anandrao Kale; his subordinate, sub-inspector (SI) Sudhir Katare; and transferred about 35 police personnel from the station to various departments in Palghar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sadhu-s-body-found-inside-his-ashram-in-maharashtra-s-nanded-investigation-on/story-gcs3oUK6gL05wqIQi4ePtI.html
24-05-2020||India||CDS to donate Rs 50,000 for next 12 months to PM-CARES fund||Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat has started donating Rs 50,000 from his salary to be deducted every month for the next one year to the PM CARES fund created to battle the COVID-19 pandemic.In March, the CDS had written to the authorities concerned that for the next one year, Rs 50,000 be deducted from his salary and be deposited in the PM-CARES fund, defence sources told ANI.After the letter was written, the first deduction of Rs 50,000 was done from the salary of April and deposited in the fund created for the fight against Coronavirus, they said.The CDS had also donated one-day salary for the PM CARES fund along with all other defence services’ personnel who had donated in March soon after the fund was started.Now the Defence Ministry employees have been given an option of donating one-day salary every month for the next one year and this would be done voluntarily.Sources said the decision to donate Rs. 50,000 every month to the PM CARES fund by the CDS is likely to encourage other senior officers also to make their contribution towards the fight against coronavirus.National Disaster Management Authority member and former Coast Guard Chief Rajendra Singh has also donated 30 per cent of his salary to the PM CARES fund.A number of senior officers in Army Headquarters have contributed for the PM fund.The CDS is also leading from the front in the armed forces’ fight against COVID-19 as he attends all meetings with the Health Ministry and is also working with the services in preparing them for fight against the pandemic.The CDS had also visited the Narela quarantine centre and other facilities to assess the preparations there to tackle the spread of the deadly virus which originated from China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-to-donate-rs-50-000-for-next-12-months-to-pm-cares-fund/story-Uo1SK4MBoLsp1L7gbSxdJN.html
24-05-2020||India||‘Good health and a long life’: PM Modi, Arvind Kejriwal wish Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan on birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday took to Twitter and extended wishes to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on his 76th birthday. PM Modi wished for Vijayan’s good health and long life. “Birthday wishes to Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi Ji on his birthday. May he be blessed with good health and a long life.” the prime minister tweeted out. CM Vijayan thanked PM Modi for his “good wishes”. Also read: Kamal Haasan, Mohanlal wish Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan on his birthdayBirthday wishes to Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi Ji on his birthday. May he be blessed with good health and a long life.Several eminent personalities and political leaders wished Vijayan on his 76th birthday on Sunday.Vijayan was born on May 24, 1944, in Pinarayi, Malabar district of Madras Presidency under British India. He served as the longest-serving secretary of the Kerala State Committee of the CPI(M) from the year 1998 to 2015 and took charge as the 12th chief minister of Kerala in the year 2016.  Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also wished good health to Vijayan on his big day. “Wish Kerala CM Shri Pinarayi Vijayan ji a happy birthday. May he be blessed with a long and healthy life,” Kejriwal tweeted. Wish Kerala CM Shri Pinarayi Vijayan ji a happy birthday. May he be blessed with a long and healthy life. @vijayanpinarayi“He has made his state the object of adulation in the country,” actor and politician Kamal Haasan lauded Vijayan in a Twitter post and extended birthday greetings.  Then, he created a storm by talking with a bloodstained shirt. Now, he has made his state the object of adulation in the country. The CM of Kerala emphasised our bond, calling us brothers, keeping the borders open. Our Heartfelt birthday wishes to our comrade @vijayanpinarayi“Then, he created a storm by talking with a bloodstained shirt. Now, he has made his state the object of adulation in the country. The CM of Kerala emphasised our bond, calling us brothers, keeping the borders open. Our Heartfelt birthday wishes to our comrade @vijayanpinarayi,” Haasan tweeted out. Malayalam cinema superstar Mohanlal also extended his wishes on Vijayan’s birthday “Birthday wishes to our Honourable Chief Minister, Shri @vijayanpinarayi sir,” Mohanlal tweeted on Sunday.Vijayan was born on May 24, 1944, in Pinarayi, Malabar district of Madras Presidency under British India. He served as the longest-serving secretary of the Kerala State Committee of the CPI(M) from the year 1998 to 2015 and took charge as the 12th chief minister of Kerala in the year 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-he-be-blessed-with-good-health-and-a-long-life-pm-modi-wished-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-on-birthday/story-pnMMi66hMByCe9IzWsXJbL.html
24-05-2020||India||Spike in Covid-19 cases in eastern Uttar Pradesh, all 75 districts affected||India saw its biggest spike of Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 6,767 new infections reported in the last 24 hours, taking the nationwide tally to 1,31,868.The number of Covid-19 cases saw a spike in Uttar Pradesh too, with the state’s tally reaching 6,017.But an analysis of Uttar Pradesh’s dats shows that the disease is spreading faster in eastern part of the state, said the state’s health officials. This is mainly due to the large number of the migrant workers who have arrived in this region during the past 10 days, they said.State health minister Jai Pratap Singh said on Saturday that 1,423 migrant workers, who returned to Uttar Pradesh in recent days, have tested positive for coronavirus disease.This constitutes 40 per cent of the total cases in the eastern region of Uttar Pradesh, he said.The Sultanpur district, which had only five cases of Covid-19 till recently, now has 41 cases, 15 of which were reported on Saturday, the state’s health officials said.In Jaunpur district, 43 migrant workers have tested positive for Covid-19 while in Barabanki that reported 95 cases in a day on May 21, 49 were migrant workers.In Jaunpur, 43 migrant workers who had returned last week, were tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Friday, taking the district’s total to 91. Most of them had come back from Maharashtra.All 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh are now affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus.“Most of the migrants who were infected have returned from states like Maharashtra and Gujarat. We have increased our daily testing capacity to over 7,000 samples,” said health minister Jai Pratap Singh.He said that according to estimates, around 17 lakh migrant workers have returned to Uttar Pradesh via trains and buses. He said that samples of over 50,000 have been tested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-eastern-uttar-pradesh-all-75-districts-affected/story-k6sWjsyEncxa2OOUPzbq6K.html
24-05-2020||India||‘11 rail passengers from Mumbai test positive for Covid-19 in Goa, active cases at 50’: State health minister||Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane on Sunday said that 11 passengers who arrived from Mumbai on Saturday via Rajdhani Express have been reported positive for Covid-19.With fresh Covid-19 infections, the number of active coronavirus cases in Goa has jumped to 50, Rane said in a tweet. “11 passengers who arrived from Mumbai yesterday via Rajdhani express have reported positive on the TrueNat device. This brings the total number of active cases in the state of Goa to 50,” Rane posted on Twitter this morning.  Update:11 passengers who arrived from mumbai yesterday via Rajdhani express have reported positive on the TrueNat device. This brings the total number of active cases in the state of Goa to 50.The minister said that in the wake of the rising coronavirus cases in Goa, he will be meeting chief minister Pramod Sawant and request him to implement stringent measure to curb the spread of coronavirus. Also read: 67% of India’s Covid-19 cases come from 4 states In view of upsurge of cases in the state via railways, roadways and others, I will be meeting the Hon’ble Chief Minister @DrPramodPSawant to brief him on the present status in order to curb the rising cases.We will be requesting Hon’ble CM to implement stringent measures...“for passengers entering the state of Goa with a mandatory COVID-19 Negative certificate that will be valid for 48 hours from the time of issue,” Rane tweeted. This comes when the coronavirus cases in the country continue to rise unabated. On Sunday, the country reported another steep single-day surge in Covid-19 cases with 6,767 new infections. India’s coronavirus tally jumped to 131,868 Sunday with 6,654 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours. Covid-19 death toll in the country stands at 3,867 while more than 54,000 patients have recovered from the disease across the country. Amid the fourth phase of the nationwide coronavirus lockdown, domestic flight services are set to resume from Monday while 100 pair of trains will begin operation on June 1. Nationwide covid-19 lockdown will come to an end on May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-rail-passengers-from-mumbai-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-goa-active-cases-at-50-state-health-minister/story-lzv2yl9uD61rh5s7lNJQ0K.html
24-05-2020||India||Another tiger carcass found in Assam’s Kaziranga; fourth death this year||Authorities in Assam’s Kaziranga National Park have found the carcass of a semi-adult male, taking the number of tiger deaths in the park to four this year.P Sivakumar, director of the park, said the carcass of the two-year-old tiger was found in the Burapahar range of the 430 sq km park, the biggest habitat of one-horned rhinos in the world.“The carcass was found on Friday. It bore several injury marks and the skull was almost crushed. Investigation suggests that it had died due to infighting with other male tigers the previous day,” he said.This is the second such death reported this month and the fourth one this year. All cases are the outcome of infighting.On May 10, the carcass of a semi-adult tigress was found in the Bagori range and in April an adult tiger was found dead in the Kohora range. In January, the carcass of a three-month-old tiger was found.Kaziranga was declared a tiger reserve in 2006 and with 121 Royal Bengal Tigers, it has one of the highest density of the species in the world.“In Kaziranga, tiger deaths are mostly due to infighting and not old age. In a year, the average number of such deaths is nearly 10. In other parks, prey base is low, the number of tigers is also low and the area is much larger. So they don’t have many instances of infighting,” said Sivakumar.In the latest instance, forest officials have also detected cannibalism with parts of the dead tiger’s body consumed by other tigers.“The skull was broken and face disfigured. It appears the attacker, a fully grown adult aged around 10-12 years, might have crushed it. The semi-adult tiger was not able to survive the attack. In this case, we also noticed cannibalism,” said Sivakumar.Though it is peak tourist season, all national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and zoos in Assam have been closed since March 16 as a precautionary measure against the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-tiger-carcass-found-in-assam-s-kaziranga-fourth-death-this-year/story-QSjNPThkXrxSJkfksvQlyI.html
24-05-2020||India||Messiahs of mercy||The pain and suffering of lakhs of migrant labourers, marching hundreds of miles to reach their native places barefoot is heart-wrenching. The stories and the images on social media about the suffering and misery of these migrants will remain etched in our memory forever. The overwhelming majority of these migrants are young people, in their 20s and 30s, existing in highly precarious circumstances. Many of them are in short term employment contracts, they don’t own their own property and live in privately rented accommodation, away from their families, most of the time sharing a flat often in overcrowded circumstances, and they don’t have enough savings to last them long.Pushed by circumstances, these people were faced with two stark choices: to stay put, or to return to their homeland and their more caring family environment. Many of them decided to walk back home in the face of no transportation facilities. In a bid to help these migrants, Agra police set up stalls to provide slippers and shoes to migrants workers free of charge. Vikas Jaiswal, CO, Sadar Circle, says, “The summer months in Northern India are as it is challenging. The roads become blazing hot, especially during the daytime, and walking barefoot on them becomes extremely painful. Understanding the problem, the police department of Agra decided to offer slippers and shoes to these migrants.”Since the beginning of the lockdown, Agra Police has been helping poor people, migrants, rickshaw-dwellers and labourers with food packets and water bottles. Vikas adds, “These are migrants who have been walking for days together from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, this is the least we can do for them. Their smiles are the biggest blessings we are getting.”Agra Police will continue to render these services in the coming days to all migrants coming back to their homes. The cops have also put up a banner, letting the migrants know about their initiative.The message on the banner reads, “Come let’s cooperate, one mission, one initiative, free shoes and slippers for migrant labourers”. Vikas confesses, “ On learning about our initiative and getting the slippers, many labourers and migrants had tears in their eyes. Such initiatives will always be remembered by them and also will go a long way in developing trust in the police and the state machinery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/messiahs-of-mercy/story-mtZP9T9fPJo2lIGbSj1xiP.html
24-05-2020||India||‘He has made his state object of adulation in country’: Kamal Haasan, Mohanlal wish Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan on his birthday||Kerala Chief Minister and CPI(M) leader Pinarayi Vijayan ushered in his 76th birthday on Sunday. Born on May 24, 1944, in Pinarayi, Malabar district of Madras Presidency under British India, Vijayan has a led an extensive political career and was the longest-serving secretary of the Kerala State Committee of the CPI(M) from the year 1998 to 2015. Vijayan also served as the state minister of Electric Power and Co-operatives from 1996 to 1998. In the year 2016, Vijayan won the Dharmadom constituency as a CPI(M) candidate during the state elections and was selected as the leader of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to take charge as Kerala’s 12th chief minister.  Under Vijayan’s leadership, the state of Kerala has set many milestones. One of the most notable milestones attained by the state under Vijayan’s leadership has been the management of devastating Kerala floods of 2018. Also read: With 6,767 new Covid-19 cases, India records another highest single-day spikeThen, he created a storm by talking with a bloodstained shirt. Now, he has made his state the object of adulation in the country. The CM of Kerala emphasised our bond, calling us brothers, keeping the borders open. Our Heartfelt birthday wishes to our comrade @vijayanpinarayiVijayan’s leadership is also being praised for the effective control and mitigation of Covid-19 cases in the state. Scores of eminent personalities and leaders wished Vijayan on his birthday today.  Actor and politician Kamal Haasan took to Twitter and said that Vijayan “has made his state the object of adulation in the country” Also read: 67% of India’s Covid-19 cases come from 4 statesBirthday wishes to our Honourable Chief Minister, Shri @vijayanpinarayi sir pic.twitter.com/TWTQyrQi9s“Then, he created a storm by talking with a bloodstained shirt. Now, he has made his state the object of adulation in the country. The CM of Kerala emphasised our bond, calling us brothers, keeping the borders open. Our Heartfelt birthday wishes to our comrade @vijayanpinarayi,” Haasan tweeted out. Malayalam cinema superstar Mohanlal also extended his wishes on Vijayan’s birthday “Birthday wishes to our Honourable Chief Minister, Shri @vijayanpinarayi sir,” Mohanlal tweeted on Sunday.On Saturday, Vijayan said that after the coronavirus pandemic, Kerala will be able to overcome any crisis. “Kerala is at the forefront of developing innovative ways to overcome the Covid-19 pandemic and will be able to overcome any crisis which might come. Most of the cases currently being reported in Kerala have come from outside the state. We must not alienate them. This land belongs to them too,” Vijayan said during the first edition of #AskTheCM organized by Twitter India. In #AskTheCM series in partnership with Twitter, India, CM Vijayan will answer queries on Covid-19 efforts in the Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-has-made-his-state-object-of-adulation-in-country-kamal-haasan-mohanlal-wish-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-on-his-birthday/story-PyoAapASaBIGuN2x12FieN.html
24-05-2020||India||Three more test positive for Covid-19 in Manipur, state’s tally reaches 29||Three more people tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19, taking the total number of cases in the state to 29. Out of these, 25 are active cases.The three latest cases were tested at the Virus Research & Diagnosis Laboratory (VRDL), state health department officials said.Meanwhile, two others tested negative for the disease and were discharged from the hospital.The first two Covid-19 positive cases, which were detected in Manipur on March 24 and April 2, fully recovered during treatment and were discharged from hospitals on April 12 and 21 respectively.In a press release, the Manipur government said that one of those who has been detected Covid-19 positive is a 26-year-old male who came from Tamil Nadu. He left Chennai on May 10 and reached Jiribam on May 13.“The person is now admitted in the Covid-19 Care facility RIMS,” it added. He belongs to Imphal West district.Two others - both males - are aged 19 and 26 and tested positive for coronavirus disease, a second release from the government said.“They belong to Thoubal district and they returned from Delhi in different buses,” it said. “The district authority is well prepared to cope with any eventuality.”Giving details about the people who have been cured of the disease, the release said that two people - a woman and her son from Tengnoupal district in Manipur - were discharged from the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) after they were found Covid-19 negative. Informing that the total number of recovered cases in the state has increased to four, it said, “The current recovery rate is 13.79 per cent.”Meanwhile, a special train carrying 1,571 passengers from Chennai arrived at the Jiribam railway station in Manipur on Saturday. The people who got down from the train were later transported to the respective quarantine centres after medical screening at Jiribam, reports said.The number of Covid-19 positive cases is on the rise after Manipuri people from different parts of the country started arriving in the state. According to official reports, more than 10,000 people have returned to Manipur from different states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-manipur-state-s-tally-reaches-29/story-gqtWxkSOdR0jQyAmdAPnmO.html
24-05-2020||India||You can now buy liquor in UP malls. But here’s the catch||The Uttar Pradesh government has allowed the sale of certain categories of liquors in malls within the state amid the lockdown to clamp the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, the excise department’s principal secretary, said in a statement that the state cabinet has approved the Uttar Pradesh Excise (Settlement of Licenses for Premium Retail Vends of Foreign Liquor) Rules, 2020.Bhoosreddy said so far foreign liquor was being sold only in retail shops and model shops.“Earlier there was no provision for sale of foreign liquor in malls. Licenses in form FL-4-C will be granted for the retail sale of foreign liquor in sealed bottles in malls. These vends will be in addition to the existing shops,” he said in the statement.The principal secretary said the license for selling liquor in malls can be obtained by any eligible person, company, partnership firm, proprietary firm or society.Malls in which such vends can open should have a minimum plinth area of 10,000 square feet and include departmental stores, supermarkets or hybrid hypermarkets, he explained.“The premium retail vend should have at least 500 square feet carpet area and provide customers with the facility to walk in the shops and select his/her choice of a brand from the shelves. It has to be air-conditioned and be well decorated with shelves so that various brands are displayed in shelves with a systematic layout plan,” Bhoosreddy said.The premium retail vends can sell only those categories of foreign liquor which have been authorised by the excise commissioner, he said, adding that consumption of alcohol on the premises of the vend will not be allowed.They can only sell brands of imported foreign liquor brands, Indian-Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) brands of scotch or above category, all categories of brandy, gin and wine, brands of vodka and rum with a maximum retail price (MRP) of more than Rs 700 and above, and brands of beer with MRP of more than Rs 160 per can of 500ml or equivalent.“Keeping in view the increasing trend of shopping in malls, the rules have been framed allowing the sale of premium brands of liquor in malls,” Bhoosreddy said in the statement.“These vends will give choice and provide access to a wide variety of liquor brands both Indian and imported to liquor connoisseurs, besides giving a better shopping experience,” he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-can-now-buy-liquor-in-up-malls-but-here-s-the-catch/story-QMue4HMy1XcTsPH7hyutXN.html
24-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: Odisha receives Rs 500 crore from Centre for restoration work||Cyclone-battered Odisha has received Rs 500 crore from the Centre as advance assistance for restoration work, a senior official said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the assistance after conducting an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit districts of Odisha and holding a review meeting here on Friday.In a tweet on Saturday, Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P K Jena said, “MHA released Rs 500 crore to Odisha Govt in less than 24 hours of Honble PM @PMOIndia@naendramodi announcement in Bhubaneswar 4 #cycloneAmphan. We thank @PMOIndia@narendramodi &MHA for such speed in releasing the Fund”.The state government has also stepped up the restoration operation in 10 cyclone-affected districts in the coastal and northern regions of the state, Jena said.Altogether, 19 units of the NDRF, 12 teams of the ODRAF and 156 fire service teams have been deployed in the affected districts for clearance of supply lines, he said.Four districts -- Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur -- have been severely impacted by the heavy downpour and high velocity winds triggered by cyclone ‘Amphan’, as per the preliminary damage assessment report released by the state government on Saturday.The report said as many as 44,44,896 people have been affected in the 10 districts.Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik had on Saturday thanked President Ram Nath Kovind and PM Modi for their support during the crisis.“We will work together to ensure care of affected and distressed people and restoration of normalcy at the earliest,” Patnaik had said in a message to Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-odisha-receives-rs-500-crore-from-centre-for-restoration-work/story-GlvbaVCaJMHL1D4t6WKsiL.html
24-05-2020||India||With 6,767 new Covid-19 cases, India records another highest single-day spike||India reported more than 6,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases for the third straight day in 24 hours, taking the tally of infections to 131,868, according to the data released by the Union health ministry on Sunday.In another biggest single-day spike in the numbers, 6,767 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours as 147 people succumbed to deadly respiratory disease, health ministry dashboard showed. On Sunday, there were 54,440 recoveries against 51,783 from Saturday taking the recovery rate 41.28%. Maharashtra has reported 47,190 Covid-19 cases, with Mumbai accounting for 28,817 infections, and 1,577 deaths so far. Tamil Nadu has 15,512 cases of the coronavirus disease and 103 deaths and Gujarat has 13,664 infections but a higher number of deaths at 829.Also read: Farm sector, poised to grow by 3%, remains beacon of hope amid pandemicDelhi’s tally stands at 12,910 and death toll at 231. The deaths put the mortality rate of the disease in the national capital at about 1.8%, up from 1% on May 11. The rate remains lower than the national average of 3%.The Union health ministry said on Saturday that 11 municipal areas from seven states—Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh West Bengal, and Rajasthan—report 70% of all Covid-19 cases reported from India.The Union health secretary Preeti Sudan in a high-level meeting with officials from these municipal areas briefed about the factors to be considered while mapping the containment zones and buffer zones for containing the spread of the infection.Last week, the union health ministry transferred powers to the state to demarcate any administrative area as red, orange, and green zones. Earlier, entire districts were classified as red, orange or green zone by the union health ministry.Also read| Flights resume from Monday: How Covid-19 will change Delhi airportIn the containment and buffer zones within – ranging from a single building to an entire city – the authorities have to ensure perimeter control, active search for cases through door-to-door surveillance and monitoring of influenza-like illnesses and severe acute respiratory illness in the buffer zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-6-767-new-covid-19-cases-india-records-another-highest-single-day-spike/story-sam4nH4Lx8WK7BeYRPmUiN.html
24-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: MP struggles to halt Covid-19 as more districts affected and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.MP struggles to halt virus as more districts affectedThe number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Madhya Pradesh has increased by around 3000 in the past fortnight, mirroring the national trend of an acceleration in the number of cases in this period. Read moreThis Delhi village donated Rs 11 lakh to PM CARES FundSaidulajab, an urban village in Delhi, has set an example in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic in the country as more than 3,700 people have died and over 1.25 have contracted the disease. Read moreIndia now has infrastructure to treat 10 lakh Covid-19 patients: ReportThe central government has prepared the infrastructure (dedicated hospitals) to treat 10 lakh coronavirus disease patients in the country, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. Read moreCovid-19: New York Times devotes entire front page to list of virus victimsThe New York Times has devoted Sunday’s entire front page to a long list of names of people who have died in the coronavirus pandemic. Read more‘Feel other guys will send me videos of catching up’: Rohit Sharma on Team India’s return to trainingIndia are currently in the fourth stage of lockdown with certain green zones with no reported cases, and businesses starting to open up. The government also allowed sportspersons to train individually in sports complexes after taking required permissions from respective boards and local governments, and following strict guidelines. Read moreXiaomi’s Redmi launches a new TV soundbar: Check price, featuresXiaomi’s sub-brand Redmi is gearing up for the launch of a new smart TV series on May 26. Ahead of the release of ‘Redmi smart TV X’, the company has launched a new TV soundbar. Called Redmi TV soundbar, it is priced at 199 Yuan ( ₹2,120 approximately). Read moreWord of the week: Picky? Petty? Or just picayune?Picayune is a relatively recent addition to the English language, going back to the start of the 19th century in the United States. The word “picayune”, according to the Oxford English Dictionary, is an Anglicized version of picaillon, a southern French regional term for a small copper coin that was minted in the Savoy and Piedmont regions of France. Read moreNawazuddin Siddiqui’s wife Aaliya told him not to write controversial autobiography, says he thought he was being ‘mahan’Actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s wife, Aaliya, who is embroiled in a bitter divorce dispute with him, has spoken about his controversial autobiography, that was pulled from the shelves after numerous complaints in 2017. Read moreWatch: ‘This is the 1st time…’: WB Guv on State cooperating with Centre over Amphan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mp-struggles-to-halt-covid-19-as-more-districts-affected-and-all-the-latest-news/story-OjIhSbI8uyl5iw4UvqCCkN.html
24-05-2020||India||Mixed results in clinical trials, 3 states for quarantining domestic flyers: Covid-19 news today||Mixed results from clinical trials of several promising treatments and vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) brought good and bad news this week to a world desperate for a remedy. Meanwhile, at least three states -- Karnataka, Punjab and Kerala -- have decided on quarantining domestic flyers reaching there even though civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri has repeatedly said such a move is not needed.Karnataka, Punjab, Kerala order 14-day quarantine after flightA Delhi business executive who has an all-important business meeting in Bengaluru can now fly to the southern city -- domestic airline services are being restored from Monday -- but faces the prospect of a seven-day quarantine at a state-run institution and another seven days out of it. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayIt isn’t a competition, yet most states have started treating their response to the coronavirus disease as one. Competitions have metrics, and this one has two — the number of cases, and the number of deaths. Metrics, though, have the ability of provoking undesirable behaviour. Read moreAim to restart international flights before August: PuriIndia will try to restart a good percentage of international passenger flights before August, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday said, three days after announcing resumption of domestic flights from May 25. Read moreCong releases video of Rahul’s interaction with migrantsThe Congress on Saturday released a video of an interaction between former party chief Rahul Gandhi and a group of migrant workers who were walking back to their village in Uttar Pradesh from Haryana during the lockdown. Read moreCovid-19: Clinical trials bring hope, concernsMixed results from clinical trials of several promising treatments and vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) released this week brought both cheer and gloom to a world desperate for a safe and effective treatment or vaccine against a disease that has infected at least 5.3 million people and killed 340,000. Read moreHuman trial in Chinese vaccine shows promiseA vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), developed by researchers at China’s CanSino Biologics was found to be safe and effective in its first test on humans, becoming the latest trial that raises hope for an early candidate that could help make people immune to the viral pandemic. Read moreCovid-19 economic proposal stokes controversy, redraftedA group of economists, intellectuals and activists on Saturday redrafted their seven-point ‘Mission Jai Hind’ proposal to deal with the Covid-19 crisis after one of their suggestions of treating all resources of the nation and its citizens -- cash, real estate, property and bonds -- as national resources triggered a controversy. Some of the plan’s signatories also opposed the idea. Read moreFarm sector, poised to grow by 3%, remains beacon of hope amid pandemicFresh indicators show the country’s farm sector, which employs nearly half the population, has coped well with the Covid-19 crisis, with a larger summer crop area than last year, higher sales of fertilisers and seeds, and better prices, leading Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das to call it a “beacon of hope”. Read moreMigrants protest lack of food, waterMigrant workers travelling on Shramik special trains allegedly damaged railway property at separate places in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday while protesting against scarcity of food, water and unscheduled stoppage during their travel, officials said. Read more141 flights to W Asia to be part of Vande Bharat phase 2The Indian government on Saturday added 141 more flights to West Asian countries for the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission, its massive repatriation programme for citizens stranded overseas because of Covid-19-related travel restrictions. Read moreIvanka Trump under fire for tweet on migrantsUS presidential adviser Ivanka Trump’s praise of an Indian teenager’s bicycle ride home is drawing criticism in India for being insensitive to the plight of migrant workers struggling in a lockdown. Read moreF1 teams come together to fight virusThe exit of Sebastian Vettel from Scuderia Ferrari has been the biggest Formula One news story during the pandemic. What slipped through almost unnoticed was that at the same time as Vettel’s exit, Ferrari unveiled a new pulmonary ventilator for Covid-19 patients—conceived, designed and built in five weeks. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mixed-results-in-clinical-trials-3-states-for-quarantining-domestic-flyers-covid-19-news-today/story-WBT2B7fQ4cfUXnzqKQX92H.html
24-05-2020||India||Cong releases video of Rahul’s interaction with migrants||The Congress on Saturday released a video of an interaction between former party chief Rahul Gandhi and a group of migrant workers who were walking back to their village in Uttar Pradesh from Haryana during the lockdown.The interaction took place on May 16 near the Sukhdev Vihar flyover in New Delhi. The workers were on their way from Ambala to Jhansi, a distance of about 600 km. Gandhi met them when they stopped to rest, after walking over 100 km. In the 17-minute video, Gandhi is seen sitting on a footpath with the migrants.For almost an hour, he listened to their story, their hardships and the reasons for deciding to flee their workplace and why they were forced to walk home, and also their fears, and aspirations, the Congress said.At the request of the group, Gandhi and Congress volunteers organised transport and the necessary permits to get them back to their village,the party added.In the video, Mahesh Kumar, a migrant worker, tells :“We are helpless. What can we do? We have to walk.” Another construction worker and his family members tell Gandhi that they would have left for their homes had there been prior information about the lockdownThe workers remained non-committal about returning to their work places. Gandhi concluded the video with a message :“My brother and sisters, you are the strength of this country, you carry the burden of this country on your shoulders. The entire country wants justice (nyay) for you.”The BJP reacted sharply to the documentary.“Rahul Gandhi has been indulging in camera politics by visiting and speaking to migrants in non-Congress ruled states. He has not given them any relief but indulges in misery politics,” BJP spokesperson GVL Narasimha Rao said.“From Ambala in Haryana, Rajasthan (ruled bythe Congress) is only a few km away. He would have heard woes of migrants in Rajasthan had he ventured there. Alas, Rahul is only interested in politics and not helping migrants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-releases-video-of-rahul-s-interaction-with-migrants/story-mBJp2gJBG3lV9FLbMDvZmL.html
24-05-2020||India||Aim to restart international flights before August: Puri||India will try to restart a good percentage of international passenger flights before August, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday said, three days after announcing resumption of domestic flights from May 25.Amid the pandemic, a few states have questioned the move to restart domestic services, he admitted, adding that some hesitation was expected even as the Centre has been trying to meet their concerns.The minister, while addressing a FacebookLive session, clarified again that Aarogya Setu app is not mandatory for air passengers and they can instead give a self-declaration form.Puri said during the session, “I can’t put a date on it (restarting international flights). But if somebody says can it be done by August or September? My response is why not earlier depending on what is the situation.”When asked about the minister’s comment on resuming international services, Vistara said it will await instructions from the Civil Aviation Ministry. Other airlines did not respond.“I am fully hopeful that before August or September, we will try to start a good percentage of international civil aviation operations, if not complete international operations,” he said. “We must have a more ambitious goal. Why not start them by mid-June or June-end or in July.” All scheduled commercial passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 25 when the Modi government imposed a lockdown to contain the coronavirus pandemic.The minister said that the Vande Bharat Mission, which began on May 7, would be able to bring a total 50,000 Indians, who have been stranded abroad, home by the end of this month.Between May 7 and May 21, around 23,000 Indians have been repatriated through flights operated by Air India and its subsidiary under this mission. Passengers have to pay to book a seat on any repatriation flight being operated under the mission.“If you do not have Aarogya Setu app, you can give a self-declaration form,” Puri said.The passenger can get tested for the virus two or three days before departure, get that medical certificate, and just fill in the form, Puri noted.”If you have the app, and if you have got yourself tested for Covid-19 and found negative, and if you do not show symptoms, then I think there is no need for quarantine,” he said.While most states are ready, Puri said few states have talked to his “senior colleagues (ministers) and questioned the necessity of restarting domestic flights so soon”.“They said the Centre should delay it further by 2-3 days. So, they (ministers) asked the states to send the concerns in writing. But the states did not. This will keep going on. When we are dealing with a situation like this, we should expect that there would be some hesitation. But it is our (Centre’s) responsibility and we should make efforts to make those concerns,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aim-to-restart-international-flights-before-august-puri/story-WfMh2uGPBWrDzgh3jaewMO.html
24-05-2020||India||‘Sikkim an integral part of India’: Delhi govt withdraws ad, suspends officer||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday issued a clarification after an advertisement by his government in a section of media referred to people from Sikkim as “subject” along with those from Bhutan and Nepal. Kejriwal’s clarification came after Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal suspended the officer who had issued the advertisement. “Sikkim is an integral part of India. Such errors also cannot be tolerated. Advertisement has been withdrawn and action taken against the officer concerned,” the Delhi CM said in a tweet.  Sikkim is an integral part of India. Such errors also cannot be tolerated. Advertisement has been withdrawn and action taken against the officer concerned. https://t.co/BgTcjJF4MFThe ad, published in a section of media on Saturday in which residents of Sikkim were referred to as “subjects” and not citizens, led the Sikkim chief minister Prem Singh Tamang to demand an apology from his Delhi counterpart. People under monarchies are usually referred to as subjects. The Directorate of Civil Defence, Delhi Government had issued a notice for recruitment which said that a citizen of India or a subject of Sikkim or of Bhutan or of Nepal and a resident of Delhi can apply to join civil defence corps as volunteers. “The advertisement has termed people of Sikkim as different citizen equated with Nepal and Bhutan while Sikkim became a state of India in 1975 and is emotionally integrated since 1975,” Tamang said. “Our people cannot even think of such a mistake by a responsible government,” Tamang said.“I am deeply hurt by the advertisement published by the Delhi government. I urge the Chief Minister of Delhi to tender an unconditional apology to the people of Sikkim as the people are agitated with this type of mistakes from an accountable government,” the CM said in a statementReacting to the controversy, Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Saturday suspended the officer who issued the advertisement. “A senior officer of Directorate of Civil Defence (HQ) has been suspended with immediate effect for publishing an Advertisement which disrespects the territorial integrity of India by making incorrect reference to Sikkim on the same lines as some neighbouring countries,” the LG said in a tweet.(With inputs from Pramod Giri in Siliguri)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-an-integral-part-of-india-delhi-govt-withdraws-ad-suspends-officer/story-T29GqGKA1s2YvICutH71BJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Top hottest cities in India amid heatwave warning till next week||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said severe heatwaves are likely to impact parts of northwest, central and peninsular India in the next four to five days.The weather bureau has issued an orange alert for Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh from May 24 to 27 for heatwave; in west and east Rajasthan for heatwave and severe heatwave; and in Vidarbha for heatwave. An orange alert is issued when a heatwave is likely to persist for more than four days or a severe heatwave for more than two days.A heatwave is considered when the maximum temperature is at least 40°C and between 4.5°C and 6.4°C higher than the normal or when the maximum temperature is over 45°C for two stations in a sub-division for two consecutive days.A severe heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature is at least 40°C and more than 6.4°C higher than the normal; or when the maximum temperature is more than 47°C.Here are the hottest cities in the country on Saturday:Churu 46.6Ganganagar 46.6Jhansi 46.1Agra 46Khajuraho 46Akola 46Nagpur 46Gwalior 45.9Palam 45.6Delhi (Safdarjung) 44.7Bilaspur 44.6Raipur 44.4Medak 44Bhopal 43.8Jaipur 43.6Hyderabad 42.8Chandigarh 41.4||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-hottest-cities-in-india-amid-heatwave-warning-till-next-week/story-GTCtIBhLhxk58Lq2mSGpVJ.html
24-05-2020||India||India now has infrastructure to treat 10 lakh Covid-19 patients: Report||The central government has prepared the infrastructure (dedicated hospitals) to treat 10 lakh coronavirus disease patients in the country, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. The milestone has been achieved in the two months of lockdown with the help of state governments.These dedicated hospitals have wherewithal to treat about three lakh serious cases of Covid-19, Hindustan reported.Niti Aayog member Dr VK Pal said that two months ago, when the pandemic broke out in the country, the country did not have a separate, dedicated hospital for the disease. “Today, 1,093 such hospitals exist in the country,” Dr Pal told Hindustan.These hospitals have 1,85,306 beds out of this, 31,250 are for intensive care. The dedicated hospitals also have ventilators for acute cases. Similarly, there are 2,402 Covid-19 healthcare centres. Patients who are not in a serious condition, and do not require oxygen support are treated here.The country also has 7,013 Covid-19 care centres which have around 6.5 lakh beds. These facilities are used to treat patients with mild symptoms, or to keep them in isolation to prevent the spread of the disease. Together, these three categories of healthcare facilities account for 9.74 lakh beds. And if Covid-19 facilities provided by the armed forces if added to it, the number reaches 10 lakh, Hindustan reported.According to the Union health ministry, patients who need oxygen support, ventilator of treatment in ICU are less than five per cent. Out of the treat 95 per cent, only those patients who have co-morbidity need to be admitted to a hospital. Around 80 per cent of the patients need to be in isolation.The ministry further said that the percentage of recovered patients will increase in the coming days. Today, 41 per cent patients have recovered and 59 per cent are active patients.Though the government has relaxed lockdown in the fourth phase to revive the economy, the fear of the disease is still there. But the government has made it clear that lockdown can’t continue forever.The government has said that Covid-19 is here to stay, and that we have to learn wo live with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-now-has-infrastructure-to-treat-10-lakh-covid-19-patients-report/story-IWPjAlQL4xrZx215Qw6GLJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Assam reports 17 new Covid-19 cases, state tally rises to 346||Guwahati (Assam) [India], May 24 (ANI): Seventeen more Covid-19 positive cases were confirmed in Assam on Saturday taking the total cases in the state to 346, said Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.He added that there are 282 active cases in the state. Further 57 persons have recovered while four have died due to Covid-19 in the state.A total of 1,25,101 confirmed cases of Covid-19 have been reported in India. 51,784 persons have recovered or migrated, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Saturday.There are 69,597 active cases of Covid-19 in the country at present. As many as 3,720 people have lost their lives due to the coronavirus in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-reports-17-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-rises-to-346/story-6PTnnqv5FQcU0dSZozq8vM.html
24-05-2020||India||3 onboard Shramik Special trains dead, sample of one taken for Covid-19 testing||Three persons onboard separate Shramik Special trains lost their lives due to various ailment, officials said here on Saturday. “Family members of the deceased said all were suffering from serious ailment. The travel history of all the three deceased passengers was taken,” Kanpur District Magistrate Brahma Deo Ram Tiwari said. Giving details about the deceased, he said Naichinalyu Disang (23), a resident of Nagaland, was going from Delhi to Dimapur. “She was suffering from liver ailments,” Tiwari said. As she coughed and vomited in the train, other passengers got terrified, he added.  The district magistrate said the body reached Kanpur Central Station at around 10.00 am.  “Sample has been taken to check for the presence of novel coronavirus. She was working at a spa in Himachal Pradesh,” he said.  Tiwari said Rajendra Prasad (50), a resident of Unnao, died on the Lucknow-bound special train from Andhra Pradesh. Munni Devi (80), a resident of Siwan district in Bihar, died onboard the special train going from Surat to Siwan, the senior official informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-onboard-shramik-special-trains-dead-sample-of-one-taken-for-covid-19-testing/story-n8dNjRQHBTBcVuOP0H9ZpM.html
24-05-2020||India||Govt warns against hoarding N-95 masks||The department of pharmaceuticals has issued a directive that warns manufactures, importers and suppliers against overpricing and hoarding of N-95 masks, after receiving complaints of people selling it at exorbitant rates in market even though the government has already declared it an essential commodity in the wake of coronavirus disease pandemic.The department of pharmaceuticals has asked States to ensure that N-95, surgical masks, gloves and hand sanitisers are available in sufficient sufficiently and the selling price does not exceed the maximum retail price mentioned at the back of the pack. “This refers to the grievances being received regarding hoarding, back marketing and differential higher pricing of N-95 masks in the country…. It is hereby informed that N-95 has been mask has been notified as an essential commodity on March 13 under the Essential Commodities Act… hoarding, black marketing is punishable offence under the Act.,” says the directive issued on Thursday. Under the Act those who fail to comply with the directive are liable for a prison term of minimum three months with fine that can also go up to 7 years.A senior government official said that the directive was necessary because people were selling it at different rates. “Profiteering at this time when people are fighting a pandemic is not acceptable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-warns-against-hoarding-n-95-masks/story-hlTV7X3kJZG4LFvjFUSyUO.html
24-05-2020||India||11 municipal areas in 7 states account for 70% of Covid cases: Health ministry||Eleven municipal areas from seven states report 70% of all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases reported from India, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.These municipal areas belong to Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh West Bengal, and Rajasthan.According to the health ministry, 3,250 patients recovered from the viral infection across India in the last 24-hours taking the recovery rate up to 41.39%.The union health secretary Preeti Sudan in a high-level meeting with officials from these municipal areas briefed about the factors to be considered while mapping the containment zones and buffer zones for containing the spread of the infection.Last week, the union health ministry transferred powers to the state to demarcate any administrative area as red, orange, and green zones. Earlier, entire districts were classified as red, orange or green zone by the union health ministry.In the containment and buffer zones within – ranging from single building to an entire city – the authorities have to ensure perimeter control, active search for cases through door-to-door surveillance and monitoring of influenza-like illnesses and severe acute respiratory illness in the buffer zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-municipal-areas-in-7-states-account-for-70-of-covid-cases-health-ministry/story-dzf3TZWl2026TFif0zhnsJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Dr JN Pande, eminent chest specialist, loses Covid battle||Dr Jitendra Nath Pande, former head of the department of medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), died on Friday night with coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was 78. His colleagues and students remember him as an encyclopaedia of medicine, pioneer of critical care in northern India, as well as a dedicated doctor and teacher.As a professor, he used to reach the wards for the morning round to check-in on all the admitted patients before his students. “He would be there at 7.30am every day. We were supposed to reach the wards at 8am, check on the patients and report to him,” said Dr Anoop Misra, one of his students, and now the chairman of Fortis C-DOC centre of excellence for diabetes, metabolic diseases and endocrinology.“There were times when he would look at a patient and give a diagnosis in minutes,” he said.Even after becoming a doctor in his own right, when Dr Misra was unsure of any treatment course or trouble with diagnosis, he consulted Dr Pande.Dr Pande was also one of the first to establish intensive care units (ICU) in northern India. “It is a great loss to the entire medical fraternity. He helped set up one of the first ICUs in the country. Many of the current leading intensive care experts have trained under him,” said Dr Ashok Kumar, who studied under Dr Pande as an MBBS and post-graduate student. He is currently working as director of rheumatology department at Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj.The Supreme Court referred to Dr Pande’s team’s study on ‘Outdoor air pollution and emergency room visits at a hospital in Delhi’ in its 1997-98 judgment banning diesel buses in the Capital.“Sometimes, when we asked him a question, he would reply with the exact page number and table we should refer to,” Dr Kumar said.Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at AIIMS, said, “He was born to a family of teachers, he was my mentor and one of the greatest teachers I know. At that time, many chose to go abroad and practice medicine but he remained at AIIMS right from his graduation to superannuation.” Dr Pande was still practising medicine, consulting about 50 patients a day at Sitaram Bhartia Institute of Science and Research in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-jn-pande-eminent-chest-specialist-loses-covid-battle/story-5HsEzvk77LQmcOq8DutfCN.html
24-05-2020||India||Does vitamin D help protect against Covid-19?||Older and darker-skinned people who are likely to have low levels of Vitamin D may benefit from supplementation of the essential vitamin to protect against severe symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to a paper published in The Lancet. Clinicians, however, say that dosing on the vitamin in hope of being protected from the infection is a fallacy, as the best and only protection against infection remains hand-wash, wearing masks and social isolation.Vitamin D is made by the skin on exposure to sunlight and is essential for bone growth and strength as it helps in the intestinal absorption of calcium, magnesium, and phosphate. This fat-soluble vitamin also modulates the immune response of white blood cells by preventing them from releasing too many inflammatory cytokines, which is what leads to the cytokine storm — a complication associated with Covid-19 and other disease such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars) and middle-east respiratory syndrome (Mers). Cytokine storm is an acute immune reaction gone awry as the body starts destroying its own cells and tissues along with the virus.Melanin, which gives skin the dark pigmentation, lowers the skin’s ability to make vitamin D on exposure to sunlight, with several studies showing that older adults with darker skin are more likely to be deficit in this essential vitamin. With social isolation forcing people to spend more time indoors, the deficiency of this vitamin may be increasing, said The Lancet study. Around 50% Indians are deficit in vitamin D, which is now found in some brands of fortified milk, including Mother Dairy. The overall prevalence of vitamin D deficiency in people living in urban Chennai was 55%, found a recent survey of 1,500 people published in the British Journal of Nutrition on March 26.“Our study found that vitamin D deficiency was 63% in people with diabetes, 58% in people with pre-diabetes, and 80% in obese people, which is worrying because these are risk factors for Covid-19,” says Dr V Mohan, study co-author and chairman and chief of diabetology at Dr Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, which is a WHO Collaborating Centre for Noncommunicable Diseases Prevention and Control.“Observational studies in the past have linked low levels of vitamin D and susceptibility to acute respiratory tract infections. Supplementation is inexpensive and the danger of side effects and toxicity are low when taken orally. The risk of toxicity is high for people with kidney and liver diseases as they may not be able to excrete the vitamin, so they should not take supplementation without prescription,” said Dr Mohan. The Lancet paper cites vitamin D deficiency as one of the possible reasons for varying death rates across countries citing an observational study published in the journal Aging Clinical and Experimental Research that used data from 20 European countries. It noted that average vitamin D levels are low in Italy and Spain, which have experienced high Covid-19 death rates compared to north European countries, which have high average levels of vitamin D from the consumption of cod liver oil and vitamin D supplements, and possibly less sun avoidance.“Vitamin D might help to reduce the inflammatory response to infection with Sars-CoV-2. Deregulation of this response... is characteristic of COVID-19 and degree of over-activation is associated with poorer prognosis. e,” according to The Lancet paper.An observational correlation, however, does not mean causation, say experts. “Intervention trials have rarely shown benefits of vitamin D supplementation as treatment, except for muscular-skeletal disorders. Studies linking vitamin D supplementation to lung diseases like tuberculosis and COPD (chronic obstructive lung disease) have demonstrated no difference to clinical outcomes,” said Dr Nikhil Tandon, professor of endocrinology and metabolism at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.“Observational studies cannot be used to inform public policy and unless there is clinical data to show that it has a substantial affect on the outcomes of Covid-19, having it in the hope or anticipation that it will protect you against disease is pointless. It may bring you other benefits if you are deficit, but it will not stop you getting Covid-19 the way masks, handwashing and social isolation will,” said Dr Tandon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-vitamin-d-help-protect-against-covid-19/story-ltqjruZFEJK2VHoi78DG8M.html
24-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||It isn’t a competition, yet most states have started treating their response to the coronavirus disease as one.Competitions have metrics, and this one has two — the number of cases, and the number of deaths. Metrics, though, have the ability of provoking undesirable behaviour.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageFor some time in the late 1990s and the 2000s, EVA or economic value added was the hottest buzzword among financially inclined management types. It was a concept created by Stern Stewart, and in one of my previous avatars, I helped bring the study to India (for years, the annual EVA computation of top Indian companies was published in a magazine for which I used to work). The problem with EVA was that it encouraged short-termism. Executive compensation was usually linked to EVA targets in companies that believed in the metric. Sure, Stern Stewart came up with another concept, MVA or market value added, and several other measures to prevent such behaviour, but that’s another story.In this case, because state governments, and the politicians who head them, see low Covid-19 infections and deaths as a manifestation of their abilities as administrators, and vice versa, they have started to game the system.The simplest form of this is just not testing enough. Some states start off by not testing enough; others start off well, but as cases continue to rise, the message goes out to go easy on the testing. Tamil Nadu, Delhi, and Maharashtra, then, deserve credit for actually continuing to test more.Any state, which, according to publicly available data, tests fewer people than the national average per million is definitely doing badly on this score. The national average, on the basis of Friday night’s data, was 2,096 per million. States such as Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal (although it seems churlish to criticise the state for testing at a time when it is recovering from the fallout of Amphan), and even media-darling Kerala are testing fewer people per million than the national average. It doesn’t matter how good the public health system in a state is — if it isn’t testing enough, it isn’t doing enough. Period.But the testing data is also misleading. No state breaks up the number of tests carried out so far into new tests and tests on those people who already tested positive for Covid-19 (and who can be declared Covid-19-free only after a negative test). India isn’t alone in this. The US CDC, it emerges, doesn’t do this either. This means calculations of the number of people per million of population that have been tested could be far off the mark.If there is one thing the coronavirus disease has taught us, it is that larger policy and public health decisions related to the pandemic have to be based on data, and science. Unfortunately, few governments around the world seem to recognise that.Right now, as countries around the world, including India, open up, the most important data is the extent of the disease’s prevalence — has it infected 10% of the population or 30%? (Another way of asking the same question would be, is 30% of the population now immune, or is it only 10%?). Widespread testing, perhaps using rapid antibody tests, may provide the answer — and also shed light on the actual fatality rate of the disease. Current data shows it is around 3% in India, but I am willing to wager that the actual rate will be much lower, perhaps even lower than 1%, a level that may warrant the removal of more restrictions on movement and activity.But a country that wants to make decisions on the basis of data will also have to ensure that it comes in quickly. In India, data on cases as well as deaths is reported with a lag, making it all but impossible to know the real trend. I am told the number of cases reported every day is based on the results of tests of varying vintages. It’s getting measured for sure — but not in a way that will help us manage it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-Br6Xrc64d0SPeYvqmtKKMK.html
24-05-2020||India||Decade after Cyclone Aila, saline water will continue to haunt farms in Sunderbans||A major humanitarian crisis looms large over the Sunderbans region, as Cyclone Amphan has left thousands of acres of land inundated with saline water, virtually rendering the land unfit for cultivation for several years to come, local people, public representatives and experts fear. Cyclone Aila of 2009 had left a similar effect. As the land turned infertile for four-five years, a section of the local farm-dependent population became dependent on forest produce, effectively increasing stress on the eco-sensitive zone of the world’s largest mangrove forest, while another section migrated in thousands to other states, especially India’s southern states, to work as labourers.“I am deeply worried about the situation and have started looking for agriculture experts who could suggest ways to reduce salinity from the farmland as early as possible. With loss of jobs and uncertainty over the economic prospect due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the loss of productivity in farmland is coming as a double whammy. A major humanitarian crisis is looming large,” Pratima Mandal, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP from Jaynagar in South 24-Parganas said.Of the 102 islands in Sunderbans, 52 are inhabited by 4.5 million people and the rest are tiger territories. Another 2 million living around the islands have been hit by saline water coming through the rivers of Matla, Raymangal, Bidyadhari and Muri Ganga, among others.A visit to the cyclone-hit areas of the Sunderbans region in the districts of North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas revealed that area after area was inundated, with crops on the field ruined and fishes in the ponds dead. But a fear of the long-term loss due to increased salinity in farmland was greatest among the local residents. “The water logged in the fields has no way to ebb. Rather, through the breached embankments, saline water will keep entering with every high tide. These lands will turn infertile for the next three-four years, we apprehend,” Manas Mahato, Pradhan of Atpukur gram panchayat in Basirhat sub-division of North 24-Parganas district said.Subhas Acharya, a former joint-director of the Sunderbans Development Board, had a similar opinion. “Cyclone Aila had crippled life in the delta. I apprehend a similar situation this time again,” he said, adding that due to the 4m high storm surge of Cyclone Aila saline water had gushed into the villages and crop lands remained inundated in saline water for nearly a month in several areas allowing the salt to settle down on the farmlands.“This made the land infertile for years. The gaping holes in the river embankments created by the waves allowed the saline water to freely enter the croplands whenever there were tides. The delta it’s awaiting another humanitarian crisis,” said Acharya.Sandeshkhali MLA Sukumar Mahato and Minakhan MLA Usharani Mondal said that saline water had been stagnant in hundreds of acres of land in their areas till Saturday afternoon and that they anticipated the water would remain logged for the time being.Biswarup Naskar, a resident of Kakdwip area in South 24-Parganas said that the flooding of sweet water ponds had caused a multi-dimensional crisis. “Apart from the economic loss for the fishes killed and swept away, there is no food or water for the cattle. The pond water was used to irrigate the crops and backyard farms. The cattle used to drink this water. Villagers have started selling off their cattle,” said Naskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decade-after-cyclone-aila-saline-water-will-continue-to-haunt-farms-in-sunderbans/story-M66bMGUuuIEzQ7Q9iY4SqN.html
24-05-2020||India||Eid in lockdown: Vaishno Devi Shrine Board to provide special recipes on Eid to Muslims in Katra quarantine centre||Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board which has been taking care of several people put up in quarantine centres in Katra in Jammu and Kashmir has decided to serve special recipes to Muslims housed in quarantine centres on the occasion of Eid on Monday, March 25. Eid or Eid-ul-Fitr will be celebrated in India on Monday since the moon could not be sighted on Saturday as per Delhi Jama Masjid’s Shahi Imam.The shrine board said they have been providing Sehri and Iftar meals to the Muslims after changing their schedule to meet the requirement of food for those fasting early morning and in the evening. Now, for Eid they will make special recipes and provide to the faithfuls.“We were informed that Muslims at the quarantine centre are observing fast & need food early in the morning & in the evening. So we changed our schedule accordingly. We will try to provide special recipes to them on Eid,” ANI quoted Ramesh Kumar, CEO of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board as saying.He added that the board has been providing meals to around 500 Muslims quarantined at Aashirwad Bhawan in Katra during the holy month of Ramazan.“In the month of Ramazan, the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board has been working overnight to provide sehri and iftari to our Muslim brethren in the morning and the evening,” he said.Aashirwad Bhawan in Katra has been turned into a quarantine centre after the epidemic broke out in India in the month of March.Chief executive officer of the board Ramesh Kumar said the facility has 500 beds and most of the Muslims staying there were labourers who fasted during the day during the month of Ramazan.“We are running a quarantine centre at Aashirwad Bhawan, which has a capacity of 500 beds. Since it’s the holy month of Ramzan and the government of Jammu and Kashmir has been bringing back its residents from different parts of the country, we converted Aashirwad Bhawan in Katra into a quarantine centre in the month of March,” Kumar claimed.He said the decision was taken in line with the spirit of brotherhood as per the best traditions of Jammu and Kashmir.“Those brought to Aashirwad Bhawan are mostly labourers, who are fasting during the month of Ramazan. So, we decided to provide them sehri and iftari everyday,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Several of these migrant labourers have come to the state riding on special Shramik trains and buses which dropped them to Udhampur town. Katra is around 40km away from Udhampur.The shrine board, according to Kumar, has also been providing food to others housed in different quarantine centres in Katra and that their services were not limited just to Aashirwad Bhawan.He said other people who have not been fasting have been given breakfast, lunch and dinner in other government-run quarantine facilities in Katra.The Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine is one of the most famous Hindu shrines located in Jammu and Kashmir is also considered to be among the richest.The board has spent Rs 80 lakh on providing food to the needy people since March 20 in various quarantine centres at Katra, Kumar claimed. In addition to this, it has also spent Rs 1.5 crore to fund the fight against Coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eid-in-lockdown-vaishno-devi-shrine-board-to-provide-special-recipes-on-eid-to-muslims-in-katra-quarantine-centre/story-Fb74f7gWWWv2B24n9YEtFL.html
24-05-2020||India||3,300 Jammu and Kashmir residents evacuated from Maharashtra||Around 3,300 Jammu and Kashmir residents, including 1,200 students who were stranded in various parts of Maharashtra have been sent back to their homes by four Shramik Special trains during the past 10 days, officials said.This is the highest number of Shramik Special trains deployed in any single state for the evacuation of stranded J&K residents.Around 600 stranded people from J&K including 200 students, left for Udhampur Railway Station from Mumbai’s Bandra Terminus Saturday evening in the fourth and last Special Shramik Train. People who boarded this train were mostly stranded in two key districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban. These stranded persons include patients, traders, handicraft vendors, labourers and employees of banks, private sector and government employees. There are also residents from the union territory of Ladakh on this train who were stranded in Mumbai and its adjoining areas.Around 30 cancer patients from J&K and their attendants were stranded in Mumbai since the countrywide lockdown was announced by the Government in March. Almost all of them have been evacuated except a couple of such patients who are staying back for treatment.Around 700 of those evacuated, including 100 students, had left for Udhampur from Thane Railway Station in Navi Mumbai by a Shramik Special train on May 22.Earlier, around 1,000 others, including 500 students were evacuated from Pune by a Shramik Special train on May 19 while another 1,000 residents, including 400 students, were evacuated from Nagpur on May 14.District administrations in Jammu and Kashmir and local NGOs in Maharashtra had reached out to the stranded people during the lockdown to ensure adequate provision of food, rations and other basic amenities.In the south-western region, around 800 J&K residents including 35 students were evacuated by Shramik Special train from Kerala on May 20.Around 1,800 people including 17 students were evacuated by two trains from Goa on May 10 and 12.A total of 5,700 people including 1,200 students from J&K have so far been brought back to the union territory by seven special trains from Maharashtra, Kerala and Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-300-jammu-and-kashmir-residents-evacuated-from-maharashtra/story-wi9urSIoZlh8BWAfCYlu1J.html
24-05-2020||India||I feel safer in Kerala because it is a role model for the whole world: Bharath Sathyajith||For two weeks, Bharath Sathyajith has not stepped outside a hotel room in Kerala’s Palakkad town, where he is staying with his parents and sister. But the 14-year-old but hasn’t complained even once.The reason: he is both elated and relieved to come back to his homeland after battling a harrowing month of pandemic-driven panic and bullying in Oman, where he was born and lived with his parents until last month.Bharath came back along with his mother Dhanya, father Sathyajith Krishankutty and sister Gowri on a flight from Muscat on May 9, and was put in mandatory quarantine at a local hotel. Despite the abrupt separation from his friends and the familiar environment of his school — he studied in Class eight at the Indian School in Al Maabela in Muscat — Bharath is happy. “I feel more safe in Kerala now. It is a role model for the whole world,” he said, referring to the efforts of the state government to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease, though experts have expressed apprehension over the low rate of testing in the state. Kerala has reported 795 cases till date.In Muscat, which has more than 5,000 cases of Covid-19, Bharath often faced bullying that intensified when some of his classmates found out that he was returning to India. In contrast, he finds Kerala — he would visit his grandparents every year during summer holidays — quite calming. “I love the countryside than hustle and bustle of the city. I love to run after calves and swim in village ponds,” he said.Sathyajith Krishankutty, an automobile engineer, moved to Muscat in 2000 and steadily rose through the ranks in a private firm. But he met with an accident in February and started looking for an opportunity to shift base back to Kerala. “The accident came as a blessing in disguise for me. It helped me to get into the first flight,” Bharath’s father says, adding that he is planning to open an auto garage in his hometown, Palakkad.Bharath, who will go to school in Palakkad once classes resume, now spends most of the day playing board games, chatting with friends from Muscat and listening to his mother’s collection of Carnatic classical music. At times, news of the rapidly progressing pandemic and memories of his friends bother him. ‘Watching the news is disturbing at times. But at the same time you need to know what is happening. I was upset leaving my school and friends. But my father said in life you have to face such circumstances,” he said. He idolizes his father and wants to become an automobile engineer. The two weeks in the hotel have made Bharath realise the value of freedom, he said. “Free movement was curtailed, playgrounds were cordoned off and we were forced to cover our mouth and nose. But this discipline brought other dividends also, clean air, water bodies and little garbage around,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-feel-safer-in-kerala-because-it-is-a-role-model-for-the-whole-world-bharath-sathyajith/story-fI9lbALmnqNAbNZokZtXVO.html
24-05-2020||India||Wanted to go to big city school, didn’t even get to see it: Nandini Mahto||Holi was always Nandini Mahto’s favourite festival but this year, she was looking forward to the week after the celebrations. The nine-year-old was supposed to accompany her father, 34-year-old Kailash Mahto, her mother, Babita Devi, and two brothers, Mayank and Karan, from their cramped two-room hutment in Bihar’s Sitamarhi district to Ahmedabad. Mahto worked as tailor, stitching jeans at a private firm in Ahmedabad, and hoped to give his children a better future by educating them at a school in the Gujarat capital where teaching standards were far higher than the institutions which were back home in rural Bihar. He had returned home to celebrate Holi and the plan was to return to Ahmedabad after the holiday, this time with everyone in tow. She was supposed to start Class 5 the Brigadier Star School in Ahmedabad, an English-medium school where the monthly fees would have eaten substantially into Mahto’s monthly salary of Rs 15,000. “I would have enrolled my two sons also in good schools. Once educated, they would do well in life. We didn’t study and so we have to wander here and there for livelihood,” said Mahto.Nandini, who had never stepped outside her neighbourhood before or boarded a train, was eager to travel hundreds of kilometers away, spend more time with her father and see a new city. But that was not to be. Barely two days after she reached Ahmedabad on March 23, the government clamped a nationwide lockdown to arrest the spread of Covid-19. “I didn’t get to see anything of the city. Papa had said he would take me to a new big school, but I could not even see the building,” she said. For almost two months, she and her family were cooped up in one room. With the factory closed, the family barely managed to eat two meals a day though the businessman Mahto worked for waived the rent for the room. However, Nandini felt suffocated as she was forbidden from stepping out of the house. “Papa said due to the coronavirus, nobody should move out,” the nine-year-old said.When on May 1, the government started trains for stranded migrant workers, the family felt relieved. Mahto borrowed money from his father and brother-in-law in Delhi to buy two tickets for himself and his wife at Rs 900 apiece – the travel was free for their three children. On May 21, the family boarded the train from Ahmedabad station with Nandini having seen little of Ahmedabad except for one room and the railway platform. She was disappointed, but relieved that she was going back home after the ordeal. Now at a quarantine centre in Sonbarsa block of Sitamarhi, Nandini was recently told by her parents that they would not be returning to Ahmedabad. The move may hurt her ambitions of becoming a doctor, but her father is clear that he will not leave his native village even if he doesn’t find a job there.Nandini wants to go back to her old school, Pavirti Shishu Public School, and meet her friends. “But I don’t know when the school will reopen. Here, we are in the quarantine centre and everything is closed,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wanted-to-go-to-big-city-school-didn-t-even-get-to-see-it-nandini-mahto/story-pJxOmWQwh2qLURdOY3xnFN.html
24-05-2020||India||When lockdown is over, will call my friends and hug them tight: Jharna Mandowara||Jharna Mandowara, 15, lives in a high-rise apartment in Kandivli in suburban Mumbai with her parents and 18-year-old sister. She hasn’t stepped out of the house since March 22 because of the lockdown. But the Sars-Cov-2 virus and its effect hit home nine days ago, when a neighbour three floors below them tested positive for Covid-19 and the building was partially sealed.Mumbai has been one of the most affected urban centres in the country, with 28,817 cases till date.“It was really frightening. We aren’t going out, but dad has been going to the shops regularly to buy essentials. What if something happens to him?” Mandowara says. “Before this, I spent my days studying and playing a lot of sports, meeting my friends. I’m an extrovert and in normal times, keeping me at home was a task for my parents. Now I have no option. And to think someone was infected right here below us, makes me very anxious. But I am learning to act like a grown-up and not give in to the anxiety.”She says she has had to grow up all at once in the past two months. Mandowara and her sister Mitanshi have an action plan to keep themselves active. When the lockdown began, their father, who works in film marketing and distribution, suggested that they each keep a diary. “Mitanshi doesn’t maintain one daily because she says she doesn’t know what to write. But I write in it every day – my to-do list for the next day, some inspiring quotes. I also paint to keep myself occupied,” Mandowara says.Online classes and homework take up a large part of the day. The girls also exercise every day with their father, a fun workout of aerobics and kickboxing.“I’m thankful I was born at a time when video-calling is easily accessible,” Mandowara said. “I do a video call with my group of friends every day for an hour.” “Ot goes on for hours,” her sister interrupts to say. “It’s not the same but I’m privileged to be able to do even that, so I guess it’s all right,” Mandowara adds.The one thing she misses and can find no substitute for is sports. “It’s almost like physical pain. Four of us used to play tennis together; my sister and I used to take classes. Suddenly everything stopped.” Her sister is her biggest source of support right now, Mandowara says. “We watch shows together, she lends me books and most importantly, when our parents become overbearing, we take refuge in each others’ company. She wanted to cut my hair too, but I won’t allow her anywhere near me with scissors!”It’s been a time of new lessons, Mandowara says. “I have realised how hard my mom works to manage the house and feed us. I was too busy with my life to help out before; now I try to lessen her load. Even if it’s just simple chores like folding the clean laundry.”So what’s the first thing she’ll do when things get back to normal? “Get out of the house, doesn’t matter where,” Mandowara says. “I will call my friends down from their homes and hug them tight, very tight.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-lockdown-is-over-will-call-my-friends-and-hug-them-tight-jharna-mandowara/story-RNzl59K8jXRE4cEMgdDiEM.html
24-05-2020||India||I want to build bridges so that people can reside under it, drive cars on it: Ragini Bansal||Eleven-year-old Ragini Bansal was born in a shanty under an overbridge in the plush Gomti Nagar neighbourhood of Lucknow. She has spent all her life in the same slum and yet, she hesitates to call it her home. “Home is where you have a proper house. My real home is in the village. I only reside here,” Bansal said, pointing at a yellow plastic sheet tent adjoining a drain. Four wooden poles hold up the sheet at each corner. On usual days, she would go out to play with other children living in the 25 tenements clustered under the Shaeedpath flyover, but for the last two months, she has been confined to the shanty because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “My mother says that corona will catch me if I go far from home,” she said, making a long face and pointing at her mother, Usha, 48, who works as a domestic help.There is another modification to her daily routine. “Corona will not catch you if you maintain cleanliness. So all of us bathe twice every day,” she adds. Bansal wears a light blue night suit over a pair of jeans given to her by the memsahib of one of the four houses where Usha worked when the pandemic hit. She has been unemployed for the past  four months, which means her monthly income that ranged from Rs 6000 to Rs 8000 has dried up.The youngest of 10 siblings, Bansal shares the space with four sisters and a brother. At night, her elder sister ties her mother’s old saris to the wooden poles to give them some privacy. The saris are untied in the day. There is no electricity or running water and the residents use a nearby community bathroom, which scientists and urban planners worldwide argue puts city dwellers like Bansal and her neighbours at greater risk of transmission of Covid-19 infection.Her family belongs to Sitapur district where they have a small farm. Her father Suresh Bansal, 51, a marginal farmer, and two elder brothers, live in Sitapur. The other three sisters are married and live in other districts of UP.“We have a house with two rooms in Sitapur. I have gone there a few times, but I like to live here in Lucknow,” she says.The pandemic that has infected at least 314 people in Lucknow also threatens to crush Bansal’s dreams. A few months ago, her mother used to wake her up at six to get her ready for school. Bansal hated getting up early, but loved going to school — a private institution located about a kilometre away from her home. It was privilege that only she and her elder brother had. “I like the school assembly and the school building. We even have two fans in our class and I love sitting below them,” she says. She reveals another reason why she never missed school. “My mother takes my elder sisters with her to mop big houses. I don’t want to do that work, so I go to school,” she says.But her education is now stalled. The school closed as soon as the national lockdown came into effect on March 25. Bansal’s and her brother’s fees amount to Rs 1050 monthly and her mother, struggling to feed her children, is uncertain if she will be able to fund her daughter’s education. The school has not provided online classes either. Bansal is too poor to think of learning online but she has kept all her books neatly in her school bag that hangs from one of the poles. “I like English and Math,” she says, and offers to recite a poem to this reporter.Despite the uncertainty around her schooling, Bansal is certain she will go back to school. The reason: She wants to build large bridges so that more people like her can live under them. “My elder brother once told me that engineers make these bridges, so I want to become an engineer. People will be able to live under the bridges I build and drive their vehicles over it,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-want-to-build-bridges-so-that-people-can-reside-under-it-drive-cars-on-it-ragini-bansal/story-5VpXtYH1AKqCFWXCwmZlKN.html
24-05-2020||India||Human trial in Chinese vaccine shows promise||A vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), developed by researchers at China’s CanSino Biologics was found to be safe and effective in its first test on humans, becoming the latest trial that raises hope for an early candidate that could help make people immune to the viral pandemic.The result of CanSino’s Phase 1 trial, reported in The Lancet on Friday, is the first to be published in a peer-reviewed journal. The other experimental vaccines that have shown to work – Moderna’s and Oxford University’s -- are yet to be peer reviewed and complete data regarding their trials are unavailable.The Chinese researchers reported that their experimental vaccine produced neutralising antibodies – the type of immune cells that kill infected cells -- and the rapid immune responses crucial for the body to mount its varied counter-attack. The trials were carried out with 108 healthy participants from Wuhan, the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak, who were never infected by the Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes Covid-19. “We found that the Ad5 vectored Covid-19 vaccine is tolerable and immunogenic in healthy adults... (it triggered) responses against Sars-CoV-2 (that) peaked at day 28 post-vaccination, and rapid, specific T-cell responses were noted from day 14 after one shot of the vaccine,” the researchers said in the paper. One of the authors described the results as an important milestone. “The trial demonstrates the vaccine produces virus-specific antibodies and T cells in 14 days, making it a potential candidate for further investigation,” said professor Wei Chen from the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology in Beijing in a statement, news agency AFP reported. “However ... the ability to trigger these immune responses does not necessarily indicate that the vaccine will protect humans from Covid-19,” the researcher said, adding that there was still a long way to go before “the vaccine is available to all”.The results are based on antibody and immune cell concentrations seen within 28 days of the vaccine being given to the participants in a low, medium or a high dose. The ones given the high dose had the strongest immune response but also suffered from the most side-effects, such as high fever, fatigue and headache.There are more than 100 vaccines in development worldwide, with at least eight having started or set to start clinical trials in humans where they are judged for how safe and effective they are. These trials will also determine which platform – the way a vaccine will train the body – works best. CanSino’s candidate uses an inactivated adenovirus – one of the viruses that cause the common cold -- to deliver DNA into human cells, prompting them to produce a key protein found on the surface of SARS-CoV-2. This is meant to train the immune system into recognising the virus.Moderna’s vaccine works by a code, called a messenger RNA, to prompt the body into making the same protein, the S spike protein that the Sars-Cov-2 virus uses to infect a person. Researchers say both technologies are quickly scalable for mass development but aren’t as proven as traditional vaccines.Clinical trials usually involve three or more phases, in which the tests are first carried out on healthy people, before being widened and randomised to rule out any externalities that could influence the findings. In the case of the CanSino candidate, the trial has now entered the second phase. Inclusion of the people above the age of 60 and how they react to the vaccine will be crucial, the researchers noted. “In this trial, no participants were older than 60 years and only 16% were older than 50 years, providing limited information on the capability of generating a potent response in the older population. Since age has also been identified as an independent risk factor… there is a possibility that an even lower immune response might be found in the older population,” the authors warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clinical-trials-bring-hope-concerns/story-c6I409EWnwAXzBKGsfPPRK.html
24-05-2020||India||Miss face-to-face discussions with teachers: Aria Puri||New Delhi: When 13-year-old Aria Puri received a Macbook Air from her parents on her birthday last year, little did she imagine that she would be attending her first day of Class 9 on her laptop.Puri, a student of Amity International School, Saket, has been confined to her apartment in Faridabad’s Kenwood Towers society since March 16, when the Delhi government announced the closure of schools to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease in the national Capital, where 12910 persons have been infected till date. The new academic year for Puri began on March 23 with online classes. Since then, her schedule has changed. “I like to prepare for my classes. I wake up at around 7 am and go for a jog before they begin. People have been criticizing online education saying that the children are on their laptops all day. But I don’t spend more than five hours on an average on it,” says Puri. Classes begin at 9am and end at 1 pm. She attends coaching classes, which have also shifted online, between 5pm and 7pm. She’s studying to give her Joint Entrance Examinations three years later and on Sundays, her classes are seven and a half hours long. The first day classes shifted to the Microsoft Teams videoconferencing app, Puri faced a tough time figuring out the sound and camera, how to mute herself and ask questions through the chat box. Since then, lessons have been smooth, made easier by the bar graphs, diagrams, and videos that teachers have incorporated. “But we don’t have our friends sitting beside us,” she says.If there is one thing she misses about school, it is the daily classes of karate. Her martial art lessons have been suspended for almost two months now. “I miss face to face discussions with my teachers as that makes me connect with them better and even chatting with my friends in person. But most of all, I miss my karate sessions in school. Online classes cannot be a substitute for it,” she says.“During this lockdown, I have taken a special interest in baking,” says the teenager, who wants to pursue Physics and Mathematics in future. Till now, she has made a chocolate banana cake, a walnut cake, and some apple cinnamon muffins with some help from her grandmother and YouTube tutorials.“While Covid-19 has had an impact on the economy and the lives of people, I feel it has also given us the time to slow down in life and spend quality time with our family. It has given nature the chance to breathe, rejuvenate and flourish,” she says.But niggling concerns about the infection crowd her mind. “My grandparents and a younger cousin live in the same building. They are most vulnerable to this infection,” she says. The family has remained closed knit through lockdown, and Puri spends her non-school hours chatting with parents, her younger sister, and other relatives. In addition to sleepovers, movies, and eating out with friends, resuming her karate lessons is on top of her list of things to do once the Covid-19 restrictions are lifted. “My best friend also loves karate. So we have planned to meet at her place whenever it is safe and have a joint session,” she says excitedly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/miss-face-to-face-discussions-with-teachers-aria-puri/story-vwVdR8WOnaV8ucc5nRV6UL.html
24-05-2020||India||Heatwave here till next week, IMD issues alert||After a hot Friday, Delhi continued to bake on Saturday — the Safdarjung weather station recorded 44.7°C, a full five degrees above normal — and scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned that the Capital could see the heatwave continue in the first half of next week. If anything, it will only become hotter. “Till May 27, there will be no respite. The maximum temperature can go up to 46- 47 degree Celsius in the Capital because of dry, hot winds blowing. From May 28 night, a western disturbance will affect us which may cause dust storm or thunderstorms. Low level easterly winds may also bring some relief after May 28,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, Delhi.Severe heatwaves are likely to impact parts of northwest, central and peninsular India in next four to five days, while many parts of northeast India will experience very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall during the same period, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in a statement on Saturday.The heatwave is likely to affect relief and rehabilitation work related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic that is ongoing in many parts of the country. However, with a lockdown still in effect across India, albeit with considerable relaxation of restrictions, there is not likely to be as much movement of people or vehicles as there might have been otherwise. Still, the heatwave is likely to affect normal life — and also be felt very hard. April and much of May have been milder than they usually are, especially in Delhi and parts of the northern plains.The region was hit by frequent thunderstorms after nearly double the usual number of western disturbances — a weather pattern that triggers storms and rain — affected the region in this period.IMD has issued an orange alert in Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh from May 24 to 27 for heatwave; in west and east Rajasthan for heatwave and severe heatwave; and in Vidarbha for heat wave. An orange alert is issued when a heatwave is likely to persist for more than four days or a severe heatwave for more than two days. There is a high risk of heat-related illnesses such as a heat stroke for people exposed to the sun for prolonged hours or doing heavy work; children, elderly and people with chronic diseases are also vulnerable. IMD has suggested people avoid heat exposure and stay hydrated.“Dry and hot north-westerly are blowing from the land. There are also clear skies. A western disturbance is affecting the Western Himalayan region now but it’s very feeble and is affecting only the hills. Heatwave conditions will intensify and continue till May 28,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.There are two criteria for a heatwave — when the maximum temperature is at least 40°C and between 4.5°C and 6.4°C higher than the normal; or when maximum temperature is over 45°C for two stations in a sub-division for two consecutive days. A severe heatwave is declared when maximum temperature is at least 40°C and more than 6.4°C higher than the normal; or when the maximum temperature is more than 47°C.On Friday, heatwave conditions were recorded in some parts of west Rajasthan and in pockets of Haryana, Delhi, east Rajasthan and Vidarbha. The highest maximum temperature of 46.6°C was reported at Churu in west Rajasthan, about 250km from Delhi. Meanwhile extremely heavy rainfall (more than 20 cm) was reported in parts of Meghalaya for the past two days. Sohra or Cherrapunji recorded 33 cm rain on Friday.Under the influence of converging strong south-westerly winds from the Bay of Bengal, Northeast India is likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls from May 25 to 27. There is an orange alert for heavy rain in Arunachal Pradesh from May 24 to 27 and red alert for Assam and Meghalaya on May 26 and 27. A red alert implies that authorities should take action to prevent any disaster due to extremely heavy rains.“There is a very strong wind convergence in the northeast. Winds from Bay of Bengal are also bringing in a lot of moisture there. Meghalaya, particularly, has been receiving a lot of rain. On Saturday also Sohra or Cherrapunji received more than 20 cm rain,” said Devi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-here-till-next-week-imd-issues-alert/story-9TL3GRjo82mJ5WcEWyR3tM.html
24-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Clinical trials bring hope, concerns||Mixed results from clinical trials of several promising treatments and vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) released this week brought both cheer and gloom to a world desperate for a safe and effective treatment or vaccine against a disease that has infected at least 5.3 million people and killed 340,000.At least 100 vaccines are being developed against Sars-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, with many using new platforms that have not been used in a licensed vaccine before. Vaccines work by training the body’s adaptive immune system to recognise and neutralise invading viruses, bacteria and other pathogens to prevent infection.HydroxychloroquineIn the absence of a treatment or vaccine, one of the major drugs being repurposed to treat this new disease against which humans have no immunity are anti-malarial drugs, hydoxychloroquine and chloroquine, which US President Donald Trump said he has been popping daily to prevent infection.On Friday, a study of 96,000 hospitalised patients in six continents published in The Lancet journal delivered the disappointing news that those treated with the drug had a significantly higher risk of death compared with those who were not. The drug raised the risk of irregular heart rhythm (arrhythmia) that can lead to sudden cardiac death, concluded the largest analysis on the risks and benefits of treating Covid-19 patients with hydroxychloroquine.India is the world’s biggest producer of hydroxychloroquine, which is approved for use as a prophylaxis to be given to asymptomatic health workers and contacts of Covid-19 patients since March 23. This was expanded to include frontline workers from May 22.“Several studies are underway in India, and, as the results emerge, we shall be able to provide more insights into the experiences locally. However, early reports from the pharmacovigilance programme indicate that there are no unexpected spikes of adverse reactions from the use of hydroxychloroquine in the country,” said health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, in an interview to HT earlier this week.“As a prophylactic drug, the medicine has shown results in India, which is why it is advised for a larger group now. The Lancet paper that has come out will have implications for treatment regimen, not prophylaxis,” said an official from India’s apex research organisation, the Indian Council of Medical Research, which led a hospital-based retrospective study that found the drug protected healthworkers working on Covid-19 isolation wards from infection.RemdesivirRemdesivir became the only drug to receive an emergency-use authorisation in the US to treat Covid-19 after early data showed it shortened recovery time from 15 days to 11 days in hospitalised adults with lower respiratory tract infection. A study of 1,063 patients that included 538 who received remdesivir and 521 who were given a placebo showed death in the remdesivir group was 7.1%, compared to 11.9% for the placebo group, but it brought no benefits for severely ill patients on mechanical ventilation, who are at highest risk of death, according to a study published in the New England Journal of Medicine.“These findings support the use of remdesivir in this population, with the largest benefit observed among individuals who required oxygen supplementation but were not mechanically ventilated. We anticipate that results from our Phase 3 SIMPLE-Severe study [randomised, open-label, multicentric trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of two dosing durations – 5 days and 10 days – of remdesivir in adults diagnosed with Covid-19], which is evaluating remdesivir in a similar population of Covid-19 patients requiring oxygen but not on mechanical ventilation, will be published in the near future. These data from the SIMPLE-Severe study support treatment of some patients for 5 days rather than 10 days, depending on clinical status,” said the drug’s manufacturer Gilead Sciences, in a statement.Fewer people get severely ill from Covid-19 in India, and fewer need ventilation support. Of the around 70,000 people currently infected with Covid-19, 2.94% are on oxygen support and 0.45% are on ventilators, according to data from the Union health ministry .Gilead Sciences has signed non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreements with four generic pharma companies -- Jubilant Life Sciences, Cipla, Hetero Labs, and Mylan – for manufacture and distribution of remdesivir to 127 countries, including India. The promoters of HT Media Ltd, which publishes Hindustan Times, and Jubilant Life Sciences are closely related. There are, however, no promoter cross-holdings.Oxford vaccineFollowing preclinical animal studies showing Oxford University’s ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine protected six monkeys from pneumonia, recruitment of around 10,260 adults and children has begun to assess the immune response to the vaccine across ages. The vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold adenovirus (ChAdOx1) that causes infection in chimpanzees, and has been genetically changed so it cannot cause infection in humans.“The Covid-19 vaccine trial team has been working hard on assessing the safety and immunogenicity of ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, and preparing to assess vaccine efficacy. We have had a lot of interest already from people over the age of 55 years who were not eligible to take part in the Phase I study, and we will now be able to include older age groups to continue the vaccine assessment,” said Sarah Gilbert, professor of vaccinology at the Jenner Institute at Oxford University, on Friday.Oxford University has licensed the experimental vaccine to AstraZeneca, with who the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is in talks about mass production. “Our discussion with AstraZeneca is ongoing and we can comment further once the deal is concluded. However, we can certainly say that we will be able to provide them with more than 100 million doses,” said an SII spokesperson.Sino Biotech vaccineSino Biotech’s inactivated Ad5-vectored Covid-19 vaccine is among at least seven such where teams are using traditional platforms to develop vaccines using a weakened or inactivated form of the virus, such as those used in measles and polio vaccines. The Sino Biotech vaccine was found to be safe, well tolerated, and able to generate an immune response against Sars-CoV-2 in humans, according to new research published in The Lancet.The Ad5 vectored COVID-19 vaccine is the first vaccine to be tested in humans and demonstrated a strong immune response after 28 days in 108 healthy adults. The final results will be evaluated in six months after there is data about how effective and long-lasting the protection is against SARS-CoV-2 infection. If successful, the vaccine will be produced in China and, as of now, India has no role in its development and production.Moderna vaccineModerna announced earlier this week that its experimental vaccine mRNA-1273 produced virus-neutralising antibodies at levels similar to those found in recovered patients. It said early data showed the vaccine raised the levels of neutralising antibodies in eight vaccinated people to levels found in the convalescent plasma of recovered patients.The vaccine is the most advanced among at least 20 experimental nucleic acid vaccines against Covid-19 in various stages of clinical development that use the messenger RNA (mRNA) platform to elicit an immune response against Sars-CoV-2, according to the World Health Organization (WHO)’s draft landscape of Covid-19 candidate vaccines. If it is approved, it will be the first messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine against any disease in the world.The US-based company, however, is drawing flak for not publishing data in a peer-reviewed medical journal. Moderna has developed the vaccine in partnership with US National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases, which is expected to publish the data .Moderna has never brought a vaccine to market, though it has several vaccines in the pipeline.“This is not the most advanced mRNA vaccine being developed by Moderna, they have started others much earlier. Some are more advanced in terms of actual development (phase 2) but none are approved so far,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clinical-trials-bring-hope-concerns/story-qX1bLG4pKiUw9e9cjqjUnJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Bengal parties spar over cyclone relief||Snigdhendu.Bhattacharya@htlive.comKolkata: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s West Bengal unit chief, Dilip Ghosh, was on Saturday prevented from visiting a cyclone-hit area even as chief minister Mamata Banerjee underlined it was not the time to do politics and her Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders echoed her.“If there is no politics, why was our state president stopped from visiting an affected area?” asked BJP’s national secretary, Rahul Sinha. He said the administration did not stop Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Kanti Ganguly from visiting Sunderbans a day before the cyclone hit the state for carrying out relief work there.No one from TMC agreed to comment but an official said Ghosh was stopped because of the Covid-19 protocol. “...even during restoration and relief, we have to keep in mind the Covid-19 protocols about social distancing. His presence would have led to the gathering of a crowd.” TMC and BJP have been involved in a bitter political fight in the state, where assembly polls are due next year. The tensions escalated in April after the Centre blamed the state’s government for mismanagement of the Covid-19 situation. The BJP emerged as TMC’s principal opponent in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when it bagged 18 of the state’s 42 seats. The TMC won 22 seats.TMC secretary-general and minister Partha Chatterjee said Banerjee has instructed that politics should take the back seat. “...we should all focus on restoring normalcy, standing united.”Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury separately said the Rs 1,000 crore advance assistance Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcement during his visit to the cyclone-hit state on Friday is insufficient given the extent of the devastation. He also said the state government lacked preparedness to deal with the cyclone.TMC leader Derek O’Brien said he did not have the details of the assistance. “But I do have the details of the money already owed to Bengal, which has nothing to do with the cyclone. The total is Rs 53,000 crore, of which Rs 36,000 crore is due under the central schemes...”The BJP on social media hailed Modi for visiting the state soon after the devastation and announcing the immediate assistance .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-parties-spar-over-cyclone-relief/story-axaneRV8UQpnqKE2djGTcM.html
24-05-2020||India||Experts raise concern over Ladakh face-off||The tense confrontation between Indian and Chinese forces along the disputed border in eastern Ladakh and the accompanying military build-up is vastly different from previous standoffs that plunged bilateral relations to new lows, people familiar with the ongoing scrap said on Saturday.The latest standoff along the line of actual control (LAC) is not confined to a small area, has triggered a worrying increase in troop numbers on both sides at multiple locations, has seen higher levels of aggression (especially by the Chinese), and seems to suggest a greater design rather than adventurism by a local commander, army officials and China watchers say.While the army has refused to reveal specifics of the standoff, Indian and Chinese soldiers are said to beeyeball-to-eyeball at four different locations in the sensitive sector and the total number of soldiers on both sides at these flashpoints is estimated to be around 3,000.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane made a low-key visit to Ladakh on Friday for a security review as tensions grew between India and China near Pangong Tso and three pockets in the Galwan Valley region where Chinese troops have pitched close to 100 tents and erected temporary structures to establish a presence.The possibility of Chinese soldiers constructing bunkers in some disputed areas cannot be ruled out, officials said. Reports have suggested that the Chinese side has deployed troops, vehicles and heavy equipment, involved in a military exercise in the area, to the Ladakh sector .China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff, which lasted 73 days.Soldiers on both sides are showing restraint and local commanders are meeting almost daily to de-escalate, said a senior army official on the condition of anonymity. He said the spread of the standoff to multiple locations on the LAC was a cause of concern and every development in the area was being monitored closely. “What we are witnessing in eastern Ladakh is different from what we saw in Depsang (2013), Chumar (2014) and even Doklam (2017). The previous episodes were localised. This one is not. Also, it appears to have been planned at a higher level,” said Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd), who was the Northern Army commander when Indian and Chinese soldiers were caught in a tense standoff in Ladakh’s Chumar sector in September 2014.The Chumar standoff began after Indian forces found that Chinese troops had deployed heavy machinery to construct a temporary road inside Indian territory. Also, Indian soldiers were eyeball-to-eyeball with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Depsang area for three weeks in April-May 2013 after Chinese troops set up tents and took up positions 19 km into Indian side of line of actual control (LAC).“It is difficult to gauge the next move of the Chinese. If the statements made by the foreign ministries of the two countries are any indicator, it seems the current confrontation could carry on for a while,” said a China expert.Hooda doubted that the standoff could be resolved at the local level. “It will require political direction and diplomatic intervention,” he said.India on Thursday rejected China’s allegation that Indian troops initiated tensions and crossed the LAC in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors and accused the Chinese army of hindering patrols on the Indian side.China’s foreign ministry first accused Indian troops of trespassing across the LAC in a statement last week, saying Beijing had to take “necessary countermeasures” after the Indian Army allegedly obstructed normal patrols by Chinese troops.A government spokesperson on Thursday said, “Any suggestion that Indian troops had undertaken activity across the LAC in the western [Ladakh] sector or the Sikkim sector is not accurate.”HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring up between India and China in north Sikkim where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Scores of soldiers from the two countries clashed near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6 and several of them were injured in the scuffle that involved around 250 men. While a flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions quickly spread to other parts of eastern Ladakh, including the Galwan Valley area, with both sides establishing their land claims aggressively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-raise-concern-over-ladakh-face-off/story-aBO9AseblUMDZxWvAU5jgN.html
24-05-2020||India||In Gujarat, Congress, BJP spar over ventilators||The Congress on Saturday demanded a judicial probe into the alleged use of “non-approved” ventilators for Covid-19 patients in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Gujarat. It alleged the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) had not approved the ventilators and as a result the Covid-19-related mortality rate is the highest at the Ahmedabad Civil hospital where these machines were installed.Congress spokesman Pawan Khera said almost six weeks after Dhaman-1 ventilators were installed at the hospital on April 4, doctors there sought more saying these machines did not work. He alleged the BJP government projected a mechanised AMBU (Artificial Manual Breathing Unit) bag as a ventilator.“They played with the lives of patients. Why was Dhaman-1 approved and installed when it had been tested on just one patient and without a licence by DCGI?” Khera asked. “We also want to know if the PM Cares Fund [to deal with the pandemic] was used to buy 5,000 pieces of Dhaman-1 through [the state-owned] HLL Lifecare. All these answers can be found through an independent judicial inquiry.”Gujarat’s principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi responded to the charges, saying the first batch of 10 ventilators was tested, certified and supplied on April 18. “Jyoti CNC [the manufacturer] supplied 866 ventilators free of cost to the Gujarat government when the entire world was facing shortage of ventilators.”Ravi added Dhaman-1 and other ventilators do not need DCGI licenses. “The [Union] ministry of health and family welfare issued a notification on February 11, 2020, effect from April 1, 2020, that lists 37 medical equipments that require the manufacturers to obtain licenses for their products. Ventilators are not a part of this list...”Ravi said Jyoti CNC produced the ventilators based on standards of Bureau of Indian Standards. She added Dhaman-1 fits the necessary standards the Centre has set. She added the company had taken necessary approvals from a state government agency. Ravi said trials are done of medicines and medical equipment not ventilators. “The indigenously produced ventilator underwent the performance test and it showed positive results.”Ravi said a live demonstration of the ventilator was held at the Civil Hospital on April 9 and the company incorporated the necessary changes suggested. “It is absolutely amoral to put allegations of corruption...”Khera asked chief minister Vijay Rupani why Gujarat had “such shocking data” on Covid-19 patients. He said 11% of the total coronavirus cases and 22% of deaths related to the disease in the country were reported from Gujarat. “Why this high mortality? Why the high mortality in Ahmedabad in particular...why the highest mortality is in the civil hospital, where these machines were installed?” Khera alleged the machines were donated under corporate social responsibility funds by a company in which a Surat-based businessman, who donated the monogrammed suit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which he wore during former US President Barack Obama’s visit to India in 2015, has a stake. He asked why Dhaman-1 was marketed within and outside the state as a ventilator when it is not one. “Why Dhaman-1 was allowed to be sold to other states and why HLL Lifecare, a PSU [public sector undertaking], was allowed to order 5,000 pieces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-gujarat-cong-bjp-spar-over-ventilators/story-mj2sJ0CD2w9aeWBWEv2lZN.html
24-05-2020||India||Migrants protest lack of food, water||Migrant workers travelling on Shramik special trains allegedly damaged railway property at separate places in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday while protesting against scarcity of food, water and unscheduled stoppage during their travel, officials said.Unnao district magistrate Ravindra Kumar said the migrants complained that a Bengaluru-Darbhanga (Bihar) train, which had left for its destination four days back, was running much behind the schedule and even toilets had no water. Officials said the passengers threw stones, damaged furniture and the station master’s room at the Unnao railway station when the train halted there for over an hour. They said the railway protection force and government railway police personnel pacified the passengers before the train started its onward journey.Officials said the workers allegedly damaged benches and threw stones on the railway property at Ajgain and Sonik railway stations when the train stopped there. The workers were again pacified and assured of all possible help.Residents ran away from their houses when around 1,000 workers entered a residential area looking for water after another special train headed to Chapra in Bihar from Dadri (Mumbai) arrived at the Kanchausi railway station in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya.Stationmaster Vishambhar Dayal Pandey said the train was stopped for two hours to let superfast trains pass first. The local police had a tough time in getting the workers out of the residential area.Migrants also protested over Vishakhapatnam-Muzaffarpur Shramik train’s unscheduled five-hour stoppage at Uttar Pradesh’s Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction (Mughalsarai), a railway police officer said. Senior officials rushed to the spot and pacified the migrants. Passengers of a Deoghar-bound train from Ahmedabad also joined the protest. Government railway police inspector RK Singh said the migrants were angry as the train was halted.The Vasai Road-Gorakhpur Shramik train to Uttar Pradesh, which left Mumbai on Thursday, was diverted to a different route via Odisha due to heavy traffic congestion.Indian Railways on Saturday said it will ferry another 3.6 million migrant labourers stranded across the country because of the Covid-19 lockdown on 2,600 Shramik trains over the next 10 days and will continue running such trains till all of them reach their homes. Railway officials said that till Saturday as many as 4.5 million have been ferried on the special trains since their launch on May 1. The trains were launched as migrant workers left jobless because of the lockdown imposed in late March to check the Covid-19 spread were forced to walk or cycle back to their homes. Many of them have continued to do so despite these trains and buses that were arranged for them in late April. In some cases, migrant workers have been unable to travel on these trains for the want of identity documents. Officials said about 80% of the Shramik trains so far have transported migrant workers to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, India’s two most populous states where the bulk of the workforce comes from. As per the 2011 Census, around 40 million workers migrate for work within the country annually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-protest-lack-of-food-water/story-qjDHLiBSDafnJAolRSX4pI.html
24-05-2020||India||2.6k migrant trains to run over 10 days||Indian Railways on Saturday said it will ferry another 3.6 million migrant labourers stranded across the country because of the Covid-19 lockdown on 2,600 Shramik special trains over the next 10 days and will continue running such trains till all of them reach their homes. “I want to assure all migrant workers that we will run these trains till all of them reach their destinations,” Railway Board chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav said at a press conference.Yadav said that given the demand for more Shramik specials, 50% of train coaches that were modified as Covid-care facilities will now be used to run them since they remain unutilized. He added that these coaches could be reconverted into care centres again if needed.Railways converted over 5,000 wagons into care centres to augment the country’s health infrastructure to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. Railway officials said that till Saturday, as many as 4.5 million have been ferried on the special trains since their launch on May 1. The trains were launched as migrant workers left jobless because of the lockdown imposed in late March to check the Covid-19 spread were forced to walk or cycle back to their homes. Many of them have continued to do so despite these trains and buses that were arranged for them in late April. In some cases, migrant workers have been unable to travel on these trains for the want of identity documents. Officials said about 80% of the Shramik trains so far have transported migrant workers to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, India’s two most populous states where the bulk of the workforce comes from. Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary, Union home ministry, who also addressed the press conference, cited the 2011 Census and said around 40 million workers migrate for work within the country annually. She added that at least four million migrant workers have also travelled on interstate buses to get back home since the lockdown began.Railways plans a gradual resumption of regular passenger services with 200 trains from June 1. These are apart from 15 pairs of premier Rajdhani special trains deployed to address the rising demand for interstate travel with the easing of the lockdown restrictions.“...we decided to run these 200 trains daily from June 1 after studying a pattern. Till now 17 lakh [1.7 million] tickets have already been booked. We have also decided to open all our booking windows as well as [ticket] stalls at all our 6,000 stations so that people do not have difficulties in getting tickets,” Yadav said. He added full resumption of the services may take some time.Yadav said Railways has moved over double the quantity of essential commodities in around 1.35 million wagons from March 24, when the lockdown was announced, till May 22 as compared to the same period last year. He added railways has provided 4.7 million free packets of meals to passengers and other needy people.He said 17 railway hospitals have been converted into independent Covid-19 care facilities and 5,000 beds made available across their network for patients and to quarantine up to 10,500 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-6k-migrant-trains-to-run-over-10-days/story-it6vZ1RzspEFaVQVf12paP.html
24-05-2020||India||Karnataka, Punjab, Kerala order 14-day quarantine after flight||A Delhi business executive who has an all-important business meeting in Bengaluru can now fly to the southern city -- domestic airline services are being restored from Monday -- but faces the prospect of a seven-day quarantine at a state-run institution and another seven days out of it.To avoid it, travellers will have to provide a Covid-19 negative certificate from an Indian Council of Medical Research approved laboratory , based on a test and dated two days before the date of travel.Karnataka, Punjab, and Kerala have decided on a 14-day quarantine for domestic passengers, with variations. Karnataka’s is restricted to travellers from areas with a high incidence (such as Delhi); Punjab and Kerala have mandated a 14-day quarantine for anyone entering the state on any means of transport.Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Telangana are also considering quarantines.While the Ministry of Civil Aviation last week allowed states to formulate their own procedures regarding passenger movement, civil minister Hardeep Puri hasrepeatedly emphasized that those taking domestic flights need not (and should not) be quarantined.“We have clarified that if anyone has the Aarogya Setu app, it’s like a passport and you are safe; why should anybody want any quarantine,” Puri said in a Facebook live discussion on Saturday. His reference is to the government’s contact-tracing app that has been downloaded by 1.2 million people and which is recommended, although not mandatory, for anyone wishing to travel by plane, or train.But the states do not seem to be listening.In a statement on Saturday, Karnataka said passengers travelling from high incidence zones, such as Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, will have to stay under institutional (state-run) quarantine for a period of seven days and home quarantine for another seven days. Those flying in from states not considered high incidence zones will be home quarantined for 14 days. Medical professionals, members of the defence services, paramilitary and railway services will also be home quarantined for 14 days.However, businesspersons travelling with a Covid-19 negative test certificate from an Indian Council of Medical Research-approved lab two days before the date of travel will not be quarantined.An official in the Andhra Pradesh government told Hindustan Time that the state is considering following “the Karnataka line”. “We want to be a little careful about people coming from Ahmedabad, Chennai, Mumbai and Delhi since we can’t quarantine a very large number of people,” the official said, “but we are yet to decide.”The official added that the state was earlier considering taking swab samples of all those flying in, along with a form to collect their details. “In 24 hours, we would have informed them if they were at high risk and needed to go to a hospital, others could have been home quarantined. But after seeing the Karnataka order, we are reviewing how to go about it. We should know by Sunday morning.”The Punjab government has also announced a 14-day home quarantine for those entering the state via flight, train or bus. Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh on Saturday said that rapid testing teams would check on all who have been home quarantined within a period of 14 days to ensure no “violation” and “strict compliance of rules”.Those travelling to Kerala, an official in the chief minister’s office said will be home quarantined for 14 days. “If any of them show symptoms then they will be immediately sent to a hospital.”A senior official in Telangana said that the matter is still “under discussion” .Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has asked the Civil Aviation Ministry to make a 14-day quarantine period at a state or paid facility mandatory for all those taking domestic flights.It is unlikely that the civil aviation ministry will intervene although what’s needed would appear to be a universal set of guidelines applicable across India.“States have been given the option to take their own decisions,” said an official in the aviation ministry who asked not to be named. “Many (states) were on board with opening the domestic airspace, we hope other states will realise that a mandatory quarantine will not make sense.”Airlines such as Air India and Spicejet are planning to resume operations starting Monday. Spicejet will be flying passengers to and fro from 41 destinations. Air India will be operating 102 flights as of now. Spicejet will be operating 204 daily and 1431 flights every week. Representatives of both airlines said that a reasonable number of bookings have been made for Monday. “We expect very good bookings over the next few weeks,” an Air India representative said. “The response has been more than satisfactory.”Vistara spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment and IndiGo representatives could not be reached for comment. A GoAir spokesperson said the airlines is set to resume operations from June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/k-taka-punjab-kerala-order-14-day-quarantine-after-flight/story-9NMdO2SoUKlm2l0BnZbUxI.html
24-05-2020||India||Covid-19 economic proposal stokes controversy, redrafted||A group of economists, intellectuals and activists on Saturday redrafted their seven-point ‘Mission Jai Hind’ proposal to deal with the Covid-19 crisis after one of their suggestions of treating all resources of the nation and its citizens -- cash, real estate, property and bonds -- as national resources triggered a controversy. Some of the plan’s signatories also opposed the idea.The controversial part was changed to say the government “must explore emergency ways of raising resources going beyond the usual set of taxes and levies to cope with the problem of funding large relief packages”. The group has also proposed universal access to ration, free healthcare, employment guarantee, compensation for job losses, a moratorium on interest payments, and transportation of stranded migrants to their homes.Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav, who is one of the signatories of the plan, said the contentious clause 7.1 has attracted undue attention and interpreted to mean a call for nationalisation/expropriation of private property. He called this far from their intention while hoping the focus will remain on the plan outlined to “address health, economic & humanitarian crisis”.In a series of tweets, historian Ramachandra Guha, another signatory, said he did not endorse the clause 7.1. “The Mission Jai Hind Statement that was sent to me had this broad statement of principle as clause 7.1, which I approved, namely: ‘All resources within the nation are national resources, available for this mission’,” he tweeted. “The published version had a radically different clause 7.1: ‘All the resources (cash, real estate, property, bonds, etc) with the citizens or within the nation must be treated as national resources available during this crisis.’ I have not and do not endorse this.” “This clause, that has become deeply tendentious with the major changes made without the consent of some signatories, has taken attention away from the many sensible suggestions made in the Statement,” Guha added in a third tweet.Maitreesh Ghatak, a professor at the London School of Economics who also endorsed the proposal, said the controversial point had raised “some legitimate questions about what we mean”. “It is not intended to be confiscatory or to advocate large-scale nationalisation. All it means is that in crisis situations... the government has to explore emergency ways of raising resources going beyond the usual set of taxes and levies,” he tweeted. Guha called the reformulated point “extremely appropriate” and added all controversy should now be set at rest. “I trust that fellow citizens shall focus on the many important recommendations in our plan and will urge Central and State Governments to implement it.”In a press release, the group said the government’s stimulus package announced this month to deal with the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic has “virtually” ignored the urgent need for economic support to ordinary citizens whose lives and livelihoods have been shattered. Economist Shamika Ravi, a former member of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, hit out at the controversial proposal. “Such ‘leading economists’ have done enough damage already in this country. This document is an assault on private property in India,” Ravi tweeted.Bharatiya Janata Party’s national media panellist, Tuhin A Sinha, called it a devious plan to legitimise usurping of private property and assets.Other signatories of the proposal include former member of now-defunct Planning Commission Abhijit Sen, former chief economic advisor Deepak Nayyar, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) professor Jayati Ghosh, JNU associate professor Himanshu, Azim Premji University associate professor Amit Basole, social activists Jean Drèze and Harsh Mander and academic Rajmohan Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-economic-proposal-stokes-controversy-redrafted/story-ydCFhYEwnFoueocrwbhn6M.html
24-05-2020||India||Driven by courage: Meet the specially-abled riders who are going the extra mile to help others||The willingness to help others makes these riders special! They didn’t let physical disabilities stop them from standing by the needy. Called Eagle Specially Abled Riders, this group is providing rations to security guards, rickshaw pullers, homeless people and migrant labourers in Delhi. Founded by Ameer Siddiqui, the group is trying to create a chain that reaches distressed people. Siddiqui says, “ We are a group of 15 persons with disabilities from Delhi, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. All of us suffer from Post Polio Residual Paralysis but that has never stopped us from serving others. The world is fighting against a deadly enemy and in such a situation, each one of us should be willing to come forward and help others.”Last year, the group travelled from Delhi to Mumbai on retro fitted scooters as part of the world’s longest accessible awareness ride. “Through that ride, we wanted to show the world that nothing is impossible in life if one has the courage. To fight against corona, we need to be courageous too,” says Siddiqui. The rider says that due to discrimination against them, a large number of specially-abled people depend on NGOs for lodging, food, and clothing. These organisations rest on donations and charities. But during quarantine and social distancing, it has been particularly tough arranging for ration and essentials.He says, “Being disabled myself, I understand the plight of my brothers well. The lockdown has been the hardest on differently abled people. But our organisation has been helping in all ways possible. Initially we started with putting Rs 500 in the accounts of other handicapped people so that they could buy ration on their own. But with the lockdown extension, we took the help of other NGOs and self -help groups in distributing ration, face masks, sanitisers and soaps. We even distributed these to police officers, security guards and the underprivileged people such as rickshaw pullers, beggars, homeless and migrant workers.”He adds, “NGOs can’t reach to help handicapped people in many remote areas, but we have managed to reach and assist them. We are trying to create a chain of compassion, love and care.” The name Eagle Specially Abled Riders has a thought behind it. Ameer believes that specially-abled individuals dream of flying as high as eagles and their group makes sure that those dreams are not shattered.The riders’ indomitable spirit has overpowered their physical disabilities, and has infused courage and will power among many others to fight this deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extending-a-helping-hand/story-LwOtL7SSuXsnRHwMF5KGlJ.html
24-05-2020||India||Farm sector, poised to grow by 3%, remains beacon of hope amid pandemic||Fresh indicators show the country’s farm sector, which employs nearly half the population, has coped well with the Covid-19 crisis, with a larger summer crop area than last year, higher sales of fertilisers and seeds, and better prices, leading Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das to call it a “beacon of hope”.The farm sector is poised to grow at least 3% in 2020-21, despite disruption in the economy due to the coronavirus pandemic, which will aid overall growth, according to state-run think-tank Niti Aayog’s assessment in April. There are other indicators too, ranging from sowing to input sales, which show the agriculture economy is heading into the summer-sown or kharif operations in decent shape. Farmers have planted rice in about 3.48 million hectares (1 hectare equals 2.4 acre) compared to 2.52 million hectares during the corresponding period of last year, an increase of nearly 37%, official data as on May 21 show.The area under pulses -- a major summer crop with up to 70% share in farm incomes in some state – stands at nearly 1.28 million hectares against 0.96 million hectares during the same period of last year, which is higher by one-third (33%).Coarse cereals or millets occupied 1.028 million hectares compared to 0.73 million hectares during the corresponding period of last year, or 42% higher.The area under oilseeds has reached about 0.92 million hectares compared to 0.73 million hectares during this time last year.“The main reason for robust sowing is that rainfall activity has been fairly decent, indicating a good monsoon in the coming months,” said Abhishek Agrawal, a commodity analyst with Comtrade Ltd. Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das, while cutting the lending policy rate by 40 basis points (0.4 percentage points) to prop up growth, Friday said developments in the country’s farm sector would have a “salutary effect” on the rural economy.“Amidst this encircling gloom, agriculture and allied activities have provided a beacon of hope on the back of an increase of 3.7% in foodgrains production to a new record (as per the third advance estimates of the Ministry of Agriculture released on May 15, 2020),” Das said.“By May 10, 2020, up to which latest information is available, kharif (monsoon or summer crop) sowing was higher by 44% over last year’s acreage. Rabi (winter crop) procurement is in full flow in respect of oilseeds, pulses and wheat, benefiting from the bumper harvest. These developments will support farm incomes, improve the terms of trade facing the farm sector and strengthen food security for the country. Going forward, these would also have a salutary effect on food price pressures,” he added in the course of a digital video statement on Friday. Fertiliser sales, an indicator of demand of farm-inputs from farmers, have been higher by 5% during the first four months of 2020, according to official data. Farm inputs refer to all raw materials a farmer needs for cultivation.Sound farm growth could cushion the overall sharp decline in growth expected this year. RBI on Friday indicated that India could see its economy shrink for the first time in 40 years. The International Monetary Fund earlier this month slashed its 2010-21 growth projection for India to 1.9% from 5.8% estimated in January. Barclays said it saw 0% growth, while the World Bank cut India’s growth forecast to 1.5-2.8% from 6.1% earlier. Investment bank Goldman Sachs expects the economy to shrink 5%. To be sure, the lockdown to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease imposed on March 25, and still continuing, though several restrictions have been eased, did hamper farm produce sales and many producers of perishables have said they face losses. And during its the initial days, labour shortage and shut markets led farmers to dump new harvest, especially perishables items.Of the 2069 nationally important agricultural wholesale markets in the country, less than 500 were functioning during the first weeks of the lockdown. Within agriculture, restrictions especially hurt the animal husbandry sector, which accounts for 5% of the country’s GDP. Rumours that chicken were a carrier of the novel coronavirus tanked poultry sales.The latest optimism comes amid a 44% rise in summer sowing compared to last year and widespread procurement of winter produce. Procurement refers to the government’s buying of farm produce at statutory minimum prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-sector-a-beacon-of-hope-in-economic-gloom/story-YEsFZcYnq76VGI41ic5zzM.html
24-05-2020||India||Sikkim reports first Covid-19 case after man who returned from Delhi tests positive||Sikkim on Saturday reported its first Covid-19 positive case after a man who recently returned from Delhi tested positive.The 25-year-old man, who arrived in Sikkim on May 19, was sent to a quarantine centre along with 11 others. On May 21, he developed fever and was shifted to STNM Hospital in Gangtok on Friday.His swab sample was collected and sent to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri, West Bengal. Till Saturday night, 1707 people were tested in the Himalayan state.“The 25-year-old man tested Covid-19 positive,” said state health secretary Pempa Bhutia. Bhutia said the man from a South Sikkim district was staying at Haiderpur in Delhi as a paying guest along with six others and was attending coaching classes for UPSC examinations.“All those who returned with him are in quarantine. They will be tested too,” Bhutia said over phone from Gangtok. The driver of the bus which ferried these people from Siliguri to Sikkim will also be tested.The development came a day after the state government announced that classes for students from Class 9 to university level would resume from June 15. With this Sikkim becomes the first state in the country to partially open educational institutions.Chief Minister Prem Singh Tamang had been reiterating that the real challenge would begin after Sikkimese people and students start returning from other states after relaxation of the lockdown. Sikkim was one of the first states to seal inter-state and international borders and ban entry of both domestic and foreign tourists and migrant labourers.Timely and drastic measures had helped Sikkim remain Covid-19 free till Saturday while adjoining Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts in West Bengal witnessed the death of two people. The number of Covid-19 cases in Siliguri and other parts of North Bengal is now on the rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-reports-first-covid-19-case-after-man-who-returned-from-delhi-tests-positive/story-qNacXjbpP9zWwZT95r4zAM.html
24-05-2020||India||Shaken by Cyclone Amphan, flat owners in this Kolkata building summon engineers||When Cyclone Amphan was battering Kolkata with wind speeds up to 130 km per hour, residents of Subham-Subhasree apartments in east Kolkata’s Hussainpur – Madurdaha had the feeling that their apartment buildings were almost swaying.“I almost jumped out of my bed and was about to rush outside. That’s the first thing that comes to your mind when an earthquake shakes the building. But moments later, I realised that it was not an earthquake but the cyclone which was making the building sway and that I couldn’t go out. I was scared,” Suchismita Biswas, a resident of Subham apartments said.Not only did the building sway during the cyclone but chunks of concrete which had cracked and become loose have also fallen off. The flat owners are now planning to consult a structural engineer for a thorough checkup of the two buildings.“I heard at least two thuds. When the storm stopped and some of us went out to inspect the buildings, we saw that at least two chunks of concrete had fallen off, exposing bricks. A proposal has come up to consult a structural engineer and go for a thorough checkup of the building,” said Biswas.The society comprising two buildings was handed over to the owners in 2015. Apart from the structural damage the cyclone may have caused, there was other damage too. “There was a large tree, very tall, in front of our complex. During the cyclone, a large branch broke off and fell on our gate, damaging the lights at the entrance. A few other branches of some trees located on another plot behind our building also broke off, damaging the wire fencing,” T Samui, another resident said.With the winds coming mainly from the north-eastern and northern directions, the eight flats facing north had to bear the direct brunt of the cyclonic storm. The other eight which face south, were less harmed.One of the sliding window panes of a bedroom in one of the north-facing flats could not take the pressure and came off. Water started gushing in and soon the entire bedroom was filled with ankle-deep water.“We held on to it tightly but water was still gushing in through the sides. The entire bed got drenched. We had to pull down curtains to soak the ankle-deep water and then squeeze it out in the washroom. This had to be done multiple times and our hands were aching. We could hardly sleep that night,” S Ghosh, another resident said.A power outage since Wednesday added to the residents’ woes. The entire area had plunged into darkness after a high tension wire snapped during Cyclone Amphan.“The two buildings are running on generators. We have lodged a complaint with the CESC which supplies power, but no help has arrived till Friday. We don’t know for how long the generator can continue to provide power. It has already started to malfunction,” Samui said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hit-by-cyclone-amphan-kolkata-s-flat-owners-to-consult-engineers-for-safety-of-buildings/story-Kzn1zZFlL2jxASt5qycLNI.html
24-05-2020||India||Promising hints from Chinese Covid-19 vaccine to Oxford trials: Latest from labs||Researchers are racing against time to find treatments and vaccines for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has affected more than 5.5 million and killed 338,249 people across the world.They are also studying how the virus affects the body and its various organs as it is still spreading across the world. The World Health Organization (WHO) said on Friday that South America has become a new epicentre of the Covid-19 pandemic with Brazil hardest-hit, while cases are rising in some African countries that so far have a relatively low death toll.There are about a dozen experimental Covid-19 vaccines in early stages of human testing or poised to start, mostly in China, the US and Europe. Here is the latest about what has happened in laboratories:CanSino’s vaccine shows promiseA experimental Covid-19 vaccine developed by CanSino Biologics Inc, one of the front-runners in the race to come up with a shot to help end the pandemic, appears to be safe and generated a rapid immune response in its first human trial, Chinese researchers reported on Friday in The Lancet medical journal. First-in-human studies, known as Phase I trials, are primarily designed to test safety. This vaccine did not cause any serious adverse effects, the researchers say, though they did report some side effects such as fever. Furthermore, blood samples from the 108 vaccinated adults showed so-called neutralizing antibodies and T-cell responses against the novel coronavirus, a sign of possible efficacy. “These results represent an important milestone,” coauthor Professor Wei Chen from the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology said in a statement. “The ability to trigger these immune responses does not necessarily indicate that the vaccine will protect humans from Covid-19. We are still a long way from this vaccine being available to all,” the researcher added. Further studies will be needed to confirm whether the vaccine protects against infection. The first such trial is underway in Wuhan, China.Oxford trial progressing ‘very well’Developers of a vaccine at the University of Oxford described their efforts as progressing “very well”, moving to the next phase after completing 1,000 immunisations by its candidate-vaccine on healthy human adults.This came days after reports said that a promising Covid-19 vaccine being developed by the Oxford Vaccine Group showed limited success on monkeys but could fail to prevent transmission of the virus.The human trials were first initiated in April. The next phase, the second in the typical three phases of trials that a vaccine goes through, involves enrolling up to 10,260 adults and children to assess the immune response to the vaccine in people of different ages and assess if there is a variation.The Oxford study is merging Phases II and III for speedier development. Phase III involves assessing how the vaccine works in a large number of people over the age of 18, and how well it prevents people from becoming infected and unwell with Covid-19.HCQ tied to higher death riskThe anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine was tied to an increased risk of death in an observational study of more than 96,000 Covid-19 patients at 671 hospitals on six continents, researchers reported on Friday.According to their paper in The Lancet, it was not clear whether taking the drug provided patients with any benefit.There were 14,888 patients who received hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine, with or without an antibiotic, and 81,144 did not receive those drugs. Randomized placebo-controlled studies are needed to clarify the risks and benefits of the decades-old drug in the treatment of Covid-19, the researchers said. Many such trials are underway. The University of Minnesota may have some results next week, from two studies testing whether hydroxychloroquine is useful for preventing infection in people exposed to the virus and whether it alleviates Covid-19 symptoms. Other placebo-controlled trial results are expected to start later this summer.Blood vessel damageA study published on Thursday in The New England Journal of Medicine helps explain why blood clots develop more often in Covid-19 patients. It appears that the virus can severely damage patients’ blood vessels, causing the blood to clot as it flows past. Researchers found damage to tiny air sacs in the lung called alveoli in studies of lungs from seven patients who died of Covid-19.They also found severe injury to blood vessel linings, which was associated with the virus in the cells of blood vessels and disrupted cell membranes. Compared with the lungs of patients who died of influenza, the Covid-19 lungs had far more extensive injuries. In addition, the healing reaction - a process of new vessel growth called intussusceptive angiogenesis - was 30 times higher than normal in the Covid-19 lungs, study co-author Dr William Li, medical director of the Angiogenesis Foundation, said in a statement. All of these factors contribute to blood clots, his team reports.“One of the great mysteries of Covid-19 has been why blood clots, or thromboses, form in some patients,” Li said.“These clots can become lethal because they severely compromise blood flow not only in the lungs but also in other organs such as the brain and heart, among other tissues. Our research is the first to show that these clots are associated with damaged blood vessels.” Simulated sunlightSimulated sunlight rapidly inactivates the coronavirus on non-porous surfaces like stainless steel, according to researchers from the US department of homeland security science and technology directorate’s National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC). “These results suggest that natural sunlight may be effective for significantly reducing the amount of virus on exposed surfaces, such as mailboxes, playground equipment, and shopping carts left outdoors in the sunlight,” a spokesperson for the researchers told Reuters. While significant reductions of the virus were observed after just a few minutes of simulated sunlight, the risk of exposure from contact with surfaces may not be fully eliminated, the researchers cautioned in the Journal of Infectious Diseases. More research is needed on how much virus is shed onto surfaces from infected individuals, how easily the virus is transferred from surfaces, and what amount is needed to cause infection.Hold off on blanket ‘DNR’ ordersIn the desperate early days of the coronavirus pandemic, reports from China that few critically ill Covid-19 patients could be revived after a cardiac arrest led doctors in some countries to consider issuing blanket “Do Not Resuscitate” orders. But for US Covid-19 patients, at least, that would not be appropriate, researchers said. Researchers wrote in a paper published on Friday in Circulation: Cardiovascular Quality and Outcomes, an American Heart Association journal, that adequate data is not yet available on US survival rates for in-hospital resuscitation of Covid-19 patients and the Chinese data may not be applicable.“Early experience of the pandemic in the US reveals that about a quarter of Covid-19 patients are younger than 50 years of age and otherwise healthy. Cardiac arrest in such patients will likely have a different prognosis” than it would in older patients, researchers said. The study authors are members of the American Heart Association “Get With The Guidelines” Resuscitation Investigators panel.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/promising-hints-from-chinese-covid-19-vaccine-to-oxford-trails-latest-from-labs/story-yh4akhAgkn0WNBdastURVI.html
24-05-2020||India||Doctor dies at Pune’s Sassoon hospital after testing Covid-19 positive||A 56-year old doctor from Maharashtra’s Keshavnagar succumbed to death at Pune’s Sassoon general hospital on Friday after testing positive for Covid-19.He worked as a general medical practitioner at Pune’s Ghorpadi Gaon. The doctor was undergoing treatment for coronavirus and was in a critical condition. He was admitted to Sassoon hospital on May 13 and was declared dead on Friday at 4:30 pm. This is the first death of a doctor in Pune due to Covid-19.“The news of a doctor’s death could lead to fear among the medical community, especially the general physicians, most of whom have already shut their clinics,” Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) chief health officer Dr Ramchandra Hankare said.Also read: Sassoon hospital claims Pune’s first successful plasma therapy for Covid-19 patientAccording to Sassoon hospital’s records, the doctor died due to acute respiratory failure due to Covid-19, positive bilateral pneumonitis, acute respiratory syndrome, myocarditis, and acute kidney injury.The doctor was also one of the first Covid-19 patients who was being administered Tocilizumab, an immunosuppressive drug, which has been recommended against Covid-19.Maharashtra is the country’s worst-hit state when it comes to coronavirus cases. More than 44,000 people have contracted Covid-19 in Maharashtra of which over 27,000 cases come from Mumbai. Thane and Pune are a couple of other badly-hit districts in Maharashtra. Thane has seen over 5,700 Covid-19 cases while in Pune, the tally has jumped to nearly 5,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-dies-at-pune-s-sassoon-hospital-after-testing-covid-19-positive/story-etV0hPbVQW9VJzbgOskNGN.html
