26-05-2020||India||Police brutality led to 12 deaths: NGO||Public police beatings for alleged violations of restrictions caused the deaths of 12 people in various parts of the country in the first five weeks of the national lockdown, according to a report by the non-government organisation (NGO) Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) released on Tuesday.Three of the 12 deaths were suicides committed by the victims because they couldn’t stand the humiliation of the public beatings,said the study, which tracked such deaths from March 25 to April 30, based on media reports. Out of the 12 deaths, three each were reported from Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. Madhya Pradesh reported two deaths ; One death each took place in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Punjab. CHRI identified the 12 people as Luvkush, Mohammad Rizwan, Roshan Lal (UP), Bansi Kushwaha and Tibu Meda (MP), Shaikh Mohammed Ghouse, Veerabhadraiah, Peddada Srinivas Rao (AP), Sagir Jamil Khan (Maharashtra), A Abdul Rahim (TN), Lal Swami (WB) and Bhupinder Singh (Punjab).Bhupinder Singh, Peddada Srinivasa Rao and Roshan Lal committed suicide. Three persons who were arrested-- two of them on charges unrelated to the violation of lockdown restrictions -- also died in police custody during the lockdown. The three were from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra. CHRI has sent a petition to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRI) to investigate these 15 deaths.CHRI called for an independent inquiry into the deaths so that the police are held accountable for use of excessive force in enforcing the lockdown. CHRI believes the NHRC will investigate the alleged fairly and effectively to fix accountability, Devika Prasad, program head of police reforms at CHR,said.“The police in India continues to function with the colonial outlook of protecting the state/ regime in power from the people. Hence, constitution and rule of law take the backseat and the police wield their lathi at the slightest provocation. Moreover, the police is viewing the lockdown and its implementation as a law and order problem and not as a public health necessity,” said senior resident fellow at the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, Alok Prasanna Kumar. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-brutality-led-to-12-deaths-ngo/story-CCj4QPlfg7VF61x0TIvhKI.html
26-05-2020||India||CBSE exams: Boarding school kids to face travel hurdle||NEW DELHI The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is increasing the number of exam centres from 3,000 to 13,000 to make sure the students who sit for their class X and XII board exams get the centre of their choice, but there is one section of students that may still have to travel hundreds of miles before reaching the venue – those studying in residential schools.As the government announced the lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19, thousands of students who study in boarding schools across the country returned home. Now, as the number of coronavirus cases continues to rise, these students and their parent and guardians are in a dilemma . CBSE has said students of boarding schools will appear for the class X and class XII exams in their respective schools. That means some will travel hundreds of miles to take these tests. And schools have to make quarantine arrangements once the students come back to the campus .Significantly, 661 residential schools, the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas, are run by the HRD ministry itself. Most of these schools are situated in rural areas. Under the present norms, many class 12 students of these and other schools will be forced to undertake such long winding trips from June 15 to be eligible to sit for exams which begin on July 1. The ordeal could prove tougher for students who will have to sit immediately for their NEET or JEE exams a week later. When contacted, a senior CBSE official said that the board has received representations from different schools and is looking into all of them.A senior HRD ministry official added that “the ministry and CBSE are aware of the issues and attempts will be made to provide solutions.” “If students come all the way they will have to quarantine, which means they will have to stay minimum fifteen days before the exam. Coming all the way is difficult and even parents are under stress, they fear sending their children across. These are factors. But as far as the school is concerned, all possible arrangements can be made because they are after all our children. But we definitely need guidelines about the stay in the hostel. We are awaiting those guidelines,” said Shakuntala Jaiman, Principal of Delhi’s Colonel Satsangi’s Kiran Memorial School, which has several of students who have to appear for class 12 exam.Meanwhile, an HRD ministry official said: “MHRD and CBSE are aware of the issue and will take a decision in the interest of the students. MHRD is always committed to ensure the safety and academic welfare of the students”.Last week, HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced that the CBSE would be holding exams in 13,000 and not just 3,000 centers as this would help students, who would otherwise have to travel long distances.“This problem for the residential schools and their students is genuine. Young students, their parents and school authorities should not be burdened with additional anxieties during these uncertain Corona times. With vast infrastructure available to the CBSE , and since there are still 5 weeks for exams to begin, students may be given the options in their hometowns in centres nearest to their homes,” said eminent educationist and former UGC member Dr Inder Mohan Kapahy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-exams-boarding-school-kids-to-face-travel-hurdle/story-E94a7TwmyRRpcrKC6Mo2LJ.html
26-05-2020||India||No plan to mandate state nod for hiring workers: UP official||The Uttar Pradesh (UP) government is working on the framework of a commission that will seek to provide jobs and job security to migrant workers returning to the state, but has no plans to incorporate in its by-laws a provision that will require other states to seek its prior permission before employing people from UP.Amid the lockdown imposed to curb the coronavirus disease that left them stranded elsewhere in India without livelihoods, about 2.6 million migrant workers have already returned to UP, where the authorities plan to carry out an exercise to map their skills to help them find jobs.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday discussed the setting up of the commission at a meeting in Lucknow and told his officials to complete the skill mapping exercise in 15 days. Adityanath said a letter should be sent to all state governments to find out about more migrant workers wishing to come back to Uttar Pradesh. “The chief minister discussed the modalities for setting up the commission as well. There will be no provision requiring other states to seek UP government’s prior permission for employing our manpower. The commission is being set up to provide jobs and social security to the workers. We will also link the migrants to the government schemes to provide them houses and loans etc,” said a senior official who didn’t want to be named.On Sunday, Adityanath told journalists by a video link that the commission would work in the interest of migrant workers. “If any other state wants UP’s manpower, they cannot take them away just like that but will have to seek permission of the UP government,” he said. “The way our migrant workers were ill-treated in other states, the UP government will take their insurance and social security in its hands now. The state government will stand by them wherever they work, whether in Uttar Pradesh, other states or other countries.”Some political leaders and experts have questioned the proposal that would require other states to seek the UP government’s permission, saying it would run contrary to the right to freedom of movement of workers.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday termed the proposal “absolutely absurd.” “I think it’s unfortunate. I think people are first Indian and then they belong to their states. The decision on whether somebody goes to work from Uttar Pradesh to the rest of the country is not the chief minister’s. It is of the people of India and the people of Uttar Pradesh,” he said. Adityanath was deeply moved by the conditions of returning migrants, the official cited above said, explaining the CM’s comment. “Uttar Pradesh’s migration commission is bound to incorporate the provisions of the Centre’s Inter State Migrant Workmen Act 1979. The Centre’s Act provides for a licence to be issued to the recruitment agencies in the state from where the workers are being taken following recruitment. It also has provisions for registration of the employer in the state where the workers will be taken for employment,” said the official.The proposed migration commission can work as a welfare body and watch the interests of workers, said CB Pandey, a legal expert. “But most of the migrant workers are employed in the unorganized sector. The state government can regulate only the recruitment agencies, if any. In more than 99% of cases, no recruitment agencies are involved. A majority of workers of the unorganized sector look for jobs through their acquaintances or family members and regulating them may not be possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-plan-to-mandate-state-nod-for-hiring-workers-up-official/story-0ftsqQoVhIKz2gYFH7Ww8J.html
26-05-2020||India||Rajasthan’s Churu sizzles at 50°C||North Jaipur’s city Churu sizzled at 50 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. This was the second highest temperature recorded in the month of May in last 10 years, according to IMD Jaipur. The city had recorded 50.2 degrees Celsius on May 19, 2016, the meteorological department added.Four other towns in the state recorded temperatures over 45 degrees Celsius. Bikaner’s highest temperature was 47.4 degrees Celsius and Sriganganagar’s was 47 degrees Celicius. Highest temperatures in Kota and Jaisalmer were 46 degrees Celsius, IMD’s weather report said.The report also predicted severe heat wave in isolated places in Kota and Bundi in eastern Rajasthan and in Bikaner, Churu, Hanumangarh and Sriganganagar in western part of the state.Meanwhile, Churu has been sizzling since May 22, when the highest temperature recorded in the city was 46.6 degrees Celsius. After that, it has been increasing every day – 46.6 degrees Celsius on May 23, 47.4 degrees Celsius on May 24 and 47.5 degrees Celsius on May 25, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-s-churu-sizzles-at-50-c/story-6EM11vO7pAnAKjbYbRafXO.html
26-05-2020||India||Rajasthan records 3 more Covid-19 related deaths; 236 new cases take tally to 7,536||Three more people died due to Covid-19 in Rajasthan on Tuesday, taking the toll to 170 as 236 fresh coronavirus cases surfaced in the state, officials said. With these new cases, the total number of Covid-19 infections in the state has reached 7,536. “Three deaths, including two in Jaipur and one in Rajsamand, were recorded in the state. As many as 236 fresh cases were reported,” Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh, said. Of the 236 new cases, 32 were reported from Jaipur, 27 from Sirohi, 25 each from Sikar and Udaipur, 23 in Pali, 13 in Nagaur, 12 each in Jhalawar and Dungarpur, 11 in Rajsamand, 10 in Kota, among others. While there are 3,090 active cases in the state, a total of 3,767 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease. Jaipur has recorded a maximum of 81 deaths and 1,860 coronavirus cases in the state, followed by Jodhpur which has recorded 17 deaths and 1,278 cases. Among the total 7,536 cases in the state are 2,011 migrants who have recently returned to Rajasthan from other states/UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-records-3-more-covid-19-related-deaths-236-new-cases-take-tally-to-7-536/story-HiOJQaibHykDKvxODiqDYK.html
26-05-2020||India||Glenmark gets DCGI approval for antiviral drug combo trial||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals on Tuesday said it received approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to conduct phase 3 clinical trials in the country to test the efficacy of a combination of two antiviral drugs, Favipiravir and Umifenovir, as a potential coronavirus disease (Covid-19) treatment. The two drugs act differently. Favipiravir is known to inhibit virus replication, thus killing the pathogen; Umifenovir impedes the viral attachment to cells,acting as a viral entry inhibitor. The drugs make for an ideal combination in effectively tackling high viral loads in patients during early stage of disease.Favipiravir is an oral antiviral drug approved in Japan in 2014 for the treatment of novel or re-emerging influenza virus infections. Umifenovir is another oral antiviral drug licensed for the treatment and prophylaxis of influenza A and B infections in Russia and China. Additionally it exhibits modulatory effects on the immune system and induces production of interferons, natural proteins used to treat diseases that involve the immune system,. “Hence a combined use of Favipiravir and Umifenovir acting on different mechanisms offers a comprehensive antiviral cover on pre-entry and post-entry life-cycle of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Early administration of a combination of antiviral medications acting by different mechanisms is recommended for the treatment of Covid-19, since the viral load of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the disease, peaks around the time of symptom onset,” Glenmark Pharmaceuticals said in a statement.“Combining antiviral drugs could result in greater clinical effectiveness and could also prevent, or delay, the emergence of resistance. The current study will examine whether early administration of a combination of Favipiravir and Umifenovir, both acting by different mechanisms, enhances antiviral efficacy on Covid-19 patients,” it added.The trial will be a randomized, open-label study for which the company will soon start recruiting patients, with a target of enrolling about 158 patients.“Combining antiviral agents that have a good safety profile and act on different stages of viral life-cycle is an effective treatment approach to rapidly suppress initial high viral load and lead to overall improvement in clinical parameters. We consider Glenmark’s study will be pivotal in leading to identification of highly effective and safe treatments against COVID-19 in India. Beyond its many potential patient treatment benefits, we also hope the combination therapy will reduce infection risk in medical professionals and healthcare workers by reducing the duration of virus shedding from treated patients,” said Monika Tandon, head, clinical development global specialty, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals. About two weeks ago, Glenmark also received DCGI approvals for clinical trials on Favipiravi. It aims to recruit 150 patients in nine government and private hospitals across the country, and has so far recruited 30. The results for only Favipiravir Phase 3 clinical trial are expected by July/August 2020.“We will do all it takes to ensure accessibility of the product across the country if the clinical trials are successful,” said Sujesh Vasudevan, president, India formulations, Middle East and Africa business, Glenmark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glenmark-gets-dcgi-approval-for-antiviral-drug-combo-trial/story-0NIgfw1jxE95293zWyzWeN.html
26-05-2020||India||After more than a week, Delhi records less than 500 cases||New Delhi: Delhi reported 412 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, taking the city’s tally to 14,465 cases, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The number of new cases in the state fell below 500 for the first time in week, with the highest number of 660 recorded on May 22, but the respite may prove to be all too brief .On Tuesday, 12 more deaths were added to the total, taking the toll of the viral infection in the city to 288. These are the deaths that get added to the total after a review by the three-member death audit committee to establish that the primary cause of death was indeed Covid-19 rather than potentially fatal co-morbidities.The positivity rate – the percentage of people who test positive– has gone up to 10% from 7.6% on May 18, when Delhi recorded 299 cases, which is one of the lowest numbers reported on a day this month. The average positivity rate over the last week has been 11.5%, with the highest of 13.8% recorded on Monday.Delhi has already reached the second of the three scenarios for which a five-member expert committee had advised the chief minister to prepare -- when the city records 100 cases a day, followed by 500 a day and finally when the daily tally reaches 1,000.“Delhi is likely to start reporting 1,000 cases a day within the next two weeks or even sooner,” said a senior official from Delhi government, on condition of anonymity.That’s because air and train travel to and from the city has resumed and more public restrictions will be loosened at the end of Lockdown 4.0 on March 31, which will make it difficult to enforce norms such as social and physical distancing “The numbers are likely to go up now that markets have opened up and people are travelling. However, the numbers also depend on the testing criteria, if more people are tested the numbers would be higher. So, it is not the numbers that we should be worried about, it is the number of deaths. We have to ensure early detection and treatment to prevent deaths,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.If current trends follow, around 30% of these 1,000 expected cases a day, or 300 people, would need admission each day.All of the 2,000 beds in Lok Nayak Hospital, the biggest hospital dedicated for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, also have facility to provide oxygen.Only about 0.4% people need ventilator support, according to Delhi government data which closely mimics the national average.Currently, there are 4,462 Covid-19 beds in the city, 429 ICU beds, 343 beds with ventilators, and 2,632 beds with oxygen support are available in the city hospitals. Another 5,716 beds are available in 19 Covid Care centres in the city. Delhi health secretary Padmini Singla informed Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday that the government has ordered 28 ventilators and 435 oxygen concentrators (machines that selectively remove nitrogen from the ambient air to concentrate the oxygen to about 93%). Around 30,000 personal protective equipment kits in addition to the existing 50,000 and 3.5 lakh N95 masks have been ordered.The meeting was attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, and senior officials from the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-more-than-a-week-delhi-records-less-than-500-cases/story-W4Dzn95c6MVqQvVcHxloqL.html
26-05-2020||India||TMC vs TMC: Bengal minister slams Kolkata civic body over post-cyclone mess||Bengal’s consumer affairs minister Sadhan Pandey on Tuesday accused Kolkata’s municipal corporation of lacking preparedness to deal with the aftermath of cyclone Amphan causing immense difficulties for the city’s residents. Pandey is a senior leader of the Trinamool Congress which also runs the Kolkata municipal corporation.Pandey’s attack comes at a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP,) the Congress and the Left parties have been targeting the Mamata Banerjee government over its response to the devastation caused by cyclone Amphan across south Bengal.The Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s board has completed its five-year tenure but since the elections could not be held due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government had appointed a board of administrators, with the members of the freshly-defunct mayor-in-council as its members and mayor-cum-state urban development minister Firhad Hakim as the chairman of the board. On Tuesday, Pandey targeted Hakim. “There are more than 140 wards in Kolkata but KMC has only 25 cutters. There should have one cutter in each ward. It is unfortunate that KMC didn’t have this preparation. Meanwhile the municipal commissioner Khalil Ahmed was transferred. He was a good officer. Despite getting the warning at least five days in advance, the KMC’s administrator never discussed the matter with Kolkata’s MLAs. The administrator could have called us and asked for our opinion when the warning came. He never did that,” said Pandey. In a statement that could embarrass the state’s ruling party all the more, Pandey said that Hakim should have also discussed the matter with his predecessor Sovan Chatterjee. Incidentally, Chatterjee had quit TMC and joined the BJP. Hakim shot back at Pandey soon after. “Those who are making these remarks have kept themselves locked up in their apartments for the fear of Covid-19. I have been on the streets. I have to fight both Covid-19 and the impact of the cyclone.” BJP’s state unit president Dilip Ghosh also waded into the fight saying, “I congratulate Pandey for daring the speak the truth.” In another incident, Abdul Khaleq Molla, the TMC MLA from Metiabruz, sustained injuries when a brick was thrown at him during a protest by local residents at Nadial area over the delay in restoring power supply. In some pockets of Kolkata, power connections which snapped on the day of the cyclone on May 20 returned a week later on Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-vs-tmc-bengal-minister-slams-kolkata-civic-body-over-post-cyclone-mess/story-XiO3wTw7iDVt23BsN7iUcI.html
26-05-2020||India||Odisha to test pangolin rescued from quarantine centre for Covid-19||The Odisha forest department has decided to test a pangolin, rescued from a quarantine centre, for Covid-19, an official has said. A team of officials of Athagarh Forest division in Cuttack on Monday rescued the 5-year-old pangolin from a quarantine centre in Badamba. However, it is still not clear how the wild animal ended up at there. “Acting on a tip-off from the local sarpanch (village head man), we rescued the pangolin from the quarantine facility. We will take it to the veterinary doctor here for its health checkup,” said Athagarh Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Sasmita Lenka.Lenka said as the pangolin was rescued from the quarantine centre where 42 inmates were staying, its swab would be tested for presence of the coronavirus. The Centre for Wildlife Health in Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology in Bhubaneswar will facilitate the process.Later, it was decided to also test DFO Lenka for Covid-19 as she had come in contact with the pangolin during the rescue process. This will be the first time that swab samples of a pangolin will be sent for Covid-19 testing in the state, according to news agency IANS.The decision to test the pangolin for Covid-19 comes at a time when scientists suspect pangolins could be the carriers of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.A study by researchers from College of Veterinary Medicine, South China Agricultural University, earlier this month has suggested that the Sars-CoV-2 might have originated from a recombination of coronaviruses in a bat and pangolin. According to the study, pangolins and bats are both nocturnal animals, eat insects, and share overlapping ecological niches which make pangolins the ideal intermediate host for some Sars-related coronaviruses.The paper was published in the journal Nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-test-pangolin-rescued-from-quarantine-centre-for-covid-19/story-ujcDDY52lwql0jFbKygbnL.html
26-05-2020||India||Odisha paediatrician becomes first doctor in the state to contract coronavirus||In the first-ever case of a doctor getting infected by Covid-19 in Odisha, a paediatrician employed in a government hospital of Cuttack city has been diagnosed with the coronavirus.The doctor engaged at the district headquarters hospital, popularly known as the City Hospital, was admitted to the Ashwini Covid Hospital in Cuttack after his tests came out positive. The doctor had recently visited Kendrapara to bring back his wife. His wife will also undergo Covid-19 testing.Meanwhile, the district administration has constituted a team to carry out contact tracing to identify people who came in contact with the doctor.A few days ago a constable of Odisha police in Bhubaneshwar had tested positive for the disease, becoming the first Covid case in the police force.So far, a total of 1,517 persons in Odisha have tested positive for the disease.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-paediatrician-becomes-first-doctor-in-the-state-to-contract-coronavirus/story-SvXKBb3rIouNt4Aqdp2RHN.html
26-05-2020||India||‘Won’t leave without my bride’: Groom waits at UP border after he is denied entry into Uttarakhand||A groom from Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad area, who was on the way to solemnise his nikah (wedding) with a girl in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district on Tuesday, was not allowed to enter the state by police officials as he had not sought permission from the authorities concerned, said police.The groom waited for hours at the border, refusing to return home without his bride. He said it would be embarrassing for him at the village to return alone.Kayam, 23, the bridegroom who hails from Dilaari area in UP’s Moradabad, arrived in a car at about 8.30 am with his two brothers at UP-Uttarakhand border under Soorya police outpost in Kashipur area of US Nagar. He was on the way to Haldwani in Nainital district to solemnise his nikah with Rubeena of Bhanbulpura area (Haldwani) on Tuesday, police said.When stopped by police and asked to show permission to enter the state, Kayam only showed the permission from the bride’s side that was obtained from Nainital district administration. When he failed to show his own permission, he was denied the entry to Uttarakhand.“My nikah with Rubeena had been fixed six months earlier which was to be held on Tuesday noon in Haldwani. But police didn’t allow me to go there due to lack of permission and advised me to go back,” Kayam told local media. “If he goes back without bride it would be very embarrassing for him in front of the relatives and villagers in his area,” he added. “I won’t go back without my bride.”Police asked Kayam to inform the bride’s relative to come at the border with the bride and solemnise nikah there. After conducting nikah, he can go back to his village with the bride.Police also spoke to relatives of the girl and advised them to organise the nikah at the border as over a dozen weddings have already taken place during lockdown at the border in the district.Kayam, dressed in groom’s attire, kept on waiting at the border for girl’s relatives to show up. When the bride and her relatives didn’t show up till 5 pm, Kayam left for Thakurdwara, which is around 4 km from the border on UP side to wait for the bride at one of his relative’s homes.“It is necessary to have proper permission for crossing the border during the lockdown. The groom didn’t have permission from his side. Instead, he was showing us permission from the bride’s side. That is not acceptable as both sides should have permission. So we didn’t allow him to enter the state,” said Chetan Rawat, in-charge, Soorya police outpost in Kashipur area of US Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-leave-without-my-bride-groom-waits-at-border-after-he-is-denied-entry-into-uttarakhand/story-FD9A6fWeMLx23ArmhSa1hN.html
26-05-2020||India||A day after Bihar JD-U MLA booked for triple murder, kin shot dead||The spiral of violence in Bihar’s Gopalganj district continues even amid the Covid-19 lockdown as unidentified assailants on Tuesday shot dead a close relative of controversial JD(U) MLA from Kuchaikot, Amrendra Pandey alias Pappu Pandey, a day after the MLA’s elder brother and his son were arrested for the murder of three members of an RJD leader’s family on Sunday.Tuesday’s killing took place at Repura village under Hathua police station in Gopalganj district. This is ninth murder in the last five months in the district.The deceased was identified as Shashikant alias Munna Tiwari (45), a contractor, and a cousin of the MLA.Agitated over the incident, villagers blocked a stretch of the National Highway 28, demanding immediate arrest of the killers and the transfer of the Hathua station house officer (SHO), who they alleged was hand-in-glove with the criminal elements.The deceased’s sister Kiran Devi said the incident took place right outside Tiwari’s house. She said four assailants on two motorcycles reached the spot and fired at him from point blank range.For Coronavirus Live Updates“We are investigating the case. The reason could be a dispute over contracts. Preliminary investigation suggested that the deceased had bagged a contract of Rs 40 lakh to construct a pond,” Gopalganj SP Manoj Tiwari said.On Sunday evening, assailants had killed three members of an RJD leader’s family. The RJD leader, JP Choudhary, who was also injured in the firing, is being treated at Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) in the state capital.Five persons, including the MLA, his brother Satish Pandey and nephew Mukesh Pandey were booked for the triple murder. The next day, Satish and his son Mukesh Pandey, chairman of Gopalganj district board, were arrested.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Meanwhile, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday issued an ultimatum to the state government to arrest the MLA.He also visited the PMCH in Patna to enquire about the health of JP Choudhary.“I give an ultimatum to the state government to arrest the absconding MLA within two days. Otherwise, my party workers and I will march to Gopalganj and launch an intensive agitation,” Yadav said. Racting to Yadav’s ultimatum, JD (U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said, “The rule of law prevails in Bihar. The present dispensation doesn’t differentiate between common people and the high and mighty. And Tejashwi Yadav should also know that it is Bihar of 2020 and not 1990.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-after-bihar-jd-u-mla-booked-for-triple-murder-kin-shot-dead/story-4ogjSC7X3bfb5Tlwl0DdLK.html
26-05-2020||India||PM Modi speaks to leaders of Austria, Egypt and Qatar to discuss Covid-19 crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday reached out to the leaders of Austria, Egypt and Qatar to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and steps to counter the coronavirus.The telephone conversations were part of Modi’s ongoing outreach to heads of government around the world to ensure the welfare of Indian expatriates and to bolster cooperation in the fight against Covid-19 and to address the economic fallout of the pandemic.Austrian President Alexander Van der Bellen condoled the damage caused in India by cyclone Amphan and the two leaders exchanged views on steps taken in their countries to manage the health and economic impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic.They agreed on the importance of global collaboration to deal with current challenges. They also “reiterated their shared desire to further strengthen and diversify India-Austria relations in the post-Covid world”, the external affairs ministry said.Modi highlighted the opportunities for enhanced cooperation in infrastructure, technology, research and innovation, and SMEs. The leaders shared the hope the world will soon overcome the health crisis and focus on longer-term concerns such as the health of the environment.During his phone conversation with the Amir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani, Modi conveyed greetings on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr and appreciated the personal care taken by the Amir for ensuring the welfare of Indian citizens amid the pandemic.The Amir appreciated the contributions of the Indian community in Qatar, especially the role played by health workers. Modi highlighted the attention being paid by Indian authorities to avoid any disruption in supply of essential goods to Qatar.Modi also conveyed greetings for Eid-ul-Fitr to Egyptian President Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi, who expressed happiness at the fast expanding bilateral ties. Modi also expressed his appreciation for the support extended by Egyptian authorities for the safety and welfare of Indian nationals during the Covid-19 crisis.Referring to his planned visit to Egypt earlier this year, which was postponed due to the pandemic, Modi conveyed his desire to meet Sisi as soon as circumstances permit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-leaders-of-austria-egypt-and-qatar-to-discuss-covid-19-crisis/story-Lm3RWW1nvEb1ASR0OwYVUO.html
26-05-2020||India||Denied admission to enter village, Odisha youth gets quarantined in his car||A 30-year-old man in Odisha’s Covid-19 hotspot of Ganjam district has been forced to quarantine himself in his car for the last six days as villagers have not allowed him to enter the village.Madhaba Patra, a videographer staying in an apartment of Berhampur town in Ganjam district had gone to Bihar on some business-related trip on May 3 and returned after three days. As Patra had no symptoms of coronavirus, he was allowed by the administration to stay in home quarantine in Berhampur as per norms. After completing his quarantine period of 14 days in his apartment at Berhampur he tested negative for coronavirus, officials said.After completing the 14-day quarantine period, he went to his village Dolaba in Sanakhemundi block of Ganjam in his car on the day cyclone Amphan was to pass by Odisha coast.But a day after his arrival, the husband of a local anganwadi worker and some other villagers opposed Patra’s entry to the village and insisted that he undergo another round of quarantine.“I tried to reason with the villagers that I have tested negative for Covid-19 and spent the mandatory 14 days in home quarantine. I showed my certificate. However, no one seemed to believe me and asked me to stay in the institutional quarantine in a school near the village,” said Patra.The matter even reached the local police station, where the officials tried to make the villagers see reason. However, they insisted that the youth has to stay in quarantine. But unwilling to stay in the quarantine centre running in the school where several migrant workers too stayed, Patra said he would rather stay in his car.“There is a risk of getting infected in institutional quarantine where many migrant workers are housed. So I decided to stay in my car. If I have to stay in quarantine twice, there is no point. Once I tested negative in Covid test and completed home quarantine I should have been free to go anywhere,” he said.The Basudevpur grampanchayat sarpanch decided that Patra needed to spend a week in quarantine. Ganjam has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Odisha at 358. Patra who parked himself near the quarantine centre is served food from there and gets to use the bathrooms and toilets at the facility. He sleeps in his car.Sanakhemundi Block Development Officer Gayatridutta Nayak said the youth will complete his quarantine on May 27 and can visit his home.Under Odisha’s new quarantine protocol for village areas, one has to be in institutional quarantine for seven days followed by home quarantine for another seven days.Earlier this month, a 30-year-old man in Odisha’s Balasoredistrict had to spend three days in the toilet of his home before he wasshifted to a school because the village did not have a quarantine centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/denied-admission-to-enter-village-odisha-youth-gets-quarantined-in-his-car/story-9fbxFSbZ2OKL96Dgx1i48N.html
26-05-2020||India||Covid update: Karnataka to reopen temples for worship from June 1||Karnataka has decided to allow temples to reopen for worship from the first of June as part of a gradual resumption of activities in the state, according to Muzrai minister Kota Srinivas Poojary. The state will issue a standard operating protocol (SOP) in this regard which is being formulated. This was decided in a meeting of the Muzrai (temple endowment) minister with chief minister B S Yediyurappa in which a number of other decisions regarding the ministry were also taken.Also, nearly 50 prominent temples will offer online booking of ‘sevas’ (service) and ‘poojas’ (prayers) to ensure social distancing norms are maintained even as traditions are continued. E-donations will also be encouraged for meeting the dual purpose.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesSince March 24, all temple gatherings and festivities have been banned due to the ongoing pandemic, with rituals being carried out only by sevadars and priests.The temples in the state are estimated to have lost Rs 200 crore in offerings especially in March-June, considered to be the prime season on the temple circuit because of school holidays. Department officials said churches, mosques, gurudwaras and other places of worship would also be open but will have to adhere to the same SOPs that will be released soon.Karnataka also decided to build new choultries (subsidised inn for pilgrims) at a cost of Rs 200 crore in Tirumala located in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, which is visited by lakhs of pilgrims from the state.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Central guidelines, governing the fourth phase of lockdown that ends on May 31, prohibit the resumption of mass gatherings at religious places. Followers have demanded that religious activities are also allowed with restrictions in place.The centre, however, has allowed the observance of death rituals with maximum 20 people in attendance. As on Tuesday, Karnataka has a total of 2182 positive cases of coronavirus as per the data available with the home ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-update-karnataka-to-reopen-temples-for-worship-from-june-1/story-2r4wVjUnPEOAJtxRg0dJUJ.html
26-05-2020||India||Bihar man, on way back home from Gujarat, dies on board Shramik Special train||A migrant worker on his way home in Bihar from Vapi in Gujarat, died aboard a Shramik Special train on Tuesday, a police official said. The deceased, identified as 55-year-old Lal Babu Kamati, was a resident of Jale Police Station area in Darbhanga district. He reportedly died somewhere between Kiul and Bhagalpur stations in Bihar. Kamati, who worked as a security guard in Vapi, had boarded the train on May 23 along with his wife and three daughters. Anil Kumar Singh, SHO, Bhagalpur RPF post, confirmed Kamati’s death during the train journey. The deceased’s family said he had some previous health complications, the police officer added. Kamati’s family also suspected that extreme heat conditions could have been a factor in his death. Meanwhile, a migrant worker in Darbhanga district who had arrived from Delhi on May 24, died at a block quarantine centre at Jale late on Monday night. The deceased, identified as Nurul Saddaf, worked as cook in a hotel in Delhi’s Sadar Bazaar area. He had been staying at the quarantine centre since his return. “He developed sudden breathing complication on Monday night. Nobody responded to the call on the landline number at Jale referral hospital for medical emergency,” alleged one of the inmates of the quarantine centre.Following Saddaf’s death, Jale police station in-charge Dilip Pathak, block development officer (BDO) Rajesh Kumar, circle officer (CO) Anil Kumar and Jale chief medical officer (CMO) Gangesh Jha rushed to quarantine centre early morning on Tuesday.The CMO said that the deceased was taken for burial after his sample was collected to test for Covid-19. Sources said that the relatives of deceased were provided PPE kits for burial.In another incident in the state, 19-year-old Ramu Kumar died of electric shock at a quarantine centre in Bahera village under Kusheshwarasthan (East) block on Monday evening. He had arrived from Delhi by Shramik special train on May 22.According to reports, the deceased was trying to fix a wire of a table fan when he got electrocuted. Darbhanga DM Thiyagrajan SM has asked Biraul SDO and DSP to investigate the incident. The DM said further action will be taken after receipt of enquiry report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-man-on-way-back-home-from-gujarat-dies-on-board-shramik-special-train/story-cwfBIs9wHDqHAglEzqS01N.html
26-05-2020||India||No major side-effects of HCQ in studies in India, can be used as preventive Covid treatment: ICMR||No major side-effects of antimalarial drug Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) have been found in studies in India and its use can be continued in preventive treatment for Covid-19 under strict medical supervision, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Tuesday.The ICMR’s statement came against the backdrop of the World Health Organization (WHO) temporarily suspending the testing of the drug as a potential treatment for Covid-19 over safety concerns.“The Covid-19 is an evolving field and we do not know which drug is working and which is not working. Lots of drugs are being repurposed for Covid-19, whether for prophylaxis (treatment given or action taken to prevent disease) or for treatment of the disease.“During these six weeks, we got some data in India, mainly observational studies and some case control studies. We found there were no major side affects except for nausea, vomiting, palpitation occasionally. Hence in our advisory, we’ve recommended that it should be continued for prophylaxis as there is no harm. Benefit may be there,” ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said at a press briefing here on Tuesday.He said it has been “clearly advised that HCQ should be taken with food, not on empty stomach”.“We also emphasized that one ECG should be done during the treatment. We expanded the use of HCQ from healthcare workers to front-line workers also, considering the potential benefits,” he added.Bhargava said that Chloroquine is a very old antimalarial drug used for nearly 100 years and Hydroxychloroquine is even safer and is widely used for malaria.  “Taking biological plausibility, in-vitro data and the availability and safety of this drug [HCQ], we had recommended it for use under strict medical supervision,” the ICMR DG told the press conference. “It was very popular drug suddenly when the American government also started using it and they got fast track approval or emergency use authorisation for it. We also thought that it may be a useful drug for prevention of Covid,” Bhargava said.He said that risk-benefit studies of the HCQ were conducted at the AIIMS, the ICMR, and also in three public hospitals in Delhi. “Looking at the risk and benefits we found that we should not deny it to our frontline and healthcare workers dealing with the Covid-19 patients. At the same time we have also said that the use of PPE should be continued,” he stressed.Referring to an ongoing nationwide ICMR study to assess the efficacy HCQ as a preventive medication against Covid among healthcare personnel in hospitals, Bhargava said the soon-to-be-published findings will also talk about how many of the surveyed people were wearing PPEs, what were the side-effects and how many benefited.Bhargava further said the ICMR has ramped up testing facilities and over one lakh samples are being tested per day now.While India had just one lab -- NIV, Pune -- on January 17, it has 612 laboratories (430 public and 182) private labs now, he said.The capacity has been increased by augmenting number of labs, shifts, RT-PCR machines and manpower, he said.“Guidelines have been issued to states advising immediate testing for symptomatic and home-quarantine for asymptomatic migrant workers. Besides, most states have been working with the National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme to deploy TrueNat machines for Covid-19 testing. “Indigenous manufacturers of RT-PCR kits, VTM, swabs and RNA extraction kits have been facilitated,” he said.Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health, said the recovery rate for Covid-19 cases in the country has seen an upwards trend and has improved from 7.1 per cent in March, when the lockdown was initiated, to 11.42 per cent during the second phase of lockdown. It improved to 26.59 pc in the third phase and to 41.61 per cent now, he said.The ICMR in its revised advisory on May 22 recommended use of the HCQ as a preventive medication for Covid-19 for asymptomatic healthcare workers in non-Covid hospitals and frontline staff on surveillance duty in containment zones and paramilitary/police personnel involved in coronavirus related activities.Besides, the drug was also recommended for all asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in containment and treatment of Covid-19 and household contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases.   Highlighting the studies on prophylaxis of SARS-CoV-2 infection, the advisory stated that a retrospective case-control analysis at ICMR has found that there is a significant dose-response relationship between the number of prophylactic doses taken and frequency of occurrence of SARS CoV-2 infection in symptomatic healthcare workers who were tested for coronavirus infection.   Another investigation from three central government hospitals here indicates that amongst healthcare workers involved in Covid-19 care, those on HCQ prophylaxis were less likely to develop SARS-CoV-2 infection, compared to those who were not on it. The benefit was less pronounced in healthcare workers caring for a general patient.  Besides, an observational prospective study of 334 healthcare workers at AIIMS, out of which 248 took HCQ prophylaxis (median 6 weeks of follow-up) here also showed that those taking it had lower incidence of SARS-CoV-2 than those not taking it.According to the advisory, the drug has to be given only on the prescription of a registered medical practitioner and it is advised to consult with a physician for any adverse event or potential drug interaction before initiation of medication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-major-side-effects-of-hcq-in-studies-in-india-can-be-used-as-preventive-covid-treatment-icmr/story-EflWWnPlVu0FHhV1OH1xoM.html
26-05-2020||India||350 migrants jump off trains to escape quarantine in Bihar, 180 detained||As many as 350 migrants returning from Delhi and Patiala jumped off Shramik Special trains by pulling alarm chains in two separate incidents between Mansi-Saharsa rail sections near Simri-Bakhtiarpur station falling under East Central railway on Tuesday.According to reports, the train (04062) carrying the migrant workers from Delhi’s Anand Vihar to Purnia halted near the Ranibagh railway crossing though there was no scheduled stoppage. Around 150 workers de-boarded and escaped.On getting information, Simri Bakhtiarpur BDO Manoj Kumar reached the spot and also met station superintendent of Simri Bakhtiarpur railway station, B K Verma who said the train stopped at around 8.36 am to 8.41 am after passengers pulled the emergency brake. Later the BDO visited a nearby village and urged locals as well as the mukhia (headman) to inform them about the migrants who escaped from the train. The locals also demanded migrants who escaped from the train should be kept in quarantine centres.In another incident, at around 4.24 pm more than 250 migrant returnees fled a ‘Shramik Special’ train near the same rail section after pulling the alarm chain. After some locals spotted the migrant returnees coming from the railway track towards Ranibagh area, they informed police and railway protection force (RPF). While 180 of the migrants were detained by the locals, others managed to escape.On getting information BDO Manoj Kumar and government railway police’s (GRP) station house officer (SHO) Ranveer Kumar reached the spot and brought them back to Simri Bakhtiarpur railway station.Though the migrants refuted the allegation of chain pulling and said that they alighted from the train as it had stopped, the station superintendent insisted that the chain was pulled to stop the train. The migrants would be sent to their respective native places by buses after thermal scanning.One of the migrants said the ‘Shramik Special’ train (4534) was carrying people of Saharsa from Patiala in Punjab. “We were facing a lot of problems owing to lack of jobs and the lockdown. We were returning home’, he added.In a similar incident, migrants allegedly stopped another train headed towards Gaya from Chandigarh near Mahdi Ganj village in Sasaram district. Soon after, the passengers started deboarding the train and ran away to their destinations instead of going to the quarantine centre, GRP officials said. Twenty four passengers are suspected to have escaped from the train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/350-migrants-jump-off-trains-to-escape-quarantine-in-bihar-180-detained/story-opjHMM0tLd5NOlGfJFrJKO.html
26-05-2020||India||IndiGo grounds Chennai-Coimbatore flight crew after passenger tests positive for coronavirus||IndiGo on Tuesday grounded the crew of Chennai-Coimbatore flight after a passenger travelling on-board was found to be coronavirus positive.This is the first case of a passenger testing positive for Covid-19 after the domestic flight services resumed on Monday. The passenger, who was on-board the Chennai-Coimbatore IndiGo flight 6E 381, has been sent on quarantine at ESI state medical facility at Coimbatore. As a precautionary measure, the crew members that operated on the flight have been grounded for 14 days, IndiGo said in a statement.“The passenger was seated on-board the aircraft with all precautionary measures including face mask, face shield and gloves, as were the other passengers. Additionally, no one else was seated in his vicinity, significantly reducing the possibility of transmission,” the statement said. “The operating crew has been grounded for 14 days and we are in the process of notifying other passengers as per the government guidelines, to ensure safety of our passengers and staff,” IndiGo said.India on Monday resumed air travel across the country after grounding the flight services for two months as a measure to control the spread of coronavirus. Several states have announced varied quarantine and self-isolation rules for the passengers arriving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-grounds-chennai-coimbatore-flight-crew-after-passenger-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-JLG9Fiqxzh2z42nNtPwDCO.html
26-05-2020||India||Over 200 bats found dead in a Bihar village, doctors collect their swabs for testing||A team of doctors from Bihar government’s animal husbandry department on Tuesday confirmed reports of mass death of bats near Ara in Bhojpur district. The swab samples of the dead birds are being sent to Patna for testing and doctors said any reason for their death could only be attributed after the test reports are obtained.The team of doctors visited Tarari, 55 km south from Bhojpur district headquarter of Ara after getting information about the death of hundreds of bats there.As per locals, a large number of bats were found dead in Tarari on Monday, following which the animal husbandry department was informed. The district animal husbandry officer Dr Sidh Nath Rai said that the team of six doctors who visited the incident site on Tuesday reported about the death of around 200 bats there.He said that the swab samples of dead bats have been taken and it will be sent to the Institute of Animal Health and Production situated in Patna for testing.The bizarre incident has generated even more curiosity as it comes amidst the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic which has been linked to bats. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe district animal husbandry officer said he could only speak about the reason of the deaths after getting the medical report from Patna. However, he said that the incident does not seem to be connected with bird flu. Bats are mammals and bird flu is not known to spread in high temperatures like at the present.The dead bats have been buried five to six feet deep in the ground following all the medical procedures. The incident site and all the nearby places were also sanitised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-200-bats-found-dead-in-a-bihar-village-doctors-collect-their-swabs-for-testing/story-IaDy0j7ud81OBj7cpFmUyJ.html
26-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: India won’t allow change of status quo on Line of Actual Control, say officials and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India won’t allow change of status quo on Line of Actual Control: OfficialsThe government sources on Tuesday underlined that India won’t permit any change of the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) amid rising tensions with China in the Ladakh sector. Read more. Assam flood situation deteriorates, 2 lakh people in 7 districts affectedNearly two lakh people in seven districts in Assam have been affected by floods as incessant rain across much of the state worsened the situation on Tuesday. Read more. Covid-19 latest: Kerala sees biggest single-day spike, CM cautions against lowering guardKerala on Tuesday reported 67 coronavirus cases, the highest in a single day since the outbreak in January resulting in the chief minister sounding a note of caution against the lowering of guard and easing of surveillance at this critical juncture as it may lead to community transmission of the disease. Read more. Adityanath makes u-turn, UP says no permission needed to hire its workersTwo days after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said other states will also need permission from the state for engaging its workers, his government said Tuesday that it would not incorporate, in the migration commission bye-laws, the ‘prior permission’ clause for states seeking to employ manpower from UP. Read more.Donald Trump threatens to shift Republican conventionPresident Donald Trump has threatened to shift the upcoming Republican party convention, where he will be officially crowned as the party’s presidential nominee for the November elections out of Democratic-ruled North Carolina, citing continuing Covid-19 related restrictions there. Read more. ‘You remind me of me’: Jonty Rhodes gives huge praise to India cricketer on fielding effortsIndia cricketer Suresh Raina has always been known as a great fielder. The left-handed batsman was often seen diving around the cricket field, trying to save runs. He has also taken some memorable catches, and caused some quick run-outs. Read more. Crime Patrol actor Preksha Mehta commits suicide at 25, leaves final note on InstagramTelevision actor Preksha Mehta committed suicide at her residence in Indore by hanging herself from the ceiling fan. She took the drastic step on Monday night but her body was discovered early on Tuesday morning by her father. Read more. Aarogya Setu’s Android version made open sourceThe government today made the Android version of Aarogya Setu open source. The iOS and KaiOS versions of Aarogya Setu will also be made open source soon. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-india-won-t-allow-change-of-status-quo-on-line-of-actual-control-say-officials-and-all-the-latest-news/story-O1jWllU2ORyO2JtR7OH7JP.html
26-05-2020||India||Hotels ordered to refund 7 days rent after institutional quarantine cut from 14 to 7 days||The home ministry has intervened on Tuesday following complaints that some hotels, used as temporary quarantine centres for people travelling from outside the country, were refusing to return seven day advance money after the government cut down institutional quarantine period from 14 days to seven.A notification issued on Tuesday by Ajay Bhalla, secretary home ministry in this regards instructs chief secretaries of all states to ensure that the hotels process refunds without any delay.“It has been brought to the notice of this ministry that Indian nationals who were quarantined in hotels after their return from abroad were made to pay advance for 14 days. Since they can now leave for home quarantine after 7 days, the amount paid by them for the remaining 7 days needs to be refunded to them, which some hotels are refusing to refund,” the order highlights.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe home ministry on Sunday revised its guidelines to cut short mandatory institutional quarantine for passengers arriving from abroad on flights operated under the Vande Bharat mission—a massive repatriation exercise being conducted by the government of India—to seven days from earlier 14 days period.According to the revised advisory, people could choose to spend the second week of quarantine at their homes. But the ministry received complaints that several hotels had already charged 14-days rent from arriving guests and were now refusing to return a week’s advance rent.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The home ministry directed the states to ensure that the hotels in their jurisdiction comply.“You are requested to issue necessary directions to hotels earmarked/used for Institutional quarantine to ensure that foreign returnees who were quarantined in hotels and paid advance of 14-days, shall be refunded the balance amount, without any delay,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotels-ordered-to-repay-7-days-rent-after-institutional-quarantine-cut-from-14-to-7-days/story-UcdW5APNX2vtFWXTgUhL8K.html
26-05-2020||India||Assam flood situation deteriorates, 2 lakh people in 7 districts affected||Nearly two lakh people in seven districts in Assam have been affected by floods as incessant rain across much of the state worsened the situation on Tuesday.According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 229 villages in 17 revenue circles of Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Darrang, Nalbari, Goalpara, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia have been affected by floods.A total of 1,94,916 people have been affected by floods and nearly 9,000 of them are taking shelter in 35 relief camps set up in Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Goalpara and Tinsukia districts.A total of 1,007 hectares of crop area has been submerged due to flooding and around 16,500 domestic animals and poultry affected, the ASDMA said.Most rivers in the state continued to remain in spate with the Jia Bharali and Brahmaputra flowing above the danger mark in Sonitpur and Nematighat (Jorhat) respectively.Meanwhile, three persons from a single family were killed due to a landslide at Arzoo village in Dibang Valley district of Arunachal Pradesh on Monday. Incessant rainfall in the past couple of days has affected large parts of the state.Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu announced ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh each to next of kin of the deceased persons. He directed district officials to move people to safer areas to protect them from floods and landslides.The situation in the region is likely to remain grim for the next few days with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issuing a red alert predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall in Assam and Meghalaya from May 26 to May 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-flood-situation-deteriorates-2-lakh-people-in-7-districts-affected/story-lvFjvwOgu0FuOdref0IOCJ.html
26-05-2020||India||Covid-19 latest: Kerala sees biggest single-day spike, CM cautions against lowering guard||Kerala on Tuesday reported 67 coronavirus cases, the highest in a single day since the outbreak in January resulting in the chief minister sounding a note of caution against the lowering of guard and easing of surveillance at this critical juncture as it may lead to community transmission of the disease.Among the new cases, 27 are foreign returnees, 30 are arrivals from other states and 10 were people who contracted the disease within the state from the infected, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.He added that Palakkad district had reported 29 cases on Tuesday-- the maximum in the state. Out of Kerala’s total 963 Covid-19 cases, 415 are active. The number of persons under observation has risen to over one lakh while 7 people have died due to the disease.When asked about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s observation that lockdown has failed to serve its purpose, the CM said he did not agree with it.“I feel lockdown helped to contain the spread. Even before the Centre imposed it, Kerala started implementing it. So we can’t blame the lockdown,” he said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesTalking to newsmen earlier in the day, Gandhi said the two-month-long lockdown failed to serve its purpose as cases spiked in this period. He also asked the Modi government to spell out its ‘Plan B’ to handle the crisis. Vijayan said he agreed that the centre did not intervene effectively to address lockdown-induced problems.“I agree with the Centre’s intervention to lessen the woes of the lockdown affected people, was inadequate. States were not heard properly and compensated,” Vijayan said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The CM also criticised railway minister Piyush Goyal’s statement that the state was not keen on bringing back its people stranded in other parts of the country.“You can’t send trains without informing the state. We had a couple of such experiences. This will sabotage our preparedness. Such a statement was least expected from a union minister,” Vijayan said, adding people of the state knew him well and he did not want a certificate in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-kerala-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-cm-cautions-against-lowering-guard/story-8mK7dX5XF9PdxWPzsiQgmJ.html
26-05-2020||India||Hit by cyclone Amphan, villages in Sunderbans face drinking water crisis||Devastated by cyclone Amphan almost a week ago, several villages on remote islands of the Sunderbans and the coastal belt in West Bengal are now facing an acute drinking water crisis but authorities claim 70% of the water connections have been restoredThe Sunderbans is the world’s largest mangrove delta and home to more than 4.5 million people. It is spread over two districts - South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas and has 102 islands of which 54 are inhabited.The cyclone destroyed dozens of pipelines that used to supply drinking water to the islands surrounded by rivers fed with saline tidal water from the sea. Salt water from these rivers has gushed into the villages through breaches in the embankments filling up the sweet water ponds and hundreds of tube wells still remain submerged in saline water even six days after the calamity.“I need to walk for nearly 30 minutes, stand in a queue behind more than 50 minutes, fill up a bucket and an earthen pitcher from the only functional tube well in the area and then walk back home,” said Swapna Sardar, 36, a resident of Rangabelia village in Gosaba, a block in South 24 Parganas district that has been totally devastated by the storm.Hundreds of villages in several blocks such as Gosaba, Kultali, Kakdwip, Namkhana, Patharpramima in South 24 Parganas and Minakha, Sandeshkhali, Hingalganj and Hasnabad in North 24 Parganas have been devastated. Many are still inundated.“There is an acute shortage of drinking water. Nearly 16 km of embankments have been breached and storm surge have destroyed the sluice gates. Saline water has gushed into the villages inundating the ponds and tubewells. We are providing water pouches. Huge drums filled with water are being distributed in the villages in vehicles and boats,” said Manturam Pakhira, Sunderban affairs minister.Locals in the villages said that dozens of tube wells are lying defunct for a long time. While some have not been repaired since they were destroyed by cyclone Aila in May 2019, many others became useless when cyclone Bulbul hit in November 2019. Many others became non-operational due to poor maintenance and no maintenance.“There were three tubewells in my village. But only one work is functional now. Repeated appeals to the local MLA have not yielded any results. Now after the cyclone there is crowding near the tubewells every day,” said Antara Mahata, a resident of Gobindarampur village in Kakdwip block. Most ponds will have to be emptied and treated before they are filled again for the water to become fit for drinking.“We will have to treat the ponds with lime and potassium permanganate before monsoon so that fresh water can fill them up again. Dozens of pumps have been deployed to drain out the water that has inundated the villages. We also need to clean the tubewells,” said S Mitra, BDO of Gosaba.While most of the islands in the South 24 Parganas part of the Sunderbans are battling a drinking water crisis, one island in the same district has put up a starkly different picture despite being equally hit. It is the Sagar Island at the mouth of the Bay of Bengal.Every year the island hosts lakhs of people from across India during the Ganga Sagar mela. The infrastructure that has been developed to handle such huge congregation has come handy for the district administration while facing the crises – Amphan during the time of the coronavirus pandemic.“During the Ganga Sagar mela we have to produce water pouches for millions of pilgrims every day. Machines that can produce water pouches are already installed and huge water tankers of the public health engineering department were already there on the island. Those have been deployed. We are much better off,” said Sudipta Mandal BDO of Sagar.The saline water that has gushed into the villages has also killed all the sweet water fish including rohu, kalta and pangash.Dead fish could be seen floating in ponds Gobindarampur village in Kakdwip two days after the cyclone. Villagers had to collect the dead fishes and dump them.“The dead fish had to be collected and buried. We will have to drain out the salt water from the ponds and treat the bed with lime. Once the monsoon starts the ponds will be again filled with fresh rain water. But it would take some time to rear fish as we had seen after cyclone Aila,” said Sudam Roy, a resident of Rangabelia village in Gosaba where dozens of such ponds have been destroyed.On Tuesday the government said 70% of water connections in the Sunderbans have been restored.“In the remote islands of the Sunderbans we are sending water pouches everyday which are being distributed. Also water tankers are being sent on boats to the islands. 70% of the water connection has been restored. The main problem is electricity. If electricity is restored water connection will come. That is being simultaneously restored,” said P Ulaganathan, district magistrate of South 24 Parganas.He did not say how long it would take to restore normal drinking water supply across all the islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hit-by-cyclone-amphan-villages-in-sunderbans-face-drinking-water-crisis/story-ggOH1uq5rBIowJPaLfstlM.html
26-05-2020||India||Assam lifts ban on pork sale in AFS-affected districts with certain riders||Assam government on Tuesday lifted the ban on sale and consumption of pork in the African Swine Fever (ASF)-affected districts with certain conditions.Nearly 16,000 pigs have died since April in 10 of the 33 districts in the state due to ASF, which has been detected for the first time in the country. The state government had banned sale and consumption of pork in the affected districts on April 25 following the spike in deaths.“After consultations with veterinary experts and veterinary department officials, we have decided on certain relaxations in sale and consumption of pork and pork products. I am sure this will provide relief to pig farmers and piggery owners,” agriculture minister Atul Bora said during a press conference.The minister said that within the affected districts, sale and consumption has been banned in epicentres of the ASF disease as well as infected and surveillance zones. Inter-district and inter-state sale, purchase and transfer of pigs, pork and pork products also won’t be allowed, Bora informed.The state government has declared seven areas in Biswanath, Dhemaji, Sibsagar, Jorhat and Kamrup (Metro) districts as epicentres of ASF. An area within 1 km radius of these epicentres is considered as infected zone and an area within 10 km of the infected zone as surveillance zone.“We welcome the government’s move as it will provide some relief to pig farmers. But there should be strict monitoring of sale in the affected districts,” said Manoj Kumar Basumatary, president of North East Progressive Pig Farmers Association (NEPPFA), an organization of pig farmers.“The government should also consider giving financial assistance or fodder to farmers in affected districts and there should be more testing of samples to ensure that the disease doesn’t spread further,” he added.African Swine Fever is a highly contagious haemorrhagic viral disease of domestic and wild pigs. It can spread by live or dead – both domestic and wild- and through pork products.According to 2019 census, Assam has a pig population of 21 lakh and thousands of farmers across the state are involved in the piggery sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-lifts-ban-on-pork-sale-in-afs-affected-districts-with-certain-riders/story-WnyOH1dZxCbZ1O2RNPhXuJ.html
26-05-2020||India||Covid-19 epicentre shifts from Garhwal to Kumaon region in Uttarakhand||The epicentre of Covid-19 infection has shifted in the Himalayan state from Garhwal to Kumaon region with a sudden spike in migrants testing positive for coronavirus infection in the last four days.On Tuesday, Uttarakhand reported 51 new Covid 19 positive cases, taking the state’s tally to 400 including 136 cases listed in Kumaon region’s Nainital district, which has now overtaken Garhwal region’s Dehradun, also the state’s capital, which has recorded 74 cases so far.The shift happened on Saturday when 57 fresh cases were reported from Nainital, increasing its tally to 85. From Saturday onwards, more cases have tested positive in the Kumaon region with the influx of migrants from other states.Till Tuesday evening, Kumaon has a total of 237 cases, while the Garhwal region has reported 158 cases. According to JC Pandey, public relations officer (PRO) state health department, 51 new cases including a nurse at the government hospital in Haridwar, have been detected in the state on Tuesday, while five patients recovered on Tuesday taking the total number of recoveries to 64.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesFresh cases were reported from Nainital (10), Udham Singh Nagar (2), Tehri Garhwal (14), Haridwar (5), Almora (3), Haridwar (5) and Pithoragarh (14). Most of these cases are migrants who returned from places like Maharashtra, Delhi, Meerut, Chandigarh and Punjab. So far over 330 migrants have tested positive in the state.According to government officials, till Tuesday evening, over 2.52 lakh registrations had been made on the state website by people seeking to return to the state. Of these, the state government has so far brought back 1.64 lakh people through trains and buses. Uttarakhand has so far tested 23,076 samples of which 18,193 have tested negative and 400 have tested positive. The rate of doubling of cases (in the last seven days) stands at 3.84 days. The percentage of recovery for Covid-19 patients in the state has now reached 16 %.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday announced a monetary reward of Rs 50 lakh to those Covid-19 hospitals in the state that have managed to treat positive patients without letting their staffers getting infected.Making the announcement Rawat said, “The health workers are our frontline fighters in the fight against this deadly virus. Their health safety is our utmost priority. This move will definitely motivate the Covid hospitals to ensure the health safety of their staffers and also boost their morale while fighting the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-epicentre-shifts-from-garhwal-to-kumaon-region-in-uttarakhand/story-S6nA3y3VH6XxMwB2tltLNK.html
26-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand officials booked for negligence after six-year-old dies of snakebite at Nainital quarantine centre||Three officials associated with a quarantine centre in Nainital, where a six-year-old girl died due to snakebite on Monday, were booked for death due to negligence on the basis of a complaint by the girl’s uncle.The six-year-old girl was quarantined at a government primary school at Talli Sethi village in a remote area of Nainital district where she was allegedly bitten by a snake in the wee hours.Also Read: Snakebite kills six-year-old girl in Uttarakhand quarantine centreSavin Bansal, district magistrate Nainital ordered an investigation into the incident by the sub-divisional magistrate Koshyakutoli Richa Singh. The investigation revealed alleged negligence on part of Karan Singh, a school teacher, Rajpal Singh, revenue officer (patwari) and Umesh Joshi, village development officer, who were on duty at the quarantine centre, officials said.“Negligence of three officials has come to fore in this incident. Neither did they reach the spot after the incident came to light nor did they inform their higher authorities about it,” said Richa Singh, SDM Koshyakutoli in Nainital district.“On the complaint of the girl’s uncle, the local Naib Tehsildar (revenue police) lodged a FIR against all the three officials on charges of death due to negligence” she said.District magistrate Nainital, Savin Bansal has now instructed district development officer, district panchayat raj officer and district education officer to ensure the presence of all employees deployed in quarantine centres through video-calling.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe three officials were booked under IPC 304 A (causing death by negligence), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligence act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 51 B of the Disaster Management Act.Bijulal, the divisional forest officer (DFO) Nainital said, “The family of the girl will be provided a compensation of Rs 3 lakh.”Meanwhile, Indira Hridayesh, leader of opposition in Uttarakhand alleged that quarantine centres across the state were in bad condition. “There is no provision of proper facilities like food, water and medicines in these centres,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-officials-booked-for-negligence-after-six-year-old-dies-of-snakebite-at-nainital-quarantine-centre/story-gxfmgFsVj0we60prx253AM.html
26-05-2020||India||Assam cabinet makes institutional quarantine mandatory for all returnees||Assam cabinet on Tuesday decided that all those stranded people, who are returning to the state following the easing of lockdown restrictions from May 4, will have to undergo institutional quarantine for the first few days because of a spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in the past few days.The state has reported 598 Covid-19 positive cases till Tuesday afternoon. Assam already has a strict policy, which requires all returnees to spend a total of 14 days in quarantine, with the first few days in an institution until the test results are available and the rest in isolation at home. “On Tuesday, the cabinet approved the enforcement of strict quarantine for all returnees for 14 days, as we don’t want community spread of the viral outbreak,” parliamentary affairs minister Chandra Mohan Patowary told media persons after the meeting.In a bid to help folk artistes, who are facing economic hardships because of the ongoing lockdown restrictions, which have been imposed since end-March to contain the spread of the pandemic, the cabinet also decided to provide Rs2,000 to each of them for three months, beginning April.“The cabinet directed all the deputy commissioners to stock adequate relief materials and repair embankments, as the onset of floods is likely from July,” Patowary said.Ministers, who are in charge of Covid-19 management in the state’s 33 districts, have been entrusted with the additional responsibility of overseeing flood relief work in those districts, Patowary added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cabinet-makes-institutional-quarantine-mandatory-for-all-returnees/story-ysO1sYYec9VDQcu4Z4mizH.html
26-05-2020||India||53-yr-old woman dies at Covid-19 quarantine centre in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh||Pithoragarh: A 53 -year-old woman died at a Covid-19 quarantine centre in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district, health officials said on Tuesday. Authorities have instituted an inquiry to determine the cause of her death.The woman had recently returned to her village in the hilly district from Haldwani in Nainital district, following which she had been quarantined.Dr Bhagirathi Gunjan, chief medical officer Pithoragarh said that the woman had been quarantined at at Khoyam Jerthi village in the district after she returned from Haldwani on May 22. She said, on the directions of the district magistrate, an inquiry was initiated into the death of the woman on Monday evening.“It is not clear how she died. A team of doctors has been sent to the area to investigate the death and determine its cause. Her post mortem result will clarify the circumstances under which she died”, she saidRajendra Singh Danu, gram pradhan (village head) of Khoyam Jerthi, said the woman was quite healthy while at the quarantine centre but she collapsed on Monday evening following which local doctors declared her dead.“It seems that she likely died due to a heart attack but her post mortem result will reveal the exact cause”, he said.On Monday, a six-year-old girl at a quarantine centre in Nainital district’s Betalghat area died after she was allegedly bitten by a snake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/53-yr-old-woman-dies-at-covid-19-quarantine-centre-in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh/story-yJwkVFfWQuIruq1EmUaneL.html
26-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Haridwar administration begins rapid testing of migrants workers||Following the recent spike in Covid-19 positive cases with the arrival of migrants in Uttarakhand, the Haridwar administration has decided to conduct rapid antibody test along with the routine and random testing of the symptomatic patients. With over 300 migrants testing Covid-19 positive in the state so far as per the state health department, this step is being seen as a move to trace the positive patients in a short span so that they can be put in quarantine centres.Haridwar district reported five new positive cases on Tuesday which included a district hospital staff nurse and two migrants who arrived from Mumbai recently. About ten cases of migrants testing positive have resurfaced in past week in Haridwar.Rapid antibody testing is being done on a daily basis at Haridwar Mela hospital-based Covid-19 centre and Civil hospital in Roorkee.The health administration opting for the rapid test is also being linked with the delay in the arrival of reports from three authorised medical labs at Haldwani Medical College, Doon Medical College and All India Institute of Medical Sciences AIIMS, Rishikesh.According to Haridwar’s chief medical officer Dr Saroj Naithani, rapid test gives result in a short span and if it shows a positive sample, then it is sent to authorised labs for reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.A district official pointed that as per Union ministry of health guidelines, rapid tests are recommended for places where a large number of cases are being reported, large gatherings and evacuation centres as has happened with the arrival of thousands of migrants in the state at the base railway station in Haridwar.Uttarakhand reported 51 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking its tally to 400, according to the state health department, reports PTI. Meanwhile, authorities have announced thirteen areas in the district as containment zones, sealing these areas where Covid-19 positive cases have been recorded in the past few days. These zones are Nagla Emarti, Roorkee, Hata Kheri Bhagwanpur, Sati Mohalla, Roorkee, Matawala Mohalla, Roorkee, Mohammedpur-Mohanpura ward no 12, Roorkee, Munda Khera Kalan, Laksar, Durgapur Laksar, Adarsh Nagar, Roorkee, Gram Dabki Laksar, Dadupur Gobindpur, Hazrat Bilal, Landaura, Ambedkar Colony, Mangalore and Green Park Colony, Laksar.District magistrate C Ravi Shankar said that these containment zones have been sealed with ban on entry or exit, and arrangements for essential services are being made for households thereOn May 20, Uttarakhand high court had directed the state government to procure rapid test kits immediately and start testing on an experimental basis at the border points. The HC in its order said that “although rapid antibody test has not been approved by ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is the nodal agency spearheading the fight against Covid-19 pandemic in the country) for diagnostic purposes, but since the result of this test is available in much less time, such tests can be used for surveillance purposes alone. At least it would be better surveillance than the surveillance by thermal screening.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-haridwar-administration-begins-rapid-testing-of-migrants-workers/story-giTDusEJ1lQq1q948FypsO.html
26-05-2020||India||SC hits reset on stand over plight of migrant workers, sends notice to govt||A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court on Tuesday told the government at the Centre and the states to report back in two days on the steps being taken to help migrant workers stranded due to the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.The top court’s notice comes barely 10 days after another bench refused to intervene on a petition that wanted the government to identify stranded migrant workers, take care of their needs and provide free transport to them. At one point, a judge on this bench remarked: “How can we (migrants) stop them from walking”.This was the first time since the March 25 lockdown that the top court had practically declined to push the government to do more for the migrant workers. On April 27, the court had closed a petition on the plight of migrant workers after the Centre insisted that all arrangements had been made for the migrant workers at 26,000 plus relief camps.A bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan on Tuesday said it was taking suo motu note of media reports and the many representations that they had received about the plight of migrants. In its preliminary remarks recorded in the order, the bench said the central and state governments should immediately provide adequate transport arrangement, food and shelters “free of costs”.As the bench, also comprising justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MR Shah, gave governments time till Thursday to come up with their response, it underscored that the government and the states had taken measures “yet there have been inadequacies and certain lapses”.“We are of the view that effective concentrated efforts are required to redeem the situation,” the bench said in its two-page order.A larger part of Tuesday’s order was devoted to outlining the reasons why the court had decided to take up the issue on its own.Media reports, the order said, had been “continuously showing the unfortunate and miserable conditions of migrant labourers” walking on-foot and cycles from long distances.“They have also been complaining of not being provided food and water by the administration at places where they were stranded or in the way i.e. highways from which they proceeded on-foot, cycles or other modes of transport,” the Supreme Court said, holding that “this section of the society needs succour and help” by the governments concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-centre-states-over-migrants-plight-says-there-have-been-lapses/story-UPLhdih1PlXPlmYp3NYVfM.html
26-05-2020||India||Delhi sees 412 new Covid-19 cases, daily tally dips under 500 after one week||Delhi reported 412 cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the city’s total tally to 14,465, according to the daily health bulletin from the Delhi government.New cases in the national capital were under 500 after one week, with the highest number of 660 recorded on May 22.On Tuesday, 12 more deaths were added to the total, taking the toll due to the viral infection in the city to 288. These are the deaths that get added to the total after a review by a three-member death audit committee to establish whether the primary cause of death was Covid-19.The positivity rate – the percentage of people testing positive among those tested – has gone up to 10% from 7.6% on May 18, when Delhi recorded 299 cases, which was one of the lowest daily numbers reported this month.The average positivity rate over the past week has been 11.5%, with the highest of 13.8% recorded on Monday.Delhi has already reached the second of three scenarios that a five-member expert committee had advised the chief minister to prepare for. The first scenario was when the city recorded 100 cases a day and the third scenario is the city recording 1,000 cases a day.“Delhi is likely to start reporting 1,000 cases a day within the next two weeks or even sooner,” a senior official of the Delhi government said on condition of anonymity.With the easing of lockdown norms and travel resuming, experts agree.“The numbers are likely to go up now that markets have opened up and people are travelling. However, the numbers also depend on testing criteria – if more people are tested, the numbers would be higher. So, it is not the number of cases that we should be worried about, it is the number of deaths. We have to ensure early detection and treatment to prevent deaths,” said Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.If the current trends remain, around 30% of these cases or 300 people would need admission to hospital each day. The Delhi government is in the process of scaling up its Covid-19 infrastructure by adding another 1,500 beds with oxygen at Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital.All of the 2,000 beds in Lok Nayak Hospital, the biggest healthcare facility dedicated to treating Covid-19 patients, also have facility to provide oxygen.Only about 0.4% people need ventilator support, according to Delhi government data, which closely mimics the national average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-new-412-cases-delhi-s-daily-tally-dips-under-500-after-one-week/story-GiAXaSvhyRqFcfnVxZHNfM.html
26-05-2020||India||ICMR removes cap of ₹4,500 for Covid-19 tests; states free to fix the cost||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday removed the price cap of Rs4,500 for the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test used to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Now, the states have been given a free hand to negotiate with the approved list of laboratories and fix the cost to conduct Covid-19 test.ICMR director-general Dr. Balram Bhargava wrote to all the state chief secretaries that Rs 4,500, which was the ceiling price fixed earlier to conduct the RT-PCR test, is no longer applicable, as the testing capacity and infrastructure have improved significantly since the onset of the viral outbreak in the country. The dependence on imported kits has also become negligible because of an increase in domestic production.“At the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, there was a global crisis of testing kits and reagents, as India was heavily reliant on imported products for molecular detection of viruses. As such in mid-March, no rates for RT-PCR test for coronavirus were available for ready reference in the country. Keeping in view the cost of imported kits and efforts involved in carrying out the test, ICMR suggested the upper limit of a single test at Rs 4,500,” the letter said.In April, Karnataka took the lead and capped the Covid-19 test rate at Rs2,250 in private laboratories for the swab samples sent by the government.Private laboratories elsewhere in the country are also dragging down their costs. “We’ve already reworked our costs to Rs3,500 for each test. This is the rate that we’re offering to the Delhi government,” said Dr. Arvind Lal, chairman, and managing director, Dr. Lal Path Labs.There are 428 and 182 government and private laboratories, respectively, which are engaged in Covid-19 tests, and have a combined capacity of conducting 1.4 lakh tests in a day.“… keeping in view of the evolving prices of the testing commodities, the earlier suggested upper ceiling of Rs4,500 may not be applicable now. All state governments/Union Territory administrations are being advised to negotiate with private laboratories and fix mutually agreeable prices for samples being sent by the government and also private individuals who want to get tested in these laboratories,” said the letter.The government has been working with domestic manufacturers. “… by handholding and promoting them to locally manufacture swabs, viral transport medium, and RNA extraction kits…. now testing supplies are also stabilising and many of you have started procuring such kits from the local market. Due to varied options of testing materials/kits including indigenous ones, the prices are becoming competitive and are undergoing reduction,” added the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-removes-cap-of-4-500-for-covid-19-tests-states-free-to-fix-the-cost/story-i48FbKPDfuGS3Ph7grf8UK.html
26-05-2020||India||India, Australia to sign defence logistics pact during first virtual bilateral summit||In a diplomatic first, India and Australia are expected to sign an agreement for reciprocal access to military logistics facilities and other pacts aimed at developing alternative supply chains when the two sides hold their first virtual summit on June 4.The summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison, yet to be formally announced, will be held against the backdrop of heightened friction with China for both countries.It will be Modi’s first virtual bilateral summit and the first time several bilateral agreements will be concluded virtually since the Covid-19 outbreak, two people familiar with the development said. The Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA), finalised at the “2+2” or combined dialogue of the foreign and defence secretaries in New Delhi last December, was to be signed during Morrison’s visit in January, which was called off due to the Australian bushfires.With joint exercises and defence cooperation between India and Australia on the upswing, MLSA will remove the need for protracted negotiations for reciprocal access to logistics support every time a manoeuvre is organised, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. It will also improve interoperability between the armed forces of the two sides.Between 2016 and 2019, India has signed similar logistics exchange agreements with the US, Singapore, France and South Korea. While the conclusion of MLSA is significant as the two sides have been negotiating it for some time, there is greater buzz about agreements to be signed in science and technology, research, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment, and rare earth metals and critical minerals which are aimed at creating supply chains in strategic areas that are less dependent on China, the people said.Even before the Covid-19 crisis, the two sides had been exploring the possibility of cooperating on rare earth metals such as lithium, neodymium and dysprosium, of which Australia has the world’s sixth largest reserves. More than 90% of India’s imports of rare earth metals, worth $3.4 million in 2016, come from China.The two sides will also look at enhancing their partnership in education as part of measures to shift the focus of Australian universities on the Chinese market, the people said. Prior to the Covid-19 crisis, Australia was home to some 90,000 Indian students.“We’re also looking at agreements in the maritime sphere and water resources and negotiations are underway on some other issues. Research and collaboration on Covid-19 will also figure in the discussions,” said one of the people cited above.Morrison has described India as “a natural partner for Australia”, and Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell has said the two sides have had regular discussions about how they can shape the post-Covid world order. In this context, O’Farrell said Australia supports India’s call for reforming the World Health Organization (WHO) after overcoming the Covid-19 crisis.On Tuesday, defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted that he had spoken on telephone with his Australian counterpart Linda Reynolds and discussed the response of both sides to the Covid-19 pandemic and possible areas of cooperation.“India-Australia strategic partnership provides a good base for both the countries to work together in dealing with the post COVID challenges. We are committed to take forward the initiatives of bilateral defence and security cooperation under the Strategic Partnership framework,” Singh added. While tensions between India and China are at a high following the standoff between their border troops in Ladakh, Australia’s relations with China too took a hit after Canberra called for an independent investigation into the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic. Nitin Pai, director of the Takshashila Institution, said it made “absolute economic sense” for India and Australia to reduce the risk of their exposure to China even if the two countries weren’t grappling with tensions with China and the Covid-19 crisis.“It makes a lot of sense to find a diversity of suppliers on one hand, and to find a diversity of customers for products on the other,” he said, adding the existing geo-political risks, the pandemic and travel restrictions make it vital not to put all eggs in one basket and to build a diversity of economic partnerships.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-to-sign-defence-logistics-pact-during-first-virtual-bilateral-summit/story-auvsFacFqmcM6HaqZvRNIP.html
26-05-2020||India||Gang-raped by five, woman goes to police after 20 days to file complaint||Twenty days after being allegedly gang-raped by five men in Haridwar, 26-year-old survivor walks into a police station to file a complaint against her assaulters on Monday.The five men, including two brothers, were subsequently booked by the police.The survivor used to work in a company in the industrial unit and had met one of the accused, Ahbab Ali, a contractor, a few months ago, said the police.“The two gradually started talking to each other and eventually Ali asked her to leave her job and join his business as a partner. He also demanded some money from her to which she agreed. He then took her to Dehradun and Rishikesh on the pretext of business tours where he raped her on several occasions, promising he will marry her,” said Kamlesh Upadhyay, Superintendent of police, Haridwar (city).About a month ago, when the woman asked the man to marry her, he deflected the question citing a loss in business due to lockdown.“After that his brother and another accused Parvez contacted her and asked for sexual favours, threatening that he would make the intimate video of her and his brother public. Scared, she gave in and he then raped her. Later about 20 days ago, he with his three friends gang-raped her in Haridwar,” said Upadhyay.The woman, however, gathered courage and finally lodged a complaint against the five accused.“We have registered a case against all the accused and are investigating it. The accused would be arrested soon,” said the officer.Meanwhile, in another similar incident, a 25-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl in Pithoragarh district on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gang-raped-by-five-woman-goes-to-police-after-20-days-to-file-complaint/story-ZRJF8atYjyMscvLtc2cZyH.html
26-05-2020||India||We are not decision makers in Maharashtra, says Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday sought to distance himself from reports suggesting a rift within the ruling coalition in Maharashtra amid the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) frequent attacks for its “poor handling” of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state which has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with over 52,000.“I would like to make a differentiation here. We are supporting the government in Maharashtra, but we are not the key decision maker in Maharashtra,” Gandhi said at a news conference held via video conference in response to a question on the coronavirus crisis in the state.The Congress is a junior partner in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition in the state. Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is the other constituent of the MVA. Pawar called on chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday night to discuss the prevailing situation in the state.“We are decision makers in Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Puducherry. There is a difference between running the government and supporting it,” Gandhi added.The BJP has upped the ante and is demanding imposition of President’s rule in the state. A BJP delegation, led by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, last week met Governor BS Koshyari and complained to him about the “failure” of the coalition government in tackling the Covid-19 crisis.“I said very categorically that Maharashtra is an important state, Mumbai is the financial capital and there is a lot of attention, they have a difficult situation and lots of attention needs to be given to the state by the Centre,” the former Congress chief said.While the opposition BJP used Gandhi’s remarks as a fresh handle to attack the state government, NCP leader Supriya Sule backed the Congress leader.“He is absolutely right. It is a coalition. Everyone takes a decision together. Uddhav Thackeray takes everyone into confidence,” she said.However, her party colleague Majeed Memon criticised the Congress.“It is not right to say Congress is not part of the decision making process. Its members are part of the cabinet and they are not providing support from outside,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-not-decision-makers-in-maharashtra-says-rahul-gandhi/story-gqzNSF1yQys6PtN0kbhOjI.html
26-05-2020||India||Police excesses for lockdown violation led to 12 deaths: Study||Twelve people died in various parts of the country after they were beaten up in public for alleged violation of restrictions during the first five weeks of the national lockdown to curb the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a report by a non-government organisation has said.The study by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), which tracked such deaths from March 25 to April 30 based on media reports, said three out of the 12 deaths were suicides committed by the victims due to the humiliation and insult from the public beating. Three deaths each were reported from Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Andhra Pradesh (AP). Madhya Pradesh (MP) reported two deaths while Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu (TN), West Bengal (WB) and Punjab reported one death each.The 12 deceased are Luvkush, Mohammad Rizwan, Roshan Lal (UP), Bansi Kushwaha, Tibu Meda (MP), Shaikh Mohammed Ghouse, Veerabhadraiah, Peddada Srinivas Rao (AP), Sagir Jamil Khan (Maharashtra), A Abdul Rahim (TN), Lal Swami (WB) and Bhupinder Singh (Punjab).The cases of Bhupinder Singh, Peddada Srinivasa Rao and Roshan Lal were suicides, according to the study.“Media reports have brought to light that people have lost their lives following alleged police action during the lockdown. There must be an independent inquiry into these deaths,” Devika Prasad, CHRI’s program head (police reforms), said while speaking to HT.“This is yet another sign that courts and other oversight bodies need to hold police accountable for excessive force in “enforcing” the lockdown. CHRI believes the NHRC will investigate these grave allegations in a fair and effective way towards accountability,” Prasad said.In two of the 12 cases, police personnel involved were suspended pending an inquiry. These cases are from Madhya Pradesh (Bansi Kushwaha) and Andhra Pradesh (Shaikh Mohammed Ghouse). A magisterial inquiry was also ordered in both these cases.The study said in the cases of deaths of Lal Swami (WB), Mohammad Rizwan (UP), Sagir Jamil Khan (Maharashtra) and Tibu Meda (MP), authorities denied the fatalities were caused due to police beating.Regarding the death of Lal Swami from West Bengal, the police claimed that the victim died of cardiac arrest since he was already suffering from heart ailments.Kunal Aggarwal, Howrah Police commissioner, told the media that it was a case of misreporting by the press.Similarly, UP police denied that the death of Mohammad Rizwan was due to police beating, the CHRI report said. As per media reports, Alok Priyadarshi, Ambedkar Nagar’s superintendent of police, said that going by the evidence collected, there was nothing to show that Rizwan was assaulted with batons.Regarding the death of Tibu Meda, the district collector told reporters he had died due to a cardiac arrest after he saw a police vehicle approach him with blaring sirens.Despite such a claim, Meda’s family was given financial assistance of Rs 20,000 by the state authorities, as per CHRI report.The death of Sagir Jamil Khan was registered as an accidental death by Maharashtra police. Sangram Singh Nishandar, the deputy commissioner of police (Zone 1), told PTI that Khan’s medical report showed the cause of death as ‘heart enlargement’, and there was no external or internal injury on the body.Besides these 12 deaths, three people who were arrested on various charges also died in police custody during the lockdown. They were from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra. In two of these three cases, the victims were in custody for crimes unrelated to lockdown.CHRI has sent a petition to the National Human Rights Commission to investigate these 15 deaths.“The police in India continues to function with the colonial outlook of protecting the state/ regime in power from the people. Hence, the Constitution and rule of law take the backseat and the police wield their lathi at the slightest provocation. Moreover, the police is viewing the lockdown and its implementation as a law and order problem and not as a public health necessity,” Alok Prasanna Kumar, a senior resident fellow at Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, said.“Besides, there is also the issue of not holding them accountable. At the most, we hear about a policeman being suspended or transferred. But there is hardly any criminal prosecution against those in the police who violate the law. This also contributes to the impunity with which they function,” Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-excesses-for-lockdown-violation-led-to-12-deaths-study/story-qj5dZ68nxPBc3B0HbSBg3L.html
26-05-2020||India||Glenmark to study efficacy of two antiviral drugs for treating Covid-19||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals on Tuesday announced it has received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to conduct phase 3 clinical trials for the efficacy of a combination of the antiviral drugs Favipiravir and Umifenovir as a potential treatment strategy for Covid-19. The two drugs have different mechanisms of action – Favipiravir is known to inhibit virus replication, thus killing the virus, while Umifenovir doesn’t allow the virus to enter cells, as it impedes viral attachment and acts as a viral entry inhibitor. This results in an ideal combination for effectively tackling high viral loads in patients during the early stage of the disease.Favipiravir is an oral antiviral drug approved in Japan since 2014 for treating novel or re-emerging influenza virus infections. Umifenovir is another oral antiviral drug licenced for the treatment and prophylaxis of influenza A and B infections in Russia and China. Additionally, it exhibits modulatory effects on the immune system and induces interferon production. “Hence, a combined use of Favipiravir and Umifenovir, acting on different mechanisms, offers a comprehensive antiviral cover on pre-entry and post-entry life-cycle of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Early administration of a combination of antiviral medications, acting by different mechanisms, is recommended for the treatment of Covid-19, since the viral load of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the disease, peaks around the time of symptom onset,” Glenmark said in a statement.“Combining antiviral drugs could result in greater clinical effectiveness and could also prevent, or delay, the emergence of resistance. The current study will examine whether early administration of a combination of Favipiravir and Umifenovir…enhances antiviral efficacy on Covid-19 patients,” it said.The trial will be a randomised, open-label study for which Glenmark will soon start recruiting about 158 patients.Monika Tandon, head of Glenmark’s clinical development global specialty, said: “Combining antiviral agents that have a good safety profile and act on different stages of viral life-cycle is an effective treatment approach to rapidly suppress initial high viral load and lead to overall improvement in clinical parameters.“We consider Glenmark’s study will be pivotal in leading to identification of highly effective and safe treatments against Covid-19 in India. Beyond its many potential patient treatment benefits, we hope the combination therapy will reduce infection risk in medical professionals and healthcare workers by reducing the duration of virus shedding from treated patients.”The new combination clinical trial will be called FAITH – (FA vipiravir plus Um I fenovir (efficacy and safety) Trial in Indian Hospital setting – and 158 hospitalised patients of moderate Covid-19 infection will be enrolled in the combination study and randomised in two groups.One group will receive Favipiravir and Umifenovir (with standard supportive care), and another group will receive Favipiravir with standard supportive care.Patients in the arm receiving the drug will receive Favipiravir 1800mg dose and Umifenovir 800 mg bid on Day 1. Thereafter patients will receive Favipiravir 800mg bid and Unifenovir 800mg bid for the remaining course of the treatment.Duration of the treatment will be 14 days and patients will be discharged after clinical cure and two consecutive negative tests for Covid-19 based on RT-PCR tests.About two weeks ago, Glenmark received approvals for clinical trials on Favipiravir by the drugs controller. The firm aims to recruit 150 patients in nine government and private hospitals across the country for this, and has so far recruited 30 patients. The results for only Favipiravir phase 3 clinical trials are expected by July-August.“We will do all it takes to ensure accessibility of the product across the country if the clinical trials are successful,” said Sujesh Vasudevan, Glenmark’s president for India formulations, Middle East and Africa business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glenmark-to-study-efficacy-of-two-antiviral-drugs-for-treating-covid-19/story-AbssLxX43dvBfMfAi6JN3K.html
26-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Supreme Court seeks RBI response on loan interest waiver and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Supreme Court seeks RBI response on loan interest waiverThe decision of banks to charge interest at a time when there is a moratorium on payment of equated monthly installments or EMIs has come under judicial scanner. The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to respond to a petition which termed such a move as unconstitutional. Read more.Delhi greenlights 11 containment zones, finds new Covid-19 hotspotsEleven Covid-19 containment zones have turned green in the national capital Delhi over the last four days, a sign that the steps taken by authorities to curtail the spread of the disease in the coronavirus hotspots were effective in many places, a senior city government official told Hindustan Times. Read more. ‘Not his personal property’: Rahul Gandhi to CM Yogi on permission to hire UP workersFormer Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday described as “absolutely absurd” chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s comment that other states will have to seek his government’s permission to engage workers from Uttar Pradesh, saying people are not his personal property. Read more. Football will be hard without fans: Robin Singh on possibility of ISL, I-League behind closed doorsIn December 2018, India football captain Sunil Chhetri made an emotional appeal on Twitter to the Indian football fans to fill up the stadium after a match against Chinese Taipei at Intercontinental Cup 2018 in Mumbai. Read more. Salman Khan sends sheer korma ingredients as Eid treat to 5000 families, fans say ‘Love you bhaijaan’Salman Khan spread some festive cheer on Eid by sending treats to 5,000 underprivileged families amid the coronavirus pandemic. Each special kit given out by Salman contained the ingredients to make sheer korma, an Eid special delicacy. Read more. Microsoft to continue investing in Skype, new features coming soonMicrosoft has been particularly focused on Teams especially during this lockdown as user activity grew exponentially. Microsoft Skype on the other hand is being overshadowed by Teams. Read more. Coronavirus pandemic: Are faceprint face masks the latest fashion accessory?The coronavirus pandemic has brought out the most innovative side of people and has turned the unassuming facemask with its one-dimensional protective purpose into a fashion accessory and a must-have. Read more. SAV’s supremacy in Bihar board results ends, only 3 out of 41 in top 10The class 10 board results of the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) has brought bad news for state’s premiere school, Simultala Awasiya Vidyalay (SAV), which held sway in the top 10 in the last five years. Read more. How safe is flying? Vistara CCO answers | On The RecordIn the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury speaks to Vistara Chief Commercial Officer Vinod Kannan. As domestic flights resume in the country after two months, Kannan talks about the safety measures they have adopted amid covid-19 crisis. Kannan also answers queries about compressed cabin air and how much extra time one should add to his/her journey. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-supreme-court-seeks-rbi-response-on-loan-interest-waiver-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Krt7wxnH5FY25rw61e22ZL.html
26-05-2020||India||Man murders live-in partner in Haridwar, stuffs body in suitcase, say cops||A 26-year-old man from Bihar allegedly murdered his 23-year-old live-in partner in Haridwar by strangulating her, stuffed her body in a suitcase before fleeing with her friend, police saidThe deceased was a resident of Madhya Pradesh. Both the man and the woman used to work in the same company in Haridwar. Both the man and the woman’s friend are absconding.The incident happened on Friday but came to light late Sunday night after neighbours informed the police about a foul smell coming out of the couple’s apartment which was locked from outside, Kamlesh Upadhyay, superintendent of police Haridwar (city) said, During the investigation, police found that the woman, a resident of Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh was in a relationship with the accused and was living with him.The accused is from Vaishali district in Bihar. Upadhyay said, “Both first used to work together in Gwalior where they developed a relationship and later shifted to Delhi last year where they joined the same e-commerce company. Later in December last year, both along with about 90 others from their company shifted to the industrial unit of State Industrial Development Corporation of Uttarakhand Limited in Haridwar.”The whole group started living in the same residential area where the man and the woman also rented an apartment.“The accused started getting close with another woman in his building which increased problems between him and the deceased. On Friday, while the two were in their apartment, the accused strangled her to death. He then stuffed her body in a suitcase in an effort to hide it and fled after locking the apartment,” said Upadhyay. The police officer said during the probe, the other woman was also found to be missing which “suggested that she must have fled with the man.”Another police officer privy to the probe on the condition of anonymity said, “The neighbours had said that on Friday, the man had put loud music in his apartment so that the woman’s screams were not heard. He murdered that night.”Police found some clues about the whereabouts of the other woman.“On Tuesday we have found clues about the whereabouts of the woman and will soon nab her to know about the prime accused. Investigations are on in the case and the two will be nabbed soon,” said Upadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-murders-live-in-partner-in-haridwar-stuffs-body-in-suitcase-say-cops/story-cO6VJvOrGO14iUNHE9UebP.html
26-05-2020||India||HT City spotlight: Beating lockdown gloom like a boss||Covid-19 has been particularly cruel to the older generation. The isolation from loved ones is taxing for senior citizens who live alone. As we devote this fortnight to the care of the elderly, we talk to people who are using this time to renew their hobbies. They share tips on how the elderly can get through the lockdown with a smile! Kathak exponent Shovana Narayan, 69, says, “This period can help you learn new avenues of communication. Since my students wanted online dance classes, I familiarised myself with Facebook Live and Instagram Live.”Art can be immensely healing and you don’t have to be a professional to pick up the brush, says artist Sanjay Bhattarcharya, 62. “Artworks inspired by nature kept me busy. Art has a therapeutic effect,” he says. Publisher Karan Puri, 69, says, “Reading has kept me happy. It’s an asset to maintain emotional and intellectual equilibrium. I read Tuesdays with Morrie again in the lockdown and would suggest others to read it, too.” Even dressing up can boost your mood, says model Sapna Dutta, 62. “I’ve been dressing up, putting on makeup and clicking my own pictures! If you have not been into selfies, just put on your perfect smile and create some self-portraits,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-city-spotlight-beating-lockdown-gloom-like-a-boss/story-saqyO6rRkTMUZskfJiITdM.html
26-05-2020||India||Congress leader demands more contingents of Army to help cyclone-ravaged Bengal||Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking more contingents of Army for West Bengal, which has been ravaged by Cyclone Amphan.In the letter, Chowdhury has said that the West Bengal administration has “miserably failed” to cope with this disastrous situation.“Out of desperation,” Chowdhury starts his letter, “I do like to draw your kind attention that there is no tangible improvement of post-Amphan devastation in West Bengal, which has already assumed catastrophic dimension.”He then describes the situation and says there is no electricity in large parts of the state including capital Kolkata. He also says that there is acute shortage of drinking water and there are fears of water contamination.Chowdhury is an MP from Berhampore in West Bengal. He has served as the president of the Bengal unit of the Congress.At least five columns of the Army were pressed into service in Kolkata last week at the request of the state government to help in road clearances, along with teams of the National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Response Force.The National Disaster Response Force had earlier said they were putting together 10 more teams to help the state. The state already has 26 NDRF teams in the cyclone affected areas of Bengal.The Centre had also released Rs 1,000 crore to the West Bengal government, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he visited the state on Friday last week to take stock of the devastation caused by the cyclone.Cyclone Amphan, the most severe storm in the Bay of Bengal since the super cyclone of 1999, made landfall around 20km east of Sagar Island in the Sunderbans on Wednesday last week, cutting off road links, snapping telecommunications and power lines. It killed about 86 people in West Bengal including about 15 in state capital Kolkata.The Bengal government had earlier in the day asked the railways ministry to stop the Shramik Special trains from reaching the state till May 26, pointing that the district administration was already stretched to its limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-demands-more-contingents-of-army-to-help-cyclone-ravaged-bengal/story-g9DNMzJ8emiBlV1D07WqsN.html
26-05-2020||India||Supreme Court seeks RBI response on plea that seeks loan interest waiver||The decision of banks to charge interest at a time when there is a moratorium on payment of equated monthly installments or EMIs has come under judicial scanner. The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to respond to a petition which termed such a move as unconstitutional. The court will hear the matter next week.With offices and shops closed on account of lockdown, the RBI had on March 27 ordered a three-month moratorium till May 31 on EMIs. It was meant to ease the financial burden on borrowers during the lockdown. This period was further extended till August 31 by a recent RBI circular.Borrowers who availed this facility were in for a rude shock as the lending banks informed them that the interest during this period (March-August) will get added to their loan amount. This would prolong the loan installments. Alternatively, the borrowers could get their interest component increased.Faced with this fate, an Uttar Pradesh resident approached the Supreme Court to challenge this decision of the banks. In his petition, Gajendra Sharma told the court that since the lockdown is in place, there is no means for citizens to earn a livelihood. Sharma has an optical shop in Agra and had availed of a home loan of over Rs 37 lakh from ICICI Bank.Sharma’s petition said, “In the present scenario, when all the means of livelihood has been curtailed by the Government of India by imposition of complete lockdown pan-India, due to worldwide outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the petitioner being a citizen of India has no way to continue his work and earn livelihood, imposition of interest during the moratorium will defeat the purpose of permitting moratorium on loans.”The bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, SK Kaul and MR Shah issued notice to the Centre and RBI on the petition and posted the matter for hearing next week. The petitioner argued that “imposition of interest during the moratorium period is completely devastating and wrong” as the decision of the RBI recognises the hardship faced by borrowers in the context of a national lockdown.It may be recalled that in April, the apex court had refused to entertain a petition seeking similar relief. The court had dismissed the case as it was not filed by an affected party. Sharma claimed to be directly affected by the levy of interest and claimed to be unable to repay his loan. The petitioner is a resident of Dayal Bagh in Agra and stated his annual income to be less than rupees seven lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-seeks-rbi-response-on-loan-interest-waiver/story-UrrYMAUiTIqPPlXy4LDUVP.html
26-05-2020||India||Supreme Court seeks response of four states in Sharjeel Imam’s plea to club FIRs||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought responses from Assam, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh and Arunachal Pradesh to a plea by JNU student Sharjeel Imam, seeking the clubbing of FIRs against him in those states for alleged offences of sedition and hate speech.The bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan issued notice to the four states after solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that all states where first information reports (FIRs) have been registered should be heard by the court before passing any order.The states were given two weeks to file their responses.Delhi is another jurisdiction where a case has been registered against the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student. The top court issued notice to the Delhi government on May 1 and its reply is expected by Wednesday.Imam, currently held in a Guwahati jail, has been booked for his alleged role in violence at Jamia Millia Islamia University in the aftermath of protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA).Imam was arrested from Bihar’s Jehanabad on January 28 by Delhi Police for a speech he delivered on December 13, two days after which protesters, who had gathered outside the Jamia Millia Islamia campus, clashed with police during a march against the citizenship law.Imam, in a speech delivered at Aligarh Muslim University on January 16, had said Assam should be “cut off” from the rest of the country. He later clarified he was calling for blocking roads leading to Assam as part of protests against CAA.Aside from sedition (section 124A of the Indian Penal Code) and hate speech (section 153A of the Indian Penal Code), Imam was booked under section 13 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), a law aimed at punishing those involved in terrorism and activities intended to bring about secession of any part of the country.Imam’s counsel, Siddharth Dave, on Tuesday cited the case of Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami, who too had approached the Supreme Court to consolidate all FIRs against him in different states for hate speech.The Supreme Court had, on May 19, quashed multiple FIRs against Goswami and retained only the first FIR against him at Nagpur.Dave asked the top court to adopt the same approach in Imam’s case but Tushar Mehta opposed this, saying the issues involved in the two cases are different.“FIRs in Arnab’s case were cyclostyled. Not in this case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-response-of-four-states-in-sharjeel-imam-s-plea-to-club-firs/story-OcXDbtWxLBuWbHuZTTgVpM.html
26-05-2020||India||Goa may issue separate SOP for travellers from Maharashtra: CM Pramod Sawant||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant indicated on Tuesday the government will issue separate guidelines for people arriving in the state from Maharashtra, which has the maximum number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country. “We are thinking of bringing in a different set of SOP for people who will be coming from Maharashtra as 90% of the [Covid-19] patients in Goa are from Maharashtra,” Pramod Sawant was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The comment came after 11 people, who arrived from Mumbai on Saturday on the Rajdhani Express, reported positive for Covid-19.Goa has so far registered 67 cases of the coronavirus disease, all of whom arrived in the state within the last two weeks after inter-state travel restrictions were eased. Out of the 67 patients, 19 have recovered. Another person tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. The patient travelled with another person who came to Goa and tested positive two days ago.Vishwajit Rane, Goa’s health minister, had said on Sunday that he will request the chief minister to implement stringent measure to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.“In view of upsurge of cases in the state via railways, roadways and others, I will be meeting the Hon’ble Chief Minister @DrPramodPSawant to brief him on the present status in order to curb the rising cases. We will be requesting Hon’ble CM to implement stringent measures (sic),” Rane had tweeted on Sunday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-may-issue-separate-sop-for-travellers-from-maharashtra-cm-pramod-sawant/story-xHy7MPbhEwbW4N1uGlg6EI.html
26-05-2020||India||In Delhi’s new Covid-19 figures, continuing concern and a silver lining||Eleven Covid-19 containment zones have turned green in the national capital Delhi over the last four days, a sign that the steps taken by authorities to curtail the spread of the disease in the coronavirus hotspots were effective in many places, a senior city government official told Hindustan Times.The locations that have emerged out of the containment zones include Nawabganj area in the central district, home to nearly 6,500 people. Besides, it also includes south district’s Sangam Vihar and Deoli Extension in Saket, Khirki extension and Chirag Delhi’s Jain Mohalla and the police colony in north district’s Model Town police colony.The exclusion of these containment zones, however, has not reduced their total number because Covid-19 cases continue to be reported from new locations apart from some of the hotspots.The city still has 90 active containment zones, more or less the figure a few days earlier. Of these, 50 are in the red and have reported cases over the last fortnight.“But this also implies that approximately a dozen containment zones that were in the red have been moved to the orange category did not report a single case over the last fortnight and were classified as orange,” a second government official said.Delhi has added over 400 Covid-19 patients over the past 24 hours to push the national capital’s Covid-19 count closer to the 15,000-mark.Also, 12 more people died of the disease. In all, the city has lost 288 lives due to the coronavirus cases.The city’s Covid-19 count stands at 14,465. Nearly 48% of them have already recovered. 183 more were reported to have been cured in the last 24 hours.Of the remaining 7,223, only about 2,092 are being treated at government and private hospitals. The rest are mild cases and told to stay home in isolation.But there are 185 patients who have had to be admitted to the intensive care unit for treatment, another 27 are on ventilators.Officials suggest that the fluctuations in the daily reported cases were on expected lines.That the city needs to get used to the idea of the virus around is a point that has been repeatedly made by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who underscored that he would get worried only if there is a sharp spike in the number of deaths.Or a spike in the number of patients requiring hospitalisation or intensive care. That could lead to a collapse of the health infrastructure system.“But it is not so… Most cases that are surfacing these days are those of patients with either mild or no symptoms, which are not required to be admitted in hospital,” Kejriwal, who has been working closely with Lt Governor Anil Baijal, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-greenlights-11-containment-zones-finds-new-covid-19-hotposts/story-WJlZKOcfj9fPRYCC0gVqgM.html
26-05-2020||India||Lead, cadmium found in foodgrain grown around Jojari river in Jodhpur, claims study||A recent study has revealed that the foodgrain being grown around rainy river Jojari in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur has presence of heavy metals like lead, cadmium etc. And the levels are much higher than the permissible limit prescribed by the World Health organisation (WHO).The study was carried out by the Department of Chemistry of Jai Narayan Vyas University with support from the University Grant Commission (UGC). The team of experts from the university analysed wheat, pearl millet, sorghum, barley, corn, moong, pigeon pea, red lentil and split chickpea lentil grown in the area with atomic absorption spectrophotometre. Due to water scarcity, many farmers are using industrial effluents from tie and dye printing, steel products manufacturing and textile industries for growing different foodgrain.“We have reported an analysis of heavy metal contents in foodgrain grown in the agricultural fields of Jodhpur around the Jojari. We have collected samples from various sites around the river where industrial effluents are thrown without treatment and are readily used by the farmers,” university professor Pallavi Mishra, who led the study, said.Jojari flows from the North-East to South-West, 83 km from the hills near Pondlu village in Nagaur district. Before it meets the Luni river near Khejalda Khurd in Jodhpur district, small streams join the Jojari in the upper part.“Continuous effluent water irrigation of agricultural land has caused a large build-up of poisonous heavy metals in the effluent irrigated soil as well as in the foodgrain and vegetables grown here. The metal ion concentrations obtained in our samples were compared with the permissible limits as prescribed by WHO and FAO. After carrying out sample testing of different grains, we found alarmingly high concentrations of cadmium, lead, zinc, nickel, copper and chromium. The concentrations of six heavy metals in study were found to be well above the standards specified by the WHO and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” she added.In Rajasthan, cereals and millets are the major source of nutrients and the most commonly consumed food. Approximately 85 per cent of the population is vegetarian and mainly survives on millets, cereals and pulses. Indira Gandhi canal water is the main source of potable water and agricultural produce in the area. Rain is observed only in the monsoon season; drought-like condition prevails in rest of the months. Due to water scarcity, industrial effluents and sewage water is used for irrigation in many areas of Jodhpur, especially around the Jojari River which has become a dumping ground for all kinds of waste water.“Even a slightly high concentration of these metals is dangerous for human beings and animals. An increasing number of cancer cases, gastrointestinal problems, skin problems in people living in the areas from where samples were collected have also been reported,” said professor Mishra.Consultant Physician Dr Sawai Jain said that heavy metals are harmful to human health. Such foodgrain, when consumed by people, may cause cancer, skin allergies, peptic ulcers and acidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lead-cadmium-found-in-foodgrain-grown-around-jojari-river-in-jodhpur-claims-study/story-QLccIxkvNWNOySko3UbhZI.html
26-05-2020||India||Sariska’s tiger population goes up to 20 with three new cubs||The number of tigers in Rajasthan’s Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR) has gone up to 20 with the birth of three cubs recently.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot took to Twitter to hail the good news.“Amid Corona concern, tigress ST-12 gives good news. Three new cubs have been camera trapped in Sariska Tiger Reserve. Now there are 20 tigers in year 2020 in #Sariska. My wish is to see the wild life thrives in state,” he tweeted.In March 2020, after a two year wait, Sariska tigress ST-10 and her cub was spotted in the Talvriksh range. STR now has 20 big cats, of which 11 are female, 5 male and rest cubs.STR Field Director, Ghanshyam Prasad Sharma, said this is the second litter of three cubs of 6-year-old ST-12 – the cubs are three months old. In 2018, she had given birth to three cubs which dispersed after they became adults.“This year has been good for the Reserve as five tigers – three cubs of ST-12 and two of ST-14 became adults while four cubs have been born,” said Sharma.He also said that after a long time, two tigers ST-18 (son of ST-14) and ST-19 (daughter of ST-12) have started moving in the buffer zone.Former Indian Forest Service officer and president of Sariska Tiger Foundation, Sunayan Sharma welcomed the news of the new cubs.“STR is certainly a potential habitat and can support a good number of big cat population. The current number of 20 can increase up to 35 but for that we need to reduce grazing in and outside the Reserve,” he said.Meanwhile, the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve is also expecting cubs from three tigresses, which have not been seen in the last 2-3 months. “Tigresses T-19, 102 and 92 either have or would be giving birth to cubs. The three have not been seen for the last 2-3 months,” said Manoj Parashar, Field Director, Ranthambore Tiger Reserve||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sariska-s-tiger-population-goes-up-to-20-with-three-new-cubs/story-Ei0gIzhglyiTAo4B58MkSN.html
26-05-2020||India||Prakash Javadekar attacks Rahul Gandhi for calling lockdown a failed attempt||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday described Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s news conference as an example of how the Congress is politicising the Covid-19 pandemic at a time when the whole country is fighting it.“He gave a wrong statement, I want to tell him, when the lockdown was imposed, the doubling rate of infection was three days. Now, the infection takes 13 days to double. This is India’s success and everyone’s success,” Javadekar said. Javadekar, who holds the portfolio of information and broadcasting and environment and forests, accused the Congress of double speak and said the party has only been critical of the government’s decisions at a time when the rest of the world has praised steps taken by India to halt the spread of the coronavirus.“When the lockdown was imposed, the Congress was upset why it was imposed across the country, the economy will be destroyed. They opposed the imposition of the lockdown and now are opposing the relaxation. This is their double speak,” he said.“Compared to the losses faced by America, France, Britain, Spain, Italy, Iran, Brazil, and China, India has been relatively less affected and for this, the whole world is praising India, that they imposed the lockdown at the right time.”Javadekar countered the accusation that the government had failed to address concerns of migrant workers, and said 300,000 workers were safely transported in 3,000 trains special by the government. “It is a historic step. Uttar Pradesh and Karanataka made cash transfers and gave money to the workers, which Congress ruled state is doing this? I don’t want to argue on this, because it is a time of national calamity. But people will not listen to lies anymore,” he said. “They (the Congress) are asking for Rs7,500 per person, we have offered 80 crore people 25kg of rice and 5kg of dal for five months free. Ten crore migrants workers with no ration cards have been given 10kg of grain and 2kg of dal for free. Twenty crore women got Rs500 per month and nine crore farmers got Rs2,000 in their accounts, eight crore households got three gas cylinders free, and 50 lakh street vendors have got money too,” he said, elaborating on the steps taken by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prakash-javadekar-attacks-rahul-gandhi-for-calling-lockdown-a-failed-attempt/story-6E8FlvjU1rFfXoRD0psFlJ.html
26-05-2020||India||‘Not personal property of UP’: Rahul Gandhi to CM Yogi on hiring workers||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday described as “absolutely absurd” chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s comment that other states will have to seek his government’s permission to engage workers from Uttar Pradesh, saying people are not his personal property.“I think it’s unfortunate. I think people are first Indian and then they belong to their states. The decision on whether somebody goes to work from Uttar Pradesh to the rest of the country is not the chief minister’s. It is of the people of India and the people of Uttar Pradesh,” Gandhi told a news conference held via video conference.Interacting with the media at a webinar organised by the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) publication Organiser on Sunday, Adityanath had said other states will have to seek permission from his government before hiring workers from Uttar Pradesh.“If any state wants manpower, the state government will have to guarantee social security and insurance of the workers. Without our permission they will not be able to take our people…because of the way they were treated in some states,” he had said.But Gandhi dismissed Adityanath’s remarks.“If a citizen of Uttar Pradesh wants to go and fulfil his dreams in Maharashtra or in Delhi or in Karnataka or anywhere else, he should have the right to do so,” he said.“It is very unfortunate that the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh views India in such a way. These people are not his personal property. They are not the personal property of Uttar Pradesh. These people are Indian citizens and they have the right to decide what they want to do and they have the right to live the life they want to live,” Gandhi added.“It is our job to support them to fulfil their dreams. It is not our job to say that you belong to me, you cannot go and work in Maharashtra. It’s an absolutely absurd position,” the former Congress chief said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/absolutely-absurd-rahul-on-yogi-s-remark-on-hiring-up-workers/story-YjGcglWbYgg50WU2hGYDKL.html
26-05-2020||India||‘India facing result of failed lockdown’: Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre||Continuing his attack on Central government amid a growing number of Covid-19 cases, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said that the country is “facing the result of a failed lockdown”.While conducting a live interaction with reporters Gandhi said, “India is the only country where the virus is exponentially rising and we are removing the lockdown. The aim and purpose of the lockdown have failed. India is facing the result of a failed lockdown.”He further said that the Congress party wants to understand the next step of the government.“Now we want to understand the next strategy of the government as four phases of the lockdown have not produced the result that the Prime Minister expected,” he said.The Congress leader said that the Prime Minister and his entire advisory staff including top medical people said that the virus will start reducing towards the end of May and now it is clear that the disease is not reducing.“The Prime Minister and his entire advisory staff including top medical people said that the disease would start to reduce towards the end of May and now it is clear that the disease is not reducing, it is increasing,” he said.A few days ago, Gandhi had conducted a live interaction in which he had said that Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s daily press conferences were only adding to the confusion, making India increasingly sceptical and restless.He also suggested that the Centre consider the list of recommendations prepared by his party for the government’s economic stimulus package.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-facing-result-of-failed-lockdown-rahul-gandhi-attacks-centre/story-i3PEYNIqsAJRrjWHrNdxIN.html
26-05-2020||India||Flood alert for Assam, heavy rain likely in Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh||The Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued a severe flood situation alert for the Brahmaputra river in Assam’s Neamati Ghat and Jiabharali in Jorhat and Sonitpur districts, respectively. Parts of Assam and neighbouring Meghalaya have been receiving extremely heavy rains since May 20 after super cyclone Amphan weakened.The highest flood level for the Brahmaputra in the Jorhat stretch is 87.37 metres and the current level is 85.78 metre. In Jiabharali, the highest flood level is 78.5 metres and the current level is 77.36 metres.Beki in Barpeta; Lohit in Tinsukia and the Dibrugarh stretch of the Brahmaputra and many of its tributaries have also recorded above-normal flood levels.“The district-level rainfall data is being compiled, but parts of Meghalaya, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh have received extremely heavy rains in the past five days, which is likely to continue for another three days at least. Southwesterly moisture-laden winds are converging from the Bay of Bengal in the region. The rains aren’t likely to recede immediately,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre.“Cherrapunji has received 1,105 millimetres of rain in the last four days. We’re still compiling the data, which is a departure from normal. There’ll be more flooding in the region, as rains are not likely to stop for the next few days. But the intensity of rainfall may reduce after two-three days. Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura will also experience heavy rains soon,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate, Skymet Weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-alert-for-assam-exceptionally-heavy-rain-likely-in-meghalaya-and-arunachal-pradesh/story-KwWXSe0N1qoTNjHp8pcVUN.html
26-05-2020||India||Locusts are halal in Islam and other interesting facts about the migratory pests||Locusts have invaded western India. The swarms, that entered the country from Pakistan, are spreading like wildfire and have so far invaded five states: Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. There is an alert for national capital Delhi too.What makes locusts a concern for farmers and agriculturists is that they can eat almost every type of crop and finish an entire field in few hours.But there are some interesting facts about the migratory pests. Here are a few of them:• Locusts are considered halal or lawful food in Islam. According to Salafi Centre in Manchester, locusts are permissible food because it was eaten during the time of the Prophet. The pests were eaten during a military raid, said an authentic hadith, according to Salafi Centre.• The desert locusts, the sub-species of the grasshopper-like pests, originated in Saudi Arabia and is eaten there. Even the Yemenis savour locusts during Ramzan. There are reports that some European travellers had seen people in Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Morocco selling, cooking and eating locusts.• Locust swarms have been recorded in the Arabian peninsula and some African countries since biblical times, but unusual weather patterns exacerbated by climate change have created ideal conditions for insect numbers to surge, scientists say.• These warms have infested 23 countries across East Africa, the Middle East and South Asia in 2020, the biggest outbreak in 70 years, the World Bank said. Last week, the bank approved a record $500 million in grants and low-interest loans to help countries in Africa and the Middle East fight swarms of desert locusts.• Adult desert locust swarms can fly up to 150 km a day with the wind and adult insects can consume roughly their own weight in fresh food per day. A single square kilometre swarm can eat as much food in a day as 35,000 people.• They feed on nearly all green vegetation - leaves, flowers, bark, stems, fruit, and seeds - and crops including millet, rice, maize, sorghum, sugarcane, barley, cotton, fruit trees, date palm, vegetables, rangeland grasses, acacia, pines and banana.• Desert locusts change their behaviour from acting as individuals to becoming part of a group, forming dense and mobile hordes. Swarms can be several hundred square kilometres and extremely dense, with up to 80 million adults in each square kilometre.• The last major infestation was in 2003-2005 when more than 12 million hectares were treated in west and northwest Africa, costing hundreds of millions of dollars, including food aid.Sources: Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations; Government of New South Wales; Victoria State Government; University of Minnesota; Natural Earth; European Space Agency Climate Change Initiative; United States Geological Survey via Famine Early Warning Systems Network; Armed Conflict Location & Event Data Project (ACLED); Reuters||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locusts-are-halal-in-islam-and-other-interesting-facts-about-the-migratory-pests/story-6b7sQnKXr7g4g4XrCJpjyM.html
26-05-2020||India||Government should come clear on Ladakh standoff with China: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday urged the government to come clean on the border standoff with China, saying there should be transparency on the issue.“What we would like to see is some more transparency on what is going on. It becomes difficult for us to have a position without understanding the facts. I think the government should make it clear to the people of India what exactly is happening on the border,” he told a news conference held through video conference.Indian and Chinese soldiers are engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation at four locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since early May, and several rounds of talks between local military commanders, including a meeting on Monday, have failed to end the standoff that began with violent clashes between troops from both sides in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors three weeks ago. The external affairs ministry has rejected China’s contention that Indian troops trespassed across the LAC, and accused Chinese forces of hindering patrols of the Indian side of the disputed border. China is said to have marshalled more than 5,000 soldiers on its side of the disputed border in Ladakh sector, where India too has sent military reinforcements to strengthen its defences as growing tensions along the LAC threaten to plunge bilateral relations to a new low.Gandhi said, “We are hearing different stories. I don’t want to go into conjecture and it won’t be appropriate for me to comment on it without knowing the details. But it is important that the government of India makes it clear what is happening on the border so that the people can understand and they have a position. “Frankly, there is no clarity. What is happening with China in Ladakh or Nepal, there should be transparency. I don’t see that transparency. Regarding China, it is a live issue so I don’t want to comment on that. I leave that to the wisdom of the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-should-come-clear-on-ladakh-standoff-with-china-rahul/story-kjLWlyQub4hfcT7HpAz6WI.html
26-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar meeting, Sena says ‘govt is strong’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar meeting, Sena says ‘govt is strong’Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with NCP president Sharad Pawar here, senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday while asserting that the state government is “strong”. Read more70,000 cases in 15 days: Tracking the rapid spread of Covid-19 across IndiaThe rate of infection of the coronavirus disease has been increasing in the country, an analysis of the infection data by Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan shows. Nearly 7,000 cases were reported on Monday, taking the overall tally to 1,38,845. Read moreWhat if a player tests positive on Day 2 of a match: Rahul Dravid questions bio-secure environment ideaFormer India captain Rahul Dravid feels the ambition to resume cricket in a bio-secure environment is “unrealistic”, giving a thumbs down to the concept primarily floated by the England and Wales Cricket Board. Read moreXiaomi’s wireless Redmi Earbuds S launched in India at ₹1,799: Specifications, availability and moreXiaomi’s sub-brand Redmi today launched its wireless earphones in India, the Earbuds S. Priced at ₹1,799, the audio accessory comes in Black and is expected to be a rival to the recently launched Realme Buds Air Neo, which is priced at ₹2,999. Read moreGulabo Sitabo trailer featuring Amitabh Bachchan and Ayushmann Khurrana is Mumbai Police’s new advisory meme inspirationGulabo Sitabo trailer featuring Amitabh Bachchan and Ayushmann Khurrana has sparked an online chatter. Mumbai Police took the opportunity of the hype to share an advisory using a meme inspired from the trailer to put forth a message for people. Read moreThe Taste with Vir: The unloved restaurant businessWhen the lockdown first started, the restaurant business knew it was in trouble. At that time, nobody thought the lockdown would last this long. Or that, even after the lockdown was lifted, restaurants would not be allowed to re-open. Read moreCovid-19: Deaths cross 4k mark in India, WHO suspends trials of HCQHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, deaths in the country due to the virus, WHO’s decision to suspend trial of HCQ, spread of covid in all 3 of Delhi’s jails, outbreak of ‘Banana Covid’ and more. Read morePriyanka Chopra honours army officer parents with throwback pic, Parineeti Chopra call it their ‘best photo’On the occasion of Memorial Day, actor Priyanka Chopra shared a picture of her parents in their army uniforms. Memorial Day is an American holiday for honouring and mourning the military personnel who have died while serving in the United States Armed Forces. Read moreElon Musk and Grimes change their son’s name, a bit. Memes remain hilarious thoughElon Musk previously announced that his newborn son’s name is “X Æ A-12.” From creative memes to questions about the name’s pronunciation, Twitter landed into a tizzy after the announcement. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times/story-QkgXWqr6oMNi9YZUtGzZQL.html
26-05-2020||India||‘Request PM Modi to play on front foot’: Rahul Gandhi on lockdown exit plan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s initial plan to defeat coronavirus in 21 days has failed and that has pushed him on the backfoot, said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, urging the PM to play on the front foot. Stressing his point further, the Congress leader said there has been one lockdown after another, but that has not helped check the spread of the disease. The country is presently in the fourth phase of lockdown, which will end on May 31.“The PM will accept that his first plan failed. The PM has gone on back foot, I request him to play on the front foot,” said the Congress leader during a press interaction.Gandhi said he is not going to criticise what happened in the past as he has an interest in today and what will happen tomorrow. “Two months ago the PM said that we were going to fight a 21-day fight against Covid-19. It was his expectation that we would defeat the virus in 21 days,” said the Congress leader. The Wayanad MP said the aim of lockdown has not been achieved and the coronavirus cases are on the rise. He exhorted the government to tell the country what is the new strategy.“We need an injection of money and capital, it will be fatal if we do not do it. The unemployment situation in the country has been compounded by the coronavirus problem,” said Rahul Gandhi.Speaking about the migrants’ situation, the Congress leader said in his meetings with them he was told that they have lost faith. “They have a sense of hopelessness, they have been left alone. They have told me ‘hamara bharosa toot gaya (Have lost faith)’. I don’t like hearing those words. I don’t want a single Indian person to say those words. They are saying it more and more. Nobody should lose their faith. We can take action even now. Rs 7,500 should be given to workers every month,” said Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/request-pm-modi-to-play-on-front-foot-rahul-gandhi/story-ZTGZb0xXOXhSRpTcQtIpjO.html
26-05-2020||India||Bengal issues guidelines for air travel. Here’s what you need to know||West Bengal has released its guidelines for air travellers arriving in the state on domestic flights from Thursday, more than two months after flight operations were banned to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.West Bengal, Tripura and Andhra Pradesh were among the states who did not open their skies on Monday when most allowed domestic flight operations to restart.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAmong the guidelines for air passengers are submission of self-declaration forms on arrival and monitoring their health for 14 days. Here’s what you need to follow if you are planning to travel to West Bengal:* You will be required to submit self-declaration form at the time of arrival to the state health officials.* At the airport, during boarding and travel, you will have to use face covers or masks. You will also follow hand hygiene, respiratory etiquette and maintain social distancing norms.* You will have to undergo health screening at the point of departure and only asymptomatic passengers shall be allowed to board the plane. On arrival, health screening shall be done for all the passengers.* The guideline said asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to go with the advice that they shall self monitor their health for 14 days. In case they develop any symptoms, they shall inform the local medical officer or state call centre at 1800 313 444 222/033-23412600,2357 3636/1083/1085 for medical interventions.* Samples will be collected for Covid-19 test from all symptomatic passengers. They will be taken to the nearest health facility for sample collection and health condition assessment.* Those with moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to the dedicated Covid-19 health facility and managed accordingly. Those with mild symptoms will be asked to go for home or institutional isolation.* Further, medical interventions will be taken as per the test result.* Regular sanitisation or disinfection of the common surfaces shall be done at the airport. There should be adequate availability of soaps or sanitisers at different points in the airport.* Adequate publicity for maintenance of social distancing norms and health hygiene protocol should be done at the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-issues-guidelines-for-air-travel-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-kMd6CvQFVMPyJiB6us62tK.html
26-05-2020||India||Spanish cyclist stranded in Tripura leaves after two months||A Spanish woman cyclist stranded in Tripura for more than two months because of Covid-19-related restrictions finally left the state on a special Agartala-Delhi train.After reaching Delhi, Yesenia Herrera Febles plans to catch a flight to Madrid on May 30. Febles, a nurse by profession, entered Tripura from Bangladesh via the Akhaura integrated check post on March 9. She was on a cycle tour of South Asia. She stayed in Agartala for 10 days before travelling to Kanchanpur in the state’s North district. As she was about to cross the Tripura-Mizoram boundary, a healthcare team sent her back to Agartala for a Covid-19 test. In Agartala, she was kept in a quarantine centre for 14 days and then shifted to another quarantine centre for a fortnight, Febles said.“I was allowed to enter the state after screening as I didn’t have any flu-like symptoms. But I was surprised because I was sent to two quarantine centres in Agartala where I spent 14 days each,” she said. Besides, she also faced problems in communicating with government officials as she speaks only Spanish and English. However, she managed to contact Father Paul Pudussery, in-charge of the Asha centre maintained by Holy Cross and the Missionaries of Charity, and she got food and accommodation free of cost. During her stay in Agartala, she got to know three other cyclists - Clifin J Francis, Haseeb Ahsan and Donna Ann Jacob - who planned to travel to Tokyo for the Olympic Games. Febles and the three other cyclists got involved in social service, including the distribution of food, face masks, hand sanitisers and soap among needy people during their stay in the Asha centre, said Father Paul. The three other cyclists are yet to leave Tripura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spanish-cyclist-stranded-in-tripura-leaves-after-two-months/story-URwtENmvYYuOgNA5wmkXaP.html
26-05-2020||India||Day after biggest single-day spike, Odisha records another 79 Covid-19 cases||Odisha’s health department said on Tuesday that 79 fresh cases of coronavirus disease cases were reported in the last 24 hours, news agency ANI reported.“With 79 new Covid-19 positive cases reported today, the total tally of positive cases in the state has risen to 1517,” ANI quoted a statement from the state health department.This comes a day after the state recorded its biggest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases. The number of cases recorded on Monday were 103.Most of the Covid-19 cases were reported from Deogarh district, followed by Kendrapara at 15, Jagatsinghpura at 10 and eight from Bhadrak districts.It also reported the highest number of 99 patients recovering from the highly-infectious disease on the day, taking the total number of persons cured from Covid-19 in the state to 649.The recovery rate from the disease now stands at 45.13 per cent in Odisha, while the percentage of positive cases is 1.12, news agency PTI quoted an official in the Health and Family Welfare department as saying.PTI further reported that a suspected coronavirus patient died during treatment at hospital in Bhawanipatna. THe 35-year-old belonged to Kalahandi district and had recently returned from Tamil Nadu. The man was put on ventilator support as he had breathing problems, doctors said.So far, 28 of the state’s 30 districts have reported Covid-19 cases.Earlier, 102 positive cases were reported on May 18 and 101 on May 12.Of the total cases in Odisha, 861 are active while 649 people have recovered from the disease and seven have died, the official said.Ganjam district, which reported the return of the highest number of migrant workers from other states, continues to head the list of Covid-19 cases in the state with 353, followed by Jajpur (240), Balasore (133), Bhadrak (106), Khurda (82), Puri (81), Cuttack (59) and Kendrapara (55).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-biggest-single-day-spike-odisha-records-another-79-covid-19-cases/story-EWmqdgUm5ZSYfKLHRg6kJO.html
26-05-2020||India||Glenmark to start new phase 3 clinical trial of Covid-19 drug combination||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals on Tuesday announced a new randomised, open-label study to test the combined efficacy of two antiviral drugs Favipiravir and Umifenovir as a potential Covid-19 treatment strategy.The two antiviral drugs have a different mechanism of action, and their combination may demonstrate improved treatment efficacy by effectively tackling high viral loads in patients during an early stage of the disease, said the pharma major in a statement.Monika Tandon, Vice President and Head for Clinical Development Global Specialty and Branded Portfolio, said combining antiviral agents that have a good safety profile and act on different stages of viral life-cycle is an effective treatment approach to rapidly suppress initial high viral load and lead to an overall improvement in clinical parameters.“We consider Glenmark’s study will be pivotal in leading to the identification of highly effective and safe treatments against COVID-19 in India,” she said.“Beyond its many potential patient treatment benefits, we also hope the combination therapy will reduce infection risk among medical professionals and healthcare workers by reducing the duration of virus shedding from treated patients.”A total of 158 hospitalised patients of moderate Covid-19 infection will be enrolled in the combination study and randomised in two groups.Simultaneously, Glenmark is also conducting phase 3 clinical trials of Favipiravir as a COVID-19 monotherapy option with 150 patients, enrolled from nine leading government and private hospitals across the country. So far, 30 patients have been randomised.Glenmark Pharmaceuticals is a global research-led company with presence across generics, speciality and OTC business with operations in over 50 countries. Its key therapy focus areas globally are respiratory, dermatology and oncology. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glenmark-to-start-new-phase-3-clinical-trial-of-covid-19-drug-combination/story-IK9v82Uf7iepeeHd7UZw5H.html
26-05-2020||India||Suspected ‘spy’ pigeon from Pakistan carrying ‘coded message’ captured in Jammu and Kashmir||A pigeon, suspected to be trained in Pakistan for spying, was captured along the International Border (IB) in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Monday.They said the pigeon, carrying a “coded message”, was captured by residents of Manyari village in Hiranagar sector soon after it flew into this side from Pakistan.Security agencies concerned are working to decipher the “coded message”, the officials said.“The villagers handed over the pigeon (to the local police station) yesterday. A ring was seen attached to one of its legs with some numbers on it and a probe is on,” Senior Superintendent of Police of Kathua Shailendra Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-spy-pigeon-from-pakistan-carrying-coded-message-captured-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-MOUUlWNV8yspRbWCgBSpcN.html
26-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Quarantine centres in bad shape, says Opposition||Chhattisgarh’s main opposition, the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), has alleged that the Bhupesh Baghel-led Congress government is responsible for the rampant mismanagement of state-run quarantine centres for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, which have led to several deaths.The BJP has demanded that the state government set up an online monitoring mechanism of the quarantine centres.Click here for full Covid-19The Leader of Opposition in the Chhattisgarh legislative assembly, Dharamlal Kaushik, has alleged that widespread chaos has been reported from numerous quarantine centres and several deaths have also occurred in these facilities, as the state government is callous about the looming crisis.“These centres are in dire need of security. But the state government is not releasing the funds, which it has received from the Centre, to panchayats and urban bodies for the upkeep of these centres,” he alleged.State health minister Tribhuvaneshwar Saran Singh Deo rubbished Kaushik’s allegations and cited that deaths that occurred at these quarantine centres are all on record. He listed deaths were reported from quarantine centres in Mungeli, Balod, Balrampur and Bemtera districts, but none are them is related to Covid-19.Kaushik rattled off instances to bolster his argument. “On May 14, a 27-year-old committed suicide at a quarantine centre in Sarangarh and another youth, too, took his life at a similar facility in Balod district four days later. A teacher died on duty at a quarantine centre in Balrampur on May 19 and another youth also passed away on the same day in Bemtara district. These incidents show that the state government is not taking the occurrence of deaths at the quarantine centres seriously,” he alleged.The BJP leader alleged that these quarantine centres lack basic amenities. “It’s a torture for the stranded migrant workers, who have returned to their home state, and are lodged there. They’re all eager to run away from these centres,” he further alleged.Kaushik also blamed the state government for an inadequate number of kits to conduct Covid-19 tests. “All the migrant workers, who have come back to Chhattisgarh, haven’t been tested yet. They’re living in these quarantine centres and spreading SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, among their fellow inmates,” he alleged.Singh Deo said it’s an uphill task to manage four lakh migrant workers, who are lodged at quarantine centres located in rural areas.“The state government is doing its best. I can’t claim that all is well. But at least up to 95% of these quarantine centres are functioning properly. Besides, none of the deaths that have been reported from these quarantine centres is related to Covid-19. Eight people were tested after they passed away, but all of them tested Covid-19 negative,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-quarantine-centres-in-bad-shape-says-opposition/story-o3Kdp9SsQ0KS7EOeo0VhwO.html
26-05-2020||India||Family claims Briton unlawfully arrested in Bhopal, police say he violated lockdown norms||A British woman has accused Madhya Pradesh Police of unlawfully arresting her 29-year-old brother Sohail Hughes. As per report in British daily The Guardian, Hughes lives in Dewsbury in the United Kingdom, and had flown to India in February with the intention of returning on May 13.“Sohail Hughes, 29, had been on an extended holiday to visit family in the Gujarat region before undertaking a pilgrimage of mosques when he was detained last month,” his sister Aatika told The Guardian.“He was forced to take refuge in a mosque in Bhopal after being caught out by the swiftly implemented lockdown laws requiring people to stay off the streets. Sohail, alongside dozens of other men, had his passport seized before being kept in quarantine for more than a month inside a hostel,” Aatika, 35, futher said.The incident prompted Rajya Sabha member and Congress leader Vivek Tankha to write to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to withdraw charges and release the man.“The family, the British government and the British media complain that a British national has been detained for spreading Covid-19 and violating visa regulations after being caught in the mosque with other people when in fact, he has been repeatedly tested negative for Covid-19,” Tankha said in the letter, a copy of which he attached with his Twitter post on Monday. ⁦@guardian⁩ leading news daily of UK quoting Sohail Hughes Fmy describes his arrest & detention by bhopal police unlawful. He was a causal visitor with no covid + infection. Brit High Com seeks consular access. Bail application rejected. MEAs briefed. In bhopal jail. 1/2 pic.twitter.com/5gI6xuxUIZ“Am truly distressed with story of Sohail’s arrest. I have appealed to state CM and director general police MP to withdraw the FIR & seek closure of the case. Such arrests & investigations are a blot on our criminal justice system,” Tankha said.Additional director general (ADG) of police at Bhopal Upendra Jain said, “When we came to know about people in Nizamuddin markaz were found Covid-19 positive and many others who stayed with them visited different parts of the country, we searched all the mosques in Bhopal that led to detention of members of 32 jamaats including seven foreign jamaats. Each of jamaats had about 14 to 15 members. In all, 74 foreign nationals and a few other Indians with each of the jammats who accompanied them were detained.”He said, “Sohail Hughes was staying in a mosque at Ahata Rustam Khan at Shyamala Hills with another Briton and 12 others from the Ivory Coast. As per our investigation, he was a part of a jamaat and staying in the mosque. He was preaching his religion which was a violation of tourist visa conditions.”“All of them were detained and later booked for violation of tourist visa as well as under sections 188 (violation of order promulgated by government), 269 (negligently doing any act known to be likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignantly doing any act known to be likely to spread any disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code (IPC),” Jain further said.The police officer said that these people were produced before a local court on May 15 which sent them to jail under judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-claims-briton-unlawfully-arrested-in-bhopal-police-say-he-violated-lockdown-norms/story-cOG5IFRveRirWknXYW25EO.html
26-05-2020||India||Locusts invade Maharashtra, alert in Mathura and Delhi as swarm expands area||More parts of India are under locust attack now. The migratory pests have invaded eastern Maharashtra where four to five villages have come under attack from the locusts.The locusts are known for feasting on all sorts of plants and standing crops.The district and agriculture department personnel in Maharashtra have initiated chemical spraying on crops and vegetation to save them from the migratory pests.Also Watch: Crop-eating locusts wreak havoc in Rajasthan & MP “The swarm of desert locusts entered the state from Amravati district. It then went to Wardha and now it is in Nagpur’s Katol tehsil,” Joint director of agriculture department, Ravindra Bhosale, told news agency PTI.He further said that locusts do not travel in the night. The migratory pests travel during the day time and fly as per the wind direction. “Locusts are very dangerous to all types of vegetation. They feed on green leaves and known for devouring crops spread across on acres of land,” he added.In Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura, the district administration has formed a task force to deal with any potential locust attack in the district. The administration decided to go for early preparation keeping in view the growing locust threat.After crossing Pakistan, swarms of locusts entered India through Rajasthan on April 11. On Monday, locusts entered some residential areas of the Jaipur city.Mathura district magistrate said 200-litre Chloropyriphos has been kept as a reserve and its sellers in the area were advised not to supply the chemical outside the district.He said over a dozen tractors mounted with sprayers were kept on standby and fire brigade department asked to remain alert.The Union environment ministry had already warned in a statement last week that locust swarms have entered Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. There is an alert for national capital Delhi.It said Rajasthan is the most affected state and added the swarm has entered the country earlier than expected.The United Nations has warned that armies of locusts swarming across continents pose a “severe risk” to India’s agriculture this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locusts-invade-maharashtra-alert-in-mathura-and-delhi-as-swarm-expands-area/story-OLiq6r1QGebKQ5Mwh6bCYO.html
26-05-2020||India||Centre allows domestic air services by non-scheduled, private operators||The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) on Monday said that domestic air services by non-scheduled and private operators including fixed-wing, helicopters and microlight aircraft shall resume with effect from May 25.“The government has decided for recommencement of domestic air travel by passengers with effect from May 25, which includes domestic air services by non-scheduled and Private (General Aviation) operators (Fixed Wing/Helicopters/Microlight aircraft),” read the Ministry’s directive.“In view of the need for precautionary measures to be taken by various stakeholders during COVID-19 pandemic, detailed general instructions; guidelines to be followed by passengers; and specific operating guidelines for major stakeholders (airlines, airport operators, ground handling agencies, etc) have already been issued by Ministry of Civil Aviation vide order dated May 21,” it added.Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that 532 flights operated on Monday, the first day of resumption of domestic flights after suspension in the wake of lockdown.He said 39,231 passengers travelled by the flights and the number would increase further with the resumption of operations in Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal.The domestic flights were suspended in March due to lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus. The country is in the fourth phase of lockdown which will continue till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-allows-domestic-air-services-by-non-scheduled-private-operators/story-QCReHxrflw3HHPAG8RBaIL.html
26-05-2020||India||After Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar meeting, Sena says ‘govt is strong’||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with NCP president Sharad Pawar here, senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday while asserting that the state government is “strong”.The two leaders met for about one-and-a-half hours late Monday evening, Raut said while dismissing speculations about the Thackeray-led government’s stability.The Sena Rajya Sabha MP, however, did not reveal what transpired between the two leaders.The meeting between Thackeray and Pawar took place after the NCP chief met state Governor B S Koshyari on Monday morning.NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had a meeting for one-and-a-half hours. Those doubting about the stability of this government are doing so out of their own grudge. This government is strong,” Raut tweeted in Marathi.Earlier, Pawar met Koshyari on Monday morning, following which the NCP claimed the meeting took place on the invitation of the governor and no political issues came up for discussion.However, the timing of the meeting is significant as it took place against the backdrop of strained relations between the Shiv Sena, which heads the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, and the Raj Bhavan.The NCP is one of the key constituents of MVA.Pawar was one of the key leaders from Maharashtra who had openly complained about Koshyari’s “intervention” in the functioning of the state administration.Recently, senior BJP leader and former state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis complained to the governor about the “failure” of the Thackeray government in handling the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-uddhav-thackeray-sharad-pawar-meeting-sena-says-govt-is-strong/story-iRezLlBmUq2ZZdJPK0vGpM.html
26-05-2020||India||Despite bumper crop, prices of farm produce lowest in recent years due to Covid-19 lockdown||A kilogram of farm fresh cherry was sold at Rs 30 at Shimla wholesale market in Himachal Pradesh. The fruit of the season, Mango, was Rs 25 per kilogram at Saharanpur market in Uttar Pradesh. Tomato was selling at Rs 10 per kilogram at Siliguri (West Bengal) and onion at Rs 10 in Neemuch (Madhya Pradesh).These are the prices of vegetables and fruits in some of the wholesale markets in India in the past one week, which experts said showed a fall in the prices of non-minimum support price (MSP) farm produce. The low prices are expected to continue for some more time and experts don’t expect revival in prices of these horticulture produce in the coming few months.“The demand is at its rock bottom,” said Devendra Sharma, a Chandigarh-based independent farm expert. “The biggest consumer of the perishable products is the hospitality industry, other than individuals. There are no signs of the industry opening soon. And, when it opens, there would not be many customers. So, I don’t expect the demand to improve dramatically in the coming months,” he said.Agricultural economist in Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology, KK Sarangi, said demand for vegetables has gone down in the lockdown period as the bulk demand is not there. “Even households are not buying in huge quantities because of the infection fear. And, there are not much signs of prices reviving soon enough to last year’s level,” he said.India this summer has seen record production of fruits and vegetables due to above normal monsoon last year and good winter rainfall. The agriculture ministry’s advance horticulture produce estimate, which includes main fruits and vegetables, was 313.5 million tonne for 2020 season, highest in the past five years.The new horticulture crops start arriving in markets from March end. However, this year, a nationwide lockdown was imposed around the same time to check the spread of coronavirus disease, bringing entire country to a grinding halt. Restrictions were imposed on movement of trucks carrying non-essential goods. It created problems for farmers to take their produce to the markets. As the government eased transportation norms, some big vegetable wholesale markets, including Asia’s biggest fruit and vegetable market at Azadpur in New Delhi and Koyambedu in Chennai, were closed as they became Covid-19 hotspots.“Nobody (truckers) is willing to take my cherry produce to Delhi or Chandigarh,” said Surinder Singh Bragta, after selling his best quality cherry produce for Rs 30 a kilogram at Shimla’s wholesale fruit market. “Last year, I sold similar quality cherry for Rs 100 a kilogram in Chandigarh. I don’t know what will happen to pears and apples which could be harvested in the new few months. Commission agents are saying this would be worst year for fruits as demand is low.”More than 2,000 kilometres away in Neemuch, Tarun Baheti, a vegetable farmer, said there are no buyers in the market, other than the local ones. “After so many years, we had a good crop of vegetables. But, no one is willing to give the right price,” he said, blaming Covid-19 lockdown for crashing of the perishable goods market.“Due to lockdown restrictions, were cannot take produce to bigger markets. Vegetables like Lady finger, bottle gourd and sponge gourd used to be sold Rs 40 to Rs 50 per kg in this season but now the rate has come down to about Rs 15 per kg in the wholesale market. Pumpkin is being sold at Rs 5 to Rs 10 per kg,” he said.In Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki district, Padma Shree awardee farmer Ram Saran Verma said this year he saw empty wholesale markets in a good harvest season. “There are no buyers. Even the cost to transport the produce to market is not being recovered,” he said. Another Barabanki farmer, Dinesh Rawat, said he has lost Rs one lakh in May alone as he was not able to send his cucumber produce to Lucknow, Sultanpur and Agra. “I had to sell it at a local mandi for whatever price it fetched,” he said. From some states such as Bihar, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh, there are reports of farmers throwing away their produce. Verma said most farmers have lost money this year and have either thrown away the produce or given it to cattle. “This year we left the produce in the field itself as there is no point in selling ladyfinger for Rs 2 per kg,” said Bechan Yadav, a farmer in rural area of Patna.Mritunjay Kumar, a farmer of Sohsarai in Nalanda district, said the cost of transporting vegetables to market is more than the selling price. “It is better to give vegetables to cattle, at least they will get some nutrition,” he said. In Odisha’s Dhenkanal district, pumpkin harvest is rotting in farms due to absence of market access as well as lower demand. Manas Barik, who had harvested 3 tonnes of pumpkins on his five-acre land in Dhenkanal found no takers. “The traders want us to sell pumpkin at Rs 5 a kg. It does not cover even transport cost,” Barik said.The distress is visible in the wholesale markets, too.In Gaddiannaram fruit market at Kothapet in Hyderabad, Telangana’s largest fruit and vegetable wholesale market, the prices are lowest in the recent years. “For the last four years, the price of mangoes was between Rs 60,000 to Rs 1.20 lakh per tonne depending on the variety. This year, it is Rs 20,000 to Rs 30,000 per tonne,” said Telangana Fruit Merchants’ Association president Ashok Kumar. He said the prices of sweat lime (Mosambi) have come down from Rs 50,000 a tonne to less than Rs 20,000 a tonne. “There is essentially no demand,” Kumar said, adding a large number of farmers were could not even recover the transport cost. At Siliguri, north Bengal’s biggest town, price of tomato on Sunday ranged between Rs 10 to 15 a kg, down from Rs 30-40 per kilogram before the lockdown came into force on March 24. In 2018, the price was around Rs 25 a kg while in 2019 it was around Rs 30, said a district agriculture officer. Ranjeet Singh, a commission agent at Delhi’s Azadpur market, said that only 20% of the buyers at turning up at the make-shift selling yard. “The prices have dipped by 70% to 80%,” Singh said.Dilshad Ahmed, a vegetable vendor in Lucknow claimed that the people were getting better quality produce at a lower price as farmers use to send their best produce directly to multi-brand retailer. “Due to lockdown farmers have been forced to sell their produce in markets,” he said. President of Neemuch Market vegetable sellers union, Hari Om, said, “Except potato, ginger and green chilli, prices of all other fruits and vegetables have fallen. Even people are not buying fruits and vegetables as they used to do earlier.” Patna district agriculture officer, Rakesh Ranjan, said the price of veggies might increase once the lockdown is fully lifted. “We hope that the farmer may start getting decent price from August onwards,” he said. Karnataka Horticulture Producers Co-operative Marketing and Processing Society (HOPCOMS) officials claimed that the prices have recovered in the past one week with easing of lockdown norms. “Prices of vegetables like onion, potato and others are more staple than the easier perishables such as greens, beans, tomato, capsicum, cucumber which wilt in the summer sun,” said an HOPCOMS official, who was not willing to be named. (With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-bumper-crop-prices-of-farm-produce-lowest-in-recent-years-due-to-lockdown/story-C7b3Btu1TzGsWQWjtRtJfK.html
26-05-2020||India||Bhopal doctors claim homeopathy medicine cured Covid-19 patients, experts raise objection||A government homeopathy medical college in Bhopal on Monday night claimed to have treated as many as six Covid-19 patients successfully, prompting public health experts to raise objections against such a treatment. They also demanded an immediate ban the trial.“Six coronavirus infected patients who were admitted on May 14 are returning home having recovered from the disease. These included two children also whose parents were positive. These children too were given homeopathy medicines. No alloepathy medicine was given to children. They were only given homoepathy medicines,” a communiqué from district administration said on Monday.The communiqué quoted Dr Manoj Kumar Sahu as saying, “After knowing detailed history of all these patients homoepathy medicines were selected and the dose was decided. The result was surprising. After taking homeopathy medicines there was fast improvement in the condition of the patients and none of the patients needed oxygen support.”As per the official information, as many as 47 patients are still being treated at the homeopathy medical college.But health experts have questioned the treatment. “World health organisation (WHO)’s protocol of treatment talks about treatment only through specific alloepathy medicines. The advisory from AYUSH department of government of India is for consumption of Ayurveda decoction is only to boost the immunity of patients and others. As far as a clinical trial on Covid-19 patients through any alternative system of medicines is concerned no such trial has been allowed by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) so far,” public health expert Amulya Nidhi said.Demanding a ban on such a trial, Nidhi further said, “Such a trial and claim on successful treatment through homeopathy are not only dangerous for patients being treated this way but others also in the state and other parts of the country. The central government and the state government both are making appeals to people repeatedly to come forward to get themselves examined at alloepathy hospitals if they have any suspected symptom of Coronavirus. Such a claim on successful treatment through homeopathy may result in a section of people with Covid-19 symptoms avoiding going to government hospitals or any alloepathic doctor and relying on homeopathy treatment on their own.”Dr SN Shukla of the homeopathy medical college’s research wing said, “We are following all the protocol and guidelines of WHO in treating the patients. I can’t tell what medicines we are giving and what we are not giving. It’s the state government which earmarked our hospital as Covid care centre more than 10 days back.He also said that they are treating the patients in a scientific manner and with successful results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhopal-doctors-claim-homeopathy-medicine-cured-covid-19-patients-experts-raise-objection/story-UmioQT9i4wxGZGQdfgfPeJ.html
26-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 1.45 lakh, death toll at 4,167||India reported 145,380 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 6,535 new infections were reported between Monday and Tuesday morning, the Union health ministry said.The health ministry data at 8am showed that 146 people, down from 154 fatalities on Monday morning, also died after contracting Covid-19. So far, 4,167 people have succumbed to the disease. The number of people who have recovered so far stood at 60,490, it said.More than half of the numbers come from four states.Maharashtra has 52,667 cases of the coronavirus disease and Tamil Nadu has the second-highest number of patients in the country with 17,082 people infected so far. Gujarat has 14,460 people who have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 till date and Delhi’s tally has jumped to 14,053. With a rising number of cases, more than 6,500 every day since the last four days, India now is the tenth most affected country by the coronavirus pandemic after the United States, Brazil, Russia, United Kingdom, Spain, Italy, France, Germany. India had overtaken Iran to become the 10th biggest hot spot of the pathogen, which has rapidly swept the globe.More than 5.49 million people have been infected and 346,232 have died across the world, according to Johns Hopkins Covid-19 tracker. The US has recorded a further 532 deaths from Covid-19, bringing the toll to 98218, with 16,62,375 cases of the virus, far more than any other nation.The rise in numbers come on the ninth day of the fourth phase of the lockdown, which is scheduled to end on May 31, as India has eased restrictions considerably including allowing domestic air travel.The Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) said it has collected around 24,000 blood samples from 60 districts in 21 states over the past two weeks for a sero-survey or a test of blood serum to check for exposure to the Sars-Cov-2 virus in the general population.The states from where samples were taken are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, UP, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, and Jammu & Kashmir.Additionally, about 5,000 samples have been picked from 10 hotspot cities with maximum caseload: Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Thane, Pune, Indore, Kolkata, Hyderabad, and Aurangabad.The first batch of about 70% samples was dispatched to a central lab in Tamil Nadu for analysis on Sunday, and the results are expected in about three weeks.This community-based survey will hold the key for getting several vital clues on the disease trend, testing and so on, experts said.Apart from the sero-survey, the Union health ministry has a hospital-based active surveillance plan using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests among healthcare workers, outpatient department patients, and pregnant women in all districts.At least 10 hospitals—six public and four private—will be selected from each district for the sampling, with an overall target of lifting 800 samples a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-1-45-lakh-death-toll-at-4-167/story-unQSC4EEiDo871pSKswJeM.html
26-05-2020||India||Houses damaged, animals killed after Pakistan violates ceasefire in J-K’s Poonch||Several houses were damaged and many cattle were killed after Pakistan violated the ceasefire in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir early on Tuesday, officials said.“Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC (Line of Control) in Balakote sector,” defence spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand said.The Indian Army retaliated befittingly to the violation, he added.Police said some houses were damaged in Balakot and Sandote area of Mendhar and many animals were killed and injured in the shelling by Pakistan.“Two cattle belonging to Mohammad Zaman Khan of Sawalah Balakote died and four others injured. Similarly, two cattle of Mohammad Azeem Khan of Sandote were injured and his house was partially damaged,” Ramesh Kumar Angral, Poonch’s senior superintendent of police, said.Angral added that cattle belonging to Mohammad Mafooz and Mohammad Kabir of Balakote were also injured.Pakistan has been regularly opening heavy fire on Indian posts and villages along the 744km-long LoC in J-K in the past few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/houses-damaged-animals-killed-after-pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-j-k-s-poonch/story-SXhHgwKSqdVE220PAavfjK.html
26-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Bihar inches towards 3,000-mark, officials blame influx of migrants for spike||Bihar is fast approaching the 3,000-mark in the number of coronavirus disease cases. On Monday, the state saw 163 fresh cases, which took the tally to 2,737, the state health officials said. However, the Union health ministry reported 2,730 cases in the state in its update on Tuesday morning.The number of infection has seen a rapid rise in the recent past mainly on the account of the influx of migrant workers, the health department said.The rate of infection in Bihar is 10.67 per cent, the highest in the country, according to data anlysis by Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan.It took 12 days for the infection to double in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, 14 days in Delhi and just seven in Bihar, Hindustan further reported.The number of migrants testing positive in Bihar since May 3 is 1,754, which is close to 80 per cent of the total number of cases reported during the period. Special trains carrying them from far and wide began reaching the state on May 2.The majority of the infected migrants are those who returned from Delhi (411), Maharashtra (403), Gujarat (276), Haryana (146), Rajasthan (95), Uttar Pradesh (89), Telangana (81) and West Bengal (76), according to a break-up provided by the department.Among the 163 cases reported on Monday, Patna district accounted for 11, which caused its tally to reach 211. Two of these were reported from Lodipur and Samanpura localities of the state capital, while the remaining were from rural areas of the district, the worst-hit in Bihar.Significant numbers of cases were reported from districts like Begusarai, Katihar, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Katihar and Saharsa.Bihar had reported 180 new cases of Covid-19 from 15 districts on Sunday.Cases have been reported from all 38 districts of the state and nine of these - Patna, Rohtas, Begusarai, Munger, Madhubani, Katihar, Khagaria, Buxar and Jehanabad - have tallies in three-digits. Only Sheohar has reported less than 10 cases.Death toll in the state is 13, with Patna, Vaishali and Khagaria accounting for two fatalities each and one death reported from Munger, Rohtas, Begusarai, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Siwan and Saran districts each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bihar-inches-towards-3-000-mark-officials-blame-influx-of-migrants-for-spike/story-WLOXXQdl4Je0bGv9YCbtmO.html
26-05-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Cases spike in Tamil Nadu as India crosses another grim milestone||In another single-day surge in Covid-19 cases, India reported fresh 6,535 coronavirus infections on Tuesday, taking the national tally to 1,45,380. The number of coronavirus fatalities in the country stands 4,167 while over 60,490 people have successfully recovered from the disease. Lakshadweep is the only state/union territory in the country which has not recorded a single Covid-19 case. Nagaland, which was untouched by the disease till now, reported three cases on Monday.Here’s a look at Covid-19 state-wise tallyThe worst-hit statesMaharashtraCovid-19 cases in Maharashtra reached 52,667-mark on Tuesday. The state has recorded 1695 deaths so far, highest in the country, while over 15,000 patients (15,786) have recovered from Covid-19. Tamil Nadu The southern state has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with 17,082 coronavirus cases so far. While 8,731 people have recovered from the disease here, 118 patients have died.GujaratPM Narendra Modi’s home state has witnessed 14,460 get infected from Covid-19 till date. Gujarat has seen 6,636 people recover from coronavirus while 888 people have died.DelhiThe Covid-19 tally in the national capital has jumped to 14,053. Two hundred and seventy six people have died from the infection here while 6,771 have made a recovery.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan reached 7,300 on Tuesday. The state has reported 167 fatalities while 3,951 patients have recovered from the infection in the state.Madhya PradeshAs many as 6,859 people have been infected from Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh till date. Three hundred people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 3,571 have recovered.Uttar Pradesh The number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 6,532 in Uttar Pradesh. While 3,581 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 165 have died from the infection here.Situation in other statesIn West Bengal, coronavirus cases have crossed the 3,500-mark and are rapidly rising. The number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 3,816 on Monday. There have been 278 deaths and 1,414 recoveries in the state.States with under 3,000 coronavirus cases include Telangana, Odisha, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Haryana and Bihar. With 847 Covid-19 cases, Kerala has under 1,000 cases of coronavirus infections. Jharkhand, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases while Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya and Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli has reported two cases of Covid-19.All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Mizoram have recovered. Arunachal Pradesh has two Covid-19 patients and one of them has recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-cases-spike-in-tamil-nadu-india-crosses-another-grim-milestone/story-Y4cBAlAO0DAHS0QiePjv6K.html
26-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Now, ‘Banana Covid’ hits plantations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Now, ‘Banana Covid’ hits plantationsAs the coronavirus disease outbreak rages on, “fusarium wilt TR4”, a novel fungus strain that has devastated plantations across the globe this year, is setting up new hotspots and threatening output in India, the world’s largest producer of bananas. Read moreChina may have posted 5,000 soldiers across LAC, officials say as tension grows along borderChina may have marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements to strengthen its defences as tensions grow along the Line of Actual Control. Read more‘I’m exempted’: Union Minister skips quarantine after landing in BengaluruAfter opposition slammed Sadananda Gowda for skipping institutional quarantine after landing in Bengaluru from Delhi, the minister has said that he is exempted. Read moreWith designer outlets and stores reopening, here’s how Covid-19 has changed the retail sceneYour next visit to a designer or a retail store will no longer be the same. While masks and gloves are mandatory, some stores won’t allow you to use the trial room or even touch the clothes with unsanitised hands, and online transfer will be encouraged. Read moreBalbir sir had no airs despite his achievementsIf Dhyan Chand was a pillar of strength for Indian hockey in the pre-Independence era, Balbir Sr. was the face of it in the era after 1947. Read moreHackers update AnarchyGrabber trojan malware to steal Discord tokens, IDs and passwordsAs per reports, one of the popular Trojan malware has been updated by hackers so that it can steal passwords, user Discord tokens and disables two factor authentication besides spreading to victim’s friends. Read moreBihar Board 2020 Result: Bihar 10th result to be declared at 12:30 pm today, everything you need to know The wait of Bihar Board 10th result 2020 will finally be over in just few hours. Around 15 lakh candidates have been anxiously waiting for their BSEB matric results for last one week. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-now-banana-covid-hits-plantations-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Y6bAqUTCubvBQKDL1OHMBJ.html
26-05-2020||India||Top hottest cities in India, respite from heatwave after May 28||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of heatwave conditions in Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, east Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha till May 28.The weather bureau has said dust and thunderstorms will bring some to respite to northern India from the blistering heat on May 29 and 30.Dr Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said there will be a respite from May 28 night when the western disturbance will affect northwest India and easterly winds will also prevail in lower levels.“Dust storm and thunderstorm accompanied with strong gusty winds of 50-60kmph likely to occur on May 29 and 30 over Delhi-NCR,” he added.Here are some of the hottest cities in the country on Monday:Churu in Rajasthan 47.5 degrees CelsiusAkola in Maharashtra 47.4 degrees CelsiusPrayagraj in Uttar Pradesh 47.1 degrees CelsiusMaharashtra’s Nagpur 47.0 degrees CelsiusSriganganagar in Rajasthan 46.9 degrees CelsiusBanda in Uttar Pradesh 46.6 degrees CelsiusKhajuraho in Madhya Pradesh 46.6 degrees CelsiusAgra in Uttar Pradesh degrees 46.3 CelsiusDelhi’s Palam area 46.2 degrees CelsiusKhargone in Madhya Pradesh 46 degrees CelsiusJaisalmer in Rajasthan 46 degrees CelsiusHaryana’s Narnaul 45.8 degreesPunjab’s Bathinda 44.9 degrees Celsius||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-hottest-cities-in-india-respite-from-heatwave-after-may-28/story-86Kidmyfq7jQaAmmBzhIHN.html
26-05-2020||India||With 1 more death, Kerala’s Covid-19 toll rises to 7||Kerala’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) death toll went up to seven after a 62-year-old woman died at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital on Monday night, health officials said. They said the woman, a resident of Kannur, was a paralytic and was suffering from many other ailments. Her husband, who works in a market in Thalassery, has also tested positive. The source of infection is not yet traced.Many such cases have been detected in north Kerala in the last few days.A woman, who was injured after a jackfruit hit her on her head, tested positive in Kannur two days ago. Nobody had tested positive in her neighbourhood or house before her. Similarly, a man with a spinal injury later tested positive. Kerala had a good track record with effective tracking and surveillance measures but after expatriates and people stranded in other states started flocking to the state in large the number of Covid-19 cases shot up.At least one lakh people have returned to the state in the last two weeks. Officials say at least 80% of the recent cases are imported. There are around 1.80 million Kerala residents working in Middle-Eastern countries alone. At least 50 flights are expected from the Gulf this week as part of the Vande Bharat evacuation plan.Kerala was first in the country to report a Covid-19 case in January after a medical student returned from China’s Wuhan. But it managed well in containing the virus in the first two stages with its effective intervention and surveillance. Another worry for the state is that at least nine health workers have been infected in the last three days. Out of the 896 Covid-19 cases reported in the state, 359 are active and around one lakh people are under observation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-1-more-death-kerala-s-covid-19-toll-rises-to-7/story-MYXzB4JdSPv3HJm3sGm6RK.html
26-05-2020||India||70,000 cases in 15 days: Tracking the rapid spread of Covid-19 across India||The rate of infection of the coronavirus disease has been increasing in the country, an analysis of the infection data by Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan shows. Nearly 7,000 cases were reported on Monday, taking the overall tally to 1,38,845.The infection has been steadily rising in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi due to which there has been an 11 per cent increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last two days, according to Hindustan. More than 70,000 cases have been reported in the last 15 days. Before this, it took 100 days for the infection to increase by 68,000.It took 12 days for the infection to double in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, 14 days in Delhi and just seven in Bihar. The rate of infection in Bihar is 10.67 per cent, the highest in the country. The rate has gone down in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. It now takes 18 days for the infection to double in these states.India on Sunday overtook Iran to become the 10th biggest hotspot of the pathogen. If the cases keep increasing at this rate, the tally will cross 1.5 lakh in two days.New Covid-19 cases dropped to zero for the first time on Saturday in China, the country where the pandemic originated, but surged in India and ravaged South America. Experts say that in countries with weak health care systems and impoverished populations, fighting the virus has proven to be difficult.The death toll has nearly doubled in India in the last 15 days. It has gone up by eight per cent in the last two days.Nearly 41 fatalities have been reported in Maharashtra, the state worst affected by the coronavirus disease. If data from Gujarat, Madhya Pradeshm West Bengal and Delhi is included, it accounts for 82 per cent of the total fatalities in the country.India’s trajectory of Covid-19 cases appears to be tracking that of Brazil, according to analysis of latest data. India’s case count on Sunday was where Brazil’s infections stood about 15 days ago.The disease’s doubling rate, which is defined as the average period it takes for a two-fold rise, decreased from 13.9days on May 18 - the day the cases hit 100,000 - to 13.1on Sunday. The doubling rate - which is calculated over a period of last seven days - was four days at the beginning of April. Several experts say the peak of the outbreak in India is yet to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-000-cases-in-15-days-tracking-the-rapid-spread-of-covid-19-across-india/story-osiFSn4uMyPhe7ycGwmAaJ.html
26-05-2020||India||In lockdown 4.0 in Rajasthan, taxis, auto rickshaws allowed in red zones||The Rajasthan government on Monday decided to allow taxis and auto rickshaws to operate in the red zones of the state. The state government has also lifted the ban on the sale of paan, gutkha and tobacco products while making it clear that spitting in public is still a punishable offence. Amending the lockdown 4.0 guidelines, the government allowed the use of taxis, including Ola and Uber, and auto rickshaws within the red zones on a condition that social distancing and sanitisation will be ensured. Public parks in red zones will also be open from 7 am to 6.45 pm. These activities are already permitted in orange and green zones of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-lockdown-4-0-in-rajasthan-taxis-auto-rickshaws-allowed-in-red-zones/story-KzlnBrKJX8xt6hDt4Y0CTP.html
26-05-2020||India||Jamaat chief Maulana Saad’s eldest son on Crime Branch radar, documents seized: Report||The Crime Branch of Delhi Police has seized the bank documents and other important papers of the son of Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. The Crime Branch has been probing the event organised by the Jamaat at its markaz (centre) in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area in March which emerged as the biggest hotspot of coronavirus disease Covid-19.Saeed, eldest of the three sons of Maulana Saad, plays an important role in managing the markaz, Hindustan futher reported quoting officials in the Crime Branch.Also Read: ‘Few tested positive’: Tablighi chief’s comeback on Jamaat spreading Covid-19The Crime Branch had earlier seized passports and other documents of five members of the markaz. According to Hindustan, these five people were key in running the operations of the markaz. Since their passports have been seized, none of the five people can leave the country till investigation is complete.Maulana Saad’s three sons and a nephew are being investigated by the Crime Branch. They form the core team at the markaz.Apart from this, another Crime Branch team is probing Jamaat’s source of funds. The team has found that the Jamaat had been receiving money from various sources. They are trying to find the identities of the individuals and institutions behind these fundings.Also Read: 4,000 Covid-19 cases linked to Jamaat, says govt. But India isn’t the only oneThe Crime Branch officials said that they have given notice to 900 people, who attended the Jamaat’s event, and are beinf questioned, Hindustan reported. It said that a few members of the team probing the case were out of action because they contracted Covid-19, but now that they are back, the investigation will be completed soon, Hindustan further reported.Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said on Sunday that India felt a “big jolt” with the sudden spike in cases following the Nizamuddin markaz incident. He asserted that the incident was a lesson for all communities that when a collective decision is taken by the country it must be followed with discipline.A large congregation organised in March by the Tablighi Jamaat in the Nizamuddin area of the national capital had emerged as a major hotspot. Some of the participants, who were later tested positive for coronavirus, had travelled to their home states and other areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamaat-chief-maulana-saad-s-eldest-son-on-crime-branch-radar-documents-seized-report/story-EszTf9F0LdRA9Dxn537OyM.html
26-05-2020||India||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s hometown declared Covid-19 hotspot||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s home district Kannur has been declared a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspot after a review of data on Monday.The state reported 49 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, including two prisoners and healthcare workers each, state health minister KK Shailaja said. Of the 49 new cases, 14 and 10 are reported from north Kerala’s Kasaragod and Kannur districts, respectively.The chief minister also declared three other locations as hotspots and currently, there are 59 hotspots in the state. Kerala has 359 active Covid-19 cases of the 896 reported to date. Around one lakh people are under quarantine, including 90% of them at their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-s-hometown-declared-covid-19-hotspot/story-Ykqzjpq0T8EH7tfqjYRRWI.html
26-05-2020||India||Karnataka exempts ministers travelling across states on duty from quarantine||Ministers of the central government or state governments or officers on their official duty, who are travelling across states, will be exempted from requirements of quarantine, the Karnataka government said on Monday.The state government issued an addendum to Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for inter-state passengers.“Any person who gets a negative COVID test certificate (from ICMR approved lab) which is not more than two days old from the date of journey will be exempted from the requirement of institutional quarantine,” read the addendum.The state government has laid down new norms for those coming from other states (including those coming by domestic air flights).Passengers coming from ‘high prevalence states’ (Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh) would be required to undergo a seven-day “institutional quarantine”, which will be followed by home quarantine.The new norms also said that home quarantine of 14 days would be necessary for the passengers coming from other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-exempts-ministers-travelling-across-states-on-duty-from-quarantine/story-e3GJHOmYtu9WxxhgYZfFwK.html
26-05-2020||India||Skill universities on anvil for migrants in post-pandemic world||Setting up special skill development universities, revamping courses and training at over 2,700 Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) and polytechnics and creating a central board of vocational education -- these are some of the measures the skill development ministry is looking at in an attempt to reorient its own role and create a job-ready workforce for a post-Covid world.The turmoil caused by the pandemic has resulted in not just millions of workers moving back to the hinterland, but also created new demand patterns for jobs, explained officials overseeing the effort. The skill development ministry has created a detailed road map for this. HT has accessed a copy of the plan, a key component of which is to equip the workers with new skills.Rural logistics, sanitation, health-care and home delivery are all sectors where workers will be needed in a more health-conscious world that the pandemic is likely to usher in. The ministry is looking at the possibility of training workers in these areas.A database of migrant workers and their skilling needs could be created by the skill development ministry jointly with the rural development ministry and urban local bodies. The ministry is looking at updating its skill management information system (SMIS) to gauge the emerging trends.According to the plan, a Kaushal (Hindi for skill) app may be developed that individuals can use to locate and enrol themselves for skilling courses. The app may also be used to get in touch with employers.“The government is cognizant of the reverse migration that has happened due to Covid-19 pandemic and is trying its best to re-connect them back to employment opportunities in their respective regions,” skill development and entrepreneurship minister Mahendra Nath Pandey told HT. “It is imperative that their skills be best utilised at this point in time to {enable them to} earn their livelihood while supporting the local economies.”According to one official, who requested anonymity, the ministry is also looking at revamping the training imparted at the 2,700 ITIs and polytechnics.“Such activities shall certainly undergo reverse gravitational pull towards rural areas and smaller towns. This may prove to be a good outcome of Covid curse as it may result in more balanced growth,” said former University Grants Commission member Dr Inder Mohan Kapahy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skill-universities-on-anvil-for-migrants-in-post-pandemic-world/story-2Uvurr8fZjbk1ucdqUjyCJ.html
26-05-2020||India||‘Buy PPE only from approved producers’: Govt advisory||The Union health ministry on Monday issued an advisory asking people to buy personal protection equipment (PPE) kits approved only by the labs identified by the government to ensure quality of kits as there have been reports of substandard kits being sold in the market. “The products under reference have no relevance to the procurement being made by the Central Government. HLL Lifecare Limited (HLL), the procuring agency of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, is procuring PPE coveralls from manufacturers/suppliers only after getting their coveralls tested and approved by one of the eight labs nominated by the Ministry of Textiles (MoT) for testing the same. It is only after their products qualify in the test prescribed by the ministry’s technical committee, that they are procured,” said health ministry in a statement.“Further, HLL is also undertaking random sampling of the supplies being made, for which a testing protocol has been devised. In case of any failure, the company is being disqualified for any supplies. All the States/UTs have been asked to ensure procurement which is being carried out at their level after following the prescribed testing for PPEs from MoT nominated labs,” it said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe government is also working to ensure all manufacturers, who have got their products qualified from the government approved labs, register with the online market place portal called ‘Government e-Marketplace (GeM)’ so that information on quality manufacturers is easily accessible for people .“The manufacturers who have got PPEs qualified have been advised by the MoT to get on-board the GeM so that the procurement by States can be carried out accordingly. For the private sector also, the dynamic information of manufacturers whose products have qualified the tests is available on MoT website,” said the health ministry statement.Also read: UP prison inmates make masks, listen to ‘jail radios’ amid coronavirus lockdownTo ensure quality of PPE kits, the ministry of textile had last month tightened norms for permits issued to coverall makers, according to which any domestic manufacturer of a coverall applying for approval certifications will have to attach a notarised affidavit declaring that they are not traders but manufacturers, and that they understand that if they do not follow the norms, their certifications could be cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/buy-ppe-only-from-approved-producers-govt-advisory/story-sdQvfI7FRP1YPdQdH1VJgJ.html
26-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The past four weeks have not been kind to India.Between April 27 and May 24, India saw 78% of its coronavirus disease cases, and 78% of its deaths. According to the HT dashboard, the number of cases and deaths were 138,474 and 3,949 respectively on Sunday night.In the first of the four weeks, India added 14,540 cases and saw 516 deaths for an average of 2,077 cases a day and 74 deaths. In the second, it added 24,558 cases and saw 747 deaths. The per-day averages were 3,508 and 107.In the third week, the numbers were 28,571 and 812, and the averages 4,082 cases and 116 deaths a day. And in the fourth week, India added 40,480 cases and saw 998 deaths, translating into averages of 5,783 cases and 143 deaths a day. I’ve previously written about the lag in reporting both cases and deaths, but the numbers are indicative of the general trend.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Sure, the ongoing lockdown (which is tapering down) has helped reduce the number of cases; the growth rates of both cases and deaths are nowhere close to what they are in some of the worst-affected countries; and the case fatality rate, at 2.85%, is well below the world’s 6.32% (in India’s case, this number, as well as the recovery rate, have been improving over the weeks, a fact repeatedly pointed out in this column); but India should still be worried about the four-week trend.Experts say (and the data bears out) that India is yet to witness the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, but that’s merely restating a fact that has been clear for a long time. What’s important now is that the country not fritter away the gains of the lockdown. The fact that fatality rates are decreasing and recovery rates increasing is an indicator that we aren’t – at least, not for now — but the challenge is to stay on the trajectory. India’s containment strategy seems to have ensured that the number of cases didn’t show the kind of sharp increase it did in countries such as Italy, Spain, and the US, overwhelming the health systems. It flattened the curve in that it reduced what in geometry is referred to as its slope, but didn’t flatten it to the extent that the curve started to dip.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Now, the country’s mitigation strategy needs to kick in. There are worrying signs there, as I wrote in the column yesterday. Hospitals in Mumbai (a total of 31,972 cases as of Sunday night, about 22% of India’s total), are struggling to cope with the high volume of cases. Delhi would appear to have learnt from Mumbai’s troubles; on Sunday, it earmarked more beds for Covid-19 patients in public as well as private hospitals in the city. It may not need them — while the number of daily cases in the Capital continues to rise (635 on Monday), most of the cases are mild, and do not require hospitalisation — but it needs to be prepared.Also read: Mixing patients may worsen Covid-19 spread, warn private hospitalsPart of the mitigation will also require state and district administrations to follow the Indian Council of Medical Research’s guideline on weekly random testing to be carried out in every district in the country. As India opens up, this system, if followed, can serve as an early warning system, red-flagging potential hotspots.And part of the mitigation will require the central governments and state governments to protect the most vulnerable population — people over the age of 65. It is surprising that travel advisories — air and rail services have both resumed — are silent on senior citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-mgVAv0kBJHD5e7hqx7zB4J.html
26-05-2020||India||Killing insects before monsoon crucial to halting second wave of locust swarms||Officials in three states are racing to control the desert locust swarms that have now spread to three states, adding to the logistical challenges of district officials at a time when containing the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has been the top-most priority.State and federal agencies need to eliminate as much of these locusts as possible prior to the arrival of monsoon, the point when the swarms could go through another round of breeding and turn into a bigger threat, said the Locust Warning Organisation under the Union agriculture ministry. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“If we are not able to control the sub-adults (the swarms that are already in MP and Rajasthan) they will grow into adults come back to the summer breeding sites along the Indo-Pak border in the desert. If there is good rainfall, moisture will make it conducive for egg laying in sandy soil. We may have to face a second generation of desert locusts then. If they are not controlled in hopper stage, then they turn into swarms that will again pose a challenge for us,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director, directorate of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage, LWO.Also read: Locusts- The invasion of the food snatchersThe Food and Agriculture Organisation’s (FAO) situation update dated May 21 said spring breeding continues in southern Iran and southwest Pakistan where control operations are in progress against hopper groups and bands. As vegetation dries out, more groups and swarms will form and move from these areas to the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border as several waves from now until at least early July. Good rains are predicted during the first half of June along the Indo-Pakistan border that would allow egg-laying to occur.FAO’s forecast maps also show summer breeding in India and Pakistan in June. “There is also a possibility that they enter India directly from the Horn of Africa in July by crossing the sea with the help of winds. The situation is being continuously monitored,” added Gurjar.According to FAO, favourable conditions for their breeding are moist sandy or sand/clay soil to depths of 10-15 cm below the surface, some bare areas for egg-laying, and green vegetation for hopper development.The LWO has a ground team of 50 people mainly to monitor and track the swarms. Drones are being used for aerial spraying of Malathion 96, an organophosphate insecticide and a potentially toxic chemical for non-cropped areas. For areas with agriculture, chlorpyrifos is sprayed by drones, fire brigades and tractor mounted sprays. Farmers are trying to disperse them by making noise which is not very effective but can help. Spraying takes place very early in the morning before they start moving again. .According to some assessments, the locust outbreak this time is linked to climate change. The World Meteorological Organisation earlier this year said unusually heavy rain in late 2019 was a factor in the severe desert locust outbreak in the Horn of Africa region. The outbreak was the worst in over 25 years, and the most serious in 70 years for Kenya. This is expected to spread further by June 2020 in a severe threat to food security.Originally, the locusts began migrating from the Horn of Africa last year. They migrated from the Middle East to Iran, Pakistan and then into India.“The outbreak started after warm waters in the western Indian Ocean in late 2019 fuelled heavy amounts of rains over east Africa and the Arabian Peninsula. These warm waters were caused by the phenomenon called the Indian Ocean Dipole—with warmer than usual waters to its west, and cooler waters to its east. Rising temperatures due to global warming amplified the dipole and made the western Indian Ocean particularly warm. Heavy rain triggers the growth of vegetation in arid areas where desert locusts can then grow and breed. “These locusts which migrated to India early this year might have found greener pastures as the pre-monsoon rains during March–May were in excess over north India this year,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/killing-insects-before-monsoon-crucial-to-halting-second-wave/story-tNOfgjVLw3XnTPc6GHPhEO.html
26-05-2020||India||Locusts: The invasion of the food snatchers||Swarms of crop-munching desert locusts entered deeper into Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh over the weekend and are now close to the national capital, according to officials who said on Monday that they have put farmers on high alert and deployed insecticide spraying devices through drones, SUVs and tractors.Locust invasions are common in parts of Rajasthan abutting Pakistan, but this is the first time they have reached Jaipur, a city 700km from the border, after charting a journey that experts believe began in their natural breeding ground in East Africa. “There is a possibility that the locusts will move towards Delhi in the next few days if wind speeds and directions are favourable. As of today the wind speed moved them towards north,” said the Union agriculture ministry’s Locust Warning Organization (LWO) deputy director KL Gurjar.Gurjar said the agency was coordinating with the India Meteorological Department to determine the trajectory the insects might take. On Monday, the swarm reached Jaipur in what was described by officials as unprecedented. An agriculture department official in Uttar Pradesh said that the Jaipur swarm was one of three that was spreading. “Presently three groups are in action in this area and first one among them was moving towards Jhansi (Uttar Pradesh) based on wind direction. The second lot seems to be heading for Morena in Madhya Pradesh. The third in Jaipur region seem to be heading towards Gangapur city in Rajasthan,” said Ram Pravesh, the district plant protection officer in Agra. Locusts can fly up to 150km in a day and a one-square-kilometre swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people, in terms of weight, in a single day, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)’s Desert Locust Information Service bulletin.Locust invasions are known to cause a considerable drop in agricultural output. A moderate infestation chewed through winter crops in an estimated 300,000 hectares in Rajasthan and Gujarat in January. According to some assessments, the locust outbreak this time is linked to climate change and unusual rain. While there are no crops in Rajasthan at present, the summer-sown season begins next month. Most of the swarm seen at present consists of pink-hued sub-adult locusts. Officials fear these may arc back to their summer breeding area in the desert between India and Pakistan, where monsoon rains can help trigger a new round of breeding. “If we are not able to control the sub-adults, they will grow into adults and return to summer breeding sites along the Indo-Pak border in the desert. If there is good rainfall, moisture will make it conducive for egg-laying in sandy soil. We may have to face a second generation of desert locusts then. If they are not controlled in hopper stage then they turn into swarms which will again pose a challenge for us,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director, Directorate of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage.The life of a locust varies between three and five months. These insects do not pose a direct risk to animals or humans.The LWO official said containment strategy depends upon the size of the swarm. “When it enters from Pakistan, a swarm of one square km can have 80 million locusts. As it moves ahead, we keep killing many of them and the swarm becomes less dense but it will still have 40 million locusts,” the joint director said.“This year, the locust attack is about eight times more aggressive than last year. Last year the locust swarm was first seen in Jaisalmer district on May 21, but this time its swarms started coming in from early May,” he added.According to officials in Jaipur, the swarm that arrived on Monday was spread 6km wide and stretched on for 2.5km. Locusts generally settle on vegetation around 8pm and fly off again around 9-10 am the next day, so insecticides are sprayed at them at night to kill them, he added. The LWO has a ground team of 50 persons mainly to monitor and track the swarms; drones are being used for aerial spraying of Malathion 96, an organophosphate insecticide and a potentially toxic chemical for non-cropped areas. For areas with agriculture, chlorpyrifos is sprayed by drones, fire brigades and tractor mounted sprays.“This year, we are able to launch control efforts only around midnight because they are settling late. The current breed of locusts unsettles on hearing sound of tractors, making our job more difficult. An unsettled swarm is highly mobile and can travel as much as 150 km a day if winds are favourable,” said Rajasthan’s agriculture commissioner Om Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locusts-the-invasion-of-the-food-snatchers/story-R78BBHUBb2TvLSrGm8ZYuI.html
26-05-2020||India||Ministers exempt from quarantine: Karnataka on Sadananda Gowda row||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government stepped in on Monday afternoon to extricate Union minister DV Sadananda Gowda who found himself mired in a quarantine controversy after flying to Bengaluru from Delhi and skipping the mandatory one-week quarantine specified by the state government. After both he and his aides tied themselves up in knots explaining why the quarantine did not apply to him, the state government issued an addendum to its guidelines issued on May 22 that said Union and state ministers and officers were exempt from the “requirements”. Interestingly, the addendum was dated May 23,although it was shared by the state at around 7.40pm on Monday.  Gowda , the Union minister for chemicals and fertilisers flew from Delhi to Bengaluru, but skipped the mandatory one week of institutional quarantine, followed by another week of home isolation, mandated by the Karnataka government for air passengers from high-rsk states amid the Covid-19 pandemic.After landing at the airport on a commercial flight, Gowda left by a private car even as other passengers were sent to a week of institutional quarantine the Karnataka government has mandated for passengers from states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi.Anyone tested within the previous 48 hours and found negative for Covid-19 is exempted from institutional quarantine, but is required to stay in home quarantine.An aide to the minister claimed that Gowda had come with a negative Covid-19 test report provided by an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-approved lab. The minister himself did not refer to either the test or the state government guideline (issued later, but dated Saturday) and simply told reporters that being a minister, he was exempt from the quarantine rules and accused a section of the media of unnecessarily blowing up the issue.“I am also looking after pharma. It is my duty to ensure that there is no shortage of medicine supply in the country. If I don’t do that, then the number of cases will double,” he said. “If doctors are quarantined, if people who supply medicines are quarantined, how will we beat the virus.”The Karnataka Congress hit out at the Union minister for skipping the quarantine “…(Sadananda Gowda) flouts all Covid norms, lands from Delhi and walks (out) without quarantine, Karnataka government rules have no exemption for anyone! How come he comes up with how own rules? Is he not putting all his primary contacts under health risk? Why no action?” it said in a statement.Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson S Prakash said the minister had already clarified his stand on the issue.The addendum to the guidelines issued by the state said: “The ministers of union government or state governments or officers on their official duty who are travelling across states will be exempted from the requirements of quarantine as has been done for health professionals and others...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-exempt-from-quarantine-k-taka-on-sadananda-gowda-row/story-IB7T9yM6rhDPEOo9oBZkYO.html
26-05-2020||India||Snow leopard conflict cases rise in Ladakh||There have been around nine snow leopard conflict cases reported in Ladakh during the past two months of national lockdown where the elusive carnivores have killed or attacked livestock in village corrals, according to the wildlife protection department of Jammu and Kashmir.Out of the nine snow leopards found in conflict with habitation, six had to be caught and moved to the department’s rescue centre in Leh for a period of 15 days to a month. One of them continues to be at the rescue centre and will be released in the wild in a fortnight or so, according to Md Sajid Sultan, regional wildlife warden, Ladakh.“Snow leopards and Himalayan brown bears have been seen to be moving about more freely closer to habitation compared to the past two years. There have been around nine conflict cases involving snow leopards in less than two months which may be linked to less movement of humans during lockdown. There were two conflict cases last year,” he said, adding that the Himalayan brown bears have been spotted on highways and villages where they haven’t been seen in decades.The six snow leopards that were involved in conflicts and killing of livestock, including sheep and Pashmina goats, from villages at lower altitudes had to be confined to a rescue centre either because they had injuries, issues with their teeth, a weak pelvic girdle or worms.“This is also a lean season for them. They do not find enough prey in high altitudes and so tend to come down. February to March is the mating season and then they have the birthing season in May to July. They are tired and look for food during this time. Higher cases of conflict are also related to that,” added Sultan who has three snow leopards at the rescue centre presently, two caught before lockdown who may not be released in their lifetimes as they have serious injuries.Those released back to the wild are either radio collared or GPS tagged with a microchip to track their behaviour or movement.But those studying snow leopards say it’s not a good idea to capture them and confine them even for a few weeks following a livestock raid.“Livestock killing by snow leopards is not just common in India but in all range countries. I am not sure it’s the wisest thing to capture them. Communities should be helped to find better ways to protect livestock. But those on the frontline are dealing with a tough situation because herders are badly impacted if a large share of their livestock is raided,” said Ajay Bijoor, assistant director, conservation, high altitudes at Nature Conservation Foundation.“Lockdown may not have an impact on the livestock raiding behaviour of snow leopards. Lockdown and these raids could be coincidental. Snow leopards do periodically kill free grazing livestock. So, if herders haven’t been taking livestock out for grazing post lockdown, a particular snow leopard who is partially dependent on livestock, can get into a village in search of food, enter a corral and attack livestock,” said Anish Andheria, president - Wildlife Conservation Trust. “Two factors, hunger and familiarity can encourage a snow leopard to raid corrals. Once inside a corral, the snow leopard, in excitement, usually attacks and/or kill multiple animals. If the rescued snow leopard is not injured then it is best to release it immediately or in a day, after monitoring its conditions. If found with injuries, it can be treated at a rehabilitation centre, until it is fit for release, and then released in its territory, that is a kilometer or two from the village where it was found,” he added.Experts cautioned against capturing and confining snow leopards becoming the norm for conflict cases, giving them space to leave is more advisable as tranquilising them could pose a risk to their lives.A study led by Grimsö Wildlife Research Station; Snow Leopard Trust; Panthera in 2016 had found that 40% of the protected areas that included snow leopard habitat were too small to host even one breeding pair of cats. This is because the cats moved around quite a bit and their ranges varied in size. According to the Snow Leopard Trust, if snow leopards are captured and sent into captivity each time livestock is attacked, there may be a gradual reduction in snow leopard numbers in the wild in a short period of time. Capturing snow leopards that have killed livestock can also lead to local communities themselves starting to routinely capture them. Instead, the community can be engaged to both conserve the snow leopards and protect livestock.In India, snow leopards inhabit the higher Himalayan and Trans Himalayan landscape in an altitudinal range between approximately 3,000 m to 5,400 m above mean sea level in five states--Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. This area contributes to only 5% of the global snow leopard range. There are around 500 snow leopards in India according to Wildlife Fund for Nature but no census has been conducted yet.The environment ministry has asked Wildlife Institute of India to study the impact of lockdown on wildlife in different parts of the country. “The wildlife department is supposed to minimise conflict as much as possible. If that is not possible the protocol is to capture them, treat them, keep them in rescue centres for a brief period and then release them. Snow Leopard conflicts are more common in Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh compared to Sikkim and Uttarakhand. Lots of animal sighting are happening now. Its natural because of less human movement and vehicular traffic. We have asked Wildlife Institute of India to study these findings,” said Soumitra Dasgupta, additional director general wildlife at environment ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snow-leopard-conflict-cases-rise-in-ladakh/story-VFq4AG6y0t9zyQGDHxPGbL.html
26-05-2020||India||Now, ‘Banana Covid’ hits plantations||Scientists are describing it as the equivalent of Covid-19 in bananas. As the coronavirus disease outbreak rages on, “fusarium wilt TR4”, a novel fungus strain that has devastated plantations across the globe this year, is setting up new hotspots and threatening output in India, the world’s largest producer of bananas. The strain, Tropical Race 4 (TR4), was first identified in Taiwan, and has jumped from Asia to the Middle East and Africa, reaching as far as Latin America. It cripples plantations by first attacking the leaves, which turn yellow from their trailing edges before wilting away. There is no effective remedy yet. “One could say it is the Covid-19 of the plant world. Hotspots have been found in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, which we are trying to contain,” said S. Uma, the director of National Research Centre for Bananas (NRCB), Trichy. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, TR4 is one of the “the most destructive of all plant diseases”. As with Covid-19, there is no treatment yet. So, scientists recommend biosecurity measures including “plant quarantine” to slow its spread. The spreading disease has jeopardised the $26 billion global banana trade.A healthy snack, banana is the world’s most globally exported fruit, according to the FAO. That’s a reason for worry as the disease is breaching borders through imports. India produces 27 million tonnes of bananas annually and grows about 100 named cultivars (varieties). TR4 has infected the most commonly sold variety, the one you mostly likely have for breakfast: Grand Nain (musa acuminata), a curvy yellow fruit. Inability to contain TR4 could jolt farm incomes and push up banana prices. One medium banana (126 gms) provides about 110 calories, 0 gram fat, 1 gram protein, 28 grams carbohydrate, 15 grams sugar (naturally occurring), 3 grams fiber and 450 mg potassium and trace quantities of vitamin C and B6, according to the Hyderabad-based National Institute of Nutrition. Most of India’s bananas are consumed domestically. Equador, the largest exporter, is currently the epicentre and scientists haven’t been able to ascertain how TR4 entered India.Fusarium wilt is not new. It entirely wiped out Gros Michel, the dominant export variety of bananas in 1950s. It was in response to this that a new resistant variety, Grand Nain, came up. That has now fallen to TR4. The challenge is to now identify or develop new resistant varieties. That’s the only way to manage it, according to Uma, until an effective agent is found, just as the world is struggling to find a Covid-19 vaccine. “This strain entered India may be eight-nine months ago,” said KL Chaddha, known as the Father of Indian Horticulture and currently, the president of Indian Academy of Horticulture Sciences.The infestation of Grain Nain is bad news. “Grain Nain accounts for 55% of the banana area in the country and accounts for 62% of commerce, including exports,” Uma said.Katihar and Purnea in Bihar and Maharajganj in Uttar Pradesh are the hotspots in India. In UP, several districts are thought to be affected, according to the NRCB.In hotpsot Katihar, scientists have set up an experimental farm. In it, they are growing several cultivars and “32 have shown potential resistance to TR4”, Uma said. Trials are on. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is advocating a set of measures, known as “biopriming”. It has asked farmers whose plantations have been affected to abandon them. They must grow rice for a year or two before returning to banana. “That way the chain is broken,” said R Selvarajan, a scientist with the NRCB. In a briefing document, the FAO states: “In view of the challenges associated with control of the disease and the risk posed to the global banana supply, it is evident that a concerted effort is required from industry, research institutions, government and international organisations to prevent spread of the disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-banana-covid-hits-plantations/story-2ZViGgde0fer1eGi6BnF1N.html
26-05-2020||India||SC for status quo on middle seats of aircraft till June 6||New Delhi: Air India may operate non-scheduled relief and rescue flights on international routes with middle seats occupied until June 6, the Supreme Court ordered on Monday, partly modifying a May 22 Bombay high court order that ordered the national airline to keep middle seats vacant while flying in passengers stranded abroad by the coronavirus crisis and the suspension of most international flights. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde allowed Air India to fill up middle seats of the rescue flights for 10 more days, after taking into account difficulties that passengers, including families, could face in the event middle-seat passengers are offloaded in foreign airports on grounds of social distancing.The top court remanded the matter back to the Bombay high court to pass an appropriate interim order on June 2, the next date of hearing of the case in the high court. Air India will have to comply with the interim order of the Bombay high court while operating non-scheduled flights after June 6.“You should be worried about the health of citizens and not about health of commercial airlines,” CJI Bobde told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for Air India and the central government.During the hearing on Monday, the Supreme Court bench, which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, remarked that there should be no distinction between international and domestic flights when it comes to adherence to social distancing norms. “There shouldn’t be a difference (between international and domestic flights). It is common sense that maintaining social distancing is important”, the court remarked.However, the Bombay high court specifically said that its order was applicable only to non-scheduled international flights, in light of the fact (as pointed out by the petitioner in that case) that some of the evacuees were coming from countries ravaged by Covid-19 and could be infected. This means that the Supreme Court’s decision today may not have any bearing on scheduled domestic flights, which began on Monday. “We are of the considered view that the petitioner, Air India, should be allowed to operate the non-scheduled flights with the middle seats booking up to 6th June, 2020,” the Supreme Court said on Monday. “However, after that (June 6) Air India will operate non-scheduled flights in accordance with the interim order to be passed by the Bombay high court”, the top court said. The apex court was critical of Air India’s logic in seeking to operate international flights without keeping the middle seats vacant. It also said that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is free to alter any norms during the pendency of the matter in the interest of public health and safety of the passengers rather than commercial considerations.The petitioner before the high court, Deven Yogesh Kanani, who is an Air India pilot, pointed out that operating flights without keeping middle seats vacant was in violation of the circular issued by the DGCA on March 23. Air India took a stance that the circular of March 23 applied only to scheduled domestic flights and not non-scheduled international flights. Further,the airline argued that the March 23 circular was superseded by a circular issued on May 22 as per which there is no express mandate to keep centre seats vacant. In its order, the Bombay high court said that it cannot accept the submission of the Air India that social distancing measures provided by the March 23 circular so as to prevent spread of Covid-19 would apply only to scheduled domestic flights and not to non-scheduled international flights. Air India and the Union government approached the Supreme Court on Sunday, seeking a stay on the order.Solicitor general Mehta emphasised the difficulties that passengers may face if the middle seat bookings are cancelled. He told the court that one-third of the passengers who are expected to be brought in by the non-scheduled flights would be left stranded in foreign airports if the high court order was not stayed. “According to Mr. Mehta, this [Bombay high court order] has resulted in a lot of anxiety and difficulties arising from want of proper shelter, money, etc., at the foreign airports. Moreover, in some cases, the travel plan of families who were travelling together has been disrupted because those in the families who had middle seats have to be offloaded and remain behind”, the Supreme Court noted in its order. On May 7, India launched the Vande Bharat mission to bring back Indians stranded overseas since the last week of March, when scheduled flights to and from India were cancelled. Since then, over 400 flights have been organised from 98 countries, to rescue 259,000 Indians. On May 22, the Indian government extended the mission to include some categories of Overseas Citizens of India or OCIs. The central government also pointed out the difficulties in convincing airport authorities of foreign nations to offload passengers based on an order passed by a court in India. Besides, it was also submitted that keeping the middle seat unoccupied will not help much in preventing the transmission of the coronavirus.“How can you say it will not affect anyone? Outside [the aircraft], there should be a social distancing of at least 6 feet. Will the Virus know it is in the aircraft and is not supposed to infect ?” the court asked. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde said: “The order would not possibly have been passed but for the tickets already having been sold. The court’s inclination appeared to be to insist on distancing within the aircraft which it has now mandated from June. Accepting a fait accompli from the government for tickets sold for one or two days is understandable. Once a concession is permitted by the court for over ten days, it appears quite likely that the government will give itself a fresh extension, by new administrative orders. In the meanwhile, those who will have flown in the interim period, may be exposed to unacceptable levels of risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-for-status-quo-on-middle-seats-till-june-6/story-sPjof7w9z8cIA1Dp4ALtxM.html
26-05-2020||India||Relief for homecoming passengers||It was a special journey for five-year-old Vihaan Sharma, who returned to Bengaluru on Monday with the resumption of domestic flight services. Not only because he met his mother after three months but also because he made the journey alone.The boy, who stayed with his grandparents in Delhi, was wearing a yellow jacket, blue gloves and a yellow mask. In one hand, he held a mobile phone. In the other, he clenched a placard saying “special category” passenger.“He has come back alone to Bengaluru after three months,” said the boy’s mother, Manjeesh Sharma, who received him at the airport.For thousands of passengers who boarded planes on the day India resumed air services after over 60 days, it was a journey to remember.At airports across India, people rejoiced their homecoming, after being stuck in different parts of the country for months with the government announcing unprecedented travel curbs across the country in March-end. That they have to undergo strict state-specific security protocols did not appear to be a dampener. Others were relieved that they could travel to attend to friends and relatives facing medical emergencies in other states. VK Tewari, a 44-year-old employee of a private company in New Delhi, was elated that he could finally visit his family in Lucknow. He has a rented accommodation in Ghaziabad and used to visit his wife, mother and father in the Uttar Pradesh capital on weekends. “On the first practical opportunity to meet the family, I booked myself on a plane and reached here...For two months, we connected over phone and video calls. It’s nice to come here again. I never lived away from my family for so long,” Tewari said.“I have been working from home (during and these few months have been emotionally challenging. Now, I will spend some time here,” he said.RK Singh, 55, too, arrived in Lucknow airport on Monday, but he was travelling to the national capital. “I am going to Delhi to see my brother who is not keeping well. It’s an emotional journey for me as I met him before three months. I was trying to go to Delhi for the last few days but was not able to do so,” he said.Amitesh Kumar Nag, a 40-year-old marketing executive with a multinational firm, returned to Patna with his wife and 10-year-old son over four months after undergoing a surgery in Navi Mumbai.“I underwent an operation at the Kokilaben Reliance Hospital at Navi Mumbai on February 27, and was discharged from the hospital on March 18. Doctors advised me to come for a review after a week, and then the lockdown was announced and I was stranded in Mumbai,” said the cancer patient.“Though I was staying with my aunt in Mumbai, I was desperate to return home and even arranged for movement pass by road when the government announced lifting of the embargo on domestic flights,” said Nag.Joymati Das, a 68-year retired government employee and a resident for Assam can’t wait for her flight back home. “I came to Anand in Gujarat in November to spend some time with my daughter who works in a school. The plan was to return towards the end of March, but the lockdown happened and I got stuck,” said Das, whose flight is scheduled to leave on Wednesday. Mohammad Ansari was happy that he could reach Allahabad from Mumbai to celebrate Eid. “I had enquired about my flight status a day before departure...I reached the airport and took off on time,” he said.But then there were others who did not have a pleasant experience. Rishi Goel, for example. The Shimla resident could board his Chandigarh-bound flight, but not before hiccups. “My airline first messaged me that my flight was cancelled and then sent an updated message that my flight was on time,” said Goel, who works in Mumbai. His wife delivered a baby in the lockdown period. Ashwini Pandey, a banker and a resident of Chennai, purchased tickets with four airlines to reach Mumbai, but all his flights were cancelled. “I have to join my work urgently on June 10. Only if I reach Mumbai now, I can join my new office after finishing my quarantine period. Two flights got cancelled today and two flights that were scheduled on Tuesday too have been cancelled,” Pandey said.Sudhanshu Pandey, who was on an official trip to Mumbai, has been stranded in the city for two months. “I had no idea that my flight was cancelled, and it was only at 6.30 am that I learnt about my flight status while I was entering the check-in area.”(With inputs from HTC in states)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relief-for-homecoming-passengers/story-rStXjy4TGjXT9JLSMvGWAP.html
26-05-2020||India||Local explosives used to trigger Pulwama attack||Terrorists who planned and executed the February 14, 2019 Pulwama attack on a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy took advantage of pilferage in mineral blocks and stone quarries to procure about 500 gelatin sticks, purchased ammonium nitrate and ammonium powder locally in small tranches, and managed to smuggle in military grade RDX from across the border, according to people familiar with the investigation who gave granular details of the explosives used in the attack that took India and Pakistan to the brink of war last year.The Pulwama attack -- in which an explosive-laden Maruti Eeco was smashed into the CRPF convoy by suicide bomber Adil Ahmed Dar, killing 40 troopers -- led to India retaliating with an aerial attack on a terror camp in Balakot and a subsequent dogfight between the air forces of the two countries.A counter-insurgency official, sharing details of how explosive material was collected for the Pulwama bombing, said Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) commander Mudassir Ahmed Khan (killed in an encounter in Pinglish on March 11, 2019), Ismail Bhai alias Lambu (currently the main JeM commander in Kashmir), Sameer Ahmed Dar (Jaish’s second-in-command in the Valley) and Shakir Bashir Magrey (arrested by the National Investigation Agency on February 28, 2020) collected the gelatin sticks from the mining blocks and locations used by factories for blasting rocks in the Khrew (Pulwama), Khunmoh (Srinagar), Tral, Awantipora and Lethpora areas over a period of time.“These gelatin sticks, which have nitroglycerin, were collected in tranches of 5kg to 10kg to avoid raising red flags among the intelligence agencies,” said the official, who asked not to be named.The ammonium nitrate (around 70 kg) and the ammonium powder were also procured locally in tranches, while around 35kg military grade RDX was brought in from Pakistan, the official added. Some of the ammonium powder was ordered by another Jaish operative, Waiz-ul-Islam (arrested in March 2020 first week), he said.Forensic experts probing the case have already confirmed that ammonium nitrate, nitroglycerin and RDX were used in the suicide attack.A senior ministry of home affairs (MHA) official confirmed that NIA had gathered all the evidence on how the explosive material was collected, and who the people behind the delivery were. The RDX, the official said, was brought to India in tranches by JeM terrorists who sneaked into India from Pakistan.“Gelatin sticks are prohibited for sale in the open market, and only authorised companies or government departments {that} have permission from geology department can use it. However, it has often been seen that there aren’t proper checks at these sites, and explosives used at quarries for blasting mountains/rocks etc. reach the hands of criminals and terrorists. Several advisories have been issued in the past in this regard,” said the MHA official who spoke on condition of anonymity.The NIA has so far arrested key players in Pulwama attack – including Magrey, Mohammad Abbas Rather, Waiz-ul-Islam, Insha Jan, and her father Tariq Ahmad Shah. They were picked up in the last week of February and first week of March this year.The agency has also found “definite technical evidence” against the JeM leadership including Maulana Masood Azhar’s brother Abdul Rauf Asghar’s communications with outfit’s commanders in the Valley through which it was established that he was giving directions for the Pulwama conspiracy, a third person familiar with the matter said.The first charge sheet in the case is expected to be filed in August.HT reported on March 4, 2020 that the Pulwama attack was originally set to be carried out in the first week of February last year. However, when bad weather in the Valley forced a suspension of the convoy movements , the JeM terrorists waited for the next CRPF convoy to use the Jammu-Srinagar highway on February 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-explosives-used-to-trigger-pulwama-attack/story-h5F8JWsy2ivn8fH7VbYgjP.html
26-05-2020||India||Delhiwale: A sadhu in isolation||Who among us isn’t affected by the coronavirus pandemic? Aren’t we all fearing for our salary cuts, our jobs, our health, and especially for the life of our elderly friends and relatives?But there’s a group of men who are beyond these worries—theoretically speaking.“I have no family, I have no friend and I’m not even alive,” says Baba Julmi Nath, clad in a black turban and kurta. He’s an aghori sadhu, belonging to a sect of Shiva worshipping ascetics, famous for performing night-long sadhna (meditations) in the haunting grounds of Hindu shamshan (cremation) ghats.Currently in Gurugram, Mr Nath talks of “being stranded in the city”—he is talking this evening on WhatsApp video.But where is the human skull he is seen holding in his WhatsApp profile pic?Mr Nath smiles, seemingly amused by this abrupt query. “It’s called kapaal.” He informs all aghoris are required to keep it with them. “It’s inside my bag.... I take it out for chai or meals.” That skull is his cup as well as plate, he explains in layman’s lingo, while simultaneously Whatsapping a photo of himself holding the “kapaal.”In his mid-30s, Mr Nath spends his year visiting the various Shiva shrines spread across the subcontinent, though he often stops by in Gurugram for long durations. “We have an ashram here, near the shamshan ghat.” A pause, and then he asserts, “We aghoris always try to live on or near a shamshan.”Mr Nath is sitting in the hall of an ashram in Surat Nagar near the town’s railway station—this is the place he is staying in for the time. He says he hasn’t caught the “infection” and “while I’m responsible towards other people’s health, I’m not concerned for mine.” He declares he is beyond “sukh dukh (happiness and grief)” and that, in fact, he performed his own “pind daan” ceremony when he was 12. “I’m now dead, corona cannot do anything to my aatma (spirit).”Even so, he concedes he is “technically alive”—his “ID name” is Arvind Kumar. And he also graciously confesses that all said and done, somewhere within his heart “I too am worried for myself.” In fact, he and many of the aghoris he knows have been instructed by the elders of this secretive community to cease all travels for now, “especially after two sadhus were killed by a mob while on the road in Palghar (Maharashtra) some weeks ago.”Discussing the kind of fear that seizes everyone, especially during a time like this, Mr Nath feels that it is the attachment to people that keeps us nervous. “We’re constantly scared of the possibility of death of those we love.” Indeed, he says, aghoris like him try to attain a stage where they go past such concerns. “A true sadhu won’t feel anything if he discovered his parents are dead.”Mr Nath confirms he hasn’t been in touch with his family in Deoria, UP, for a long time.The sadhu says that he performs sadhna only in the four shamshan ghats situated in Ujjain, Kashi, Kolkata and Kamakhya. Last year he’d visited the Kamakhya in Assam.“If the lockdown hadn’t taken place, I would be in Kedarnath dham right now,” he says, recalling the snowy mountains and streams he had encountered during his previous visits to the said Himalayan pilgrimage place.Once the world gets back to its old pre-corona life, Mr Nath hopes to pick up the pieces of his life as an aghori sadhu and strive to become the ideal of a person “who is beyond the pains and pleasures of this world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-a-sadhu-in-isolation/story-ojcLVj0Lrlk9hjcswx7UOP.html
26-05-2020||India||Post curbs, promotion of domestic tourism will be our focus: Prahlad Singh Patel||New Delhi: Union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel spoke to Amrita Madhukalya about the impact of Covid-19 on the tourism industry, protocols to revive the sector after the lockdown, and the focus on domestic rather than international tourism to get the sector up and running again. Edited excerpts:Tourism industry experts have estimated that losses to the sector have mounted to $5 trillion and 38 million jobs might be lost. How can the tourism ministry help address this crisis? Demand has collapsed the world over, and hotels and airline owners are not able to produce revenue. On the demand side, many customers will not travel in the near future because of health as well as economic reasons. Travel agents and tour operators -- the distribution and value-added reseller industry -- will revive only when customers are no longer afraid of the pandemic and have sufficient money to travel, provided hotel-owners have managed to keep their assets in a good shape. Our objective, therefore, is to revive demand as soon as possible. One way we can do this is to help overcome the fear of health while travelling. The ministry will soon be releasing new post-lockdown protocols for accommodation units to give confidence to clients to travel and stay safely. We are also coming out with a set of recommendations for different segments -- travel agents, tour operators, transport operators, and facilitators/guides.International travel may take a few months to kick-start and the Prime Minister has spoken about the need to rely on domestic travel. How will the government rework domestic travel and tourism norms? The revival of the tourism sector post Covid-19 will depend on domestic tourism to a very large extent since international tourism is expected to take longer to pick up. Promotion of domestic tourism will be given greater focus through our “Dekho Apna Desh” campaigns. In domestic tourism, the thrust should be given to co-create holidays with farmers and rural India. This way, new wealth will be created and distributed. So the typical packages will woo a traveller to spend a weekend in a village, stay in a one-acre farmland, in a mud house, pluck mangoes, and buy fresh vegetables. In short, spend the weekend amid nature and return home on Sunday night. We have constituted a National Tourism Task Force for the revival of the hospitality and tourism industry headed by me. This includes state tourism ministers, joint secretary-level officers of concerned central ministries, and representatives from associations such as Ficci, CII, Assocham, WTCII as well as heads of tourism and hospitality associations. This Committee will make recommendations for the revival of the tourism sector.If hotels and homestays open, what protocols will be put in place? In future, tourism will totally change. Safety, hygiene, and security will be the top concerns. Clients will travel to a destination only if they have proof that the place they are visiting , eating and staying is absolutely virus-free. protocols for accommodation units, restaurants, B&B and homestays, convention centres and exhibitions have been formulated and are in the consultation stage. These will be released soon. The new protocol aims to minimise all possible touch points between a staff and guest while at the hotel.Will there be any change in the different schemes of the ministry now, because most of the efforts are invested in wooing the international traveller, to revive the sector?I have requested my officials to work out reforms in the existing schemes like Market Development Assistance to extend it to promote domestic tourism, and to work our schemes to jointly support the marketing efforts of tour operators and the hospitality industry.There are many other factors that contribute to the tourism sector’s income. The overall stimulus given to the economy by Prime Minister Narendra Modi through a special economic and comprehensive package will have a positive impact on the tourism industry by creating demand and business as incomes will flow into the hand of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-curbs-promotion-of-domestic-tourism-will-be-our-focus-prahlad-singh-patel/story-zsUNz6n5Edsi88lvn3xYkJ.html
26-05-2020||India||China may have posted 5,000 soldiers across LAC, officials say as tension grows along border||China may have marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements to strengthen its defences as growing tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) threatens to plunge the bilateral relationship to a new low, people familiar with the development said on Monday.Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the LAC and several rounds of talks between local military commanders , including a meeting on Monday, have failed to end the standoff that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols three weeks ago near Pangong Tso.Also Read: Army Chief Naravane’s 2012 prophecy on Chinese strategy rings true in Ladakh sectorThere have been troop reinforcements by China, around 5,000 of whose troops may now be present in the region, two officials said on condition of anonymity. The Chinese forces are not concentrated anywhere near the flashpoints, but scattered on their side, the officials said.Sending the military reinforcements, including troops, vehicles and heavy equipment, did not require much effort as China diverted the resources from an ongoing military exercise in the region, said one of the officials cited above.India is tracking all aspects of the Chinese deployments and parity in troop numbers is being ensured, said the second official cited above.China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days.Also Read: China’s tactical play in Ladakh isn’t just about the boundaryOfficials and China watchers said that there was no need to get too fixated on numbers when it comes to troop reinforcements on either side of the disputed border.“As long as troops remain in their current positions and there are no further transgressions, it could set the stage for talks to defuse the situation,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).He added that there was no space for the deployment of 5,000 troops along the LAC and it was quite possible that the reinforcements were in so-called “depth areas.” His reference is to areas within the Chinese side of the LAC.There has to be parity in troop numbers at the face-off sites and the back-up areas, said Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd), also a former Northern Army commander.“You have to show presence of troops to induce dissuasion. And you also have to be concerned about the military build-up escalating into a conflict.”Also Read: New chopper drone may be deployed along India border: Chinese state mediaArmy chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane made a low-key visit to Ladakh last week for a security review as tensions grew between India and China near Pangong Tso and three pockets in the Galwan Valley region where Chinese troops have pitched close to 100 tents and erected temporary structures to establish a presence.Chinese soldiers are also said to be constructing bunkers in some disputed areas.HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring between India and China in north Sikkim where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Around 250 soldiers from the two countries clashed near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6, with the scuffle leaving scores of troops injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions spread to other pockets along the LAC.The latest standoff is not confined to a small area, has triggered an increase in troop numbers on both sides at multiple locations and seems to suggest a greater design rather than adventurism by local commanders, as reported by HT on Sunday.Experts said breaking the stalemate would require political direction and diplomatic intervention.Both India and China are locked in a war of words over the border row. Last week, India rejected Beijing’s allegation that Indian troops were responsible for triggering tensions, and instead accused the Chinese army of hindering Indian patrols.The Indian reaction came after China’s foreign ministry accused Indian troops of trespassing across the LAC and said Beijing had to take “necessary countermeasures” after the Indian Army allegedly obstructed patrols by Chinese troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-may-have-posted-5-000-soldiers-on-lac-officials-say-as-tension-grows-along-border-in-ladakh/story-MrbTCUNY6ihfTNUGK40XcM.html
26-05-2020||India||Home isolation is key, hospitals ready: Delhi CM Kejriwal||New Delhi Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday that home isolation was effective for Covid-19 patients with mild or no symptoms and tried to ease concerns about the adequacy of Delhi’s hospital infrastructure to accommodate serious cases, as the city’s coronavirus disease tally rose past 14,000.Kejriwal, who ordered the addition of 1,500 more Covid beds in Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, pointed out how after May 17, when the lockdown was eased to allow restricted business and commercial activity, the city-state experienced a relatively low increase in hospital bed occupancy despite recording an increase of around 3,500 fresh cases in that period.“Between May 17, when several relaxations were implemented, and yesterday (Sunday), Delhi witnessed an increase of around 3,500 fresh cases but, in the same period, around 2,500 people have recovered from the disease,” Kejriwal said in a press briefing by video link. “Also, in the same period, the number of hospital bed occupancies rose by around 250 only,” Kejriwal said. “Till yesterday (Sunday), 3,314 individuals were in home isolation compared to around 2,000 individuals admitted in hospitals.”His comments came a day after the Delhi government ordered private hospitals with 50 or more beds to set aside 20% of their bed strength for Covid-19 patients in a measure meant to prepare the city’s health care system for a surge in infections. The capital has 117 private hospitals that will be covered by this rule, which officials said was necessitated because dedicated privately run Covid hospitals were now running close to their capacity.As of Monday, Delhi had reported 14,053 cases of Covid-19. Of these, with 7,006 active Covid-19 cases and 276 deaths, the chief minister stressed that the government was not running out of beds for treatment of serious patients. The Delhi government’s daily health bulletin recorded 15 new deaths on Monday.“We have a total of 3,829 beds in our Covid-dedicated government hospitals. Out of this, 1,478 are occupied and 2,351 are vacant. We have 250 ventilators, of which only 11 are being used at the moment,” the CM said. “At present, we have around 4,500 beds available, out of which around 2,500 are vacant. Once the 1,500 beds in GTB Hospital are ready, we will have more than 5,500 beds ready for Covid-19 treatment,” Kejriwal said.Also, on Monday, senior government officials said, the Delhi government engaged Geospatial Delhi Limited (GSDL) — its own subsidiary — for the geospatial mapping of Covid-19 home isolation cases for better monitoring and municipal ward-specific trend analysis on a daily basis.Geospatial mapping is a type of analysis that uses computer software that is capable of making maps, applying analytical methods to geographical datasets and processing spatial data. “Effective steps to streamline the monitoring of each and every home quarantine case are being taken. Steps are being taken to ensure accurate allocation of cases to appropriate districts through GSDL mapping,” Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev said.GSD has so far been engaged in preparing a municipal ward-wise Covid-19 heat map of the Capital, but the ambit of the exercise has now been expanded to cover home quarantine cases separately. The maps, however, are not available in the public domain. GSDL had earlier helped the Delhi government in mapping the boundaries of Delhi’s 1,797 unauthorised colonies.Kejriwal said on Monday: “The number of cases is going up in Delhi. But we are prepared… What really would have concerned us was a spike in the number of serious patients, which could have led to a collapse of the health infrastructure system in place. But it is not so… Most cases that are surfacing these days are those of patients with either mild or no symptoms, which are not required to be admitted in hospital. A special team which my office monitors talks to the patients in home isolation and their families on a daily basis and reports their health status.”The home isolation facility, according to guidelines issued by the government, can be availed of by an individual who has tested Covid-19 positive but has mild or no symptoms.Charoo Hans, former head of the microbiology department in Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, said: “Home isolation for patients with mild symptoms and no co-morbid conditions can be an effective strategy to reduce burden on hospitals. But all necessary precautions have to be taken by the patients and the caregiver. The health of patients and caregivers has to be monitored.”The Delhi government had issued a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) on May 1. The SOP demands isolation in a separate room for at least 16 days, a separate toilet, periodic calls from surveillance teams, house visit by health teams and making the patient and caregiver download the Aarogya Setu app. The SOPs also include putting an isolation sticker on the gate of the residence, wearing a triple-layered face mask by the patient that is to be routinely discarded, and by the caregiver when in the same room, use of hand gloves during any physical exchange, and avoiding contact with potentially contaminated items such as utensils, clothes, towels and bed sheets.The person will be allowed to come out of isolation only after two of his/her tests turn up negative for Covid-19. Once home isolation ends, the person will still be under surveillance for another 14 days, and they are not to attend any gathering, the guidelines say.Kejriwal also clarified that it was the responsibility of the hospitals to arrange a bed in a Covid-designated health facility if a patient gets infected by Covid-19 and take the patient there in its ambulance.“A private hospital had asked a patient to look for a bed himself when he got infected with corona. We have served a show-cause notice to that hospital as to why its license should not be cancelled,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-bats-for-hospital-while-ordering-augmenting-of-covid-beds-in-delhi/story-CKbi4fdP1rcf3k1joaFa9M.html
26-05-2020||India||Mixing patients may worsen Covid-19 spread, warn private hospitals||Reserving beds for Covid-19 patients in hospitals treating people with other ailments might lead to a further spread of the infection, warned private hospitals and doctors, who are writing to the government to review its decision.The Delhi government had on Sunday directed 117 hospitals – with 50 beds or more – to reserve 20% space for coronavirus patients, to deal with the surge in cases. This would have added around 2,000 beds for Covid-19 patients in private sector hospitals, apart from the 677 existing beds in 10 designated hospitals.Delhi on Monday reported 635 more cases, taking the count to 14,053, the Delhi government’s daily bulletin reported. Fifteen deaths were reported, taking the tally to 276.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “The bigger hospitals that have several blocks can manage to dedicate these beds. However, the challenge will be for smaller ones as they might not have enough space or separate entry and exits to ensure Covid-19 and non-Covid patients are segregated properly. This might lead to a spread of the infection within the hospitals,” said Dr Girish Tyagi, president of Delhi Medical Association.Dr PK Bharadwaj, secretary, Delhi Voluntary Hospitals forum, an association of large private hospitals, said, “We should learn from the experiences of other countries. In countries such as Italy and Spain, treating Covid-19 patients alongside non-Covid patients ed to several hospitals becoming transmission hot spots.” Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe Delhi government did not respond to multiple calls and messages for comment.Doctors from Italy have been reported as saying that the overloaded hospitals became sources of the contagion. In England, around 20% patients hospitalised with Covid-19 had contracted the disease while being treated for other ailments, according to a report by the Guardian a week ago.In lieu of the beds allocated for Covid-19 patients, the Delhi government allowed the hospitals to add 25% more beds by relaxing norms for space and manpower. “This means crowding of limited spaces in these hospitals, leading to a further increase in the risk of the spread of the infection. Plus, smaller hospitals might not have enough staff to have some exclusively working in Covid areas. Irrespective of the precautions taken, this is bound to spread the infection. The Centre must step in and reverse the order,” said a private doctor from the city, on condition of anonymity.Earlier, the Delhi government had decided to designate only independent hospitals or those with separate blocks for the treatment of Covid-19 patients such as one block in Max Smart Super Specialty hospital or the two independent hospitals under Sir Gangaram -- Kolmet and City.Also read| ‘Get ready’: WHO warns of ‘second peak’ in areas where Covid-19 decliningWhile scaling up Covid-19 facilities at its own hospitals, the Delhi government had initially reserved some beds in five of its hospitals in April first week. Fearing a mixing of Covid and non-Covid patients, the government decided to use two of its hospitals – the 2000-bed Lok Nayak and 500 bed Rajiv Gandhi Superspecialty hospital – in its entirety days later.At All India Institute of Medical Sciences, people with Covid are being treated at the Trauma Centre on Ring Road and the Cancer centre in Jhajjar, which are completely isolated from the main campus where non-Covid patients are being treated in the emergency department. At Safdarjung, a separate Superspecialty block and in Ram Manohar Lohia, a separate Trauma block are being used for Covid patients.“If the government needs to take over beds in the private sector, instead of getting 2,000 beds in over hundred hospitals, they can take over a few of the bigger hospitals,” said Dr Bharadwaj.Also read| ‘Buy PPE only from approved producers’: Govt advisoryExperts agree. “The government was to scale up its facilities during the lockdown. So why does it need to acquire private hospitals? And even if they do have to, they should take over whole hospitals, pay the rent and salary of the staff and manage cases there. There shouldn’t be any mixing of Covid and non-Covid cases. The Centre seems to have failed in clearly creating and communicating a master plan for management of Covid cases,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology department at Christian Medical College, Vellore.The Delhi Medical Association is also writing to the Delhi government to extend the health insurance for health care workers in the government sector to the private sector, ensure availability of PPE kits, masks, sanitisers, and respirators at government rates, and create a separate facility for treating health care workers with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mixing-patients-may-worsen-covid-spread-warn-private-hospitals/story-OGOK0SpRrWVS352asbDihN.html
26-05-2020||India||BJP’s one year in office: Virtual rallies, letter from PM Modi to 10 crore Indians to mark anniversary||The Bharatiya Janata Party will organise a series of programmes both online and on the ground to mark its first year in office on May 30, said functionaries aware of the details.A letter with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message to the countrymen will be distributed to about 10 crore households by booth level workers. The letter distribution, functionaries said, will be limited to those areas which do not fall under containment zones. As for containment zones, the letter will be delivered electronically and on social media platforms.According to a senior party functionary, a virtual rally will be organised, as will 1,000 online interactions across the country. “This is not the first time that the party is relying on the virtual world to connect with the masses, but now it is being scaled up,” said the functionary.Also Read: In exclusive interview, Modi’s reply on 3 big achievements as PMMarking party’s dominant return, the focus of the rallies and the interactions will carry the message of self reliance or Atama Nirbhar Bharat given by the prime minister. The celebratory interaction will also cover the Rs 20 lakh crore financial package announced by the government to revive economy hit by coronavirus pandemic. The interactions will also spotlight the efforts made by government to contain the spread of the virus outbreak in the country, which has claimed over three lakh lives globally.Additionally, BJP president JP Nadda will inaugurate the anniversary functions with an online address to the BJP workers through social media platforms such as Facebook live.Also Read: ‘Our workers have toiled to bring positive changes’: PM Modi extends greetings on 40 years of BJPNarendra Modi-led BJP swept back to power last year on May 24 with a majority bigger than in 2014. The party secured a run-away victory by winning 303 seats, far beyond the 272-mark they needed for a majority in the Lok Sabha. The 2019 results also showed rise in party’s seat share, which rose from 282 seats secured by BJP in 2014. In the past, the party had used 3D technology in its campaign for the Lok Sabha elections. Video conferences with 3D images of Prime minister Modi were also used to reach masses in remote areas during campaigning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-one-year-in-office-virtual-rallies-letter-from-pm-modi-to-10-crore-indians-to-mark-anniversary/story-icqNcUVV5SzsstsUx9utyJ.html
26-05-2020||India||Cancellations hit travellers hard as flights resume at Mumbai airport after 2 months||After being suspended for almost two months, commercial flight operations in Mumbai commenced on Monday morning in a calibrated manner. At Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), 47 flights were operated (arrival and departure) throughout the day, where seven airlines catered to 14 sectors. The first flight departed for Patna at 6:45 am and a Lucknow flight was the first arrival at 8:20 am, both operated by IndiGo. Of the total 47 flights, eleven flights were operated to and from Delhi, four Kochi, Hyderabad, Varanasi, Bangalore and Patna, two were to be operated to and from Calicut, Diu, Lucknow, Nagpur, Chandigarh, Gorakhpur, Allahabad and one flight was due to take off for Jaipur. ALSO READ | Domestic flights resume today after ‘long day of hard negotiations’However, there was chaos and confusion due to last minute changes in flight schedules as a result of differences between the central and state governments. The restrictions on the number of flights placed by some states led to cancellation of scheduled services.Sudhanshu Pandey, who was on an official trip to Mumbai has been stranded for two months and was booked on an 8 am flight to Delhi on Monday. “I had no idea that my flight was cancelled and it was only at 6.30 am that I learnt about my flight status while I was entering the check-in area. I had booked three cabs in advance so that I don’t face issues while travelling to the airport. This is the second time that my air ticket money is blocked.” At least, 4,852 passengers (3,752 departing passengers and 1,100 arriving passengers) were flown to and from Mumbai airport on Monday. The highest passenger load capacity was seen on the Delhi route departing out of CSMIA. ALSO READ | Worried but work comes first: Flight attendants as domestic air travel resumesAirport sources confirmed that the airport will be operating 44 flights on Tuesday and Wednesday. Using its A320 aircraft, low-cost carrier- IndiGo operated 19 flights (eight arrivals and 11 departures) from CSMIA on Monday. SpiceJet is expected to operate ten flights (five departures and five arrivals). The airline will be utilizing its Boeing 738 aircraft for these flights. With the help of its A320 aircraft, Air Asia India operated two departures and two arrivals. Full service carrier Vistara too operated four flights (two arrivals and two departures) from Mumbai airport on Monday. National carrier Air India operated four flights using two aircraft- A320 for arrival and departure to Kochi and B787 for arrival and departure operations to the national capital- Delhi. Using its ATRs, Air India’s subsidiary- Alliance Air operated two flights (arrival and departure to Diu) while Air India Express, which too will operate two flights and will use its B738 aircraft. Jammu resident, Prashant Sharma, who was stuck in Mumbai after an event in March said, “I want to leave Mumbai as I am facing issues with my accommodation. Though I am currently residing in a friend’s home, the housing society members had made it clear to me that I won’t be given entry into the society premises if I return from the airport in case the flight is cancelled. Hence I decided to stay home. I have not received payment for the event for which I had come to Mumbai and I have lost Rs. 12,000 only in booking my tickets.”A passenger Devendra Nath Tripathi tweeted, “We are at the Mumbai Airport for AI-809 and have no confirmation for the flight. Air India online status shows flight on time. Ground reality is grim... No cabs to return…no water despite boarding pass. Terrible management by #Air India.” Ashwini Pandey, a banker and a resident of Chennai had purchased tickets of four airlines to reach Mumbai but all his four flights were cancelled. “I have to join my work urgently on June 10. Only if I reach Mumbai now, I can join my new office after finishing my quarantine period. Two flights got cancelled today and two flights that were scheduled on Tuesday too have been cancelled.”Rishi Goel, a Shimla resident who works in Mumbai said that he wanted to return as his wife delivered during the lockdown. Goel could board his Chandigarh-bound flight but termed his experience before reaching the airport troublesome. He said, “My airline first messaged me that my flight was cancelled and then sent an updated message that my flight was on time. Their website, however, continued to show my flight to be cancelled. It was only at 3 am that the airline website was updated with my flight status and I could take off at 9am.”It was however a happy day for Mohammad Ansari who could reach Allahabad to celebrate Eid. “I had enquired about my flight status a day before departure. As the flight was on time, I reached the airport and took off on time.”“Resumption of flights from May 25 has caused a lot of chaos for the passengers. The problem for passengers began with individual states rolling out their guidelines relating to the operationality of airports and post travel quarantine rules that left travellers high and dry. With only a fraction of flights allowed to operate from some of the busiest airports, this resulted in a spike in cancellations with majority of travellers left uncertain about their travel. To add to this the ability of Air India to manage the current situation has added to the angst of passengers,” said Nishant Pitti, co- founder, easemytrip.com.Senior airport officials revealed that the airport also handled a few non scheduled flights, Vande Bharat and cargo flights taking the total number of flights operated to around 84. Mumbai airport, which used to handle around 950 flights daily, has been shut from March 25, except for evacuation and cargo operations.According to the health ministry guidelines, all arriving passengers were screened for body temperature.“All the arriving passengers will be stamped on their left hand for identification and will have to undergo compulsory home isolation for the period of seven days as per the protocol by the municipal corporation. Passengers, who are coming in for a short duration and have planned for a return or onward journey, will have to share the details of the same and will be exempted from the isolation. Furthermore, the airport has created temporary isolation centres in case any passenger shows symptoms of the deadly virus during the screening process,” a MIAL spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancellations-hit-travellers-hard-as-flights-resume-at-mumbai-airport-after-2-months/story-17PDpSqVYydSMcmJ0sSvJN.html
26-05-2020||India||Man sets off on foot from Mumbai for Bihar amid lockdown. Gets home in 27 days||Soon after the Maharashtra government announced shutdown of workplaces from March 21 to check the spread of Covid-19, Harivansh Choudhary set off on foot from Mumbai, not knowing that it would take him 27 days to reach his village.A native of Darbhanga district in Bihar, the 32-year-old was employed at a steel factory in Mumbai’s Bhayandar, when his employers suddenly asked him to proceed on leave. He had Rs 240, which was borrowed earlier in the month against his salary.With earning avenues shut, he decided to take the train to his native place. But to his shock, the train got cancelled after he had purchased an unreserved ticket for Rs 445.“All trains bound for Bihar, except the one going to Patna, were cancelled,” he was told by a railway enquiry staff member. Harivansh then called his father, Krishna Choudhary, who advised his only son to stay safe and make a practical decision.He then boarded a Patna-bound train, which after 5-6 hours of journey suddenly halted and was subsequently cancelled.Giving an account of Harivansh’s travails, mukhiya (village headman) of Panchobh panchayat, Rajiv Kumar Choudhary, said, “He had only Rs 500 out of which Rs 445 were already spent on buying a train ticket. It was his sheer grit that he decided to walk home, a distance of 1,800 km from the point where the train ended its journey.”Harivansh joined a group of 25 people from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and began walking without knowing how long it would take for him to walk back home. “I would walk for hours along the railway tracks, on the road and at times with the group. At times we used to sleep under the shade of a tree. We usually walked from 5.30 in the morning till 8-9 pm daily, with breaks in between,” he recalled.“There was no food, but thankfully a few people offered us biscuits and water. Some also offered food,” he said, while talking to HT.Harivansh and his group were lucky that they got help from cargo truck drivers. “We got lift on trucks nearly 6-7 times. It gave respite to us from trekking for a period ranging between 45 minutes and 4 hours,” recalled Harivansh while showing his swollen feet.“Some truck drivers even guided us to take a particular route to reach our home state,” he said.At Itarasi in Madhya Pradesh, they were joined by a huge crowd walking towards their respective destinations in MP, UP and Bihar. “We never thought about distance. We just walked and walked,” recalled Harivansh, who was stopped by police at numerous checkpoints en route. “After we showed them our health certificate slips, which were issued in Mumbai, they would allow us to proceed,” he said.“My mobile phone died on me somewhere in MP and I lost touch with my family,” he said. “During the course of trekking, I got separated from the group. A policeman helped me and gave me Rs 200 for food. In Bihar’s Saran district, at one of the checkpoints, police forced him to undergo health screening by a medical team. They didn’t trust my medical slip, which had almost soiled by now due to excessive sweating,” he narrated.His long trek to Darbhanga finally ended on April 16, when he reached the village and his family heaved a sigh of relief.“It was like a nightmare. We cannot explain in words,” said the man’s father Krishna Choudhary.“We put him at a quarantine centre as soon as he entered the village and informed officials about his arrival. He was taken to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital for health screening on April 17,” the father added. Darbhanga district magistrate, Thiyagrajan SM, when contacted on Tuesday said that he will ensure that the person concerned gets some work after completion of the 14-day quarantine period. People in the region do not doubt Harivansh’s claim of having walked so long. Doctors too say it is doable. “Walking for long depends on the physical power of the person and cardio respiratory status. A young man especially a labourer is adapted to the muscular exertion and the body supports him. The ejection fraction of the heart matters a lot because the cardiac condition determines the adaptability of stress,” said orthopedic expert Dr Amulya Kumar Singh. “If a person is walking 60 to 70 kms per day with proper food and water with intermittent rest, then he can walk and heart and lung can take stress but if the food habit is poor and body takes unaccustomed exertion, then the body will form lots of unwanted products like ketone bodies etc, and this will have detrimental effect,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-32-sets-off-on-foot-from-mumbai-for-home-in-bihar-gets-home-in-27-days/story-jZM00KBhPUyqQEqifaXydL.html
