27-05-2020||India||Boarding school students need not travel for CBSE exams||New Delhi: Union human resource development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Thursday announced that students, who have moved to different states or districts during the Covid-19 lockdown, can opt to take their board exams there.The announcement came on the day when HT reported that a section of students studying in residential schools may still have to travel hundreds of miles to sit for the exams even as the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is increasing the number of exam centres from 3,000 to 13,000 to ensure students get the exam centres of their choice.“Class 10 and Class 12 students, who have moved to different states or districts during the Covid-19 lockdown, can appear for pending board exam there,” said Nishank.Officials said the decision was taken in view of the long distances that some students would have had to undertake and the quarantine measures that school authorities would have been forced to make.HRD ministry alone runs 661 residential Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas mostly in rural areas and would have had to make quarantine arrangements for their students to take the exams.Several residential schools had brought the long-distance travel many students would have had to undertake in Covid-19 hit areas to CBSE and HRD ministry’s notice.“Keeping in view the problem of the candidates who have shifted to other districts than the district of their examination centre, the CBSE has decided to shift their examination centres to their present districts. A notification will be issued by the CBSE in this regard in June. Such candidates are informed that they should remain in touch with their schools,” CBSE secretary Anurag Tripathi said in a statement.Class 10 and 12 board exams postponed due to the Covid-19 lockdown are being conducted from July 1 to 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boarding-school-students-need-not-travel-for-cbse-exams/story-SUca01A46zEae2l1y9K0sM.html
27-05-2020||India||Uncertainty in flights because of some states: Hardeep Singh Puri||The government may not be able to provide a financial bailout for airlines, aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said in an interview. And international flights are unlikely to resume anytime soon. .Edited excerpts:Domestic flight resumption was off to a shaky start on Monday with a lot of confusion and cancellations. Has the situation improved now?It is not correct to use the term confusion here. There was uncertainty because some states decided to not resume flight operations on May 25. We had multiple discussions with them prior to the announcement on the {resumption of} domestic flights. We also issued a central SOP {standard operating procedure} for domestic travel but many (states) went ahead and issued their own guidelines. Many of their SOPs came in very late and our meeting with the airlines ended by around 9 pm (on Sunday). Many cancellations occurred due to this. The situation has now stabilised and much better with just six flight cancellations on day two and 445 flight departures ferrying 30,944 passengers and 447 arrival flights with 31,697 passengers. (arriving flights included 24 that departed just before midnight the previous day)Would it have been more sensible to take states on board prior to the announcement?We did take states on board from day one, contrary to what is being said. Discussions with them started as early as 15th May; when we announced the resumption on 22nd, we had held several rounds of discussion...we decided to give it three more days. There are issues you have to look at; whether the state is willing to accept -- some states were not keen but when they were told economic activity is needed, they changed their mind; are the airports ready? All our airports were ready on the 15th, airlines were ready but they wanted six days’ notice. What happened in this was (that) two or three states could not receive flights, they told us very frankly ...so we said you take your time…It is not a question of explaining why but the press became a commentator, it played headlines like “total chaos” and some people said let’s not fly. What is the chaos? The chaos is on some flights being cancelled. What are the reasons some flights are cancelled? It is very clear because the state government has a problem. Second issue was that the SOPs were issued by the states very late. Now the SOPs are in place. Andhra Pradesh has opened up. West Bengal will on 28 May. A few Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in flights since the resumption. Were you prepared for it?We are prepared for it. We have taken the precautions at airports where you don’t need any human contact; you print out your boarding pass, your luggage gets sanitized, then you are inside the aircraft with the protective gear and the aircraft is also disinfected. You take as much measures as humanly possible. But I keep saying there is a risk in everything. There is a massive conflict between those who want things to desperately open and go about their work and those who pick up any case and make a big thing about it. Airlines are equipped to deal with cases, if they have a positive case and they decide to ground the crew, the airlines will have to pay that price. What about international flight operations? Are we prepared to resume them? I don’t see that happening for some time. International civil aviation traffic is dependent on something completely different, it depends on other countries, international trade and business activity. Will the demand of international traffic continue to be low, what will be the new norm? (Economist) Arvind Panagariya had said (that) even when you had big disruptions earlier trade still picked up globally. I see it picking up again, but it is too early to say. In India we have a pretty stable domestic traffic, it will pick up as people will want to move. But you had earlier said it could resume by August?I was asked if you will be able to start international civil aviation by August or September, I had said we could do that even earlier. What does that mean? We have two months to go. The number of people we are bringing back on Vande Bharat (flights for Indian passengers stranded abroad), we are already scaling that up. Our idea was to bring those people back who were genuinely stranded and distressed. But many of the people coming back are not stranded in the manner in which we originally envisaged when the scheme was announced.How much is your estimate of the total hit on the aviation sector? You can only do a damage assessment when the resumption has taken place because the damage is on a continuing basis. Do you see any Indian airline closing down?I hope not but they are under stress. I am not going to get involved in that but there are two issues involved. As a government we have to be acutely cautious and mindful of all that needs to be done on the health front and make sure people are safe and that is paramount, but equally we also have to conscious about what is happening to the economy. It’s been two months since airports and airlines have not had any revenue, even parked aircraft on ground cost money. And even if you don’t have 100% flights running, you can at least have some cost being recovered. When can we expect a financial bailout of the sector? First of all, if financial bailouts were taking place why would so many global airlines have gone bust?... It is a difficult situation. We have given a large number of measures to mitigate their stress. But I am not sure that the system as it is structured right now is geared to giving any bailout. The business model of airlines is particularly precarious. But the government can’t give billion-dollar bailouts. It doesn’t happen for any sector in India. We will support their demands on Aviation Turbine Fuel taxation, that will get rationalized ,among other measures, but we can’t bail out an individual. That will mean we are giving taxpayer’s money to bail out an individual business. What happens to the Air India divestment plan? It goes on. Air India has to be divested, there is absolutely no question on that. At this stage, to keep anything (running) by subsidy is almost impossible to justify. Will we see further easing of restrictions after May 31?100%, I am speaking in my personal capacity, of course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uncertainty-in-flights-because-of-some-states-hardeep-singh-puri/story-KwMGYcqqwbe9pEkubAz2iP.html
27-05-2020||India||ASI unearths 9th century Shiva Lingam at Vietnam temple site||New Delhi: The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has unearthed a Shiva Lingam, or representation of the Hindu deity Shiva, dating back to the 9th century during restoration work at Vietnam’s Cham temple complex.External affairs minister S Jaishankar announced this on Twitter on Wednesday, saying the development underscored the “civilisational connect” between the two countries and was a “great cultural example of India’s development partnership”.“Reaffirming a civilisational connect. Monolithic sandstone Shiv(a) Linga(m) of 9th c CE is latest find in ongoing conservation project. Applaud @ASIGoI team for their work at Cham Temple Complex, My Son, #Vietnam. Warmly recall my visit there in 2011.”The Cham temple complex, a part of the UNESCO world heritage site of My Son in Quang Nam province of Vietnam, was built in the 9th century AD during the reign of King Indravarman II along with the famous Dong Duong Buddhist monastery in the same region.A four-member ASI team is currently engaged in the fourth season of restoration and conservation work at My Son. This year’s work schedule runs from January to June. Over the past three seasons, ASI has restored temples in two different groups at the complex, and the team is now working on the third group of temples.“During the current restoration work at the temples, ASI team found the Shiva Lingam. It is a monolithic structure with decorative patterns of very exquisite cultural value,” said an official on condition of anonymity. “Before this, six other Shiva Lingams were found in the My Son temple complex. But the latest find is believed to be the most magnificent.”French experts discovered the temple complex in a dilapidated condition in 1903-04. During excavations at that time, French archaeologists described the presence of a Shiva Lingam in the group of temples that is currently being renovated. However, due to limited excavation capabilities in those days, this Shiva Lingam could not be recovered. Subsequently, political disturbances and wars in Vietnam led to the destruction of the temple complex.The external affairs ministry created a new Development Partnership Division in January to coordinate and undertake culture and heritage conservation projects abroad, including identification, planning, and implementation of schemes in consultation with technical agencies.The new division will also act as a repository of all such projects being undertaken by India abroad, and be instrumental in the dissemination of information of projects and cooperation in culture and heritage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asi-unearths-9th-century-shiva-lingam-at-vietnam-temple-site/story-E9ujyZJVueqo3jud407KfJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Nepal defers map update amid row; India hopeful of better ties||New DelhiThe Indian government believes the debate in Nepal’s parliament over a constitutional amendment to give legal backing to a new map, which depicts Kalapani and Lipulekh as part of Nepalese territory, reflects the importance attached to improving bilateral ties, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday.The government of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli was forced to defer its plan to move the constitutional amendment in parliament to update the map after the main opposition Nepali Congress party sought time for more discussion on the issue.There were also reports from Kathmandu that the move could be linked to efforts for back channel contacts between the two sides to address a row that erupted after India recently inaugurated an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the Chinese border. Nepal, which claims Lipulekh, protested the opening of the road but the external affairs ministry contended it was “completely within the territory of India”.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the Indian side is monitoring the situation and has noted the larger ongoing debate on the border issue within Nepal.“The debate underlines the seriousness of this issue. It also demonstrates the value being attached to relations between Nepal and India,” said one of the people cited above.“Border issues are sensitive by nature and require trust and confidence to be resolved to mutual satisfaction,” the person added.People familiar with developments in Kathmandu said the country’s budget for fiscal 2020-21 is scheduled to be presented in parliament on May 28, which would mean that the constitutional amendment to alter the country’s political map is unlikely to be taken up anytime soon.“The focus will move to the budget and this could create some space for negotiations on the border issue,” said a person who declined to be identified.However, the Nepal government is apparently miffed that the country’s ambassador to India, Nilamber Acharya, has not yet been granted a meeting with senior officials in the external affairs ministry to discuss the border issue.The Oli government planned to table the constitutional amendment in parliament on Tuesday to give legal backing to the new political map released on May 18 that shows Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of the country’s territory. All three regions are the subject of disputes with India. The constitutional amendment will have to be passed with a two-thirds majority by the House of Representatives and the National Assembly.When Oli called a meeting of all political parties on Tuesday to seek backing for the amendment, two parties from the Madhes region demanded that their calls for constitutional amendments should be incorporated, while the main opposition Nepali Congress said it needed to discuss the proposal further, The Kathmandu Post reported.“We support the territorial integrity of the country and we also support the government’s release of the map,” Nepali Congress leader Krishna Prasad Situala said. “But a decision on the amendment to update the map will be made at the forthcoming Central Working Committee meeting. So we requested that the amendment be put on hold for the time being.”The ruling Nepal Communist Party has a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, but needs support from other parties to pass the constitutional amendment in the House of Representatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-defers-map-update-amid-row-india-hopeful-of-better-ties/story-igENIz0JOSXSELh8l67t3J.html
27-05-2020||India||Locusts reach Jhansi, other UP districts on alert||After attacking crops in Madhya Pradesh, a swarm of locusts reached Jhansi district on Wednesday, an Uttar Pradesh official said. Other districts in the region are also on alert.Locusts struck the district last week as well, but they authorities said they eliminated half of that swarm with the help of local people. The latest swarm was spotted in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh’s Datia district. Anticipating its arrival, the Jhansi administration had already deployed fire brigade vehicles loaded with pesticide. The locusts reached Skill village in Garautha tehsil around 4.30 pm and efforts were on to drive them away, Jhansi division’s Deputy Director (Agriculture) Kamal Katiyar told PTI. The swarm is spread over an area of about one square kilometre, he said. Insecticide is being sprayed, he said. Farmers have been advised to play loud music to deter locusts. “A relatively small swarm of locusts was also spotted in Datawali village under the Samthar police station area,” Katiyar said. Locusts had earlier attacked some parts of Jhansi district on May 22 and 24. Taking cognisance of the problem, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed district magistrates of districts bordering other states to take appropriate measures to deal with the menace. Instructions were issued to DMs of Jhansi, Lalitpur, Agra, Mathura, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Mahoba, Banda, Chitrakoot, Jalaun, Etawah and Kanpur Dehat. Adityanath and Agriculture Minister Surya Pratap Shahi instructed the DMs and officers of the Agriculture Department to take appropriate action, a statement issued here on Wednesday said. At the state-level to control the menace, teams have been formed, and control room established, which will inform the movement of the locusts to these districts to take protective measures. At the district-level, a nodal officer has been made, and a task force and control-room already set up. Instructions were also issued to prepare details about the dangers posed by the locusts, ways to protect from them and precautions. These will be circulated among all departmental officials in all districts through social media and made available to farmers and the public. An advisory has been issued to beat drums, tin containers and metal plates to create noise and shoo away locusts in case of an attack. Agriculture Department officials have been told co-ordinate with members of the locust warning team, local residents and farmers. Instructions have already been issued to take assistance of agriculture universities and pest management centres. Two fire brigade vehicles with insecticide were deployed in all four Jhansi tehsils. In addition, six vehicles were kept ready at the district headquarter. Ten municipal employees with two insecticide spraying machines have been posted in every block, Katiyar said. Locusts don’t target animals or humans but can devastate crop fields. Banda, Mahoba, Hamirpur and Chitrakoot districts in UP are also on alert to the possibility of locusts flying in from Madhya Pradesh, where swarms have been spotted in Chhatarpur and Panna districts as well. Swarms of locusts from Pakistan entered Rajasthan last month, affecting several districts and then spreading to other states. Banda DM Amit Singh Bansal Wednesday said a committee has been formed under the chief development officer and all field officers alerted. Bansal said farmers have been told to inform their village `lekhpal’ as soon as they come to know about locusts arriving in their areas. Rashtriya Kisan Manch president Shekhar Dixit said the government should conduct a physical verification to assess the damage caused in locust attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locusts-reach-jhansi-other-up-districts-on-alert/story-OsHRcxdWtyZwUyDrRnjsmK.html
27-05-2020||India||Child tries to wake dead mother at Muzaffarpur railway station||Muzaffarpur: The woman’s body is in a makeshift shroud on a railway platform; her two-and-half year old son, unaware that his mother his dead, keeps trying to wake her up. At one point, he puts part of the shroud over his own face, and then takes it off playfully. In the background, the loudspeaker announces the arrival of yet another Shramik Special train.This heart-rending video clip barely 14 seconds long, went viral on social media on Wednesday, although the incident is believed to have taken place on Monday at Muzzaffarpur railway station in Bihar. On May 25, a Shramik Special from Gujarat ferrying 1650 migrants from Ahmedabad pulled into Muzaffarpur at 3.30 pm. Among them was Arvina Khatoon, a 35-year-old resident of Srikol Marandanga in Katihar, who had passed away barely hours before the train reached her home district of Katihar, which was the final stop of the train. Accompanied by her two children, including a 4-year-old, her sister, brother-in-law, Mohammed Wazir and their seven-year old child, Khatoon had reportedly died at noon during the journey. Her body was placed on the platform and covered with a shroud soon after the train reached the station. It remained there for well over an hour.“When the train reached Muzaffarpur railway station, we were informed about the body of a woman in the train. We took the body out and asked for her relatives. Mohammed Wazir came forward and provided details. They were headed to Katihar. Wazir also told us that the woman was unwell for four days before catching the train. She died in the train by 12 noon on Monday,” deputy superintendent of the government railway police, Ramakant Upadhyay said.According to Indian railways protocol on deaths in trains, the railway police takes charge of the body, prepares an initial report and a post-mortem is carried out. However, Khatoon’s body was not sent for post-mortem, district officials said.A release issued on Tuesday by the district public relation officer of Muzaffarpur Kamal Singh stated that Khatoon’s death was declared a natural death by a team of doctors deputed at the railway station to monitor incoming migrants and a post-mortem was not carried out. At 5.30 pm, an ambulance took the family and Khatoon’s body to their village where her father Mir Islam lives in their ancestral home. She was buried on Tuesday. As the video of her body lying prone on the platform went viral, several remarked that she had died due to hunger and dehydration -- a charge that the railway authorities were quick to dismiss.“The woman’s family members have said she was already unwell. Request all not to spread fake news,” said Rajesh Kumar, spokesperson of east central railway. He added that a doctor attached to the east central railways also examined the woman’s body. “She was ill before boarding the train,” Wazir, a labourer who worked in a textile factory in Surat, told HT. The family of six had hired a taxi to ferry them from Surat to Ahmedabad -- a journey of 200-odd kilometres that cost them Rs 4000 -- on May 23. They boarded the train the same day. Khatoon’s children will continue to live with their maternal grandfather and Khatoon’s sister. Their father is migrant worker in Ahmedabad, and had divorced Khatoon a year ago.  According to the ministry of railways, over 3500 Shramik Special trains have ferried more than 4.8 million passengers till date; 80% of them were destined for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-tries-to-wake-dead-mother-at-muzaffarpur-railway-station/story-66JIkqEiVkUGwWhRGP8MJK.html
27-05-2020||India||Week after Amphan, squall hits Kolkata||Even before the city could start dealing with the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, a squall hit the city on Wednesday evening with wind speed up to 96km per hour. Exactly a week ago, Cyclone Amphan had battered the city with winds gusting up to 130km per hour. The city and is still limping back to normal and power supply is yet to be restored in some pockets.On Wednesday, a fire brigade official was electrocuted to death when he accidentally touched a live wire while carrying out restoration work in Howrah.“We have lost a fire brigade officer. The power supply corporation had given us misleading information saying that supply had been cut off. The officer SS Roy was electrocuted to death. It is a criminal offence. I have asked the police to investigate and take action against the person responsible,” Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal, said.The state government has already announced a compensation of ₹10 lakh for his family and has also promised a government job for one family member. The squall hit Kolkata around 6.20 pm, bringing rain. The India Meteorological Department’s regional weather forecasting centre in Kolkata has forecasted that Friday could see some rain too. Strong winds have been blowing over the city and districts of south Bengal over the past few days.“Some pockets where power connection was restored a few days after the cyclone, were again plunged into darkness on Wednesday after the storm as power lines snapped,” an official of the state power department said. On May 20, Cyclone Amphan had hit the West Bengal coast with a wind speed up to 185km per hour. Large parts of south Bengal in eight districts plunged into darkness as more than 1.5 lakh km of power lines, including 30,000 km of high tension wire, snapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/week-after-amphan-squall-hits-kolkata/story-KwEwXI0bRMCi5c2mBR5EcJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19: PM Modi says India stands ready to extend support to Sri Lanka||Days after Colombo sought a $1.1 billion currency swap facility from New Delhi to boost foreign currency reserves amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa that India “stands ready to extend all possible support”.Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa sought the currency swap facility, in addition to $400 million the country has sought from India under the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) framework, during a telephone conversation with Modi on May 23.Modi spoke on Wednesday with Mahinda Rajapaksa to congratulate him on completing 50 years since first entering Sri Lanka’s Parliament. He recalled Mahinda Rajapaska’s contributions to Sri Lanka’s development and wished him the best for his future.“The leaders discussed the health and economic impact of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic and the measures being taken in the two countries to counter them. Prime Minister assured H.E. Rajapaksa that India stands ready to extend all possible support to Sri Lanka during this challenging time,” the external affairs ministry said in a readout.Modi also conveyed his condolences at the sudden demise of Arumugan Thondaman, a prominent leader of Indian-origin Tamils in Sri Lanka, on Tuesday. He recalled Thondaman’s role in taking forward the development partnership between the two countries.Sri Lanka has been battered by the pandemic, which has led to the complete drying up of revenues from tourism, one of the mainstays of the economy. China’s development bank provided a $500 million loan to Sri Lanka in March to bolster the country’s official reserves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-india-stands-ready-to-extend-support-to-sri-lanka-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-a2JNEO53RbKPS2mTOTHAZM.html
27-05-2020||India||Delhiwale: Meet the MNC employee who is also a city poet||He works in an MNC and analyses the insurance details of people living in the UK and the US.It’s a kind of day job that any of us can relate to—working within four walls, following a set of instructions day after day, with little scope for improvisation. And yet he is different from most of us. He writes poems.Explaining how it is possible to stay within a close proximity to verses while still living in an everyday world of dull prose, Indrajit Ghoshal shares the miniature of his routine.“I try touching what is beautiful within the parameters of my daily existence”—he is talking on WhatsApp from the isolation of his two-room home in Gurugram’s DLF Phase 3, in the National Capital Region.“See, my office is in Sector 21. It takes me 15 minutes to reach office if I travel by company transport. It takes me 50 minutes if I walk the entire distance. It takes me more than that if I stop at places in between.”In most of the days of his commute—and here we are talking of the BC (Before Corona) era of course—Mr Ghoshal travels to work partly in public transport, such as autos, and partly by walking. “I often stop on the way, I look at the scenes, I watch people.... I think.” He also spends a lot of time in Metro stations looking about the fast-moving world around him.And sometimes Mr Ghoshal is overcome with feelings and turns his observations into poems by quickly jotting early drafts on his mobile phone.Mr Ghoshal writes in Hindustani “which is a mix of Hindi and Urdu”. These days he is poring over the work of Pirzada Qasim, a poet in Pakistan “whose work often reflects his anguish at the things he is witnessing.” He admits that with so many years spent in the Hindi-speaking world, he has lost touch with Bengali, the language of his parents.Raised in the town of Dhanbad, Mr Ghoshal, 33, arrived in the Delhi region in 2008 as a “bru master” in a Cafe Coffee Day outlet. Later, he switched jobs and careers, lived in Delhi, and moved to his current address in the Millennium City in order to be closer to his office.Since the time the lockdown began due to the coronavirus pandemic, Mr Ghoshal has been “happily” working from home since “I’ve always liked the isolation.” His apartment is bare; he shows the place through the phone screen that connects him to this reporter. A few books are stacked on a rack, the laptop is on the floor, and there’s the grilled window with a view of the blinding afternoon sunshine.In the ongoing lockdown, Mr Ghoshal does miss his walks through the streets. And particularly a chai stall on way to the office “whose owner, a man from Odisha, works as a security guard in an ATM in the evenings.”Mr Ghoshal shares an untitled poem he specially wrote for this page. He composed it in Hindustani and later translated it in English.POEMThere is a separate worldWhere lacs of peopleIn poverty, in frenzyEmptied their dreams fromThe recesses of their walls andWith the burden of ignominyStarted walking miles-The migrants-with the hope of homes in their hearts.With the alienation index complete,Home, in their villages,is the only whipstitchfor their hearts torn apart,for their pleas unheardUnemployment, indignity, hunger-They didn’t have anything to lose anymore.In my own space,Some nights while I try to figure out the knots of my life,I often wonder,Where would I have goneIf I was a migrant?And then the still voicefrom within says,‘you have DelhiThat gave you the 1st gossamer wings of hopeWhen you had nowhere to go.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-meet-the-mnc-employee-who-is-also-a-city-poet/story-EBQ3kVVhZP2WAGbYRtfgiJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Week after Cyclone Amphan, Kolkata hit by squall at 96 kmph||Before Kolkata could come out of the shock of Cyclone Amphan, a squall hit the city on Wednesday evening with wind speed up to 96 km per hour. Exactly a week ago, Cyclone Amphan, had battered the city with wind speed of 130 km per hour. The city is still limping back to normal with power supply yet to be restored in some pockets.On Wednesday, a fire brigade official was electrocuted to death when he accidentally touched a live wire while carrying out restoration work in Howrah.“We have lost a fire brigade officer. The power supply corporation had given misleading information saying that supply had been cut off. The officer, SS Roy, was electrocuted to death. It is a criminal offence. I have asked the police to investigate into it and take action against the person responsible,” Mamata Banerjee, West Bengal chief minister said.The state government has already announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for his family and has also promised a government job for one family member. The squall hit Kolkata around 6:20 pm triggering rain. The India Meteorological Department’s regional weather forecasting centre in Kolkata has predicted that there could be rain even on Friday. Strong winds have been blowing over the city and districts of south Bengal over the past few days.“Some pockets where power connection could be restored for some days after the cyclone passed again plunged into darkness on Wednesday after the storm as power lines were snapped,” said an official of the state power department. On May 20, Cyclone Amphan had hit the Bengal coast with wind speed going up to 185 km per hour. Large parts of south Bengal in eight districts plunged into darkness as more than 1.5 lakh km of power lines, including 30,000 km of high tension wire, were snapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/week-after-cyclone-amphan-kolkata-hit-by-squall-at-96-kmph/story-phba3qOjc5TWmvti0UOCRP.html
27-05-2020||India||Migrant worker hitching to his home in Bengal dies in Raipur||A 29-year-old migrant worker died in Raipur while travelling to his home state West Bengal from Maharashtra on Wednesday evening, officials said.Hapijul Rahman was hitchhiking along with others to his home in Bengal’s Howarah district.Raipur municipal commissioner and acting district collector Saurabh Kumar said a group of migrants had reached Tatiband square on a truck in the evening.“Rahman was unwell when he reached Tatiband square and died by the time the ambulance reached the spot,” said Kumar.Two others who were travelling with him were also unwell.“We have admitted them at isolation centre at Lalpur and treatment is going on. The samples of all the three will be sent for testing for Covid-19,” the collector said. Police said that the body has been sent for postmortem.On Tuesday, samples of a 36-year-old migrant labourer, who died in Durg district on May 24 while travelling to his home in West Bengal from Maharashtra, tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-worker-hitching-to-his-home-in-bengal-dies-in-raipur/story-o0UmvjSdjrrNCoxgsSbkXM.html
27-05-2020||India||For the third month, Telangana employees face pay cuts as coffers stay dry||Government employees and pensioners in Telangana will continue to face salary cuts ranging from 10 per cent to 60 per cent for the third consecutive month because of severe financial crunch in the state on account of lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, according to a statement for the chief minister’s office (CMO).While there will be 50 per cent salary cut for all state government employees, all India service officers will continue to face 60 per cent salary cut and outsourced and contract workers will have 10 per cent cut in their salaries for May.All the elected public representatives – from sarpanches to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao – will face a deduction of 75 per cent in their salaries. The 25 per cent deduction for the government pensioners will also continue.A decision to this effect was taken at a high-level review chaired by chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao at Pragathi Bhavan in the evening.An official release from the chief minister’s office said people below poverty line would not be getting direct cash transfer of Rs 1,500 per family from this month, since they are able to go to their daily work because of relaxation of lockdown guidelines. “However, these families will continue to get 12 kg of rice free of cost,” the official statement quoting the chief minister said.The meeting decided to continue payment of pensions to all the eligible persons and also pay loan installments to various lending agencies.Stating that the financial position of the state was precarious even after the relaxation of lockdown norms in most parts of the state, the chief minister said as against the expected revenue of Rs 12,000 crore to the state every month, it could get only Rs 3,100 crore, including the state’s share in the central taxes, which is Rs 982 crore. “If we have to pay full salaries to the employees, we require Rs 3,000 crore and the entire treasury will go empty,” he said.KCR said the state government had to pay debt installments of Rs 37,400 crore per year without fail. “The State has requested the Centre to re-schedule the loans, but there was no response. Though there was an increase in the FRBM Limits by the Centre, the state could not raise additional loans due to conditions imposed by the Centre,” he said.Reviewing the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, the chief minister said there was no need for any panic, as the spread of the virus was not on an alarming scale. However, the people should be cautious and alert. “Even if there is an increase in the positive cases, the medical and health departments are ready to offer medical services to any number of cases,” he assured.He said the death rate in Telangana was 2.82 per cent against the country rate of 2.86 per cent and most of them had history of other ailments. He urged the people to take personal precautions though there was relaxation in the lockdown guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-the-third-month-telangana-employees-face-pay-cuts-as-coffers-stay-dry/story-DuVh2DOW3XGQv8wFQVgtEK.html
27-05-2020||India||In Chhattisgarh, psychologists to counsel labourers in quarantine centres||The Chhattisgarh government on Wednesday announced a slew of measures to help labourers lodged in quarantine centres of the state, including hiring psychologists to counsel them.The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel at his residence this evening to discuss post-lockdown measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and a strategy to resume economic activities in the state.The meeting was attended by all the ministers and senior officials of the state government.“The chief minister gave instructions to arrange for televisions, radio sets etc for entertainment of migrant labourers in quarantine centers and also directed to take services of psychologists for counselling of labourers. Instructions to conduct yoga and other motivational activities in quarantine centers with the help of NGOs were also given,” said a senior government official.According to a government statement, Baghel said that it is important to solve the food and employment related problems of labourers returning to the state. For this, ration cards and MNREGA job cards should be issued to them as soon as possible. List of skilled and semi-skilled labourers should be prepared and provided to the local industries. This will help labourers to get regular employment and the industries will get the manpower required.The government also decided that the shops in the state will open six days a week with proper measures and precautions.The meeting also discussed restarting the maximum number of industries in the state. After the third phased of lockdown 1,371 factories in the state have started functioning again. Nearly 1.3 lakh labourers have returned to work in these factories, the statement said.According to the government, 2.12 lakh migrant labourers have been brought back to the state so far.The district collectors have been sanctioned Rs 18.24 crore from State Disaster Relief Fund and Rs 4 crore by State Government for helping the labourers stranded in other states. A total of Rs 66. 73 lakh was transferred into the bank accounts of migrant labourers in various states till now. Health Department was also provided Rs 75 crore from State Disaster Relief Fund, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chhattisgarh-psychologists-to-counsel-labourers-in-quarantine-centres/story-QAgksqghfIlLku7o9NmTaL.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Uncertainty on domestic flights caused by states’: Hardeep Puri||Some states were not ready to resume domestic flight operations, said aviation minister Hardeep Puri, underlining that they had to be persuaded to come on board. The minister talked about the Centre’s exit strategy from the lockdown, why the government may not be able to provide a financial bailout to airlines in an interview with Hindustan Times’ Anisha Dutta.Here are the edited excerpts from the interview: Q: Domestic flight resumption took off with a lot of confusion over flight cancellations. Has the situation improved now?A: It is not correct to use the term confusion here. There was uncertainty because some states decided to not resume flight operations on May 25. We have had multiple discussions with them prior to the announcements on the domestic flights. We had also issued a central SOP for domestic travel but many went ahead and issued their own guidelines. Many of their SOPs came in very late and our meeting with the airlines ended by around 9 pm. Many cancellations occurred due to this. The situation is now stabilised and much better with just six cancellations on day two and 445 flight departures ferrying 30,944 passengers and 447 arrival flights with 31,697 passengers. Q: Would it not have been easier if states were taken on board prior to the announcement?A: The states have been on board from day one, contrary to what is being said. Discussions with them started as early as May 15. When we announced the resumption on 22nd, we had held several rounds of discussion, before deciding to give it three more days. There were a few things. First, whether the state is willing to accept, some states were not keen but when they were told economic activity is needed, they changed their mind. Second, are the airports ready? All our airports were ready on the 15th, airlines were ready but they wanted six days’ notice. What happened in this was two or three states could not take flights, they told us very frankly our doctors and all are not in a position, they are in a cyclone condition so we said you take your time…It is not a question of explaining why but the press became a commentator, it played headlines like “total chaos” and some people said let’s not fly. What is the chaos? The chaos is on some flights being cancelled. What are the reasons some flights are cancelled? It is very clear because the state government has a problem. Second issue was that the SOPs were issued by the states very late. Now the SOPs are in place. Andhra Pradesh has opened up. West Bengal will on May 28. Q: There are a few Covid-19 positive cases reported in flights since the resumption. Were you prepared for it?A: We were. We have taken the precautions at airports where you don’t need any human contact; you print out your boarding pass, your luggage gets sanitised, then you are inside the aircraft with the protective gear and the aircraft is also disinfected. We have taken as many measures as humanly possible. But I keep saying there is a risk in everything. There is a massive conflict between those who want things to desperately open and go about their work and those who pick up any case and make a big thing about it. Airlines are equipped to deal with cases. If they have a positive case and they decide to ground the crew, the airlines will have to pay that price. Q: What about international flight operations, are we prepared to resume? A: I don’t see that happening for some time. International civil aviation traffic is dependent on something completely different, it depends on other countries, international trade and business activity. Will the demand of international traffic continue to be low, what will be the new norm? Aravind Panagariya had said, even when you had big disruptions earlier trade still picked up globally. I see it picking up again, but it is too early to say. In India we have a pretty stable domestic traffic, it will pick up as people will want to move. Q: But you had earlier said it could resume by August?A: I was asked if you will be able to start international civil aviation by August or September, I had said we could do that even earlier. What does that mean? We have two months to go. We are already scaling up the number of people we are bringing back through Vande Bharat Mission. Our idea was to bring those people back who were genuinely stranded and distressed. But many of the people coming back are not stranded in the manner in which we originally envisaged when the scheme was announced.Q: How much is your estimate of the total debt in the aviation sector? A: You can only do a damage assessment when the resumption has taken place because the damage is on a continuing basis. Q: Do you see any Indian airline closing down?A: I hope not but they are under stress. I am not going to get involved in that but there are two issues involved. As a government, we have to be acutely cautious and mindful of all that needs to be done on the health factor and make sure people are safe and that is paramount, but equally we also have to be conscious about what is happening to the economy. It’s been two months since airports and airlines have not had any revenue, even parked aircraft on ground also cost money. And even if you don’t have 100% flights running, you can at least have some cost being recovered. Q: When can we expect a financial bailout of the sector? A: First of all if financial bailouts were taking place why would so many global airlines have gone bust?... It is a difficult situation. We have given a large number of measures to mitigate their stress. But I am not sure that the system as it is structured right now is geared to giving any bailout. Even the media sector is facing a lot of financial stress, many newspapers are going to go and channels are also facing problems. Is the government going to give a bailout? I can be polite and say, yes press is very important but I don’t see that happening. The business model of airlines is particularly precarious. But the government can’t give billion dollar bailouts. It doesn’t happen for any sector in India. We will support their demands on Aviation Turbine Fuel taxation, that will get rationalized among other measures but we can’t bailout an individual. That will mean we are giving taxpayers’ money to bail out an individual business. Q: What happens to the Air India divestment plan? A: It is on. Air India has to be divested, there is absolutely no question on that. At this stage, to keep anything going by way of subsidy is almost impossible to justify. Q: Will we see further easing of restrictions after May 31?A: One hundred per cent. I am speaking in my personal capacity, of course.Q: What is the exit strategy from the lockdown going forward? A: Mr Rahul Gandhi says lockdown has been a failure. Let us look at the situation, you had two months of lockdown, at the very least the lockdown has succeeded in keeping the numbers at a very low level. The mortality rate today is 2.7%. It has come down from 3%, total number of cases, my figure may not be exact, at 150,000 and around 70,000 recovered. But the lockdown achieved another significant objective—it kept the numbers low and it gave us time to build the health infrastructure. We were able to go from complete import of PPEs to a massive domestic production, where today we are one of the largest producers of PPEs in the world. Reviving the economy, agriculture sector, opening factories, starting construction etc, that is the exit strategy. Q: So, you’re saying the main idea of the lockdown was to get time to prepare the medical infrastructure, and be prepared for more cases?A: When the virus hit us, we were one of the first countries to act fast on it. I cancelled flights from China in a big decision, we stopped flights to the extent possible from other hotspots, we began screening, as our international airports we screened more than 15 lakh people coming in, we evacuated people from outside and finally and most importantly we were able to get a system in place to prepare our health infrastructure across states. Our figure now looks high but the total number of deaths is very low, about 4,000 or so, those are the number of deaths you have in five days in traffic accidents. The mortality rate is 2.7% whereas for SARS it was 17%. You have to learn to live with the virus. Mr Gandhi said lockdown was a failure, what is plan B? Lockdown has not been a failure, it has enabled us to control the numbers and build your infrastructure and to prepare for the exit strategy. You have to, in any system, take precaution, which we did in a timely manner and succeeded in controlling the numbers. Being permanently in lockdown is not a solution, you have to prepare an exit strategy. Mobility is an essential part of the exit strategy. When you are in lockdown, the economic activity takes a severe beating and you have to revive that. The strategy is to open up the supply chain and start operation of essential goods and services and mobility is very much a part of that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uncertainty-on-domestic-flights-caused-by-states-hardeep-puri/story-82Cjz8spC6aeD0vEhEsBqN.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Tripura chief minister asks villages to set up quarantine centres||Tripura government on Wednesday asked all panchayat secretaries and village councils to set up village quarantine centres in their respective areas to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease Covid-19. “Through Teleconference instructed all Panchayat Secretaries & Village Councils to set up at least one institutional quarantine center each at their respective areas, which will be under Health Dept’s supervision. Concerned authorities shall maintain proper hygiene of these centers,” Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb wrote on his Twitter.  Through Teleconference instructed all Panchayat Secretaries & Village Councils to setup atleast one institutional quarantine center each at their respective areas, which will be under Health Dept's supervision. Concerned authorities shall maintain proper hygiene of these centers. pic.twitter.com/XaYkd6nOoNEarlier this month, the state had constituted Corona Monitoring and Awareness Committees in panchayat and village councils with public representatives as members. The committees were asked to set up at least one quarantine centre in their respective areas.The state also issued a 10-point guideline for setting up of village quarantine centres.According to the guidelines, all the returnees may be quarantined for 14 days in the village quarantine centres and thereafter they may be released by the panchayat or village committee with proper records. These village quarantines would be regulated by the sub divisional magistrates under guidance of district magistrates who would ensure social distancing norms, frequent sanitisation, wearing of face-masks and regular health check-up are maintained properly. Law minister Ratan Lal Nath on Wednesday evening told the media,” We are laying stress on people returning to state to remain in home quarantine. We are conducting tests on them on the basis 1:5 ratio. Our way of tackling the Covid-19 pandemic is the best model in the country.”The total number of Covid-19 patients in Tripura stands at 230 while 165 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tripura-chief-minister-asks-villages-to-set-up-quarantine-centres/story-EhOQ11RTE5Yez2ODS8ZmMM.html
27-05-2020||India||In Odisha, Covid-19 positive couple allowed to stay in home quarantine||For the first time since ICMR changed its guidelines on home isolation of Covid-19 positive patients with mild or no symptoms, the Odisha government has put a couple from Kendrapara district in a home isolation facility.The couple from Kendrapara municipality area was put in home isolation from May 19 after their reports returned positive, said Kendrapara district collector Samarth Verma. The couple who live in a rented house in Jaipura area under Kendrapara municipality had returned from Bangalore with their son on May 17.After their return, the couple and their son stayed in a government quarantine centre in a high school in Bandhapada gram panchayat. On May 19, their swab samples were sent for Covid-19 testing. On May 25, the results of the swab test for the couple returned positive while it was negative for their son.However, before the swab test results arrived, the couple had gone back to their rented home with their son.“As the man was diabetic and his wife had issues with her spinal cord, their son had written to us requesting that they be allowed home isolation in view of their health conditions. As they were asymptomatic, we had allowed home isolation. Now that they have tested positive, we have asked them to stay in home isolation for 17 days instead of being admitted in a dedicated Covid-19 hospital as per ICMR guidelines,” Collector Verma said.Additional chief secretary, health department, PK Mohapatra said though the ICMR in its amended guideline had allowed home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients in both rural and urban areas for patients with separate toilet facilities, Odisha was doing it in urban areas only. “As the couple is unlikely to move out and have separate toilet facilities, they were not admitted in a Covid-19 hospital. Quarantine stickers have been put outside their home and the health officials from Kendrapara municipality will carry out regular surveillance. Their son, who tested negative is also staying in home isolation in that house,” said Mohapatra.However, he said if such patients develop symptoms, they will be rushed to the nearby Covid-19 hospital.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 cases in Odisha inched close to 1600 as 76 new positive cases were reported on Wednesday taking the total tally to 1,593. So far, 774 people have been discharged from various Covid-19 hospitals while the number of active cases in Odisha stood at 812.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-covid-19-positive-couple-allowed-to-stay-in-home-quarantine/story-Jz88yjZ9PEPBxIsm8lfgSK.html
27-05-2020||India||Mercury nears 50-degree mark in Rajasthan; IMD says no immediate respite in sight||Parts of northern and western India reeled under scorching heat on Wednesday, with temperatures hovering near the 50 degree-mark in Rajasthan, while the IMD said no immediate respite is likely from the ongoing heatwave conditions.In the national capital, the mercury settled six notches above normal in most areas. Palam remained the hottest with a maximum temperature of 47.2 degrees Celsius, marginally less than Tuesday’s 47.6 degrees Celsius.In large areas, a heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature is 45 degrees Celsius for two consecutive days and a severe heatwave is when the mercury touches 47 degrees Celsius for two days on the trot.In small areas, like the national capital, a heatwave is declared if the temperature soars to 45 degrees Celsius even for a day, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for Delhi, recorded a maximum temperature of 45.9 degrees Celsius.The last time the mercury touched the 46-degree mark at the Safdarjung weather station was on May 19, 2002, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The all-time record for Safdarjung in May is 47.2 degrees Celsius. It was recorded on May 29, 1944.The IMD said the weather stations at Lodhi Road and Ayanagar recorded maximum temperatures of 45.1 degrees Celsius and 46.7 degrees Celsius, respectively.Severe heatwave conditions prevailed in Rajasthan. Churu was the hottest place in the state with a maximum temperature of 49.6 degrees Celsius, according to the meteorological (MeT) department.On Tuesday, Churu had recorded a high of 50 degrees Celsius -- the district’s second-highest maximum temperature in the month of May in the last 10 years.Ganganagar, Bikaner and Kota recorded maximum temperatures of 48.9 degrees Celsius, 48 degrees Celsius and 47.2 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Wednesday.Jaisalmer recorded a high of 46.1 degrees Celsius, Barmer 45.9 degrees Celsius, Jaipur 44.8 degrees Celsius and Ajmer 44 degrees Celsius.The weather department said heatwave conditions will continue in the state for the next 24 hours.Neighbouring Haryana, too, reeled under blistering heat, with Narnaul recording the highest maximum temperature at 47.2 degrees Celsius, the weather department said.Hisar recorded a maximum temperature of 46.3 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal.Among other places in the state, Ambala sizzled at 43.8 degrees Celsius, while the mercury settled at 42.8 degrees Celsius in Karnal.Sweltering heat also swept Punjab, where Patiala recorded a high of 44.2 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal.Amritsar and Ludhiana also recorded above-normal temperatures of 43.5 degrees Celsius and 44.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of Haryana and Punjab, also experienced a hot day at 42.9 degrees Celsius -- four degrees above normal.Jammu recorded the hottest day of the season as the mercury settled at 42.6 degrees Celsius, 3.5 notches above the season’s average, the MeT department said.The city recorded a low of 26.4 degrees Celsius, which was also 1.5 degrees above normal, it said.Srinagar recorded a maximum temperature of 30.3 degrees Celsius -- 4.2 notches above normal. It is a marginal drop from Tuesday’s 31.7 degrees Celsius.Katra, the base camp for pilgrims visiting Vaishno Devi shrine in Reasi district, recorded a maximum temperature of 37.5 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 23.7 degrees Celsius.The weather department predicted isolated light rain or thunder in most parts of Jammu and Kashmir during the next 24 hours. But there will be an increase in precipitation over the subsequent two days.The IMD said the ongoing heatwave conditions in several parts of north and central India are very likely to continue on Thursday. It said some respite can be expected only towards the end of the week.“Due to the prevailing dry north-westerly winds over plains of northwest India, central India and the adjoining interior parts of eastern India, the present heatwave conditions are very likely to continue during next 24 hours,” it said. Heatwave conditions at many places with severe heatwave in isolated pockets are very likely over Vidarbha, west Rajasthan, it added.Heatwave conditions are also likely in some pockets over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan, and in isolated pockets over Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Saurashtra and Kutch, central Maharashtra and Marathwada, Telangana and north interior Karnataka during the next 24 hours, according to the IMD.A western disturbance is likely to give some relief on May 29 and 30. During this period, parts of north India are likely to witness dust storms and thunderstorms, it said.Western disturbance is a cyclonic circulation which originates in the Mediterranean Sea. Traversing central Asia, it brings rains to the hills and plains when it comes in contact with the Himalayas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-nears-50-degree-mark-in-rajasthan-imd-says-no-immediate-respite-in-sight/story-XKm5MzLvh8GTJXr25mIw4M.html
27-05-2020||India||Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh employ drones to kill locusts||Swarms of desert locusts have affected around 50 districts in the country and drones are now being used in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh to spray chemicals for killing the pest.According to global forecast by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), in addition to the current outbreak, locust swarms from new areas can also enter the Indian border from June 22. KL Gurjar, deputy collector, Locust Warning Office, said some adult groups and swarms were expected to arrive in the country from the spring breeding areas. “Vigilance will have to be maintained towards the expected invasion of locusts in coming days,” he said.On Wednesday, the swarms from Dausa in Rajasthan, where 22 districts are affected, reached Agra in Uttar Pradesh. In fact, UP is getting locust swarms from two directions: in east from Rajasthan and in south from Madhya Pradesh.According to officials in UP and Madhya Pradesh, at least 10 districts in each of these states have seen locust attacks in the past week or so.In Madhya Pradesh, swarms of desert locusts have entered mainly from two areas - Neemuch in the Malwa region and Sheopur in the Gwalior-Chambal region - both close to the Rajasthan border, more than two weeks back. The 10 districts where locusts are active: Gwalior in northern MP, Agar Malwa and Dewas in the Malwa region, Rajgarh, Betul and Hoshangabad in the central region, Sidhi and Satna in the Vindhya region and Damoh in the Bundelkhand region, said Ajeet Kesari, MP’s principal secretary, department of agriculture.Rajasthan has been under the grip of locust attacks since mid-April, when they came from Baluchistan in Pakistan. Two swarms were present in Jaipur on Tuesday night – one in Samode and the second in Langariyawas gram panchayat.“There was a massive control operation against the two swarms and we managed to kill almost 70% at both locations,” said BR Kadwa, deputy director of the agriculture department in Jaipur.The state government used drones to kill locusts in Samode, about 40km north-west of Jaipur. Agriculture commissioner Om Prakash said they plan to hire 30 drones to kill locusts, which has spread to 22 districts of the state. The drones are used to spray chemicals on breeding sites of the locusts.Gurjar said the agriculture drones are being used to kill the pests and the Centre will provide additional drones to the states to control the spread of the locust in the coming days. “We are increasing the air potential and also our ground teams,” he said.This year’s outbreak started on April 11 when locust swarms entered Rajasthan from Hindumalkot in Sriganganagar and Babla in Jaisalmer.“The immature locusts spread to Jaisalmer, Barmer, Ganganagar and parts of Jodhpur until May 1. After that, the swarms began to wander farther, coming as far as Jaipur, which is about 700km from the international border,” said Dr Suwa Lal Jat, joint director (plant protection) of agriculture department, adding that 120 teams for survey and monitoring of movement of locusts have been constituted.In Maharashtra, the impact of locust could be seen in three districts --- Wardha, Amravati and Nagpur districts, which are very close to Madhya Pradesh. “The invasion started on Monday morning. The most impacted are orange orchards. A 25% loss is being estimated as of now,” said Ravindra Bhosale, divisional joint director agriculture, Nagpur division.“The swarm is now moving deeper into rural areas of the Nagpur division. At Kalmeshwar taluka on Tuesday, we were informed of damage to vegetable crops across 5-6 hectares, including cabbage, ladyfinger, cauliflower, and kidney beans.”In Haryana, four districts, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri and Rewari have been put on alert after swarms reached the bordering areas in Rajasthan’s Sikar district. “We have put several districts on alert. We have also instructed all the farmers that if they encounter any swarms then they should inform the government so that we can kill them,” Haryana Agriculture Minister Jayaprakash Dalal said.Gurjar said, “Intensity of swarms of locusts is decreasing by the day as we are able to control them from 30% to 60% every time wherever they settle in the evening, by spraying chemicals over them.”“We are using tractors, spray pumps and also fire brigade tenders to spray chemicals over the swarms. As per the report that we received from all the affected districts in the evening we were able to control the groups with chemicals varying in degree in different districts from 25% to 45%,” he said.Unlike other insects, the increase in temperature does not kill locust.“There is hardly any impact of high temperature in summers on the desert locusts. They just move ahead looking for food,” said Gurjar.(With input from Anupam Pateriya in Sagar and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-madhya-pradesh-employ-drones-to-kill-locusts/story-ivBzYEyqLRQQcHrogWvwiL.html
27-05-2020||India||Amid border row, India hopes for better ties as Nepal defers map update||The Indian government believes the debate in Nepal over a constitutional amendment to give legal backing to a new map, which depicts Kalapani and Lipulekh as part of Nepalese territory, reflects the importance attached to improving bilateral ties, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday.The government of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli had to defer its plan to move the constitutional amendment in Parliament to update the map after the main opposition Nepali Congress party sought time for more discussions on the issue.There were also reports from Kathmandu that the move could be linked to efforts for back channel contacts between the two sides to address a row that erupted after India recently inaugurated an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the Chinese border. Nepal, which claims Lipulekh, protested the opening of the road but the external affairs ministry contended it was “completely within the territory of India”.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the Indian side is monitoring the situation and following developments, and had noted the larger ongoing debate on the border issue within Nepal.“The debate underlines the seriousness of this issue. It also demonstrates the value being attached to relations between Nepal and India,” said one of the people cited above.“Border issues are sensitive by nature and require trust and confidence to be resolved to mutual satisfaction,” the person added.People familiar with developments in Kathmandu said the country’s budget for fiscal 2020-21 is scheduled to be presented in Parliament on May 28, which would mean that the constitutional amendment to alter the country’s political map is unlikely to be taken up anytime soon.“The focus will move to the budget and this could create some space for negotiations on the border issue,” said a person who declined to be identified.However, the Nepal government is apparently miffed that the country’s ambassador to India, Nilamber Acharya, has not yet been granted a meeting with senior officials in the external affairs ministry to discuss the border issue.The Oli government had planned to table the constitutional amendment in Parliament on Tuesday to give legal backing to the new political map released on May 18 that shows Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of the country’s territory. All three regions are the subject of disputes with India. The constitutional amendment will have to be passed with a two-thirds majority by the House of Representatives and the National Assembly.When Oli called a meeting of all political parties on Tuesday to seek backing for the amendment, two parties from the Madhes region demanded that their calls for constitutional amendments should be incorporated, while the main opposition Nepali Congress said it needed to discuss the proposal further, The Kathmandu Post reported.“We support the territorial integrity of the country and we also support the government’s release of the map,” Nepali Congress leader Krishna Prasad Situala said. “But a decision on the amendment to update the map will be made at the forthcoming Central Working Committee meeting. So we requested that the amendment be put on hold for the time being.”The ruling Nepal Communist Party has a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, but needs support from other parties to pass the constitutional amendment in the House of Representatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-border-row-india-hopes-for-better-ties-as-nepal-defers-map-update/story-KlI8Z1dIOsip3TGlUf6WCP.html
27-05-2020||India||SC seeks govt response on plea for CBI probe into Tablighi Jamaat meet||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre and the Delhi government on a plea seeking a CBI probe into the alleged lapses by the Delhi government and Delhi police which led to the congregation of devotees at Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Nizamuddin and migrant workers at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal in Delhi.The petitioner, Supriya Pandita alleged that the Delhi police failed to arrest Nizamuddin Markaz chief Maulana Saad who organized the religious event resulting in a surge in the spread of coronavirus across the country.“Ignoring all social distancing norms to avoid the deadly coronavirus, hundreds had been staying in the 100-year-old mosque since March 8. More than 2,000 delegates from Malaysia, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Kyrgyzstan attended the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat,” Pandita pointed out.The Nizamuddin area in Delhi was sealed on March 30, after it came to light that several people, who had attended a religious event held in March at Nizamuddin by a Muslim organisation called Tablighi Jamaat, were found to be infected with coronavirus. At least 16,500 people had visited Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin between March 13 and 24.Several people who attended the gathering tested Covid-19 positive in various parts of India causing “cluster transmission” of the virus across the country, Pandita submitted.“At the request of Mr Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing for Union of India, list the matter next week to enable him to file a reply affidavit,” the top court said in its order.The petition also sought a probe into the gathering of migrant labourers at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal in New Delhi on March 28. Migrant workers hailing from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar had gathered at the bus terminal situated in the eastern border of Delhi in a bid to board buses to their home states.Pandita told the court that the Delhi police and the Delhi government had failed to control people from coming out of their houses despite the Prime Minister having proclaimed a complete lockdown on March 24.“They (Delhi government and Delhi Transport Corporation) arranged buses to drop the migrant workers at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal despite knowing that buses were not allowed on roads and movement of people was restricted,” the petition stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-govt-response-on-plea-for-cbi-probe-into-tablighi-jamaat-meet/story-rO3JpKcJl6rVmFIxQQRXOP.html
27-05-2020||India||SC reserves order on funding for Amrapali’s stalled housing projects||The Supreme Court on Wednesday reserved orders on the crucial aspect of mobilizing funds for completing the stalled housing projects of stressed real estate giant Amrapali Group.The Receiver in a note to the court pointed out that work on these projects had hit a wall for lack of funds. He suggested a slew of steps to be taken by the Centre, the Noida and Greater Noida Authorities and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to resume work with immediate effect.The Ministry of Finance, represented by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Vikramjeet Banerjee told the Court that the Government had empowered SBI Capital Markets (SBI CAPS) for any seed capital funding of the Amrapali projects. The National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) is executing these projects since July 2019 after SC ordered cancellation of Amrapali’s registration under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, in short RERA, for alleged siphoning of homebuyers’ money.A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and UU Lalit told senior advocate Harish Salve that his client SBI Caps should bear in mind that no private player is involved in the project construction which involves the Receiver handling the projects and NBCC executing the works.Salve sought a week’s time to discuss the matter with his client and apprise the Court on the possibility of fund release. The Court had proposed a release of Rs 500 crore during the hearing in the case last week.Senior advocate R Venkatramani, the Receiver appointed by the Court was confident that his suggestions on home loan disbursement by banks, funds from SBI Caps, utilization of unused floor area ratio (FAR) and waiver of GST by Noida and Greater Noida authorities will be favourably considered by the bench.“The Court is pushing all authorities and governments into quick motion as regards the funding and execution of projects. It is also looking into more than one direction for source of funding by relaxing the current criteria with regard to loans and taxes for the projects,” Venkatramani told HT.One of the suggestions by the Receiver requires the RBI to relax rules to enable banks to release the balance loan amount of homebuyers, including those falling under the NPA category. The Centre informed the Court that a decision in this regard cannot be taken by RBI as it is best left to be considered by the individual lending banks.The Receiver’s note also suggested GST waiver on construction that could help save close to Rs 1,000 crore and sale of unused FAR in the projects, instead of returning it to the land owning authorities. The UP land authorities opposed these suggestions. They put the onus on homebuyers to clear all pending dues of the land owning authorities.The bench responded tersely, “You must be more accommodating with regard to charging of interest. Some relaxation you must give or else all projects will fall through.” The homebuyers disputed the claim for dues by Noida/Greater Noida authorities. Their lawyer ML Lahoty cited the Court’s judgment to show that buyers have paid up dues and are entitled to compensation on account of delayed construction. The Court asked homebuyers to be pragmatic and not be under any impression to enjoy the property without paying up any dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-reserves-order-on-funding-for-amrapali-s-stalled-housing-projects/story-vamEU4LUVIP8f5tj9EwDFN.html
27-05-2020||India||Russia announces postponement of Brics and SCO Summits in wake of Covid-19||Russia announced on Wednesday that summit meetings of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), which it was to host in July, has been postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic.The two summits were to be held in St Petersburg during July 21-23. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was expected to attend both meetings.“In view of the coronavirus pandemic and the related restrictions, the Organising Committee to Prepare and Support Russia’s SCO Presidency in 2019-2020 and BRICS Chairmanship in 2020 decided to postpone the BRICS leaders’ meeting and the meetings of the SCO Heads of State Council, initially scheduled to take place on July 21-23, 2020, in St Petersburg,” said an official statement from the Kremlin.“The new dates for these summits will be determined on the basis of the epidemiological situation in the states participating in these associations, and around the world,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-announces-postponement-of-brics-and-sco-summits-in-wake-of-covid-19/story-MXxNTgwQgjkQT7HGu8ojEI.html
27-05-2020||India||RSS hands out Giloy saplings in Uttarakhand to boost immunity against Covid-19||The Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) has started distributing saplings of Glioy (Tinospora Cordifolia), a medicinal plant, to households in Dehradun to boost immunity of the people against infections like Covid-19.Uma Dutt, RSS vibhag sewa pramkukh Dehradun said they decided to distribute Giloy saplings to households in Dehradun after many Ayurvedic practitioners and medical experts suggested that medicinal herbs like Glioy enhance immunity and could be help in protecting against infections like Covid-19.Dehradun had the maximum Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand, before Nainital took over as the district with the maximum cases in the state a few days back.“Even yoga guru Ramdev has suggested that consuming ‘kaada’ (decoction) of Giloy and Tulasi with black pepper, turmeric and ginger would boost the immunity of people against viral infections,” he said.The RSS campaign to distribute the saplings began less than a week ago.Krishnanand Bhatt, RSS Nagar Sanchalak Kedarnagar Dehradun said they have plans to distribute over 5,000 saplings of Giloy to people in Dehradun.“We have already distributed over 2,100 saplings of Giloy saplings to households in our area. Our RSS workers are going from door to door and distributing these saplings. Even the union Ayush ministry has suggested the use of Ayurvedic herbs for boosting immunity. In the coming days, we will distribute more,” he said.The union ministry of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) has suggested use of some herbs for boosting immunity and also invited suggestions on its website from AYUSH practitioners and institutions for restraining the spread of the Covis-19 pandemic or manage the disease. However, it has also put a disclaimer on its website that its advisory “does not claim to be treatment for Covid-19”.Prof Neeraj Misra from Lucknow University, who has expertise in biophysics said they studied the efficacy of substances found in some medicinal plants including Giloy on the inhibition of Covid-19 in April, while collaborating with the experts from Gorakhpur University in Uttar Pradesh. He said their paper titled ‘On the Inhibition of Covid-19 Protease by Indian Herbal Plants: An In Silico Investigation’ is currently being peer-reviewed. In silico means research conducted by means of computer modelling or computer simulation.“We extracted 18 compounds from 11 medicinal plants including Giloy and evaluated their inhibition properties against Covid-19 receptor protease. The virus binds with the receptor protein on the human cell to enter it and cause infection. If we can bind this receptor protein with any chemical substance, then the virus’s ability to enter the cell is inhibited. We studied the binding of Covid-19 protease (6LU7) receptor with the extracts of Indian herbalplants like Giloy by molecular docking. And our analyses suggested that the Covid-19 protease can be inhibited to varying degrees by the extracts of Indian herbal plants, including Giloy,” Prof Misra said.Prof Ambrish Srivastava, a biophysicist from Gorakhpur University said, “Our calculations on the binding affinity of the extracted compounds suggested that Harsingar (night jasmine or parijat) had the maximum inhibition potential followed by aloe vera, Giloy, turmeric and so on,” he said, adding, “it is promising predictive study and needs to be corroborated with clinical studies”, he said.Uttarakhand has so far reported 438 cases of Covid-19 with infection rate of 2.28% and doubling rate (in last seven days) of 3.99 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-hands-out-giloy-saplings-in-uttarakhand-to-boost-immunity-against-covid-19/story-P0FxoSCmySliRfYaAKkEqI.html
27-05-2020||India||Tipplers rejoice as wine shops in Kerala set to open on Thursday||The long wait of tipplers in Kerala is finally over with the state government giving its nod to an app to supply alcohol through the state-run Beverages Corporation outlets and bar hotels from Thursday.Liquor outlets in the state were closed on March 24 when the first round of lockdown was imposed in the country. But a few days into the lockdown, wine shops had briefly opened for some days before the government shut them down for good.Later the state government had asked startup firms to develop an app to ensure hassle-free supply and zeroed in on one, ‘BevQ.’ The selection had also its share for controversies as the opposition alleged a kickback in the contract.The new app can be accessed from Google playstore and there is an SMS service option for those who don’t own a smartphone. Once logged in a time slot will be given to the customer and not more than five people will be allowed at a time. Once the location is identified, the app allots the nearest outlet to the user. Nobody without an e-token will be allowed to buy alcohol.“We have tested the app several times and are satisfied with its functioning. Customers will have to ensure social distancing norms strictly. We will keep a strict watch on all outlets,” said excise minister T P Ramakrishnan.A customer can buy a maximum of three litres of alcohol at a time and can log in only after five days. He said there was no plan for home delivery now.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also said the new app will ensure a hassle-free supply.“Three cheers. We were left without it for more than two months. I will store my stock on the first day itself,” said a regular drinker . But he was sceptical that an unusual rush may force the government to backtrack.All outlets - 301 state beverages outlets, 576 bar hotels and 290 beer and wine parlours - came back to life after authorities allowed stocking of bottles.Last year the state earned Rs 14,500 crore from liquor. On an average the Beverages Corporation sells liquor worth Rs 40 to 45 crore a day. Excise duty on liquor is between 300 per cent and 500 per cent in the state which means a Rs 100 bottle of rum in the brewery will cost Rs 400 to Rs 500 in the market. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tipplers-rejoice-as-wine-shops-in-kerala-set-to-open-on-thursday/story-mV39ESnnB7Oe4KdpE4gxjI.html
27-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Migrants sent in trains at random to politically disturb me’, says CM Mamata Banerjee and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Migrants sent in trains at random to politically disturb me’: CM MamataThe Centre is sending millions of migrant workers back to Bengal in trains at random to politically disturb her as Covid-19 cases are spiking in villages that were earlier unaffected, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Wednesday. Read more. Floods in Assam affect 2.71 lakh in 11 districts, claim one lifeThe first floods of the year in Assam claimed its first victim on Wednesday with a person drowning in Goalpara district. The total number of those affected by the floods, meanwhile, rose to over 2.71 lakhs. Read more. SC seeks Centre’s response on free Covid treatment in private hospitalsThe Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Centre to identify private hospitals across the country for treating Covid-19 patients either for free or at a nominal cost. Read more. Cyclone Amphan destroys one-third of world’s largest mangrove delta, tiger habitatAround one-third of the world’s mangrove delta – the Sunderban --- has been damaged by Cyclone Amphan, according to a preliminary assessment of the West Bengal forest department. Read more. Man says Sonu Sood is the next Amitabh Bachchan, his humble response wins over the InternetActor Sonu Sood has been helping migrants return to their home towns amid the lockdown for past two months. However, he has remained modest in the face of immense praise coming his way both in real life and social media. Read more. TikTok rating improves as Google removes more reviewsTikTok rating on Google Play Store has fairly improved to 2.9 stars as more negative reviews have been taken down. The app’s reviews have now been reduced to 20 million on Google Play. Read more. FDCI announces India’s first ever digital fashion weekThe Fashion Design Council Of India (FDCI) is ushering in a new era of digital showcase and re-wiring the fashion system. The apex body goes digital as it announced India’s first ever digital fashion week. Read more. ‘Dangerous’ and ‘amazing’: How Instagram is reacting to this woman’s split on two carsYou’ve probably seen all those scenes of actor Ajay Devgn pulling off the incredibly difficult split on two cars or bikes or even two horses. Well, this video of Aleksandra Kiedrowicz, winner of the eighth edition of Poland Got Talent, reminded of all those videos. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-migrants-sent-in-trains-at-random-to-politically-disturb-me-says-cm-mamata-banerjee-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Pcv6NDZpYbvdZJAM5oDhYO.html
27-05-2020||India||Floods in Assam affect 2.71 lakh in 11 districts, claim one life||The first floods of the year in Assam claimed its first victim on Wednesday with a person drowning in Goalpara district. The total number of those affected by the floods, meanwhile, rose to over 2.71 lakhs.According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 321 villages in 21 revenue circles of Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Nagaon, Hojai, Darrang, Barpeta, Nalbari, Goalpara, West Karbi Anglong, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts have been affected by floods.A total crop area of 2,678 hectares has been submerged by flood waters and 16,720 persons who have been displaced due to flooding are taking shelter in 57 relief camps in the state.Flood waters damaged embankments in Golaghat, Barpeta and Nalbari districts, damaged roads in all the 11 affected districts and damaged bridges in Chirang and Baksa districts.Landslides damaged 30 houses in Dima Hasao district and caused one train to remain stuck at Maibang railway station, ASDMA reported.The water level of Brahmaputra has been rising gradually due to continuous rainfall in the last three-four days. The IMD has warned that the state is likely to receive heavy to extremely heavy rainfall for the next four to five days, reports PTI. Reviewing the flood situation on Wednesday, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal instructed officials to ensure that all Covid-19 protocols are maintained at the flood relief camps to ensure that the disease doesn’t spread in the community.He instructed officials of the power department to cut off electricity to transformers submerged in flood waters so that deaths due to electrocution do not take place.Sonowal directed the public works department to repair the 157 roads damaged by floods. He informed that Centre has released a first instalment of Rs 386 to the state disaster relief fund.EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floods-in-assam-affect-2-71-lakh-in-11-districts-claim-one-life/story-0uoJQopVdIfuVulPq8rotL.html
27-05-2020||India||Supreme Court seeks Centre’s view on timely disposal of mercy petitions||Six years after the Supreme Court ruled that inordinate delay in deciding upon mercy petitions will result in commutation of death sentence, the apex court on Wednesday sought the Centre’s reply on a plea seeking direction to the government to frame specific procedure, rules and guidelines for timely disposal of mercy petitions.There is currently no time limit for disposing clemency pleas filed before the President.Hearing a petition filed by Shiv Kumar Tripathi in public interest, a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde said it was keen to explore the possibility of setting a time limit for the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the nodal Ministry dealing with clemency appeals, to give its recommendation to the President.The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, clarified that this exercise will be limited to the role played by Government and not the action of the President in disposing of the mercy pleas. The Centre has been asked to file its response in four weeks.A similar exercise was undertaken by the Supreme Court in 2014 in the case of Shatrughan Chauhan v Union of India. It became a landmark case as the Court released 15 death row convicts after noting “inordinate delay” in disposal of their mercy petitions. Back then, the Court was asked to lay down guidelines for the timely disposal of mercy petitions filed before the President under Article 72 and before the Governor under Article 161, but it simply refused.The judges in Shatrughan Chauhan said, “Although, no time frame can be set for the President for disposal of the mercy petition but we can certainly request the concerned Ministry to follow its own rules rigorously which can reduce, to a large extent, the delay caused.”According to Anup Surendranath, Assistant Professor of Law and Executive Director of Project 39A at Delhi’s National Law University, the Supreme Court’s latest move is uncalled for. Based on Project 39A’s extensive work on death penalty, he explained, “There are MHA guidelines already which require the Centre to call for material and consider peculiarities of each case before formulating their advice to the President. These documents have to come from a variety of sources, including states and prison authorities. Artificially imposing a time limit on the Centre will preclude a proper and detailed consideration of mercy pleas.”The petition by Tripathi has stressed on the need for guidelines in the interest of transparency. It said, “A fair procedure is the natural demand of Article 21 and no procedure itself indicates the possibility of arbitrary exercise of the power.”At present, broad guidelines prescribed by MHA for deciding mercy petitions relate to personality of the accused such as age, sex or mental state of the accused, circumstances of the case, conduct of the offender, medical abnormality falling short of legal insanity, difference of opinion between High Court judges, appearance of fresh evidence, and delay in investigation or trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-seeks-centre-s-view-on-timely-disposal-of-mercy-petitions/story-vAbjBPz5rB8BA0QHYMdqkO.html
27-05-2020||India||80-yr-old woman who fell ill in Visakhapatnam gas leakage incident, dies||An 80-year-old woman, who had fallen sick in the aftermath of the styrene gas leakage at the LG Polymers plant in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam 20 days ago, died on Tuesday night. However, the doctors could not immediately confirm if the death was due to the after-effects of the gas leakage. The gas leakage on May 7 had claimed 12 lives and over 500 had fallen sick. Eighty-year-old Pala Venkayamma from RR Venkatapuram village where the LG Polymers plant is located, died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday night after battling for life for nearly a week at King George Hospital at Visakhapatnam. “She was brought to the hospital on May 19 with serious complications like dehydration and kidney-related ailments. We had put her on ventilator and made all efforts to save her life, but she had high electrolytic imbalance and succumbed on Tuesday evening,” hospital superintendent Dr G Arjuna told Hindustan Times.He, however, said it could not be ascertained immediately whether Venkayamma died because of the impact of Styrene gas leakage. “We have sent the body to post-mortem and medical examination. Only then would we be able to tell whether she had died of gas leakage or some other age-related ailments,” he said.As part of the latest health protocol, the hospital authorities first sent her throat swab sample for testing for Covid-19 and only after this test report, they would take up post-mortem, he said.The doctor said Venkayamma was one of the hundreds of persons who was admitted to the hospital immediately after the leakage of Styrene from LG Polymers plant on May 7. “She had been treated like all other patients and discharged on May 14, after full recovery. She was also paid a compensation of Rs 1 lakh by the state government like other hospitalised gas leak victims. But she was brought back to the hospital on May 19,” he said.The KGH superintendent did not rule out the possibility of the old woman dying due to after-effects of Styrene gas leak. “So far, we have not come across any such cases of people complaining about long-term effects of Styrene gas, since it was first such incident ever took place. We have to wait for the autopsy report and other tests,” he said.The YSR Congress government has paid Rs 1 crore each to the families of 12 persons who died of Styrene gas leakage from LG Polymers’ plant. The family members of Venkayamma also demanded that they be paid the same amount as ex gratia.Meanwhile, Telugu Desam Party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu announced financial assistance of Rs 50,000 to each of the families of the gas leakage victims on behalf of the party. He expressed regret for not being able to call on the families of the victims due to lockdown restrictions.The TDP’s two-day Mahanadu held on digital platform observed two-minute silence over the deaths in Visakhapatnam gas leakage incident.Meanwhile, the Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain the plea of LG Polymers India Ltd for a stay on the Andhra Pradesh high court’s order for seizure of the Visakhapatnam plant till the investigation is completed.It, however, allowed 30 employees of the company to supervise round-the-clock safety measures at the sealed plant. It asked the company to give a list of 30 personnel to the district collector. “This interim direction will continue till the high court considers the matter and passes appropriate directions,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-yr-old-woman-who-fell-ill-in-visakhapatnam-gas-leakage-incident-dies/story-e7ch0nREwjCcCMsla3JATK.html
27-05-2020||India||SC seeks Centre’s response on free Covid treatment in private hospitals||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Centre to identify private hospitals across the country for treating Covid-19 patients either for free or at a nominal cost.The direction came from a bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde while hearing a PIL filed by lawyer Sachin Jain on the aspect of private hospitals charging high rates from Covid-19 patients who had nowhere to go.“When the nation is fighting a battle against the pandemic, all such private hospitals which are running on public land (allotted at concessional rates) or are running under the category of ‘charitable institutions’ should be called upon to provide the hospitalization and treatment to the Covid-19 patients pro bono publico (free of cost) or on no-profit basis,” Jain said in his petition.He also informed the Court that majority citizens cannot afford the high cost of treatment at private hospitals and many are not covered under health insurance schemes.He argued that given the resource crunch of government-owned hospitals, “It becomes apparent that the government/public health sector alone may not be able to manage the fallout, and hence, extensive participation of the private healthcare sector would be required.”At present, private hospitals are free to charge any amount from the patients admitted for Covid-19 treatment. The petition said that the concession could be given with regard to hospital bed and basic treatment, while keeping out the surgical operations or procedures from the ambit of free or concessional treatment.The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, found merit in this submission and asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to take instructions from the Centre and respond within a week. The bench told Mehta, “These hospitals have been given land either free of cost or at concessional rates. They should treat patients also for free.”Mehta informed the Court that a decision of this nature concerns a policy and must be left to the wisdom of the Government. However, he agreed to take instructions and respond to the concern expressed by the Court within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-response-on-free-covid-treatment-in-private-hospitals/story-VRsuiL1ZWS8WQmysjzKgOP.html
27-05-2020||India||Brazil’s Marcos Troyjo is NDB’s new President, India’s Anil Kishora is VP||Marcos Prado Troyjo, former deputy economy minister of Brazil will replace KV Kamath as the president of the New Development Bank’s (NDB), a multilateral financial institution set up to mobilise resources for infrastructure and sustainable development projects in BRICS and other emerging economies, according to an official statement.The board of governors also appointed Anil Kishora, an Indian, as vice president of the NDB. Kishora, a banker, has 38 years of experience at India’s largest bank, State Bank of India (SBI). Before joining the NDB, he worked as the deputy managing director and chief risk officer of the state-run SBI. The board of governors of NDB on Wednesday unanimously elected Marcos Prado Troyjo as the president. He will take charge on July 7, 2020, the bank said in a statement.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman attended the board meeting through video-conference. Brazilian minister of economy Paulo Guedes, Russian minister of finance Anton Siluanov, Chinese vice minister of finance Jiayi Zou and South African minister of finance Tito Titus Mboweni also attended the virtual meeting.In her opening remarks, Sitharaman commended the contribution of NDB in funding the infrastructure development, which has positively impacted the development agenda of the member countries, including India, the finance ministry said in a statement.“Within a short span of time, NDB has approved 55 projects of member countries for an amount of $16.6 billion, which is quite a remarkable achievement,” it said.Kamath was appointed president of NDB on July 7, 2015 at the inaugural meeting of the board of governors on the eve of the Ufa Summit, when the bank formally came into existence as a legal entity. BRICS countries -- Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa -- are its founders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brazil-s-marcos-troyjo-is-ndb-s-new-president-india-s-anil-kishora-is-vp/story-trXGfcHeec7OxkmQ8gPpuO.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Migrants sent in trains at random to politically disturb me’: CM Mamata||The Centre is sending millions of migrant workers back to Bengal in trains at random to politically disturb her as Covid-19 cases are spiking in villages that were earlier unaffected, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Wednesday.Banerjee sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “I would like to ask the Prime Minister to please help us,” Banerjee said.Claiming that no state has the infrastructure to screen the passengers of so many trains arriving every day, she said, “While talking over phone I told Union home minister Amit Shah, a few days ago, to take charge of the coronavirus crisis in Bengal. I am thankful that he said how can a government elected by people be dismantled,” Banerjee said. Banerjee made the remarks while addressing bureaucrats at an administrative meeting at the state secretariat. She also addressed the media from the meeting.“The Union railway ministry should have discussed with the state and followed the schedule we had sent. They are sending the trains at random. Eleven trains are arriving tonight and 17 more will arrive tomorrow. How can we screen so many people?” said Banerjee and referred to the post-Amphan crisis her government is facing. “Earlier there were no Covid-19 cases in the villages. Do not do politics,” said Banerjee, addressing the Centre.In a new move, the chief minister announced that quarantine at government facilities for 14 days will be mandatory for migrant workers returning from five states. These are Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. “Around 25 per cent of these returnees are turning out to be Covid-19 positive. This is bad news for the state,” Banerjee said. These people will be kept in empty school buildings she added and formed special task forces in every community block area.Incidentally, two days ago, the chief minister said those returning to Bengal could stay in home quarantine for two weeks as long as they followed the regulations and their movements were monitored by the health department. Reacting to Banerjee’s statement, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national secretary Rahul Sinha said, “Banerjee is trying to divert attention because right from the beginning she did not want to take responsibility of the migrant workers.”“The chief minister is a failure in every area, be it the Covid-19 crisis or Cyclone Amphan. Now she is begging the Centre to make her look like a martyr because she knows that people in her party are in touch with Amit Shah,” CPI(M) legislator Sujan Chakraborty said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-being-sent-in-trains-at-random-to-politically-disturb-me-mamata/story-dHpUyGdHc3gQCRyxH1fAyL.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: J-K govt to ease restrictions in Srinagar district in phases||The Jammu and Kashmir government is planning to ease restrictions in parts of Srinagar district which have reported a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past several days. The district has been under strict lockdown since March 22 and expecting rush on roads just before Eid, authorities had imposed fresh restrictions which also led into altercations between the police and doctors at many places. However, now the administration has decided to gradually ease out some of the restrictions in phases. Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar, Shahid Choudhary hinted at easing out the restrictions, starting Thursday. ‘’The District Disaster Managment Authority conducted a comprehensive review of 36 containment zones in Srinagar. At least 12 zones to have ease in perimeter restrictions like roads, lanes etc starting from tomorrow. Zone wise notification/advisories to be issued,’’ he said while thanking people for cooperating during the lockdown period.’’ Srinagar district has recorded 209 coronavirus positive cases so far, according to the government data released on Wednesday evening. Of these, 126 have recovered while the death toll rose to seven with the death of a 55-year-old man in Srinagar on Wednesday. However, doctors say there has been a decline in the cases in the last two weeks and the fresh cases within the district have been of those who have arrived from different parts of the country.A senior doctor who is part of the government’s Covid-19 response team, said that things are very much stable in the city and for many days now, no new cases have been reported. “The only thing is that people had to remain vigilant and take proper precautions especially wear face masks and use soap and sanitizers.’’ He said that despite this, Srinagar city is still in a red zone area; however it could turn into orange and green zones. “The officials are working hard and with people’s cooperation, the war against Covid-19 could be won,” the doctor added. Officials, however, said that restrictions won’t be eased in containment zones and places from where the Covid-19 cases are reported.In the fourth phase of lockdown, government offices and banks are working in Srinagar, however, there is no public transport plying on the roads and all the schools are shut.“Srinagar had witnessed a long lockdown soon after article 370 was abrogated by the government on August 5 last year. The city should now get some relaxation. There is no surge in the cases and the situation is quite better compared to a month ago,’’ said Lateef Ahmad who runs a furniture business in theold city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-j-k-govt-to-ease-restrictions-in-srinagar-district-in-phases/story-wMEh7r8oz7uUn36Z8gWfxJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Social distancing missing as 400 people jostle to meet Union minister||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on a visit to Sheopur - part of Morena parliamentary constituency that he represents in the Lok Sabha - was surrounded by more than 400 people, depicting an abject lack of social distancing.The minister reached Sheopur, 402 kilometres north of Bhopal, on Monday night and attended certain programmes the day after.At the Nishadraj Bhavan, Tomar felicitated 40 corona warriors. Subsequently, at the collectorate he had a meeting with district officials and public representatives to review the Covid-19 situation.At this point, a large crowd of BJP workers and others, more than 400, gathered to welcome him and also to hand over applications and complaints to him for several works, as per a district administration officer.The video from the scene shows the minister, wearing a mask, walking into a waiting crowd, even as a police officer is trying to push people away. Outstretched hands, holding papers, are being pushed towards the minister as he makes his way to the waiting car.Surendra Jaat, the district BJP president of Sheopur, admitted that social distancing discipline was lacking, but blamed the Congress leaders, workers and others for the situation.“Tomar Saheb repeatedly made an appeal to all to maintain social distancing. The BJP leaders and workers were disciplined. But the Congress MLA Babu Jandel, district Congress president Atul Chauhan, their followers, and also certain other people who wanted to meet the minister to hand over their applications and complaints created the chaotic situation,” alleged Jaat.Congress’ Babu Jandel said the allegations levelled by the BJP are “baseless”.“I met the minister leading a delegation of six to seven party workers with all of us wearing masks and following social distancing norms as decided by the administrative officers whereas most of the BJP workers, more than 200 in number, and surrounding the minister were not wearing masks and not following the social distancing norms.“There were about 200 others who wanted to meet the minister to draw his attention to different problems they are facing,” said Sheopur district Congress president Atul Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-distancing-missing-as-400-people-jostle-to-meet-union-minister-narendra-singh-tomar/story-SiBbPmuenq7w3j3lCmgX7K.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Sometimes it’s good to have a quiet birthday’!||Actor Karan Nath, who is busy writing a script these days, spent a birthday under lockdown recently. “Birthdays are fun when you are all at peace but unfortunately, mine came at a time when there is so much chaos around. Never in my wildest dreams had I thought that I would have a birthday like this. Cases of the pandemic are on the rise and everything has taken a back seat for now,” he said.Talking about how his day went, Karan said, “Sometimes, it’s good to have a quiet birthday. This year, it was a family affair with a small, simple cake made by my sister and home food. Also, as I lost my dog recently, I just wanted the day to pass without much hubbub. Besides, in lockdown, nothing much can be done. Yes, wishes did pour in and in such times we all need blessings and good thoughts. Life is so tough at present with people struggling to survive, migrants walking home, and it is all so sad and depressing.”Karan had a release in February and then everything went on hold. Talking about his work plans, he said, “Maharashtra is the worst hit and Mumbai has reported maximum cases that is more worrisome for all of us. Starting shooting in full force seems like a distant dream at present and it will be difficult not just making films but releasing them too, as bringing people to the theatres will be tricky. Luckily, my film had a theatrical release as it was out in late February though business was impacted like it happened with all the films releasing at that time.” His last release ‘Guns of Banaras’ was completely shot in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh and will see an OTT release soon.These days, writing is taking up most of his time. “Yes, my synopsis is done and scripting is in full swing. Soon, this will be done and then we will start casting. Once we get all fixed with an OTT platform then all will be on a roll. But seeing the current scenario I think not before this year-end will we be able to start the project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/sometimes-it-s-good-to-have-a-quiet-birthday/story-g8op9jalPI3OkRIcWvv4sL.html
27-05-2020||India||Big locust swarm headed towards Madhya Pradesh, bypasses Delhi||A locust swarm is not expected to pass over Delhi and is likely to move towards Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) said on Wednesday.Reports had suggested the swarm would come towards Delhi on Wednesday, but LWO said the dreaded insects are likely to move from Dausa to Dholpur in Rajasthan and to Morena in Madhya Pradesh, destroying all kinds of vegetation, and not just standing crops.Small swarms have reached Vidarbha and other parts of Maharashtra, as well as parts of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. More swarms are flying in Rajasthan.“The alert that they are headed towards Delhi on Wednesday is incorrect. They are headed towards Morena for now,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director of the Directorate of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage and LWO.LWO has 50 teams currently tracking locust swarms from Rajasthan to Madhya Pradesh. Drones have been launched to track the swarms, and fire fighters have been deployed, depending on the size and location of swarms.“We have controlled them in 47,000 hectares in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. The swarms which reached Maharashtra are very small. Thankfully, we didn’t have any standing crops here in Rajasthan but they can destroy all kinds of vegetation,” said Gurjar.LWO teams are spraying the pesticides Malathion 96 and Chlorpyrifos, depending on the location.Gurjar said he was hopeful that all swarms would be destroyed before the insects start breeding during the monsoon. “Before the monsoon, we will control them completely so that there is no second wave,” he said.LWO had warned in its May 15 bulletin that soil moisture was observed “dry” at Jaisalmer, Barmer, Phalodi, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Bikaner and Palanpur and wet patches were recorded at Suratgarh and Fazilka.Vegetation was found to be green at Barmer, Jaisalmer, Suratgarh and some parts of Nagaur.Favourable breeding condition for the desert locust is moist sandy or clay soil. Green vegetation is favourable for development of hoppers. Often favourable conditions may exist in the desert but there are no locusts present. Therefore, the presence of moist soil and green vegetation does not automatically mean that there are locusts around according to LWO.“As per global situation, some adult groups and swarms [of locusts are] expected to arrive in India from spring breeding areas. Therefore, vigilance will continue towards expected invasion of locusts in coming days,” the warning had said.Experts said excess rains in the pre-monsoon season over north India may have created conditions for locusts to thrive at a time earlier than normal this year. For example, northwest India received 24% excess rains from March 1 to May 27 (pre-monsoon months) and central India received 109% excess rains during this period. West and east Rajasthan recorded excess rains of 64% and 117% respectively.Climate scientists and organisations such as the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) have said deadly locust invasions in Africa, Middle East and South Asia are linked to freak weather associated with climate change. WMO said unusually heavy rainfall in late 2019 was a factor in the severe desert locust outbreak in the Horn of Africa region – the worst in more than 25 years, and the most serious in 70 years for Kenya.This is expected to spread further by June and pose a severe threat to food security.“Heavy rain triggers the growth of vegetation in arid areas where desert locusts can grow and breed. These locusts which migrated to India early this year might have found greener pastures as the pre-monsoon rains during March-May were in excess over north India this year,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.KK Singh, senior scientist at India Meteorological Department, said: “It’s not a direct link. We cannot say that because we had excess pre-monsoon rains and greenery in northwest and central India, so locusts have invaded us. There are many other factors.”Desert locusts can eat as much as their own weight, which is about five to 10 grams, a day. Just one small swarm has the potential to eat the same amount of crops in one day as 35,000 people. If the locusts are not contained, the impact on crops and vegetation will drive up hunger in regions already struggling with high levels of food insecurity. The Food and Agriculture Organisation has said the current locust upsurge is alarming in Eastern Africa. More than 25 million people will face acute food insecurity in the region in the second half of 2020. In Yemen, where locusts have been reproducing in hard-to-access inland areas, 17 million people may be impacted, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-locust-swarm-headed-towards-madhya-pradesh-bypasses-delhi/story-BrGCONpY39WadMnToMeXUL.html
27-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate pegged at 42%, over 64k cured of coronavirus: Health Ministry||A total of 1,51,767 Covid-19 cases have been reported from the country in which 64,426 persons have been cured with the recovery rate being pegged at 42.4%, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Wednesday.The fatality rate is 2.86% whereas the world average is 6.36%, the Ministry said. The Ministry said it utilised the lockdown period for creating health infrastructure required for COVID-19 management. Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 150,000-mark, death toll at 4,337“There are now 930 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,58,747 isolation beds, 20,355 ICU beds and 69,076 oxygen-supported beds available in the country,” said the Ministry. It also said that a total of 2,362 dedicated COVID health centres with 1,32,593 Isolation beds; 10,903 ICU beds and 45,562 oxygen-supported beds have been operationalised. “There are at least 10,341 quarantine centres and 7,195 COVID care centres with 6,52,830 beds available to combat COVID-19 in the country,” said the Ministry. Click here for complete coverage on coronavirusAccording to the Health Ministry, the Centre also provided 113.58 lakh N95 masks and 89.84 lakh Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to the States, UTs and Central institutions.The testing capacity has increased in the country through 435 government laboratories and 189 private labs (total 624 labs). Cumulatively, 32,42,160 samples have been tested so far for COVID-19, whereas 1,16,041 samples were tested in 24 hours, said the Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-pegged-at-42-over-64k-cured-of-coronavirus-health-ministry/story-W78uFYTrXc5wWakGaqFI4K.html
27-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan destroys one-third of world’s largest mangrove delta, tiger habitat||Around one-third of the world’s mangrove delta – the Sunderban --- has been damaged by Cyclone Amphan, according to a preliminary assessment of the West Bengal forest department. However, there is no confirmation of deaths of tigers or other animals in the delta, officials said. “Around 1500 sq km of forest area has suffered massive damage in the cyclone. The nylon net fencing that was set up to prevent tigers from straying into villages has also been damaged. There are no reports of any animals killed so far in the storm,” said Ravi Kant Sinha, chief wildlife warden of West Bengal. The Sunderban delta comprises 102 islands of which 54 have human settlements while the rest have forests. It has around 4200 sq km of forests crisscrossed by rivers and creeks. This is the only mangrove in the world where tigers live. There are around 100 tigers in the Indian part of the Sunderban. “We have surveyed almost 70% of the forest area using mechanized boats. Two drones were also used to assess the damage. Extensive areas of mangrove forests have been damaged. But we haven’t found any carcasses of animals yet. We didn’t even see birds circling above any particular area of the forest which could have hinted that there could be a carcass,” said S Kulandivel, joint director of Sunderban Biosphere Reserve.Located at the southern tip of Bengal at the mouth of the sea, the dense mangrove is known to protect human settlements including the city of Kolkata, acting as a shield against cyclones.“The mangroves do not just help to reduce the wind speed drastically when the storm moves through the delta but even helps to break the waves and the storm surge triggered,” Sugata Hazra, professor at School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University said.It had saved Kolkata from the wrath of Cyclone Aila in 2009 and from Cyclone Bulbul in 2019. But this time the mangrove forest has suffered the most, a forest department official, said after preliminary stock taking. A detailed survey is still going on, he said.Between 2017 and 2019 the delta had already lost nearly two percent mangrove cover, according to the state of forest report 2019. The FSI report also said that since 2011 the very dense mangrove cover, which comprise pristine and thick mangrove forests, has come down from 1038 sq km to 996 sq km in 2019.“As incidents of tiger straying was a major problem in the Sunderbans, nylon net fencing has been put up along the forest boundary surrounding the fringe villages. But out of the 211 km of fencing around 100 has been ripped apart by the storm,” said Sinha.The Forest Department has already repaired the fencing along 60 km which was in ‘most trouble-some’ areas such as Kultali, Ajmalmari, Uttar Gurguria and Dakshin Gurguria. These areas had witnessed the maximum cases of tigers straying in the past.Even though there have been no reports of animal deaths after the storm and no carcasses have been found, former top forest officials have warned that tiger straying could increase in the coming months.“After Cyclone Aila wild boars could not be found as they could not bear the 4-6 hours of water inundation and died and were swept away. We could not find their carcass. Large animals like tiger and deer survived. But due to shortage of pray (as wild boars were small in number) tiger straying (human- tiger conflict) started. It was a nightmare for forest staff and villagers. I fear that,” PK Vyas, former chief wildlife warden of West Bengal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-destroys-one-third-of-world-s-largest-mangrove-delta-tiger-habitat/story-PaUpb9SC51TeOB51W2jkFK.html
27-05-2020||India||Oil India reports blow out at well in Assam, at least 25 families evacuated||Oil India Limited (OIL) authorities in Assam’s Tinsukia district shifted at least 25 families to safety after a natural gas producing well reported a blowout on Wednesday morning.An OIL press statement said that blowout occurred at the Baghjan-5 well at 10.30am. A blowout is the uncontrolled release of crude oil or gas from a well when pressure control systems fail.The well suddenly became very active while the operation was on, the statement added.“As a consequence, the ongoing operations had to be immediately suspended and the well started releasing natural gas in an uncontrolled manner. All efforts have been made to mobilise men and equipment at the site so that the well can be brought under control,” it said.The blowout happened while work was underway to produce gas from a new oil and gas-bearing reservoir at a depth of 3,729 metres.Earlier, the well was producing around one lakh standard cubic metre per day (SCMD) of gas from a depth of 3,870 metres.“All arrangements are being made now to bring the well under control. Water spraying and all adequate safety measures including installing a blow out preventer (BOP) is being done,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oil-india-reports-blow-out-at-well-in-assam-at-least-25-families-evacuated/story-HMDlC4eDw0D2mjLzFG471O.html
27-05-2020||India||Chandrababu Naidu’s Mahanadu conclave attended by 25,000, address via Zoom||Amid restrictions and a nationwide lockdown in place, the Telugu Desam Party began its two-day conclave – Mahanadu – on digital platform Zoom on Wednesday. The party claims the event was attended by 25,000 delegates.Held once every two years to elect the party president and other committees, it also deliberates upon various issues ranging from national to state affairs.Chandrababu Naidu addressed those delegates through Zoom webinar application. The Mahanadu is expected to adopt 13 resolutions during the two-day conclave.Technology and innovation, Naidu said, would provide solutions to any problem faced by the human society. He added, if the TDP was able to overcome limitations of social distancing during Covid-19 mandated lockdown, it was due to the early steps that the party took towards digital socialisation. “Digital Mahanadu 2020 is also a part of this initiative,” he said.Recounting that earlier Mahanadu conclaves used to be held in presence of thousands of activists and followers, the TDP chief said because of restrictions due to lockdown, he chose to hold an online conclave. “The TDP has emerged as the first political party to hold India’s first digital political conclave,” said Naidu.Stating that the TDP had to go through a very tough time in the last one year, Naidu said the party was able to fight back all the setbacks with the self-confidence of the party cadre. “In an unprecedented manner, the YCRCP government had targeted the TDP leaders and cadre, attacked their financial roots, crippled their business activities and even engineered physical attacks. It was a painful year with hundreds of TDP activists being implicated in false cases and put in jail for no fault of theirs,” he said.Launching a blistering attack on chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and his party, he said the one-year rule of Jagan had wrecked all sections of the people: politically, socially and financially. The TDP chief alleged that CM Jagan has pushed the state economy into an irrecoverable, bankrupt situation.The TDP chief alleged that the Jagan government has not spent a single rupee on irrigation projects or launched a new one. Even the lifeline project of Polavaram, he added, has come to a halt and was now stuck in legal hurdles in the court.Naidu further alleged that Jagan ‘s policies led to flight of investments and industries from the state, eventually causing huge loss of job opportunities to workers, youth and other sections. While several industries like Kia Motors, Hero Motors, Asian Paints and others had come to India during the TDP regime, proposed Adani Data Centre, Reliance Electronics and other industries had been shelved during the Jagan regime, he alleged.By stopping works worth thousands of crores of rupees in Amaravati Capital City, the Jagan government had caused serious harm to farmers who sacrificed their lands, said the leader, who was also the former CM of the state.“While the farmers were still holding their protests braving hot summer and coronavirus lockdown, the chief minister was deriving sadistic pleasure,” he alleged.The TDP wondered whether Jagan had asked for ‘one chance’ from the people to destroy the state in every way possible. He deplored that Jagan had imposed an additional burden of Rs 50,000 crore on the people in the form of new taxes and hike in power tariff and liquor prices.Naidu stressed the need for both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to sort out their differences over Krishna water sharing.Stressing the need for using latest technology, innovation and digital socialisation, Naidu called upon the TDP cadres and people of Andhra to fight back anti-development policies of the state government.Several resolutions on various subjects like coronavirus pandemic, increase of power tariff and protection of temple properties were passed through voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrababu-naidu-s-mahanadu-conclave-attended-by-25-000-address-via-zoom/story-YNbu1hTyNre9K1zDCR0CTJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Karnataka to name new flyover after Savarkar, opposition parties rage||The decision of the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government in Karnataka to name a new flyover in Yelhanka, Bangalore in honour of V D Savarkar has been opposed by the two chief opposition parties in the state-- Congress and Janata Dal (Secular). The newly-built flyover will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Yediyurappa on Thursday, which is the 137th birth anniversary of Veer Savarkar.Senior Congress leader and leader of opposition in the Assembly, Siddaramaiah questioned the state government’s move to name the flyover in honour of Savarkar saying, “This is an insult to the freedom fighters of the state. The government should immediately drop this idea and this should be named in the honour of a freedom fighter from the state. This incident only shows that puppet masters behind the scenes are controlling the government rather than an elected government taking decisions. If the government genuinely wants the cooperation of opposition parties, it should drop such anti-people moves.”Former chief minister and JDS leader H D Kumaraswamy also opposed the state government’s move to name the flyover in Savarkar’s name. “There are several freedom fighters from the state who fought for our independence. There are several who contributed to the state’s development even after independence. They could have named the flyover in the honour of any one of them? Do other states honour our freedom fighters? I request the government to reverse its current decision.”However, BJP spokesperson S Prakash said that the state had taken the decision after much consideration. Accusing the Congress of never honouring anybody outside the Nehru-Gandhi family he said, “Why Indira canteens? Why Rajiv Gandhi hospital? Savarkar is a giant amongst our freedom fighters. It is only a token of respect for such a great soul who sacrificed for the country.”The flyover has been built at an estimated cost of Rs 34 crore and measures about 400 metres in length. State government officials said that Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) under which the flyover comes has also passed a resolution approving the naming of the flyover in honour of Savarkar. They said the CM will go ahead in inaugurating the same in spite of the protests by opposition parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-name-new-flyover-after-savarkar-opposition-parties-rage/story-Zp1t8AdHWOpEv9lekwEbVJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand minister Satpal Maharaj’s residence put under quarantine||The private residence of Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj has been put under quarantine following the visit of some people from Delhi, officials have saidThe Dehradun district administration put a notice on the minster’s house which stated that “members of the house are advised to stay inside and not meet people outside from May 20 to June 3.”Confirming the development, Maharaj said, “The quarantine notice was put by the administration after a few of my guests came a few days ago. I am happy that the officials concerned noticed that and put the notice which is for everyone’s safety only.”However, he clarified that the quarantine notice is for the guest house and office area of his residence which is ‘separate from the premises where he and his family live.’“The area which has been quarantined has its entrance from 1/1 Circular Road while the entrance to my residence is from 13 Municipal Road in Dehradun. The premises are different with separate entrances and exits. It’s nothing to be worried about for me and my family who are cautious but completely fine,” said Maharaj. The minister also added that following the development, he has closed the office at his private residence and moved it to a new location.“I have now opened my office in the Subhash Road area of the city with all the necessary precautions amid the pandemic,” he said.The Dehradun district administration said that it had put the notice as per the norms in the ongoing lockdown. Asheesh Srivastava, district magistrate Dehradun said, “We have put the guest house and office at his residence in quarantine which is towards the Circular Road area. The part where the minister lives is towards the Municipal Road, which has not been put under quarantine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-minister-satpal-maharaj-s-residence-put-under-quarantine/story-m7CTZoS1CRSJ1hYFoTYvVP.html
27-05-2020||India||Donald Trump offers to mediate ‘raging’ India-China border dispute||US President Donald Trump on Wednesday waded into the tense border standoff between India and China, saying he was “ready, willing and able to mediate” between the two sides.Trump, who has in the past repeatedly offered to mediate between India and Pakistan on the issue of Kashmir and been rebuffed, made the latest offer through a tweet. He also said he had informed India and China of his offer.“We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute. Thank you!” he tweeted. We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute. Thank you!Also Watch | ‘On the brink of a new cold war’: China on ties with US after Covid outbreak There was no immediate response from Indian officials. It also could not be confirmed whether Trump had formally conveyed the offer to the Indian side.Thousands of Indian and Chinese troops are locked in eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), particularly in Ladakh sector following violent clashes early this month that left soldiers on both sides injured.The Indian government made it clear yesterday that it would not allow any change in the status quo on the LAC and that it would respond to China’s actions with “strength and restraint”.Also read | In huge setback to PM Oli, Nepal’s new political map hits a roadblockTrump’s remarks came a week after his administration’s outgoing pointperson for South Asia, Alice Wells, strongly backed the Indian position in the border row and said such disputes are a “reminder of the threat posed by China”.Wells, the outgoing head of the state department’s South and Central Asia bureau, said like-minded nations such as the US, India, Australia and Asean states have rallied together in the face of China’s “provocations and disturbing behaviour”.She had said: “The flare-ups on the border, I think, are a reminder that Chinese aggression is not always just rhetorical. And so whether it’s in the South China Sea or whether it’s along the border with India, we continue to see provocations and disturbing behaviour by China that raises questions about how China seeks to use its growing power.”She added, “What we want to see is an international system that provides benefit to everyone and not a system in which there is suzerainty to China. And so I think in this instance, the border disputes are a reminder of the threat posed by China.”China’s foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian had dismissed Wells’ remarks as “just nonsense” and reiterated the allegation that Indian troops had trespassed across the LAC. India should work with China and “refrain from unilateral actions” that complicate the situation, he had said.India has dismissed allegations that its troops trespassed across the LAC and instead accused Chinese troops of hindering activities on the Indian side of the LAC.Also read | PM Modi’s ‘Doklam team’ back in action to stand up to China in Ladakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/donald-trump-offers-to-mediate-raging-india-china-border-dispute/story-s1cZGvwkF7pYtiZ0QLcxbP.html
27-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘China’s way to create distraction’, says Union minister on LAC tension in Ladakh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘China’s way to create distraction’: Union minister on LAC tension in LadakhUnion minister VK Singh has said that China is trying to distract the world’s attention by increasing activity on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Read more.Rahul Gandhi speaks with Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, assures supportA day after his comment led to speculations that all was not well within Maharashtra’s ruling coalition, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi spoke with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over the phone on Wednesday morning. Read more. Your career will be over: Curtly Ambrose recalls when he threatened to ‘knock out’ Steve WaughWest Indies legend Sir Curtly Ambrose recalled the time when he got into a heated argument with former Australia captain Steve Waugh during a Test match in Trinidad in 1995. Ambrose, who picked up 405 wickets in 98 Tests, was known for his quiet demeanour on the pitch. Read more. Virat Kohli aces 180-degree landings in first attempt, Arjun Kapoor hilariously trolls him. Watch videoCricketer Virat Kohli shared a new workout video on his Instagram account, in which he is seen nailing 180-degree landings in his very first attempt. “My first shot at 180 landings. Top exercise,” he captioned the clip, which has already garnered more than 4 million views. Read more. iPhone 11 beats iPhone XR to become the most popular smartphone globallyApple’s iPhone 11 turned out to be the most popular smartphone model in Q1, 2020 based on data by Omdia. iPhone XR which had been the most popular iPhone so far has now passed the throne to iPhone 11. Read more. Menstrual Hygiene Day 2020: To attain menstrual health, we require community involvementMenstruation is a normal biological process, which is the key in maintaining the reproductive well being of a woman.Myths and taboos in the society have resulted in a high level of secrecy about the basic menstruation facts -- leading to shame and exclusion for women and girls. Read more. Alligators engage in fight on golf course, fascinating video captured. Don’t forget to turn the sound onA video of two alligators engaged in an epic fight is fascinating, intriguing, and scary – all in equal parts. Captured at the Hilton Head Lakes golf course in Hardeeville, South Carolina, the video of these unwanted guests was shared on Facebook and it has now left people with varied thoughts. Read more. TISS takes Masters programme process onlineThe Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, has restructured its admission process for Masters programmes doing away with any physical visits by candidates to the campus. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-china-s-way-to-create-distraction-says-union-minister-on-lac-tension-in-ladakh-and-all-the-latest-news/story-uWumOI7hudx2rdKrSDAjvJ.html
27-05-2020||India||4 cops injured in clash with migrants at quarantine centre in Bihar’s Nalanda||The Station House Officer (SHO) of Bind police station in Bihar’s Nalanda and three other personnel were injured in a clash between police and the inmates of a quarantine centre at Kathrahi late on Tuesday evening, an officer said. “Four policemen, including the SHO Rakesh Kumar, were attacked by quarantined people who were demanding better quality food. They damaged three vehicles including one belonging to the Block Development Officer (BDO). Some of the inmates snatched a police rifle and cartridge, which was later recovered,” a senior police officer said.Confirming the incident, Nalanda Superintendent of Police Nilesh Kumar said that the police team led by BDO Suraj Kumar reached the quarantine centre after getting information about the ruckus created by some migrant workers over the food being served to them. When the team arrived, people attacked them with bamboo sticks and pelted stones at them.At least 121 people are staying at the quarantine centre at Gurukul Vidyalaya and they demanded ‘puri’ instead of roti in their meal. Following the ruckus, hundreds people from adjoining villages assembled there and provoked them, according to SP Nilesh Kumar. The SP said that reinforcements reached the spot, brought the situation under control and dispersed the mob. The injured cops were taken to the primary health centre. A case was registered against unidentified people and the police have started investigation, he added.According to Nalanda Police, the incident at Kathrahi involving irate migrants is not an isolated one. There are reports of over dozen such incidents where angry migrant workers in quarantine centres created ruckus, staged protests, blocked road and even turned violent at some places.Upset over poor facilities at the quarantine centres in government-run school buildings, panchayat buildings etc, thousands of migrant workers have taken to protesting in over two dozen districts in Bihar over the past few days.Recently, 88 migrant workers at a quarantine centre in Dwarka Amrit Asharfi High School in Shambhuganj block of Banka district protested at the alleged poor quality of food being provided to them. The police resorted to lathi-charge to control them. In the ensuing melee, a young migrant worker fractured his hand while some others sustained minor injuries.Concerned at the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Bihar government last week announced that migrants labourers returning from seven states will be lodged in quarantine camps.According to the order by Disaster Management Department, Government of Bihar, migrant labourers coming to Bihar from Surat, Ahmedabad in Gujarat; Mumbai, Pune in Maharashtra; Delhi; Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Noida in Uttar Pradesh; Kolkata, West Bengal; Gurugram in Haryana and Bengaluru, Karnataka will be kept in quarantine camps||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-cops-injured-in-clash-with-migrants-at-quarantine-centre-in-bihar-s-nalanda/story-0CcUVdtaBvmC7nyQG8SUMK.html
27-05-2020||India||BJP launches 2021 assembly poll campaign in Bengal, calls it ‘Aar Noi Mamata’||Coinciding with the Mamata Banerjee government in Bengal completing nine years in power, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the principal opposition party in the state, launched a campaign on Wednesday, called ‘Aar Noi Mamata’, urging people to topple the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in the state in the 2021 Assembly elections.The high-voltage campaign, which literally means ‘no more Mamata’ was launched at a time when large parts of south Bengal is yet to return to normalcy following the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. The Mamata Banerjee government is facing a three-fold challenge – combating the outbreak of Covid-19, dealing with the huge influx of migrant workers returning to the state and restoring normal life and infrastructure in the cyclone-hit areas.The party on Wednesday released a 57-second video clip calling for the removal of the TMC regime and launched a Twitter hashtag named #AarNoiMamata. BJP’s national general secretary and Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya posted on Twitter on Wednesday, using the hashtag #AarNoiMamata, that the Mamata Banerjee government was not worthy of any congratulations for completing nine years in power. “Nine years of old wine in new bottle, nine years of communist continuity sold as change, nine years of oppressive rule after promising liberation, nine years of breaking people’s trust and mandate. This is the Mamata government for you. Bengal cries for change,” Vijayvargiya tweeted.The party’s national executive member Mukul Roy tweeted, “Mamata has failed her own people of West Bengal. Not to forget she is also the home minister and the health minister. Six days over and metro city Kolkata is on the streets protesting for basics.”Union minister Debasree Chowdhury too accused the government of “failing on all fronts”, and the party’s state women’s wing chief and Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee wrote, “9 years of Mamata misrule added to 34 years of CPM misrule. Come 2021, we need BJP’s govt in West Bengal to fulfill the aspirations of common people.”BJP state unit’s IT cell in-charge Ujjwal Pareek wrote on Twitter, “Mamata report card: Cyclone Amphan – fail, Covid-19 – fail, migrant labourers – fail, ration for poor – fail, women’s security – fail, infiltration – fail… the list is long … #AarNoiMamata.”BJP is likely to release a “charge-sheet” against the Mamata Banerjee administration on Wednesday evening.Trinamool Congress said the BJP was “stooping too low.”“This is unbelievable how they are indulging in political campaigns at the hour of the state’s great crisis. It’s time to rebuild the state. Bengal has never faced such a natural calamity. Everyone should fight such disasters by being united. There is a lot of time left to launch political campaigns,” said TMC secretary-general and state education minister Partha Chatterjee.Congress’ Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who is an MP from Berhampore in Bengal, and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) have also accused the Mamata Banerjee government of lacking in preparedness to tackle Covid-19 and Cyclone Amphan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-launches-2021-assembly-poll-campaign-in-bengal-calls-it-aar-noi-mamata/story-3O0nUA0PEzik6JLOh6MmeJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Yes Bank case: Kapil, Dheeraj Wadhawan sent to judicial custody till June 11||The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Wednesday remanded Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) promoters Dheeraj Wadhawan and his brother Kapil to judicial custody till June 11.Earlier, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) authorities had arrested the two brothers on May 14. The judicial custody was extended till June 11 after their 14-day judicial custody ended on Wednesday.The Wadhawans, who have been arrested by ED on charges of money laundering, will be lodged in one of the jails in Mumbai, the ED authorities said. ED had initiated proceedings against the duo based on a first information report (FIR) filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on March 7 against Yes Bank co-promoter Rana Kapoor and the Wadhawans.It is alleged that between April and June 2018, Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term, non-convertible debentures of DHFL and Kapoor received Rs 600 crore as kickbacks from the finance firm in the form of loan advanced to two companies -- DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Private Limited and Morgan Credits Private Limited. While Kapoor’s three daughters hold 100℅ stakes in DOIT, Morgan Credits is controlled by his wife.The Wadhawans, however, maintained that these transactions were entered into the regular course of business. They sought pre-arrest bail, claiming that there was no fraudulent misrepresentation and no wrongful loss was caused to the bank in these transactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-case-kapil-dheeraj-wadhawan-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-june-11/story-PIHVIq7VSBckjzjuWL3vOP.html
27-05-2020||India||ASI unearths 9th century Shiv Linga during restoration of temple complex in Vietnam||A Shiv Linga or representation of the Hindu deity Shiva dating back to the 9th century has been unearthed at Cham temple complex in Vietnam during restoration work by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).External affairs minister S Jaishankar announced the find on Twitter on Wednesday, saying the development underscored the “civilisational connect” between the two countries and was also a “great cultural example of India’s development partnership”.“Reaffirming a civilisational connect. Monolithic sandstone Shiv Linga of 9th c CE is latest find in ongoing conservation project. Applaud @ASIGoI team for their work at Cham Temple Complex, My Son, #Vietnam. Warmly recall my visit there in 2011.Cham temple complex, part of the UNESCO world heritage site of My Son in Quang Nam province of Vietnam, was built in the 9th century AD during the reign of King Indravarman II, who was also responsible for the famous Dong Duong Buddhist monastery in the same region.A four-member team from ASI is currently engaged in the fourth season of restoration and conservation work at My Son. This year’s work schedule runs from January to June. Over the past three seasons, ASI has restored temples in two different groups at the complex, and the team is now working on a third group of temples.“During the current restoration work at the temples, the ASI team found the Shiv Linga. It is a monolithic structure with decorative patterns of very exquisite cultural value,” said an official who declined to be named. “Before this, six other Shiv Lingas were found in the My Son temple complex. But the latest find is believed to be the most magnificent,” the official added.French experts discovered the temple complex in a dilapidated condition in 1903-04. During excavations at that time, French archaeologists had described the presence of a Shiv Linga in the group of temples that is currently being renovated. However, due to limited excavation capabilities in those days, this Shiv Linga could not be recovered. Subsequently, political disturbances and wars in Vietnam led to destruction of the temple complex.The external affairs ministry created a new Development Partnership Division (DPA-IV) in January to coordinate and undertake culture and heritage conservation projects abroad, including identification, planning and implementation of schemes in consultation with technical agencies.The new division will also act as a repository of all such projects being undertaken by India abroad, and be instrumental in dissemination of information of projects and cooperation in culture and heritage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asi-unearths-9th-century-shiv-linga-during-restoration-of-temple-complex-in-vietnam/story-rSzk6fCRSPvejJ6PyZM4AP.html
27-05-2020||India||Tourists missing, Kerala’s Munnar has elephants strolling the streets||With a nationwide lockdown in place, the only visitors Kerala’s misty getaway Munnar gets these days is a herd of wild elephants.Almost every day, these pachyderms can be seen roaming on the streets like stray cattle. Local residents complain that these jumbos have vandalised shops. Humans, say locals, have not been attacked till date.Watch | Tourists missing, Kerala’s Munnar has elephants strolling the streets A worried forest department has decided to depute a couple of forest wardens in the town.“It is free run for jumbos in Munnar these days. Earlier they used to come to estates but now with movement of people and vehicles restricted, they enter the town easily. They raided at least five vegetable shops in the last three days,” said senior journalist MJ Babu, who hails from the area. He said ideal conditions helped the jumbos to roam around freely and local residents have named some of the frequent visitors Padayappa, Kutti Komban, Ganesan, among others.Angry residents are now planning an agitation to scare away these pachyderms. “With no tourists around, we are finding it difficult to piece together our lives. Raiding jumbos have made our life more miserable. What is disturbing is that their numbers are on the rise these days,” said TK Shaji, a local shopkeeper.Two days ago, Youth Congress activists held a dharna in front of the forest warden’s office demanding steps to chase away animals. “We have deployed six forest wardens in Munnar and surrounding areas. They will track the movement of jumbos and chase them away using crackers and high-power lights,” said a senior forest officer of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourists-missing-kerala-s-munnar-has-elephants-strolling-the-streets/story-AryBGXYBsgQNARsCPBeKON.html
27-05-2020||India||Darbha valley Maoist attack: Chhattisgarh police registers fresh case||Raipur: A case has been registered in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district’s Darbha Valley ambush on Congress leaders, in which 27 people, including lawmaker Mahendra Karma, was killed on May 25, 2013, allegedly by outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) members.Jitendra Mudliyar, son of slain Congress leader Uday Mudliyar, filed a complaint and the case was registered on Tuesday under Section 302 (murder) and Section 120(B) (criminal conspiracy) of the India Penal Code (IPC), the police said.“We’ve registered a case against unknown persons on Tuesday. An investigation will be carried out,” said Sunderaj P, inspector-general of police (IGP), Bastar.National Investigating Agency (NIA) is probing the case since 2013, and a charge sheet has also been submitted in an NIA Special Court. In November 2019, NIA nabbed Maoist commander Sumitra Punem, who was allegedly involved in the ambush, and 26 more rebels are still wanted in the case.Deepak Jha, superintendent of police (SP), Bastar, said Mudliyar has submitted a complaint. He has alleged that the 2013 killings were a criminal conspiracy and the case should be reinvestigated by another agency other than NIA in a bid to know the truth, the SP added.“We’re waiting for NIA’s closure report. The agency didn’t record any statement from the victims’ family members. We’re suspicious of the conspiracy theory. The case needs to be reinvestigated. We’ve come to know through an RTI (Right to Information) petition that police were informed about the movement of the Maoist rebels on the day the incident occurred on May 25, 2013,” Mudliyar stated in his complaint.According to an NIA charge sheet filed in 2014, the conspiracy of the ambush was hatched in a Maoist meeting held in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district in February 2013.NIA had charge-sheeted senior Maoist commanders, including Surender, who headed the Darbha division committee; along with Barse Sukka, Hapka Manoj, Tippiri Tirupati, Kishore Korram and Modiyam Ramesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darbha-valley-maoist-attack-chhattisgarh-police-registers-case/story-dZAb2y6gBlK7nZ6fG6IvmN.html
27-05-2020||India||Heatwave likely to continue during next 24 hours: IMD||The ongoing heatwave over several parts of north and central India is likely to continue during the next 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department said on Wednesday, even as the southwest monsoon made further advancement in parts of Bay of Bengal. North and central India have been reeling under a severe heatwave and temperatures have soared over 47 degrees Celsius at a few places. “Due to the prevailing dry north-westerly winds over plains of northwest India, central India and the adjoining interior parts of eastern India, the present heatwave conditions are very likely to continue during next 24 hours,” the IMD said. Heatwave conditions at many places with severe heatwave in isolated pockets are very likely over Vidarbha, west Rajasthan, the IMD said. Heatwave conditions are also likely in some pockets over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan, and in isolated pockets over Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Saurashtra and Kutch, central Maharashtra and Marathwada, Telangana and north interior Karnataka during the next 24 hours, the IMD added. A western disturbance is likely to give some relief on May 29 and 30. During this period, parts of north India are likely to witness dust storms and thunderstorms. Western disturbance is a cyclonic circulation which originates in the Mediterranean Sea. Traversing central Asia, it brings rains to the hills and plains when it comes in contact with the Himalayas. On the progress of the southwest monsoon, the national weather forecasting centre of the IMD said it has further advanced into some more parts of south Bay of Bengal, most parts of Andaman Sea and Andaman and Nicobar Islands.  “Conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some parts of Maldives-Comorin area and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea, remaining parts of Andaman Sea and some more parts of south and central Bay of Bengal during next 48 hours,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-likely-to-continue-during-next-24-hours-imd/story-C8wy3yPL4kO3yh2ltfahnI.html
27-05-2020||India||Flying to Kolkata tomorrow? Here’s what you need to know||The domestic flight services will resume in West Bengal on Thursday, two days after air travel was thrown open in the rest of the country.The Bengal government had asked the Centre to not resume the flight service as the state has been ravaged by Cyclone Amphan. On Tuesday, Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said the state government no longer had the infrastructure to support lakhs of returning migrant workers.Ahead of the resumption of services, the West Bengal government has said that the Kolkata and Bagdogra airports in the state will handle only 20 flights each per day.The state government on Tuesday released fresh guideline for domestic air travel keeping in mind the safety of passengers during the coronavirus pandemic. Here’s what you need to follow if you are planning to travel to West Bengal:• All passengers are required to submit “filled up self-declaration form” at the time of arrival to the state health officials.• All passengers will have to undergo health screening at the point of departure and only “asymptomatic” passengers shall be allowed to board the plane.• On arrival, health screening shall also be done for all the passengers.• The government further said in the guideline that all samples will be collected for coronavirus test from all symptomatic passengers.• The guideline said asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to go with the advice that they shall self monitor their health for 14 days. In case they develop any symptoms, they shall inform the local medical officer or state call centre at 1800 313 444 222/033-23412600,2357 3636/1083/1085 for medical interventions.• Those with moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to the dedicated Covid-19 health facility and managed accordingly. Those with mild symptoms will be asked to go for home or institutional isolation.• Further, medical interventions will be taken as per the test result.• Adequate publicity for maintenance of social distancing norms and health hygiene protocol should be done at the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flying-to-kolkata-tomorrow-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-s5KDS02QUJa7NM53pdEfyM.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Nobody can stare down Modi’s India’: RS Prasad on border standoff with China||Amid the standoff between Indian and Chinese troops at the Ladakh border, the ruling BJP on Wednesday asserted that no country can stare down India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Narendra Modi ke Bharat ko koi aankh nahi dikha sakta (No country can stare down PM Modi’s India),” BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in Hindi during a press conference.He was asked about India’s standoff with China and also differences with Nepal.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had asked the Modi government on Tuesday to be transparent about the border situation with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobody-can-stare-down-modi-s-india-rs-prasad-on-border-standoff-with-china/story-8KUnrscHcmkLXchpn1R0yO.html
27-05-2020||India||Rajasthan high court grants bail to second accused in Rakbar lynching case||The Rajasthan high court on Tuesday granted bail to the second accused in the 2018 Rakbar Khan lynching case in Alwar, the special public prosecutor for lynching cases in the state said Wednesday.There are four accused in the case; the bail application of the remaining two is likely to be heard by the court on Friday. The trial in the case will resume in Alwar court on June 1.Rakbar Khan, 28, of Kol village in Haryana’s Nuh district was allegedly beaten by local villagers in Lalavandi village of Rajasthan’s Alwar district on July 21, 2018, while he and another man named Aslam Khan were taking two cows bought from Ladpura village. The villagers suspected them to be cow smugglers. Rakbar was declared dead when taken to government hospital by police. Aslam Khan managed to escape.Police arrested three people – Paramjit Singh and Dharmendra Yadav and Naresh Kumar – on charges of unlawful assembly, wrongful restraint, voluntarily causing hurt and murder the next day (July 22, 2018). The charge sheet against them was filed on September 7, 2018. The fourth accused, Vijay Moortikar, was arrested on August 22, 2019, and charges were framed against him on September 13, 2019.After facing flak for sloppy investigation into the Pehlu Khan lynching case that led to acquittal of all six accused, the Rajasthan government appointed Ashok Kumar Sharma as special public prosecutor for lynching cases in Alwar on the day the fourth accused was arrested.The case against the four accused is under trial in an Alwar court. The first accused Paramjit Singh got bail from the high court on February 26 this year. Naresh Kumar is the second accused to get bail.“The remaining two accused have also filed bail application in the high court. The date of hearing is May 29,” he said.Sharma said the trial will resume on June 1. “The last hearing was on March 16. Due to the lockdown, the trial was put on hold and the next date of hearing is June 1,” he said.Sharma said so far 24 prosecution witnesses have recorded their statements. “Statements of 32 more witnesses are to be recorded,” he added. Rakbar’s counsel Kasim Khan said the new witnesses in the additional charge sheet may turn the case in his favour after the initial goof-up in police investigation. A four-member committee headed by the then additional director general of police (law and order) NRK Reddy had found lapses by police in handling the case. “We found that there was some error in judgment. There was a time lapse of three hours, and the incident could have been avoided if the police had responded more efficiently,” Reddy had told HT after the probe concluded.Assistant sub-inspector Mohan Singh was suspended, and three constables were transferred to the Alwar police lines after the probe report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-high-court-grants-bail-to-second-accused-in-rakbar-lynching-case/story-TqtiHf89nH9SEoDhBI583M.html
27-05-2020||India||‘China’s way to create distraction’: Union minister on LAC tension in Ladakh||Union minister VK Singh has said that China is trying to distract the world’s attention by increasing activity on the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“China is under scrutiny, the whole world is accusing them of spreading Covid-19. Many companies are shifting from China. It’s their way to create distraction. They’ve done it many times,” Singh said.China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has deployed two brigades along with border with India in the Ladakh sector. The aggressive posturing is designed to browbeat the government to stop building border infrastructure in the Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) sector as it may threaten the Lhasa-Kashgar highway in Aksai Chin, senior government officials said.The scale of PLA deployment indicates that the move has the sanction of Beijing and not limited to local military commanders.India is constructing the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie road, which, once fully metalled, will give India a major advantage in terms of access and military mobilisation. A key part of this is the construction of a bridge at Daulat Beg Oldie,the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass, that China wants to stop.“The Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road will be completed this year and will raise the Indian capacity to rapidly deploy in the area. If the road project is blocked, the Indian Army will be forced to live off aerial supply lines and prepare for an arduous route linking Sansoma to Murgo to DBO through glaciated Saser La,” a national security planner in the government said.China has plans to stare down India into submission with its all-weather ally Pakistan deliberately initiating troop movement in neighbouring Gilgit-Baltistan region. But officials say that India cannot afford to budge from its position as this will amount to acceding to Xi Jinping’s cartographic expansion in the area through military muscle.The idea is to not allow any alteration of Indian territory and to face the Chinese challenge with “strength and restraint”, sources said. And that is why India has moved troops to counter Chinese forces stationed in the region, they added.The move to increase the troops in the border area is the result of a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat.China, meanwhile, is facing the heat from many countries about the coronavirus outbreak, which began from Wuhan city in its Hubei province in December last year. The United States is leading the charges with President Donald Trump accusing Beijing of not disclosing full information about the virus. China has denied these allegations.At a World Health Assembly meeting earlier this month, more than 100 countries backed a resolution on finding the source of Covid-19. As the pressure mounted, China too agreed for a probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-way-to-create-distraction-union-minister-on-lac-tension-in-ladakh/story-gHKEDV7mGifPLrOguCZB3N.html
27-05-2020||India||Rajasthan to explore possibilities of aircraft MROs to boost economy||The Rajasthan government is exploring possibilities in new sectors such as maintenance, repair and overhauling (MRO) of aircraft to boost the state’s economy, officials said.The government has directed the industries department to study possibilities of MRO in the state following Chief Secretary D B Gupta’s meeting with various departments on Tuesday to discuss ways to boost the economy and provide employment.In wake of the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package recently announced by the Centre to kickstart the economy amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Rajasthan is keen on new sectors such as MROs. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman recently said that steps will be taken to make the country a hub for MRO of aircraft.“Rajasthan has tremendous potential in this area. We have the required infrastructure with 19 state owned airstrips,” said Kesari Singh, Director Aviation department.A senior official, who participated in the meeting on anonymity, said the meeting focused on how economy and employment can be boosted and in relation to aviation, it was exploring MROs and privatisation of airports.He said Rajasthan has 32 air strips, 19 of which are state-owned, and rest is of air force and private. The state is coming out with a new aviation policy, which will cover MROs and aviation academy too. “Currently, there are around 4-5 MROs operational in India (Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bangalore) but still aircraft are going to other countries such as Dubai, Singapore, France etc. Growth in aviation sector necessitates the development of adequate MRO facilities for aircraft. The state can facilitate and incentivise the proposal for setting up new MRO centres,” he said.Around 60-70 flights operate daily from Rajasthan and if MRO is available then aircraft do not have to fly out and spend large sums. The MRO will not only generate employment but help in providing training to students of aeronautic engineering, he said. The official said the state government in recent years has worked on developing airstrips in the state and almost all are capable of handling big planes. “Jhalawar airport is bigger than Jaipur, and there big planes such as Airbus can land. Earlier, there were discussions to develop MRO at Jhalawar. On the same lines, now dialogues could be held with stakeholders such as Airbus and Boeing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-explore-possibilities-of-aircraft-mros-to-boost-economy/story-JnawDtSRmN9IBAm13KgJuI.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19: BJP accuses Rahul Gandhi of falsehood||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of trying to create “falsehoods” about the Centre’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic, and questioned why his views were being sidestepped by Congress-ruled states.Addressing the media via video conference, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also accused Gandhi of trying to weaken the country’s resolve to fight this challenge since the start of the Covid-19 outbreak. Prasad said Gandhi’s campaign was based on falsehood, deliberate twisting of facts and misinterpretation.He said anyone with better solutions should offer suggestions, and the government would be willing to look into them.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageOn Tuesday, Gandhi criticised the government’s decision to continue with the nationwide lockdown and said contrary to expectations, infections had spiked during this period.Prasad said, “Barring China, in the 15 counties which have been hit by the pandemic, the population is 142 crore and India has 137 crore, and so far we have 3.43 lakh deaths globally and in India 4,345. The recovery percentage is also high.” Criticising Gandhi for spreading “negativity, misinformation and fake news”, Prasad questioned why the Congress governments of Punjab and Rajasthan imposed lockdown at the earliest if such a measure isn’t a solution for Covid-19.“Maharashtra (where the Congress is a partner in the ruling alliance) extended it till May 31. Do your CMs not listen to you?” Prasad said.Attacking the Congress leader, Prasad said even as Congress president Sonia Gandhi said the credit for the “Bhilwara model” should go to Rahul Gandhi for his early warning, the sarpanch of the area had refuted the claim.“He said his constituency was recognised by the health ministry for tackling the pandemic, whereas it was declared as a hot spot. He’s asking for the Nyay scheme whereas the Modi government has announced a Rs 20 lakh crore package…he spoke about passing on benefits of the global oil price crash, but there was a VAT hike in Rajasthan and Punjab raised diesel prices,” Prasad added.To a question on Gandhi’s remarks that the government should come clean on the border standoff with China, and that there should be transparency on a border row with Nepal, Prasad said, “Narendra Modi ke Bharat ko koi ankh nahi dikha sakta (No one can browbeat India.)”On the Supreme Court’s observation that concentrated efforts are required to address the issues of migrant workers, he said the court had “issued notice and the government of India or the state government, as the case may be, will respond on what steps have been taken”.He added, “I can only respond in all humility that all governments are doing their best. These are very challenging times, if anyone has better solutions to offer suggestions, we are willing to look into that. But in the given situation the best possible efforts are being done and will continue to be done.”Referring to the spread of the Coronavirus in Gujarat, he said the Centre has already sent the director of AIIMS to guide the state in controlling the pandemic. “We don’t want to see the political colour of any state government, but the whole country has to work in unison. We have to overcome this crisis and I am confident that we shall overcome it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bjp-accuses-rahul-gandhi-of-falsehood/story-1lcvrb2q8sSaBN75EgMilN.html
27-05-2020||India||In huge setback to PM Oli, Nepal’s new political map hits a roadblock||A constitutional amendment pushed hard by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli to alter Nepal’s map has been put on hold, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times on Wednesday.The new political map placed Indian territories of Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh in Nepal and was seen as an effort by PM Oli to consolidate himself in the Nepal Communist Party government by whipping up ultra-nationalistic sentiments against India.But he wasn’t able to build consensus around the new map among Nepal parties, many of them saw through his effort to invoke gorkha nationalism for personal gains, political sources in New Delhi and Kathmandu said.PM Oli, who has been facing problems within the ruling Nepal Communist Party, is seen to have prompted loud protests in Kathmandu this month at a 80-km stretch of road opened by India from Uttarakhand’s Dharchula to Lipulekh. He responded to this ‘public sentiment’ a few weeks later with a new political map that depicted Lipulekh and Kalapani as part of Nepalese territory.The map, released within a day of the cabinet approval, showed Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Byas rural municipality in Nepal’s Sudurpaschim province.Also watch | Rahul Gandhi demands transparency on faceoff with China & ties with Nepal Also read: Lipu Lekh: The past, present and future of the Nepal-India stand-off| AnalysisPM Oli had next raced to parliament to get its endorsement. But that plan appeared to have fallen apart after the main opposition party, Nepali Congress, made it clear that it could spell out its stand only after its Central Working Committee takes a decision.India had rejected the new political map, underlining that it includes parts of Indian territory.“This unilateral act is not based on historical facts and evidence…. It is contrary to the bilateral understanding to resolve the outstanding boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue. Such artificial enlargement of territorial claims will not be accepted by India,” the external affairs ministry in New Delhi had said.Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane had articulated the assessment in New Delhi when he suggested that the protests could be at the behest of “someone else” – a veiled reference to China.Also Read: Real targets of Nepal PM Oli’s new political map are in KathmanduThat remark had riled PM Oli so much that he asked Nepal’s Chief of Army General Purna Chandra Thapa to deliver a public rebuttal to General Naravane. But General Thapa is learnt to have declined, top sources said, pointing that this was a political issue and had nothing to do with the military. Like the Indian Army Chief Naranave who is an honorary General of the Nepal Army, Nepal’s Army Chief Thapa is the honorary General of the Indian Army.It is only after General Thapa declined to be dragged into the government’s politics that the Nepal defence minister Ishwor Pokhrel issued a statement criticising General Naravane.For PM Oli, Wednesday’s developments come as another setback. This is the second time in two months that he has had to move in reverse gear. Last month, PM Oli had to scrap two ordinances that he had cleared within five days of being notified.But the Oli government attempted to put up a brave face and claimed that he would be back with the constitution amendment bill within 10 days. It has only been deferred, not cancelled, PM Oli said on Wednesday..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-puts-on-hold-constitution-amendment-for-new-map-that-upset-india/story-A9XnqDS9nE487hNd3huZvJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Goa amends SOP for arrivals, Covid-19 test now mandatory||The Goa government has made it mandatory for all those stranded people returning to the state amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed in end-March to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, will have to undergo swab sample tests and has withdrawn the option of being quarantined at home following a public uproar.On Wednesday, chief minister Pramod Sawant briefed media persons after a meeting of the state cabinet that a decision to this effect was taken after it was found that only a less-than-expected number of people have returned to Goa since the resumption of domestic flight services from Monday. The domestic flight services were suspended on March 25 after the nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced.“We discussed the SOPs (standard operating protocols) and have decided to make some changes to them. Earlier, the returnees were given three options: either produce a Covid-19 free certificate from a registered ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) laboratory that’s issued 48 hours prior to their arrival; to undergo a swab sample test on arrival or be quarantined at home under our watch. The third option has been withdrawn with immediate effect,” the CM said.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“Now, any person returning to Goa has to either produce the Covid-19 certificate or take the test,” Sawant said.The CM pointed out that initially, the home quarantine facility was offered because the state authorities were anticipating a daily influx of 4,000 people, including 2,000 by air. So far, 200 people have arrived by air on the first two days --- on Monday and Tuesday – since the resumption of domestic flight services.“At present, around 1,000 people are returning to Goa daily, including by road and rail. We’ ve the capacity to conduct 1,000 tests per day, and the results are being made available the following day. However, if we’re looking at 4,000 returnees a day, it’d take at least four days for their results to be made available. If the load increases, then there’ll be a rethink on the strategy,” the CM said,Earlier, around 50% of the air passengers opted against taking the test. Of the 94 passengers, who arrived in Goa via the three flights, including two from Delhi and one from Bengaluru, which landed on Monday, 50 chose to undergo the test at a cost of Rs 2,000 each and all of them tested Covid-19 negative.For air travellers, the throat swab samples are being collected at the airport and they are allowed to proceed home. The results are communicated to them via a text message within 24 hours. The air passengers have been advised to maintain self-isolation until the results are made available to them.Rail passengers are ferried to test centres by buses and those arriving by buses are escorted to these facilities before they are allowed to leave. If any returnee tests positive via a TrueNat test, the traditional real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test is carried out for confirmation.Sawant also announced that there would be no need for a separate SOP for those arriving in Goa from Maharashtra, which has reported the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases and deaths in the country so far.On Tuesday, the CM, however, had insisted on a separate set of guidelines for returnees from Maharashtra, citing that 90% of new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from those coming back from the neighbouring state.Opposition lawmakers have criticised the state government’s move to make the Covid-19 screening optional.“Unless the returnees are screened properly, Covid-19 positive cases are bound to increase. We’ve been urging the government to ramp up its surveillance mechanism. We must not take any chance against the viral outbreak,” said Digambar Kamat, leader of the opposition. Goa has recorded 67 Covid-19 positive cases, of which 28 patients have recovered to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-amends-sop-for-arrivals-covid-19-test-now-mandatory/story-Zp3g7VSVDam8YTfnIEtl7L.html
27-05-2020||India||Cherries in abundance in Kashmir but farmers find no markets||Cherry trees across the Kashmir Valley are laden with fruit after a good season but farmers are staring at the possibility of heavy losses due to a lack of transportation because of the Covid-19 lockdown.The railways have offered to ease the burden of farmers by transporting the fruit to various states from Amritsar. However, farmers continue to be worried because of problems related to the movement of trucks till Amritsar.Officials said they requested Northern Railways to help transport Kashmir’s cherries and this was accepted on the condition that the fruits are delivered to the railhead at Amritsar.“From June 1, Northern Railways has agreed to transport four to six metric tonnes of cherries daily from Amritsar to Delhi and Mumbai. We requested them to transport the fruits from Jammu, but that didn’t materialise,” said Manzoor Ahmad Mir, deputy director for horticulture planning and marketing.Mir said tentative figures showed the production of cherries in the Kashmir Valley this year is about 12,000 metric tonnes. Last year, the figure was around 11,700 metric tonnes.Kashmir exports some 3,500 to 4000 metric tonnes of cherries to other states every year, he said.Despite the sizeable yield, farmers are a worried lot because of the lack of demand following the closure of markets and difficulties in transporting the cherries from farms to markets amid Covid-19-related restrictions.“The market is down and we aren’t getting good rates here. I am getting Rs 45 to Rs 50 a kg this year as against last year’s Rs 75 to Rs 90 a kg. Shops and markets here are closed and our cherries must reach other states, otherwise they won’t survive,” said Manzoor Ahmad Sheikh, a farmer from Lar Ganderbal in central Kashmir.Kashmir produces four types of cherries – Awwal Number, Double, Mishri and Makhmali – with the latter two being sold to other states.“This year, we had a lot of expectations from the cherry crop as apple trees suffered damage due to bad weather during flowering. Our livelihood and the education of our children are dependent on this. If something is not done immediately, our families are going to suffer,” Sheikh said. Apart from low demand, there are difficulties in transporting the fruits even within the region, and this has triggered fears the fruits could get spoiled if they are not harvested immediately.“Cherries are extremely perishable, with a very short shelf life. We aren’t able to transport the fruits as there are no movement passes. Even if some have passes, free movement is still not allowed owing to the lockdown,” said Pardeep Singh, whose family owns a farm in north Kashmir’s Baramulla.Deputy director Mir said authorities have taken up the matter of transportation with Kashmir’s divisional commissioner. “We have requested t divisional commissioner that fruit transportation should get priority on the national highway and there should be no hindrance to the movement of trucks,” he said.Cherries are grown on an estimated 2,713 hectares in Kashmir and over the years, the production has increased. From 8,282 metric tonnes during 2016-17, the figure increased to 11,280 metric tonnes in 2017-18 and further to 11,789 metric tonnes in 2018-19.The farmers said they have also been hit by logistical issues.“The fruit is ready but there are no cardboard boxes in the markets to pack them. Industries are closed and so there is scarcity of boxes,” said Mudasir Ahmad Lone, another farmer from Baramulla.“The government should do something, they should buy some fruit themselves and open industries and mandis,” he said.A senior official of the horticulture department, speaking on condition of anonymity, said authorities had submitted proposals to the government for opening cherry processing units.“We have 25 cherry processing units for canning the fruit. We have asked the government to provide transportation and packaging for farmers, besides permission to open these units. The proposal for providing minimum support price to farmers did not mature. Let’s see what will happen as time is running out,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cherries-in-abundance-in-kashmir-but-farmers-find-no-markets/story-DmdxJiy4eQemMuI6YIGg6N.html
27-05-2020||India||IAF chief Bhadauria flies Tejas single-seater aircraft at Sulur airbase||Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria flew a Tejas single-seater light combat aircraft at the Sulur air force station on Wednesday. Officials said Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria, who worked with the team that developed the Tejas jet, flew the aircraft which is part of the IAF’s 45 Squadron.The Chief of Air Staff was in Sulur to operationalise the IAF’s 18 Squadron, which is codenamed as ‘Flying Bullets’. It will be the second squadron in the Indian Air Force to fly the Tejas aircraft.The Tejas has been developed by the Aeronautical Development Agency and the HAL. The lifespan of the jet would be a minimum of 30 years just like any other front-line combat aircraft.The combat jets are classified under various generations depending on their avionics, capability and weapons systems. The current fleet of fighter jets with the IAF range from three-and-half generation to the fourth generation.The Indian Air Force has already placed an order for 40 Tejas and is likely to seal a contract “very soon” with HAL for another 83 aircraft at a cost of around Rs 38,000 crore. A naval version of the Tejas light combat aircraft is in development stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-bhadauria-flies-tejas-single-seater-aircraft-at-sulur-airbase/story-yhoCLKfNsoo8NyYoCGq6vN.html
27-05-2020||India||Congress to launch ‘SpeakUp’ campaign to raise voice of poor, migrants, small businesses||The Congress will launch a ‘SpeakUp’ campaign on May 28 to help raise the voice of the poor, migrants, small businesses and the middle class people before the central government.Congress spokesperson Ajay Maken said the party leaders, workers and sympathisers will run the online campaign from 11 am to 2 pm on Thursday.“We demand that transport be made available to all migrants to ensure that they reach home safely, increase their employment days to 200 under MGNREGA and provide Rs 10,000 as immediate financial help to the poor besides a financial package for small industries,” he told reporters.Congress social media department head Rohan Gupta said all party leaders and workers would put out messages through their Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Youtube accounts to help the voice of the poor, migrants and small businessmen and traders reach the government.The party also launched a small video on the campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-launch-speakup-campaign-to-raise-voice-of-poor-migrants-small-businesses/story-wJbmlaUjEClqQRuCykx1yJ.html
27-05-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi speaks with Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, assures support||A day after his comment led to speculations that all was not well within Maharashtra’s ruling coalition, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi spoke with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over the phone on Wednesday morning.Rahul Gandhi had said in a press conference on Tuesday that his party was only playing a supporting role in Maharashtra and it was not a key decision-maker. Congress is a partner in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) also comprising the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Congress leaders later said that Rahul Gandhi’s statement was twisted. On Tuesday, he told Uddhav Thackeray that his government was doing a good job to combat the coronavirus pandemic despite the difficulties the state has been facing. “Rahulji and Uddhavji had a telephonic conversation in the morning and air was cleared over the speculations after former’s statement in the press conference. The Congress leader clarified that his statement was taken out of proportion and the Congress stands in full support of the government,” a Shiv Sena leader said. Rahul Gandhi also explained his stand behind the statement and how he has been categorically stating how important the state is and how it should be given more importance in the fight against Covid-19. He also said that the Congress is with Maharashtra and the MVA government is capable of taking a decision in its fight against the pandemic. Thackeray too reportedly assured Rahul Gandhi that the Congress, junior partner in the MVA, has been given equal importance in the decision making.Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray will meet with the members of the alliance partners on Wednesday afternoon against the backdrop of a spurt in political activities in the last few days.The meeting, to be held at the chief minister’s official residence Varsha, is expected to be attended by key ministers from the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, an MVA minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-speaks-with-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-assures-support/story-57653Vgzn2LOME8Vo82GVP.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Are in big numbers, there will be difficulty’: Union minister on migrants||The Indian government is ready to provide migrant workers with trains, said union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, adding “itni badi sankhya hai kuch toh pareshani hoti hai (They are in such large numbers, there will be some difficulty)”. The minister made the comments at a press conference on Wednesday. Referring to Congress’ Rahul Gandhi’s meet with migrants, Prasad dismissed it as an attempt at theatrics. Speaking about his meeting with migrant workers, the Congress leader said there is a sense of hopelessness. “Bharosa toot gaya (Have lost faith)” is what Rahul Gandhi said the workers told him.The Congress will launch a ‘SpeakUp’ campaign on May 28 to help raise the voice of the poor, migrants, small businesses and the middle class people before the central government.On Tuesday, the Supreme Court issued notices to the Centre and state governments over the migrants’ plight, saying there have “been lapses”. The bench said the central and state governments should immediately provide adequate transport arrangement, food and shelters “free of costs”.Media reports, the court said, had been “continuously showing the unfortunate and miserable conditions of migrant labourers” walking on-foot and cycles from long distances.“Not proper for me to make observations on the Supreme Court’s remarks. The state and central governments will respond to the notice. All the governments are doing their best, these are very challenging times,” said the law minister.Earlier, the Congress had accused the central government and the rail ministry of charging migrants for train tickets in this hour of crisis. Stepping in, Congress president Sonia Gandhi had said her party will bear the cost for the rail travel of all such workers stranded due to the coronavirus lockdown.Since then the party has attacked the BJP for the same. “Rahul Gandhi also made false allegations that ticket money is being taken for workers’ tickets in Shramik Special trains. The government has repeatedly told that the fare is not being charged from the labourers, the railway ministry is carrying 85% of the ticket fare and the state governments 15%,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-in-big-numbers-there-will-be-difficulty-ravi-shankar-prasad-on-migrants/story-UPpWwSRHbnHKeNy1XFWFVN.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19 deaths in India could top 18,000 soon, says report||Covid-19 cases are expected to peak in early July in India, where deaths from the pandemic could top 18,000, an Epidemiologist and a public health expert said.The country is still in the ascending limb of the epidemic, said Prof D Prabhakaran, Director, Centre for Control of Chronic Conditions (CCCC).Prabhakaran, also Professor at the Department of Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, the UK, said there can be no single number when asked about his assessment on eventual Covid-19 deaths in India.We should peak around early July.This is based on a study of various published models and observing how the epidemic has risen and fallen in other countries, he told PTI on Wednesday.Given that we are expecting around four to six lakh cases and with an average of three per cent mortality, it (Covid-19 deaths in India) would be around 12,000-18,000, added the Adjunct Professor, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University in the US.On low mortality rate in India and possible reasons for it, he said we will know if the mortality is actually low when the epidemic ends.However with limited data it appears that mortality is low.To me I think it is the age structure as compared to Italy or the US which is much younger in India, the Vice President - Research & Policy, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), where he is also Professor, Epidemiology, said.Age is an important risk factor and the older you are the chances of having these problems are higher.Other reasons including universal BCG vaccination, Malaria endemicity, exposure to repeated infections, unsanitary conditions increasing our immunity, hot weather have been implicated but we don’t have any clear proof of their role, he added. Director of Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad, Prof G V S Murthy said the lowest mortality in the South Asia region has been reported from Sri Lanka (0.4 per million) while India, Singapore, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Malaysia have similar low rates per million population. It is difficult to say why the mortality is lower in these countries, Profesor Murthy said.All these countries initiated a community lock down early in the course of the pandemic and therefore this may have reduced the contact with active cases of Covid-19 unlike in Europe and the US where such steps were delayed.Evidence available globally and in India shows that the risk of mortality is highest among those aged 60 years or older , he said.In India, 50 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths have been among those older than 60 years.The proportion of population aged 60-plus in India is 9.9 per cent compared to 22.4 per cent in the US, 24.1 per cent in the UK and 29.4 per cent in Italy.Because of the early lockdown, exposure of this high risk population in India along with those with co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension was reduced significantly.This could be the main cause of low mortality, Professor Murthy told PTI.He added that in a fortnight, dengue, malaria and diarrhoea will start creating havoc.Lessons learnt from Covid-19 on importance of personal hygiene and self-care are the mantras for curtailing the adverse effects of infectious diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-deaths-in-india-could-top-18-000-soon-says-report/story-C7NOknS1hkjyLi8AF8P3HO.html
27-05-2020||India||Three industrial towns of Chhattisgarh have toxic air: analysis||A new air quality analysis of three industrial areas of Chhattisgarh has revealed that there is severe PM 2.5 pollution and the air is laden with heavy metals such as nickel, manganese, silica and lead.The analysis was conducted in the industrial areas of Korba, Champa and Raipur by the State Health Resource Centre of Chhattisgarh, an autonomous body that provides technical support to the state health department. It collected air samples from these towns between January and February. At nine sites close to coal mines and thermal power plants in the three town, samples were collected for 24 hours from roofs of houses and public health centres. Sampling revealed that concentrations of PM 2.5 (or fine, respirable pollution particles) ranged from 186 micrograms per cubic metre to 549.9 micrograms per cubic metre, which is 3.1 and 9.1 times higher than the national standard of 60 micrograms per cubic metre.Manganese concentrations in eight of the nine samples exceeded the US Environment Protection Agency (EPA) reference of 0.05 micrograms per cubic metre, and also the World Health Organization’s (WHO) safety guideline of 0.15 micrograms per cubic metre. Nickel concentrations exceeded the WHO guideline (based on cancer risk) in all samples. Silicon concentrations too were unsafe in all the samples. In most environments, the predominant form of silicon in ambient air is crystalline silica. Coal ash and iron and steel operations, both common to the region, have high levels of crystalline silica and could be prominent contributors, the analysis said. Lead concentrations exceeded the US EPA standard in two out of the nine samples.“Multiple studies have shown that there are linkages between PM 2.5 and respiratory diseases and cardiovascular problems. In addition, manganese, lead and nickel are well known toxins and their effects on human health have been well documented,” Prabir Chatterjee, former executive director of the State Health Resource Center, was quoted as saying in the analysis.“Manganese and lead are predominantly neurotoxins while nickel is a carcinogen. The measurement of such toxic substances from the rooftops of human settlements and health care facilities is indeed a cause for concern,” he added. The analysis recommended the government should set up specialised healthcare facilities at the polluters’ cost, under the “polluter pays” principle, to cater to health issues of residents of Korba, Champa and Raipur. This should include facilities such as spirometry at the district hospitals.A pollution cess is levied on units and activities not conforming to national air quality standards, the analysis suggested.Due to the Covid-19-linked economic slowdown, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman recently said India would further open up commercial coal mining. This would mean more emissions from thermal power plants and coal dust emissions from mines. A report by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) released last week found that 70% of thermal power plants in India won’t meet new emission standards for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, and particulate matter by 2022, a deadline given to them by the environment ministry. “Chhattisgarh needs to immediately find out where they stand. The new standards have to be met by 2022 but if the tendering process for emission control equipment has just started, then they will not be able to meet the deadline. There has to be a deterrence strategy for these plants to ensure they comply. On mining, there is very little information on the scale of pollution,” said CSE executive director Anumita Roy Chowdhury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-industrial-towns-of-chhattisgarh-have-toxic-air-analysis/story-VtczgPgiR7HKle1a8hxOUK.html
27-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Do your CMs not listen to you?’, Union minister to Rahul Gandhi on lockdown and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Do your CMs not listen to you?’: Union minister to Rahul Gandhi on lockdownIf lockdown is no solution, why did your state governments imposed it in the first place, asked Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to Rahul Gandhi, a day after Congress leader said the idea had failed to achieve its objective. Read morePM Modi’s ‘Doklam team’ back in action to stand up to China in LadakhIndia has pushed in high altitude warfare troops with support elements to the eastern Ladakh theatre to counter Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) aggressive posture designed to browbeat the government to stop building border infrastructure in the Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) sector as it may threaten the Lhasa-Kashgar highway in Aksai Chin. Read moreNot a Harry Potter spin-off: JK Rowling releases first chapters of new story, The Ickabog, online for freeRenowned children’s author JK Rowling is publishing a new story called The Ickabog, which will be free to read online to help entertain children and families stuck at home during the coronavirus pandemic. Read moreCovid-19: WHO warns 1st wave far from over, ICMR removes price cap on testsHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, WHO’s warning to South Asia and South America, politics in Maharashtra amid pandemic, charge sheets filed against 82 foreign Jamaat participants and more. Watch the full video for more.Read morePUBG Mobile’s new secret map to have monster trucks, healing springsPUBG Mobile told us about taking a break and ‘breaking new ground’ a few days ago and that suggested that the devs were all set to drop a new map for players to explore. Read moreICC Board Meeting: T20 World Cup to be postponed to 2022, October window for IPL- ReportThe postponement of this year’s T20 World Cup in Australia to 2022, which might open up a window for the lucrative Indian Premier League in October, is expected to be formalised when the International Cricket Council’s all-powerful board holds a tele-conference on Thursday. Read moreMeet the explorer Gharial that travelled 1100 km from Nepal to IndiaWhen you hear about a crocodile, the first image that comes to your mind is that of a huge scary reptile, with vivacious eyes and scary teeth, basking in the sun or just waiting in the water. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-do-your-cms-not-listen-to-you-union-minister-to-rahul-gandhi-on-lockdown-and-all-the-latest-news/story-1FaUuTR4NCOTfAkBHYwIoN.html
27-05-2020||India||There will be a Covid-19 vaccine by next year: Global health expert to Rahul Gandhi||Acclaimed American public health expert Ashish Jha has told former Congress president Rahul Gandhi that three vaccine candidates are showing promising results in the fight against the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and expressed confidence that there could be a new vaccine by next year.“Three vaccine candidates are showing promising results. These are from America, China, and Oxford University. For now, they all seem promising and maybe one or all of them may turn out to be effective. I’m confident that the vaccine will be available by next year. India has to prepare a plan on how to avail the vaccines for its population,” he added.Jha is a professor of Global Health at TH Chan School of Public Health and director, Harvard Global Health Institute. He made the remarks during his interaction with Gandhi, who has been holding a series of dialogues with global experts on various aspects of Covid-19 via video-conference since the viral outbreak.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageAsked by Gandhi, if the Bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG) vaccine, which is used against meningitis and tuberculosis in children, is helpful and the virus doesn’t operate in hot weather, Jha said: “BCG vaccine can be helpful. There is some circumstantial evidence that these vaccines can be helpful, but it’s not very good evidence. New testing is underway and we’ll know in the next few months if these vaccines play a major role. There is some evidence that the weather makes a difference. There is less transmission of the disease in being outdoors than indoors.”He added: “It’s a new virus. There is new testing. New studies are going on and in the next couple of months, we’ll know much more. Some nice randomised trials are being carried out. I suspect that in the next three months, we’ll know much more if these vaccines will play a major role. I’m personally sceptical that the BCG vaccine will be an important mediator. I don’t know, but we’ll know soon. But there’s certainly not enough evidence to make policy as of now.”Jha said there is some evidence, which shows that the weather makes a difference. “There’s going to be easy transmission if 15 people are staying in one small room. But once these people are outdoors, and there’s the air that would make the situation a bit better.”Jha claimed that the world is entering an age of pandemics.“I’m confident that this is not the last large global pandemic you and I are going to see in the next 20 years. We got lucky that in the 2009 H1N1 swine flu didn’t cause that much harm, even though it was declared a pandemic. A virus that gets started somewhere spreads very quickly globally,” he added.“There are also big environmental changes. All of this economic growth that you see in China and India and many other places have lifted people out of poverty. But the growth also led to deforestation and rampant encroachment on animal habitats. Most pandemics that come to humans jump from animals. This virus has existed in bats but there was a small change probably in the genome and all of a sudden it became suitable for human hosts. I think climate change is going to make many of these things worse,” he said.“The other thing that has happened with economic growth is that people are eating a lot more meat, which means more interactions between humans and animals. Put all of it together. If you look at the last 100 years, you’ll see the increasing frequency of these kind of outbreaks and Covid-19, of course, is the worst in a hundred years. But, I’m confident that we’re going to have more global pandemics in the coming years and decades. We have to ask ourselves: how we are going to better prepare for the next one?” Jha asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-will-be-a-covid-19-vaccine-by-next-year-global-health-expert-to-rahul-gandhi/story-reXFPRQv8RKXxXTAN68f6M.html
27-05-2020||India||Woman ends life with children after husband accuses her of having illicit relation: Police||Four people - a woman, her two daughters and a son - ended their lives by jumping before the train in Uttar Pradesh’s Chandauli district late on Tuesday evening.The police said that a goods train driver informed railway officials and Government Railway Police (GRP) that some people jumped before the train on the railway track near Hinauta village. The officials reached the spot where they found the four bodies.The woman was 40-year-old, said the police, adding that her daughters were aged 20 and 16 and son was 19. They were identified from their mobile phones recovered from the spot, an officer said.She was the wife of a vegetable vendor. Police said that the man suspected that his wife was in an illicit relation. They used to fight over the matter and even had an altercation on Tuesday, the cops added.According to the police, all four left home at around 6 pm on Tuesday and walked to Hinauta where they jumped before the train. The woman was perhaps hurt by the blame, and took the extreme step along with her children, said the police.“All four have been identified as resident of Sudam Maidhi village. The initial probe revealed that the vegetable vendor suspected of having illicit relations with someone. They (husband and wife) were having strained relations,” Superintendent of Police Hemant Kutiyal said.Their bodies have been sent for the post-mortem, he said, adding that further investigation is on. A team of police has been sent to Sudam Maidhi village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-ends-life-with-children-after-husband-accuses-her-of-having-illicit-relation-police/story-YryGloTuvfgEaRMNL7AqlL.html
27-05-2020||India||Govt didn’t consider oppn steps on migrants’ issue: Congress’ Randeep Surjewala to Supreme Court||Congress leader Randeep Surjewala has told the Supreme Court the Centre has failed to formulate any joint committee with opposition parties for addressing the issue of stranded migrant labourers.Randeep Surjewala said this in his intervention in the suo motu case in the Supreme Court on migrant labourers. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Congress spokesperson said the government has, therefore, been unable to consider the measures suggested by him and the opposition party or any member of Parliament not belonging to the ruling dispensation.The top court had on Tuesday taken suo motu cognizance of the crisis two months after it started and pointed to inadequacies and lapses in measures taken by the Centre and state governments in addressing difficulties faced by migrant workers because of the Covid-19 lockdown.A three-judge bench of the top court, headed by justice Ashok Bhushan, issued a notice to the Centre and state governments and ordered them to make immediate arrangements for the migrant workers’ transportation, food and shelter free of cost.The court asked the Centre and states to file their responses, treating the matter as urgent. The case will be heard again on Thursday when the central government’s second senior-most law officer, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, will have to assist the court on the measures taken by the central government to alleviate the sufferings of the migrant workers.The top court’s order came a week-and-a-half after another bench refused to intervene on a petition that wanted the government to identify stranded migrant workers, take care of their needs and provide free transport to them. “How can we (migrants) stop them from walking,” one of the judges on this bench had said.After the nationwide lockdown was enforced by India on March 25 to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease, migrant workers were left jobless and a way to return to their homes. Some states started bringing back these migrant workers from other states using buses and on May 1 the government began special trains for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-didn-t-consider-oppn-steps-on-migrants-issue-congress-randeep-surjewala-to-supreme-court/story-3S0gjrZP9mOD6D7v0ub7mI.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Do your CMs not listen to you?’: Union minister to Rahul Gandhi on lockdown||If lockdown is no solution, why did your state governments imposed it in the first place, asked Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to Rahul Gandhi, a day after Congress leader said the idea had failed to achieve its objective. “Rahul Gandhi earlier said that lockdown isn’t a solution against Covid-19. On the contrary, Punjab and Rajasthan imposed lockdowns at the earliest. Maharashtra extended it till May 31. Do your CMs not listen to you?” asked Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday.Rahul Gandhi, at his press conference on Tuesday, pointed out that there has been one lockdown after another but the coronavirus cases have been on the rise. The country is in the fourth phase of lockdown, which will end on May 31.The BJP leader said if the Congress leader has a new exit plan, “he should tell us”. The law minister added that he should first “tell his chief ministers”.The minister highlighted that coronavirus has become a big problem in 15 nations of the world whose total population is 142 crore and has seen 3.43 lakh deaths till May 26. Contrasting the situation with India, the minister said it was the result of lockdown that India reported only 4,345 deaths. “India has a population of 137 crores and 4,345 people have died in our country. More than 64 thousand recoveries have been made. By the way, death is unfortunate anywhere. Prime Minister has united the country through lockdown, it is the result of that,” said Prasad.The minster accused Rahul Gandhi of “spreading negativity” and weakening the country’s resolve against coronavirus.“I can tell you five ways by which Rahul Gandhi has tried to weaken the resolve of the country: Spreading negativity, working against the nation in times of crisis, taking false credit, saying something and doing something else, spreading false facts and false news,” said Prasad. Gandhi, at this press conference, expressed concern that India is the only country which is relaxing the lockdown when the virus is “exponentially rising”.He said that if the government functions haphazardly and takes ad-hoc measures during the non-lockdown period, the country will face a second wave of coronavirus which will be “extremely devastating”.The Congress leader asked the prime minister to play aggressively on the front foot and tell the country on what he intends to do moving forward. He said the prime minister who initially played on the front foot has now gone on the back foot as he is not seen. The BJP leader, however, stressed that the “PM is playing on the front foot and we can see the results”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-your-cms-not-listen-to-you-union-minister-to-rahul-gandhi-on-lockdown/story-e2AvNBRpkHX1TYp65GcfdP.html
27-05-2020||India||Mounting pressure senior lawyers changed SC approach on migrant labourers||The Supreme Court’s order directing the Central and state governments to provide free transport, food and shelter to migrant workers on an urgent basis is in stark contrast to the approach it had adopted throughout the Covid-19 lockdown.Up until Tuesday, when it issued the order, the top court had shied away from taking up cases and passing strictures against the government in cases related to the lockdown and migrant workers.But the apex court, in its order, took serious note of the plight of migrant workers and asked the Centre and all states to file responses regarding measures put in place by them to help the workers. It also listed the matter for hearing on Thursday, a departure from its usual practice of adjourning most cases for two weeks or more. Also read: Chhattisgarh reports first Covid-19 death after migrant passing through tests positiveMoreover, the order was passed suo motu, that is, on its own and not in response to any petition.So what led to the sudden change in its stance?Twenty-one lawyers from Delhi and Mumbai had written to the Chief Justice on Monday, urging the Supreme Court to intervene in the humanitarian crisis caused by the lockdown.“We address this letter because we believe that the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s failure to protect the rights of the hapless millions of migrant workers in March and its failure to scrutinise carefully the executive’s actions, which resulted in them (migrant labourers) being compelled to stay in cramped unhygienic accommodation without employment and wages and often without proper food and with a much higher risk of Covid infection,” the letter said.The letter was signed by leading lawyers such as P Chidambaram, Anand Grover, Indira Jaising, Mohan Katarki, Siddarth Luthra, Santosh Paul, Mahalaxmi Pavani, Kapil Sibal, Chander Uday Singh, Vikas Singh, Prashant Bhushan, Iqbal Chagla, Aspi Chinoy, Mihir Desai, Janak Dwarkadas, Rajani Iyer, Yusuf Muchhala, Rajiv Patil, Navroz Seervai, Gayatri Singh and Sanjay Singhvi.Also read: Migrant, family survive only on water for 3 daysThey said the lockdown was imposed from March 25 without any consideration paid to the plight of the poor, especially migrant workers who earn a livelihood in major cities, and for whom social distancing is a utopian impossibility.Deprived of their employment and definite source of food, migrant workers were forced to start walking to their home states, often thousands of kilometres away, with little children, family members or elderly parents, the letter said.It also pointed out that the Supreme Court had refused to intervene when a petition highlighting these concerns came up before it in March. It said: “This failure to intervene in March, subsequently resulted in a massive migration of millions of workers by early May, when migrant labourers who were fed up with being virtually incarcerated for the previous six weeks, without employment or wages, decided that they would be better off trying to go back to their homes.”The lawyers urged the court to use public interest litigation jurisprudence developed by it, along with its powers under the Constitution, to redress problems faced by migrant workers.“This Hon’ble Court has the power bestowed by the Constitution of India to undertake any measure to do complete justice. The show of helplessness does no justice to the moto of this court ‘Yato dharmastato Jaya’,” the letter stated. The Supreme Court itself acknowledged in its order of Tuesday that it had received letters and representations from different sections of society, highlighting the “unfortunate and miserable conditions of migrant labourers” walking on foot and using bicycles to travel long distances. Several high courts, including those in Gujarat, Madras, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, have passed orders to redress grievances of migrant workers, though the Supreme Court continued to be silent on the issue till Tuesday.Former Supreme Court judge Gopala Gowda had, in a scathing article in Deccan Herald, described the Supreme Court’s response to the migrant crisis during the Covid-19 crisis as the “darkest moment” in its history, worse than the infamy the apex court had acquired during the national emergency of 1975, when it had approved the executive action of detaining political leaders without trial.Senior advocate and Supreme Court Bar Association president Dushyant Dave had also criticised the court’s handling of Covid-19 cases. At a webinar organised by the All India Lawyers Union on May 23, he said the judiciary failed to protect the rights of citizens during the crisis and remained silent as citizens suffered.He said judges should have taken suo motu cognisance of the issue instead of waiting for cases to be listed before them.“What is stopping outstanding judges from taking up matters (relating to Covid-19) suo motu? They should confront the chief justice’s powers of master of roster. But they are remaining silent,” Dave said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mounting-pressure-senior-lawyers-changed-sc-approach-on-migrant-labourers/story-9zB3TDDVnSHNdueHcl8b7H.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19: As Rajasthan crosses 7,500-mark, Jhalawar records 64 cases in 24 hours||Rajasthan has seen further spike in the number of coronavirus disease cases and the overall figure has crossed the 7,500-mark.The Rajasthan health department said on Wednesday that 109 new Covid-19 positive cases and two fatalities have been reported till 9 am today. “The total tally of positive cases in the state has risen to 7,645,” the department said.In the last 24 hours, the highest number of cases (64) was recorded from Jhalawar, followed by six each in Jaipur and Bharatpur. However, the highest number of cases are in Jaipur (1866), followed by Jodhpur (1,278), according to data shared by the state health department.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot held a review meeting on Tuesday where he directed officials to conduct impact study of measures taken to contain the spread of the disease.He said some experts had opined that the number of cases might rise in the coming days, therefore, the level of alertness should remain the same in the state.The chief minister also asked the officials to ensure food and other facilities at quarantine centres in the state.Chief Secretary D B Gupta later informed the media that three task forces of officials had been formed for preparing action plans for departments related with Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), agriculture and construction. The task forces will submit their reports by June 5.While there are 3,180 active cases in the state, a total of 3,773 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease.Jaipur has recorded a maximum of 83 deaths in the state, followed by Jodhpur with 17 deaths and Kota with 16 fatalities.Among the total 7,536 cases in the state are 2,029 migrants who have recently returned to Rajasthan from other states/UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-as-rajasthan-crosses-7-500-mark-jhalawar-records-spurt-with-64-cases-in-24-hours/story-4LWEXVj7oevNobktE3XfgJ.html
27-05-2020||India||New world order post Covid-19, balance of power between US, China will change: Rahul Gandhi||“People say 9/11 was a new chapter, this [Covid-19] is a new book,” former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said on Wednesday, contending there will be a new world after the pandemic ends.He also contended that the balance of power between China and the US will change after the pandemic.Gandhi’s remarks came during a video interaction with American health expert and Harvard Global Health Institute director Ashish Jha. Gandhi was asked by Jha how the coronavirus will change society and what social norms and interactions will look like in India two years from now.Also Read: ‘Do your CMs not listen to you?’: Union minister to Rahul Gandhi on lockdown“I don’t think there will be one response to this disease. Every state will have its own response. You can already see that some states are doing better than others because of their nature, their design, their political system. I get the sense that the more decentralised states, the states that spread more power closer to the people, will do better,” Gandhi said.“That’s my sense. I think the large urban centres will get hurt badly. I hope that this disease will bring people together and bring them to the realisation that you can’t fight this disease as different religions, or different communities, different castes, different genders,” he added.However, Gandhi said there is a potential opportunity due to the pandemic.Also Read: ‘If 9/11 was a new chapter, Covid-19 is a new book’: Rahul Gandhi“There is an opportunity that in fighting this disease, we are able to start a conversation, we are able to understand that everybody is required to fight this disease and we are able to work together to get out of this,” he said.“I think there is a potential for that. We will also have to prepare ourselves for significant pain. I do worry about our older people, I also worry about our younger people who are sort of critical for the future growth of this country.”At the global level, the former Congress chief said, the virus is operating at two levels.“One, it is operating at a healthcare level and two, it is attacking the globalised structure. If you look at the places that are vulnerable, they are all nerve centres of globalisation. And if you look at the people who are vulnerable, they are all people who have been damaged by the food chain. Heart disease, particular types of diets, particular types of behaviour, all come from globalisation and the virus is attacking them,” he said.“I am convinced you are going to have a new world after this virus. I also think for example, I think it is going to reshape Europe. Many people won’t like what I say…But I think Europe will have real, real difficulty staying together. I think the balance of power between the US and China will change. I think we are entering…people say 9/11 was a new chapter, this is a new book,” Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-world-order-post-covid-19-balance-of-power-between-us-china-will-change-rahul-gandhi/story-hXAcyyjfsx67QpsKHw1w6H.html
27-05-2020||India||The India we love: Muslim man breaks fast to save a Hindu woman and her child||A few days ago, Rupesh Kumar, a distressed father-to-be from Shamli, Uttar Pradesh,was hoping for a miracle. Amid the lockdown, his wife Dolly had to undergo a caesarian operation and she urgently required two units of B+ blood. Abid Saifi, a social worker got this information through Sandeep Kumar, admin of Jai Hind Blood Group, a WhatsApp group that helps patients connect with donors.Dolly, who lived in Kaka Nagar was admitted in Jyoti nursing home. Husain immediately responded to the message on the group, confirming that he was ready to donate blood. Without thinking for a minute, he broke his fast to be able to donate blood, and rushed to the hospital. Dolly received blood in time and she gave birth to a healthy baby boy. Her husband, advocate Rupesh Kumar was very moved by Saifi’s gesture and called to thank him for saving his wife’s and son’s life. He also requested Saifi if he could help him choose a name for the newborn child.Saifi says that he is very grateful to God for giving him an opportunity to help someone in the Holy month of Ramzan. “When we Muslims say Alhamdulillahi Rabbil Alamin, it implies, praise be to Allah, the Lord of the entire universe, the Lord of all those who inhabit this earth, nowhere it’s written, He is the Lord of just Muslims, so there’s no way a Muslim can ever discriminate among human beings. As a Muslim, I can’t be happier that I got an opportunity to help someone!,” he says.The social activist says that the whole idea of fasting in Ramzan is to please God, and God can’t be happier that he broke his fast to save two lives. “Humanity will always be above religion! Many are trying to spread hate in the name of religion, but we understand how wrong it is to discriminate,” says Saifi, who every year, in the month of sawan, hosts worshippers of Lord Shiva that take part in Kanwar Yatra. He organises rest camps for the kanwariyas, serves them food and drinks and also applies ointments to the pilgrims’ sore feet.Love will always have the power to magically conquer hatred. This is the India we love, the India we live for!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/work-from-home/the-india-we-love-muslim-man-breaks-fast-to-save-a-hindu-woman-and-her-child/story-LSTcawOEfCHFZS9I2aYwkI.html
27-05-2020||India||18-year-old record broken in Delhi, Churu sizzles as world’s hottest place: All you need to know about heatwave||A heatwave is singing the northern part of the country, with most places recording temperatures above 45 degrees Celsius.Rajasthan’s Churu recorded a maximum temperature of 50 degree Celsius on Tuesday, said Ravindra Sihag, Scientist at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). This was the highest temperature in the world yesterday, said Sihag.National capital Delhi too sizzled on Tuesday, recording the highest temperatures in May in at least a decade at the Palam weather station and 18 years at Safdarjung station.Back in 2010 in Palam and 2002 in Safdarjung, the same temperatures were recorded - 47.6 degrees Celsius in the former and 46 degree Celsius in the latter.The temperatures come on the back of an exceptionally pleasant April in the capital; even the first half of May saw maximum temperatures well below normal in the city. Delhi does get hotter (sometimes), but only in June.What is a heatwaveWest Rajasthan, west Madhya Pradesh, south Haryana, Delhi, south Utter Pradesh, north Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha are reporting severe heatwave conditions. On Tuesday, Ganganagar in Rajasthan recorded a temperature of 47 degrees Celsius, Bikaner, also in Rajasthan, recorded 47.4 degrees Celsius, Hisar in Haryana, 48 degrees Celsius, and Banda in UP 48 degrees Celsius - all in the severe heatwave category.There are two criteria for recording heatwaves: A maximum temperature of at least 40 degrees Celsius which is 4.5 degree Celsius to 6.4 degrees Celsius higher than the usual; or a maximum temperature of at least 45 degrees Celsius for two stations in a sub-division for two consecutive days.A severe heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature is at least 40 degrees Celsius and the departure from normal is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius or the actual maximum temperature is more than 47 degrees Celsius.Health impactThe health impacts of heatwaves typically involve dehydration, cramps, exhaustion and/or heat stroke. The National Disaster Management Authority has losted following signs and symptoms:• Ederna (swelling) and Syncope (Fainting) generally accompanied by fever below 39 degrees Celsius 102 degres Fahrenheit.• Fatigue, weakness, dizziness, headache, nausea, vomiting, muscle cramps and sweating.• Body temperatures of 40 degrees Celsius i.e. 104 degrees Fahrenheit or more along with delirium, seizures or coma. This is a potential fatal condition.Relief from ThursdayDue to dry, north-westerly winds over plains of northwest India, central India and adjoining interior parts of eastern India, present heatwave conditions are likely to continue for the next 24 hours, IMD said in a statement adding that severe heatwave conditions are likely over pockets of Vidarbha on May 27, and the heatwave will continue over parts of Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and East Madhya Pradesh on May 26 and 27.The situation is likely to change from Thursday.Under the influence of a western disturbance and formation of east-west trough (area of low pressure) in lower levels, rain and thunderstorms are likely in many parts of northwest India on May 28 and 29 following which heatwave conditions will abate.“Super cyclone Amphan sucked out all the moisture from other parts of the country and very dry, northwesterly winds from land side was blowing over northwest India. Plus, we had clear skies and direct sunshine which also led to the peaking of maximum temperatures. There was no intense western disturbance which could change this kind of wind pattern or cause clouding,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.According to National Disaster Management Authority’s guidelines for preparation of heat action plan released in 2017, heatwaves have caused 25,716 deaths between 1992 and 2016 across various states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-year-old-record-broken-in-delhi-churu-sizzles-as-world-s-hottest-place-all-you-need-to-know-about-heatwave/story-wbax5MsJunWXrUVMeMN1WI.html
27-05-2020||India||PM Modi’s ‘Doklam team’ back in action to stand up to China in Ladakh||India has pushed in high altitude warfare troops with support elements to the eastern Ladakh theatre to counter Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) aggressive posture designed to browbeat the government to stop building border infrastructure in the Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) sector as it may threaten the Lhasa-Kashgar highway in Aksai Chin. The specialised Indian troops are familiar with the Tibetan Autonomous Region of China and are tuned for operating at rarefied altitudes.The scale of PLA deployment - two brigades strength and more - indicates that the move has the sanction of Beijing and not limited to local military commanders.“From Australia to Hong Kong to Taiwan to the South China Sea to India and right up to the US, a bellicose China is staring at the world for domination at all costs,” said a senior government official after a meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the situation on Tuesday.Also Watch | ‘China hindering patrolling’: India slams Beijing after Ladakh, Sikkim fistfights For three faces at PM Modi’s strategy meeting, this was the second time in three years that they were faced with a similar situation. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and Foreign Minister S Jaishankar. This was the team that had crafted India’s response to the Doklam standoff in 2017 that lasted 73 days. General Rawat was then the army chief and Jaishankar, India’s foreign secretary.Also Read: India matches up to China’s military in standoff near Karakoram PassThe messaging from Tuesday’s meeting mirrored India’s response to the 2017 standoff when Indian troops dug in and stood their ground in the face of a rapid mobilisation by the Chinese side.Officials said while India favours de-escalating the situation on the LAC through mutual respect and dialogue under the peace and tranquility mechanism in place, PM Modi’s ‘Doklam team’ has been told to prepare for all eventualities.Standoff in a nutshellChina has moved two brigades strength of soldiers to eastern Ladakh sectorChina wants India to stop building roads in Ladakh’s Daulat Beg Oldie sectorDaulat Beg Oldie is the last military post south of the Karakoram PassPakistan has initiated troop movement in neighbouring Gilgit-Baltistan region in support of its iron brother Govt has made it clear New Delhi will not back down from standoff with ChinaIndia will stand up to China in terms of troops, capacity and resourcesAjit Doval, S Jaishankar and CDS Gen Bipin Rawat are crafting India’s responseIn purely military terms, the Chinese dominance and deterrence posture in the DBO sector is an effort by the PLA to try to prevent India from executing its rapid border infrastructure building plan. This summer is the last chance it has.“The Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road will be completed this year and will raise the Indian capacity to rapidly deploy in the area. If the road project is blocked, the Indian Army will be forced to live off aerial supply lines and prepare for an arduous route linking Sansoma to Murgo to DBO through glaciated Saser La,” a national security planner in the government said.Also Read: China’s tactical play in Ladakh isn’t just about the boundaryTo be sure, there has been friction between the Indian Army and PLA in Pangong Tso, Galwan and Depsang Plains for the last two years. But most of these were taken care of.“Just as China has built infrastructure within its own claim line without any objections from India, the former is opposed to any Indian infrastructure build up as if New Delhi has military objectives while Beijing has done this to promote tourism,” said a former army chief, a reference to the infrastructure on the Chinese side where all military outposts are linked by metalled roads to the base camps.Also Read: Resolution of the Doklam stand-off is a case study on how to deal with ChinaWhile China has all plans to stare down India into submission with its all-weather ally Pakistan deliberately initiating troop movement in neighbouring Gilgit-Baltistan region, India cannot afford to budge from its position as this will amount to acceding to Xi Jinping’s cartographic expansion in the area through military muscle.It is in this context that the Indian Army has inducted more troops in the theatre with others undergoing through the acclimatization process as this may be a long haul.“The Chinese have already initiated psychological operations through its mouthpieces to remind India of the 1962 border skirmish in the same area. But this is 2020 and the leader is Narendra Modi,” said a senior cabinet minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-doklam-team-back-in-action-to-stand-up-to-china-in-ladakh/story-F1E9vWFXP9qGghwExg90ZM.html
27-05-2020||India||Another meeting in Maharashtra, this time between CM Uddhav Thackeray and allies||Maharashtra will see another meeting on Wednesday amid speculation of a rift in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition as the state fights the coronavirus pandemic.Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray’s meeting with the members of the alliance partners shortly will come after a series of similar talks even as the ruling party’s leader Sanjay Raut said the government will complete its full term.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar met the chief minister after having tea with Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Monday.There were speculations that Pawar was not happy with Thackeray’s handling of the Covid-19 outbreak in the worst-hit state, while the Sena chief was unhappy with the NCP leader’s stand to reopen economic activities in the state.“Whatever is being said in the media over Maharashtra political situation, there is no such situation in the state,” Nana Patole, state Congress leader, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“At this time, we are only working towards fighting Covid-19. We are following all guidelines of the government of India,” Patole, who is also the assembly speaker, said.The Thackeray government has been criticised by the Bharatiya Janata Party and opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis, who led an agitation against the government last week. Fadnavis has stepped up its attack on the state government’s handling of the pandemic and at the same time denied the BJP was seeking to destabilise the government. Speculation over the fate of the government had picked up on Monday when Pawar—widely considered the key architect of the coalition comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and the Congress formed after the 2019 assembly elections—met Koshyari and also had his third meeting in the span of weeks with Thackeray, who is under criticism for his handling of the pandemic.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s comment that his party was not the “key decision-maker’ in the state has also prompted allegations that the Congress is seeking to distance itself from the state government of which it is a part. On his part, Sharad Pawar claimed the government is safe and accused Fadnavis of being “impatient”. The Shiv Sena claimed the meeting between Pawar and Thackeray as routine.“Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Sharad Pawar met at Matoshree last evening for 1.5 hours. There are some who are spreading false stories about the stability of this MVA govt. That is nothing but heartburn. This government is stable. Don’t worry,” Raut had tweeted on Tuesday morning.Pawar, Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and other senior MVA ministers held meetings at the Bal Thackeray memorial site in Shivaji Park this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-meeting-in-maharashtra-this-time-between-cm-uddhav-thackeray-and-allies/story-uCo2bB2biXL5PXCmvTQx9I.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19: 168 churches in Mizoram offer halls to be used for quarantine facility||With Mizoram facing shortage of quarantine facilities many churches in the Christian majority state have offered their halls to the state government to be used for quarantine purpose.Chairperson of the task group of quarantine facilities Esther Lal Ruatkimi said Mizoram is facing shortage of quarantine facilities as a large number of people are returning to the state from various parts of the country.She said that the government and churches have so far set up more than 500 quarantine facilities to accommodate 14,358 people but the state government require quarantine facility for at least 20,000 people.The task group chairperson said that at least 168 churches from various denominations like Presbyterian Church, Baptist Church of Mizoram (BCM), Salvation Army (SA), Lairam Isua Krista Baptist Kohhran (LIKBK), Evangelical Church of Maraland (ECM), United Pentecostal Church (NEI) and United Pentecostal Church (Mizoram) have offered their halls to be used as quarantine facilities.She said that more than 10,000 stranded people in different parts of the country will return to the state.She thanked churches, village or local level task forces, NGOs and other stakeholders for extending invaluable helps to the government.Meanwhile, an official of the task group on quarantine facilities said at least 2,518 people are currently placed under quarantine across the state.Of these, 1,940 people are quarantined at government designated facilities, 414 at church halls, 163 placed under home quarantine and seven others are lodged at hotel on their own expense, he said.Earlier, state chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo had said that the government allowed returnees clearing Rapid Antibody Test or permitted and recommended by competent authorities to be placed under home quarantine as the state government does not have enough institutional quarantine facilities to accommodate them all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-168-churches-in-mizoram-offer-halls-to-be-used-for-quarantine-facility/story-ajbumiBvMtVdsliKk0RyLM.html
27-05-2020||India||IAF operationalises no.18 Squadron, equips it with LCA Tejas||The Indian Air Force (IAF) on Wednesday operationalised its no.18 Squadron, the “Flying Bullets”, at Sulur near here, equipping it with the fourth generation Mk1 LCA (Light Combat Aircraft) Tejas.The indigenous tailless compound delta wing aircraft was inducted at an official ceremony in the presence of Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria at the Sulur Air Force Station.The No.18 Squadron will be the second one to have the home-made Tejas, after the 45 Squadron based here.An all-faith prayer was held and a coconut broken to mark the induction of Tejas today.Watch: ‘Flying Bullets’ operationalised, IAF Chief flies Tejas aircraft The No 18 Squadron, formed in 1965 with the motto “Teevra aur Nirbhaya” meaning “Swift and Fearless,” was earlier flying MiG 27 aircraft.The Squadron “actively participated” in the 1971 war with Pakistan.The Squadron was “resurrected” on April 1 this year at Sulur.Tejas is equipped with fly-by-wire flight control system, integrated digital avionics and multimode radar, while its structure is made of composite material.It is also the “lightest and smallest” in its group of fourth generation supersonic combat aircraft,” a Defence release on Monday said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-to-get-second-indigenous-lca-tejas-fighter-plane-squadron-today/story-g3Y7d9GljNFXNaL3WJaDrJ.html
27-05-2020||India||‘If 9/11 was a new chapter, Covid-19 is a new book’: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Wednesday that the Covid-19 crisis will change the existing structure and order in the world.Globally, the virus is operating at two levels: First, at the healthcare level and secondly, by attacking the global structures. If you look at the places which are most affected, they all are the nerve centres of globalisation. I am convinced that we will have a new world after this. People say 9/11 was a new chapter. Well, this is a new book,” Gandhi said.Gandhi was holding a dialogue on the Covid-19 crisis with global public healthcare expert Dr Ashish Jha and epidemiologist, professor Johan Geisecke of the Karolinska Institute, Sweden.“I have a sense that large urban centres will be hurt badly. People will have to come together and realise that you can’t fight this disease as different communities, different religions or different genders,” said the former Congress president.“We have to prepare ourselves for significant pain,” he added.Speaking on the extreme temperature in India and its effect on the coronavirus, Professor Jha said, “It is not evidence I would bank on.”He also said that the only way to stop the spread of the virus is to increase the testing capacity. The Harvard University professor also dismissed reports that Indians are immune to the virus because of the vaccinations that they get.“I am sceptical that BCG vaccine can act as mediator. There is very less evidence about that, I would not make a policy based on that evidence,” said professor Jha.The conversation is part of a series of dialogues that Gandhi is holding with global and Indian thought leaders to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences on the Indian economy.Gandhi has previously spoken to Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee and former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-9-11-was-a-new-chapter-covid-19-is-a-new-book-rahul-gandhi/story-sD7d8kaDeWlRqTFrG8EInM.html
27-05-2020||India||NCW slams Assam news channel for sacking pregnant journalist||The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Tuesday sought an explanation from an Assamese television news channel for reportedly sacking a women journalist because she was pregnant.Ranjita Rabha, a reporter with more than 13 years of experience, was asked to submit her resignation by authorities at PRAG NEWS earlier this month. Her plea for leave without pay was allegedly turned down by the channel.Reports said that the channel terminated her services as the organisation needed only “agile persons” as reporters and Rabha’s pregnancy restricted her abilities.“Of all the rights of women, one of the rights is motherhood; however, a recent incident from Assam has exposed the double standards of organisations towards its pregnant employees,” a release from the commission said.“The Guwahati-based channel blatantly refused salary to the woman journalist and asked her to put down her papers. The NCW condemns the insensitive attitude of the channel towards its pregnant employee,” it said.The commission said it was “deeply perturbed” by the violation of provisions of the maternity benefit act and directed PRAG NEWS for feedback on the incident at the earliest.The Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Act, 2017, provides for paid maternity leave for women for 12 weeks, in addition to paid leave and extension of leave without pay or work from home facilities.Earlier, the India Journalists Union (IJU) and the Network for Women in Media, India (NWMI) also expressed “deep shock” on Rabha’s removal from her job at PRAG NEWS.“The NWMI is shocked at the blatant disregard for the law by PRAG NEWS. Its contention that the organisation has no provision for paid leave or any other facility for maternity leave is patently illegal and indefensible,” NWMI said in a statement on May 22 urging the channel to reinstate Rabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncw-slams-assam-news-channel-for-sacking-pregnant-journalist/story-kn9geyahPriDhHtyizFaYI.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Need lockdown exit strategy to end uncertainty’: Harvard professor in conversation with Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday held a dialogue with global public healthcare expert Dr Ashish Jha and epidemiologist, Professor Johan Geisecke of the Karolinska Institute, Sweden, on the Covid-19 crisis.“The reason for a lockdown is that you are trying to stop the spread of the virus. Humanity has never seen this virus. This means we are all susceptible, said professor Jha, the director of the Harvard Global Health Institute.“You can slow down the virus through a lockdown, but it has great economic repercussions. But authorities should utilise that time to prepare their testing infrastructure. It’s about planning everything for the time that’s coming,” he added.“Now, when you open the economy, you have to give people confidence. Economy works on confidence,” said professor Jha.Gandhi, who had recently met migrant labourers moving across the country to get to their hometowns during lockdown, shared his thoughts saying the biggest fear they had was uncertainty. Professor Jha agreed and said the government needs to have a strategy for exiting the lockdown.The conversation is part of a series of dialogues that Gandhi is holding with global and Indian thought leaders to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences on the Indian economy.Earlier this month, he spoke to Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee who said that India should consider a big stimulus and give cash in hand to create demand and prevent chains of bankruptcies to save the economy hit hard by the nationwide coronavirus lockdown.“Spending is easiest way to revive economy. It will have stimulus effect,” Banerjee had said.On April 30, Gandhi was in dialogue with former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan who suggested that the government transfer cash directly to the poor and supply food through the public distribution system (PDS) to as many people as possible to help them tide over the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and the consequent 40-day lockdown, estimating the effort will cost Rs 65,000 crore.The money is small given that India’s gross domestic product is to the tune of about Rs 200 lakh crore, he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-lockdown-exit-strategy-to-end-uncertainty-harvard-professor-on-covid-19-crisis/story-I9NZFxvgVU3ByjhaNEIKtO.html
27-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 150,000-mark, death toll at 4,337||The number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday crossed the 150,000-mark after 6,387 new infections were reported across the country in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed.This is the sixth day in a row that India has reported more than 6,000 cases of Covid-19. On May 22, 6,088 people tested positive and 6,535 contracted for the respiratory disease on Tuesday.The country’s death toll stands at 4,337 after 170 people died between Tuesday morning and Wednesday morning. There were 64,425 patients who have recovered and sent home so far.Also read| Out of India’s 24-hour Covid-19 total, one-third in Maharashtra: State tallyMaharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi continued to report a rise in Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra’s tally of has reached 54,758 and the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state rose to 1,792.The number of Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra are now doubling over a period of 14 days unlike every three days earlier and the death rate has been brought down to 3.25% from 7.6% in April, the state’s chief secretary Ajoy Mehta has saidTamil Nadu is inching towards the 18,000-mark with 17,728 cases and the southern state’s death toll is at 127, data shows. In Gujarat, 915 people have died and 14,821 people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes the disease. The national capital of Delhi has witnessed 14,465 infections to date and the number of fatalities due to Covid-19 is 288.The government has said the doubling rate of infection is 13 days as the country entered the tenth day of the fourth phase of the lockdown to curb the spread of the disease.Also read| Covid-19: Bihar closes in on 3,000-mark, capital Patna worst hitThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday removed the price cap of Rs 4,500 on the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, billed as the gold standard for detecting the Covid-19. States have been given a free hand to negotiate with the approved laboratories and fix the cost of Covid-19 testing.In a letter written to the states, ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said that as testing capacity and infrastructure had improved significantly since the beginning of the outbreak, the ceiling price fixed earlier was not applicable. With domestic production being ramped up, the dependence on imported testing kits is also negligible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-150-000-mark-death-toll-at-4-337/story-0gXG7t3LwJgurZl7MGUaYM.html
27-05-2020||India||Pakistan new breeding ground of locusts, say experts||Pakistan has become a new breeding ground of desert locusts, entering Rajasthan from adjoining areas in Pakistan, said BR Kadwa, deputy director of the agriculture department.“Swarms of locusts are entering Rajasthan from adjoining areas in Pak every 2-3 days since a month. Pakistan has become the new breeding ground of the locusts and hence we are seeing the repeated attacks of locusts in the state. Four swarms have entered Jaipur recently,” Kadwa told news agency ANI.He further said that fortunately, Rabi crop has been harvested and Kharif sowing season is yet to arrive.The desert locust is one of about a dozen species of short-horned grasshoppers.This swarm originated in the Horn of Africa, where excess rains triggered a breeding boom. According to Indian experts, the swarm entering India now had another round of breeding in Baluchistan, Iran and Pakistan.Locusts entered Rajasthan from Pakistan in April, and then drifted into other parts of western India. They are currently active in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Rajasthan is currently the worst-affected state, according to the Union Environment ministry.Adult desert locust swarms can fly up to 150 km a day with the wind and adult insects can consume roughly their own weight in fresh food per day. A single square kilometre swarm can eat as much food in a day as 35,000 people.They feed on nearly all green vegetation - leaves, flowers, bark, stems, fruit, and seeds - and crops including millet, rice, maize, sorghum, sugarcane, barley, cotton, fruit trees, date palm, vegetables, rangeland grasses, acacia, pines and banana.Desert locusts change their behaviour from acting as individuals to becoming part of a group, forming dense and mobile hordes. Swarms can be several hundred square kilometres and extremely dense, with up to 80 million adults in each square kilometre.The last major infestation was in 2003-2005 when more than 12 million hectares were treated in west and northwest Africa, costing hundreds of millions of dollars, including food aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-new-breeding-ground-of-locusts-say-experts/story-qe5pw1dxpnBdPxZEch5YrL.html
27-05-2020||India||Out of India’s 24-hour Covid-19 total, one-third in Maharashtra: State tally||It was another day of spike for India in Covid-19 cases, which took the nationwide tally to over 1.5 lakh on Wednesday. According to the Union health ministry update, India recorded 6,387 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours (between Tuesday and Wednesday).The number of coronavirus fatalities in the country stands 4,337 while over 64,425 people have successfully recovered from the disease.Delhi reported 412 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, taking the city’s tally to 14,465 cases. The number of new cases in the state fell below 500 for the first time in a week.Here’s a look at Covid-19 state-wise tally.The worst-hit statesMaharashtraCovid-19 cases in Maharashtra reached 54,758 on Wednesday. Yesterday, the number was 52,667. The state has recorded 1792 deaths so far, highest in the country, while 16,954 have recovered from Covid-19.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with 17,728 coronavirus disease cases so far. While 9,342 people have recovered from the disease here, 127 patients have died.GujaratIn Gujarat, the third worst-hit state by the coronavirus pandemic, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 14,821 on Wednesday. Gujarat has seen 7,139 people recover from coronavirus while 915 people have died.DelhiThe Covid-19 tally in the national capital has jumped to 14,465. Two hundred and eighty eight people have died from the infection here while 7,223 have made a recovery.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan reached 7,536 on Wednesday. The state has reported 170 fatalities while 4,171 patients have recovered from the infection in the state.Madhya PradeshAs many as 7,024 people have been infected from Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh till date. Three hundred and five people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 3,689 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 6,548 in Uttar Pradesh. While 3,698 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 170 have died from the infection here.Situation in other statesIn West Bengal, coronavirus cases have crossed the 4,000-mark and are rapidly rising. The number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 4,009 on Monday. There have been 283 deaths and 1,486 recoveries in the state.States with under 3,000 coronavirus cases include Telangana, Odisha, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Haryana and Bihar.Kerala is approaching the 1,000-mark in the number of Covid-19 cases. On Wednesday, the state’s tally stood at 963.Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases while Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya and Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli has reported two cases of Covid-19.All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Mizoram have recovered. Arunachal Pradesh has two Covid-19 patients and one of them has recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/out-of-india-s-24-hour-covid-19-total-one-third-in-maharashtra-state-tally/story-yuhqyccY7PG1ZFCFV5dCRP.html
27-05-2020||India||From loud music, to beating utensils and spraying: How farmers are dealing with locust attack||India is battling its worst desert locust outbreak in decades with swarms reported in seven heartland states of the country from north to west, threatening some vegetable and pulse crops.Government officials and farm experts said desert locusts have engulfed around 35,000 hectares in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh since entering India on April 11. The crop munching insects currently headed to Dausa and Karauli districts in Rajasthan may tilt direction towards Delhi if wind patterns change, experts have warned.Also read: Wind patterns unpredictable, locusts may tilt towards CapitalA swarm can cover a distance of 15 km in a day and one that covers an area of a square kilometre can eat as much food as 35,000 people in terms of weight.Central and state bodies have stepped up efforts to control the menace as it poses crop vulnerability and threat to food safety if the outbreak is not contained.Also read: First major locust attack in Maharashtra since 1993; 3 districts hitHere’s how they are dealing with the locust plague:* The Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) has a ground team of 50 people mainly to monitor and track the swarms. Drones are being used for aerial spraying of Malathion 96, an organophosphate insecticide and a potentially toxic chemical for non-cropped areas. * For areas with agriculture, chlorpyrifos is sprayed by drones, fire brigades and tractor-mounted sprays. * In Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur, farmers have arranged water tankers and chemicals for spraying in a bid to drive away locusts from attacking their farms.* Farmers in Budhni and Nasrullaganj areas of Madhya Pradesh’s Sehore district have been beating utensils in a bid to drive away locusts. Disinfectants are also being sprinkled on trees and crops to protect them from locusts in these areas.* In Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj district, officials have told farmers that they can scare away locusts by beating tin drums, plates etc. They have also been advised to spray pesticides on their crops to protect them from locusts.* Police have been asked to blow sirens from their vehicles in Prayagraj. * The Agra district administration has deployed 204 tractors equipped with chemical sprays to keep the pests at bay. The Jhansi district administration has directed the fire brigades to remain on standby with chemicals and also to blow sirens to ward off the insects.* In Madhya Pradesh, teams continue to track the swarms wherever they are going and spray chemical over them. * Farmers in Hoshangabad, Raisen, Sehore, Sagar, Chhatapur, Harda and several other districts too beat drums, tin cans, burst firecrackers and even arranged bonfires. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-loud-music-to-beating-utensils-and-spraying-how-farmers-are-dealing-with-locust-attack/story-yxyZU5BqHrnPKtJ0OXcTPN.html
27-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Infighting within Trinamool Congress over Cyclone Amphan relief work and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Infighting in Bengal Trinamool Congress over Cyclone Amphan relief work, Opposition BJP says proves its chargeThe Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in West Bengal is facing flak for the cyclone relief work in the state. And it’s not just the Opposition, even those within the party have raised their voices. Read moreOf the world’s 15 hottest places, 10 are in IndiaOut of the 15 hottest cities in the world in the last 24 hours, 10 were in India with the others in neighbouring Pakistan, according to weather monitoring website El Dorado. Read moreIndia matches up to China’s military in standoff near Karakoram PassIndia has decided to not back down from a standoff with China , along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, and has moved troops to counter Chinese forces stationed in the region, according to people familiar with the matter who asked not to be named. Read moreMigrant, family survive only on water for 3 daysA migrant worker, his wife and their one-and-a-half-year-old daughter travelled from Mumbai to the village of Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh (UP), surviving on nothing but water. Read moreOnline masterclasses a boon for boxing coachesSantiago Nieva adjusts the screen on his laptop and steps back. Indian boxing’s high performance director, a diminutive Swedish man who has transformed India’s Olympic boxers since he joined the team in 2017, is standing inside the boxing hall at the National Institute of Sports in Patiala, with two other coaches. Read moreGirija Shankar on playing Dhritrashtra in Mahabharat at age of 28: ‘I trained myself to look straight, was asked to try lenses’Girija Shankar is better known as Dhritrashtra from the hit BR Chopra show, Mahabharat. However, not many know that the actor was just 28 when he played the visually challenged father of the Kaurvas and sported a white beard.  Read moreBlazer and pajamas? Priyanka Chopra’s Zoom meeting look takes ‘business casual’ literallyShowcasing her incredible sense of fashion as well as humour, Priyanka Chopra took to her Instagram account to share her what she wears during a virtual meeting amid the coronavirus pandemic. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-infighting-in-bengal-trinamool-congress-over-cyclone-amphan-relief-work-and-all-the-latest-news/story-yLl0QnOQ1R9SAKImhEgT6H.html
27-05-2020||India||PM Modi pays tribute to Jawaharlal Nehru on his death anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid tribute to India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru on his 56th death anniversary.“Tributes to our first PM, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Ji on his death anniversary,” PM Modi said on Twitter.The Congress too tweeted its tribute for Nehru. “The ‘architect of Modern India’, first & longest-serving Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru’s vision, intellectual calibre, commitment & high ideals have made India the republic it is today. We strive to uphold his inspirational legacy, today & always,” the party said on Twitter.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi called Nehru a freedom fighter and a visionary.“Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Ji was a brave freedom fighter, the architect of modern India & our first PM. A visionary, he is immortalised in the world class institutions he inspired, that have stood the test of time. On his death anniversary, my tribute to this great son of India,” he said in his tribute posted on Twitter.Nehru was born in Allahabad (now Prayagraj) on November 14, 1889. He died in Delhi on May 27, 1964.One of the principal leaders of the Indian freedom struggle along with Mahatma Gandhi, Nehru became the first prime minister of the country after Independence, a post which he held till his death. He died at the age of 74.Nehru is known as an architect of modern India.He was instrumental in the formation of non-aligned movement in the world leading to the creation of a new world order.Nehru firmly believed and followed the ideals of secularism and socialism in view of the pluralistic character of this nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-jawaharlal-nehru-on-his-death-anniversary/story-077yzt7q9rZlmYg7ExNdTN.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Badly-timed, serious infestation’: Official on locust attack||With a locust outbreak ravaging parts of western India, a Union Environment Ministry official said on Tuesday that it was a very badly-timed “serious infestation” that has occurred when the country is already in the middle of a pandemic.“Locusts are a regular feature in the country but this attack is huge. It is a once-in-a-three-decade situation and timed very badly for us as we are already dealing with coronavirus,” Soumitra Dasgupta, Inspector General, Wildlife, Ministry of Environment, told news agency PTI.The locusts are currently active in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Rajasthan is currently the worst-affected state, according to the Union Environment ministry.Experts warn that if wind patterns change, the locusts currently headed to Dausa and Karauli districts in Rajasthan may tilt direction towards Delhi. Swarms of the crop destroying insects entered India on April 11. On Monday, parts of Jaipur were overrun by locusts.Scientists at the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the wind patterns have been unpredictable this year on account of the western disturbances over northern India. “At present, the winds in Delhi are blowing from Rajasthan side. This means that the locust attack could hit Delhi. (However) from May 28, the wind pattern might change to easterly,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.Many agriculturists and government officials say that the locusts have changed their pattern and the size of their swarms has increased over the years.“Yesterday night, we have destroyed a swarm of about 6 KM in length and 1 KM in breadth. Locusts have changed their nature and they are flying on heights more than they used to fly. It is becoming difficult for us to control. Still, we are doing our best to control the situation,” said BR Kadwa, deputy director of the agriculture department.Locust swarms have been recorded in the Arabian peninsula and some African countries since biblical times, but unusual weather patterns exacerbated by climate change have created ideal conditions for insect numbers to surge, scientists say.These warms have infested 23 countries across East Africa, the Middle East and South Asia in 2020, the biggest outbreak in 70 years, the World Bank said. Last week, the bank approved a record $500 million in grants and low-interest loans to help countries in Africa and the Middle East fight swarms of desert locusts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badly-timed-serious-infestation-official-on-locust-attack/story-qMsPoxIVHsNQrXnfDKX8AN.html
27-05-2020||India||Temperature rise in Himachal above normal, says IMD||Temperatures are rising in Himachal Pradesh by 3-4 degrees Celsius above normal, said Manmohan Singh, Director of IMD Shimla.“In the last three to four days, temperatures have been rising in Himachal Pradesh. Maximum temperature in Shimla was 28.4 degrees Celsius that is 3-4 degrees Celsius above normal. This season’s highest temperature of 43.2 degrees Celsius in the state was recorded in Una,” Singh told ANI.Also read: Of the world’s 15 hottest places, 10 are in IndiaIn Bihar, a maximum temperature of 41.5 degree Celsius was recorded in Muzaffarpur, as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) data.On the other hand, Delhi sizzled at 47.6 degrees Celsius, according to IMD data. (The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temperature-rise-in-himachal-above-normal-says-imd/story-QadqbwpI3gH8gIHKO1ajmL.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Bihar closes in on 3,000-mark, capital Patna worst hit||The total number of coronavirus disease cases in Bihar rose to 2,968 after 231 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday. The disease has claimed 15 lives in the state so far.Patna is the worst-affected district in the state. It reported six fresh cases which took its tally to 217. Among those testing positive, four were personnel of the Bihar Military Police.The second worst-hit district, Rohtas, saw a sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases. It reported 35 cases in a day, and its tally breached the 200-mark. Those testing positive in the district, which has reported a total of 201 cases, included four children under five years of age, the youngest being a one-year-old boy, according to figures made available by the state health department.A boy and a girl, both a year-old, were among 31 people testing positive in the remote north Bihar district of Madhubani, which now ranks third with 176 cases.Significant numbers of cases were also reported from districts like Darbhanga, Banka, Sheikhpura and Kishanganj.In addition to the three worst-affected districts, Begusarai, Munger, Khagaria, Katihar, Buxar and Jehanabad have tallies in three digits. None of the 38 districts in the state has a tally below 10.The latest casualty due to Covid-19 in the state is a 40-year-old man from Nalanda district, who died at a hospital in Pawapuri. He had tested positive for the disease, civil surgeon Ram Singh said on Tuesday. The man had come from Noida on May 20 and and was admitted to a local hospital. He died four days later.Singh said that the deceased had been lodged at a quarantine centre in Bihar Sharif, the district headquarter town, but was rushed to the Pawapuri-based facility upon developing severe symptoms of fever and cough.The results triggered panic in the area with family members refusing to attend the funeral, which was conducted by the administration.The other districts reporting casualties are Patna, Vaishali, Khagaria, Rohtas, East Champaran, Munger, Sitamarhi, Saran and Siwan.The state health department said that 800 people have so far recovered from Covid-19.The migrant workers returning to Bihar from various parts of the country comprise a major chunk of those testing positive, the state administration said.According to Anupam Kumar, Secretary for Information and Public Relations Department, 15.41 lakh migrant workers have come back to Bihar during the lockdown by 1,026 Shramik Specials so far and another 5.29 lakh are scheduled to arrive soon in 321 special trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bihar-closes-in-on-3-000-mark-capital-patna-worst-hit/story-aWV7kWzo34sHYeqoC2vh7L.html
27-05-2020||India||Over 15,000 pigs dead due to African swine fever in Assam: State minister||Over 15,000 pigs have died due to African swine fever in Assam, said state animal husbandry minister Atul Bora on Tuesday.“African swine fever is increasing day by day. Till today, there have been 15,600 deaths,” Bora told ANI.The minister said that the government has decided on giving certain relaxations in selling and consumption of pork products in the state in a bid to give relief to pig rearers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-15-000-pigs-dead-due-to-african-swine-fever-in-assam-state-minister/story-4c6bSQ3Bl0nALBxksqKoFO.html
27-05-2020||India||Infighting in Bengal Trinamool Congress over Cyclone Amphan relief work, Opposition BJP says proves its charge||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in West Bengal is facing flak for the cyclone relief work in the state. And it’s not just the Opposition, even those within the party have raised their voices.State minister Sadhan Pande blamed the TMC-run Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) for “lack of planning” in dealing with the crisis.“Had there been proper planning, the cyclone crisis could have been averted in a much better way. There was no proper planning. None of us was also consulted on how this crisis could be dealt with in a much better way,” Pande said. “Anybody who fails to perform should resign from his post. The chairman of KMC didn’t call any meeting of the MLAs of the city. Firhad Hakim should have consulted his predecessor Sovan Chatterjee,” he alleged.Senior TMC leader and Chairman of Kolkata Municipal Corporation board of administrators Firhad Hakim hit back by saying “it is easy to lecture others by sitting inside AC rooms”.“Why is he criticising now? What was he doing for the last one week? He should have come to KMC with an alternative plan. All of our officials and staff are busy in restoration work because we believe it is easier to criticise than to work,” he said.Cyclone Amphan, which ravaged the state last week, claimed 86 lives and left thousands without power and other basic necessities. Many parts of state capital Kolkata are also without electricity and the residents are protesting against the state administration.A TMC leader was injured in one such protest while trying to persuade the protesters.Residents of Kanchantala locality in the Port area started a road blockade on Tuesday evening as electricity was not restored even six days after cyclone hit the state, police said.They were protesting that when electricity was restored to an adjacent area, why were they not getting it, according to the police.The demonstration soon turned out ugly when Metiabruz MLA Abdul Khaleque Molla intervened and tried to persuade them to stop their protest, a Kolkata Police officer said.It was then when a brick thrown by the protesters hit him on his head. Some of his aides were also injured, the officer said.Meanwhile, Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) welcomed Pande’s statement saying “criticism by a TMC minister only proves the opposition charge of the state government’s failure in dealing with the crisis”.West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Tuesday said the state government should have called the Army much earlier for restoration work in the metropolis and its surrounding areas in the wake of the damage caused by cyclone ‘Amphan’.The state government requested Army support on May 23, three days after the cyclone struck.“The Army should have been called much earlier. Maybe, it was not done due to ego problems,” Ghosh told reporters here.Ghosh also alleged that he was stopped twice while visiting the cyclone-affected people to provide aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infighting-in-bengal-trinamool-congress-over-cyclone-amphan-relief-work-opposition-bjp-says-point-proved/story-WumbzWzU0L0dqRxO1hex1N.html
27-05-2020||India||Podcast: Roshan Kishore on India’s flagging economy, the impacts of the lockdown, and the government’s policy response||Two weeks ago, the Modi government announced a series of economic measures intended to get the Indian economy back on track after the country’s prolonged lockdown in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis.Over five days, the Finance Minister addressed a series of daily press conferences in which she outlined the government’s plan of action to assist the country’s poorest citizens, reform the country’s regulatory framework, and stimulate new investment. To break down the meaning of these latest moves, Roshan Kishore, Data and Political Economy editor at the Hindustan Times, joins Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) this week on the show. The two discuss India’s long-term economic downturn, the immediate impacts of the nationwide lockdown, the Modi government’s economic relief package, and the state of the political opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roshan-kishore-on-india-s-flagging-economy-the-impacts-of-the-lockdown-and-the-government-s-policy-response/story-0DxTtmKjd9nJ5dpIpSvyjK.html
27-05-2020||India||Of the world’s 15 hottest places, 10 are in India||Out of the 15 hottest cities in the world in the last 24 hours, 10 were in India with the others in neighbouring Pakistan, according to weather monitoring website El Dorado.Rajasthan’s Churu, about 20km north of state capital of Jaipur, recorded the country’s highest temperature of 50 degrees Celsius on Tuesday.Churu, known as the gateway to the Thar desert, was matched by Jacobabad in Pakistan as the hottest place on Earth on Tuesday. Bikaner, Ganganagar and Pilani were the three other cities from Rajasthan which were on that list.Also read: No homes, and now this heat: No respite for migrant workers in LudhianaTwo cities were from Uttar Pradesh and two from Maharashtra.UP’s Banda and Hisar in Haryana also recorded extreme temperatures of 48 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The others in the list of hottest cities were New Delhi at 47.6 degrees Celsius, Bikaner at 47.4 degrees Celsius, Ganganagar at 47 degrees Celsius, Jhansi at 47 degrees Celsius, Pilani at 46.9 degrees Celsius, Nagpur Sonegaon at 46.8 degrees Celsius and Akola 46.5 degrees Celsius—both in Maharashtra.Churu recorded the second-highest temperature in May in the last 10 years. Before this, Churu had recorded a temperature of 50.2 degrees Celsius on May 19, 2016, according to the local weather bureau.Churu has witnessed severe heat conditions since May 22 when the highest temperature recorded in the town was 46.6 degrees Celcius. After that it has been increasing every day—it was 46.6 on May 23, 47.4 on May 24 and 47.5 on May 25, the met office said.Two other towns in the state also recorded temperatures beyond 45 degrees Celsius. The highest temperature in Kota and Jaisalmer was 46 degrees, the weather report said.Heatwave conditions in isolated places in Kota and Bundi in eastern Rajasthan and in Bikaner, Churu, Hanumangarh and Sriganganagar in the western part of the state has been forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/of-the-world-s-15-hottest-places-10-are-in-india/story-i7z7pGDp8J6Tf9aN6LLg3H.html
27-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh reports first Covid-19 death after migrant passing through tests positive||A migrant labourer from West Bengal, who died on May 24 in Chhattisgarh’s Durg district, became the state’s first coronavirus disease (Covid-19) victim after his swab samples tested positive on Wednesday.The migrant labourer was travelling from Mumbai to his home state when he died.“A person travelling in a bus from Mumbai to West Bengal was discovered dead when the bus broke down. The body was handled with all due precautions and test samples were taken. The test at AIIMS Raipur has turned out to be positive,” TS Singhdeo, the state’s health minister, tweeted on Wednesday evening.Durg district administration claimed the man was returning to South 24 Parganas in West Bengal from Mumbai in a bus when the bus broke down near Charaudha town.The victim complained of chest pain and later died.“Four other relatives of the victim remained with the deceased and the rest of the migrants were sent to West Bengal after the bus was repaired,” a senior official of the health department said.The administration sent the sample to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Raipur on Monday and the report came on Wednesday.Meanwhile, the relatives of the dead labourer were tested through rapid testing and found negative.“The four relatives are kept in quarantine centre and their samples,” the health official said.Chhattisgarh reported 68 fresh cases of the Covid-19, which is the highest single-day rise so far, on Wednesday.Most of the new patients are either migrant labourers who have recently returned to their home districts from different parts of the country or those who came in their contact.In the last five days, 229 new cases have been detected in the state.There are 361 Covid-19 cases in Chhattisgarh out if which 282 are active and 79 people have been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-reports-first-covid-19-death-after-migrant-passing-through-tests-positive/story-EFk4Af8MaoYEVCQhe9tXOO.html
27-05-2020||India||Delhiwale: A tree is reborn||The lockdown has eased. One has to get used to stepping out of the house carefully (gloves and mask) and to get acquainted again with the city’s little nooks and corners, that make up its soul. One such place is a peepal tree near south Delhi’s East of Kailash Enclave, just opposite the new multi-storey police station.The area around the gigantic tree feels like a village square, and it’s easy to imagine its social life unfold throughout the day, with people sitting and gossiping in its shade. A tiny temple is scooped into the peepal’s trunk. The idols of Lord Ganesh and Hanuman are sitting snugly, facing the road that is yet to recover its former traffic.The ground beneath the tree is like a coarsely woven carpet made of tree leaves’ shadows. The mild afternoon breeze is making the shadows flutter, giving a feeling of steady motion, like a softly flowing stream.This is just one aspect of the place.The trunk on the other side has a different kind of shrine. It’s a chai stall and... it’s open. “We restarted just two days ago,” says owner Sant Lal. His kindness can be felt in the tone of his voice—something harder to work out from his masked face (obviously).The establishment has absolutely no frills—just a laminated menu hanging from a branch and a few stoves and kettles. The makeshift character belies the stall’s durability. It has been here since 1985. “I established it after arriving from my village in Jaunpur (UP).”Sitting on a low matted trunk behind his tea stove, Mr Lal wonders if things will get back the way they were before the coronavirus altered the very texture of life.He confesses being anxious about the future, as he tries to reclaim the old days. His masked cooks are making samosas. One is filling the samosa pastry with spiced aloo mash, while the other is deep frying the samosas in the kadahi. A few masked customers are standing about the stall, standing apart from each other.Everything looks like the pre-corona days, except of course for the masked faces. And for the fact that hand sanitiser bottles are prominently placed on a table for customers. There are also white circles drawn about the tree, for customers to obey the precepts of physical distancing.And yet there is something out of the ordinary about this tree refuge. Of course, it’s the temple idols—they are the only faces that aren’t masked.The stall opens daily from 7am to 7pm. Tea is good and samosas delicious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-a-tree-is-reborn/story-mUdrRQGlXlrbIp3jR7mZiI.html
27-05-2020||India||Wind patterns unpredictable, locusts may tilt towards Capital||Experts warn that if wind patterns change, the locusts currently headed to Dausa and Karauli districts in Rajasthan may tilt direction towards Delhi. Swarms of the crop destroying insects entered India on April 11. On Monday, parts of Jaipur were overrun by locusts. Scientists at the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the wind patterns have been unpredictable this year on account of the western disturbances over northern India. “At present, the winds in Delhi are blowing from Rajasthan side. This means that the locust attack could hit Delhi. (However) from May 28, the wind pattern might change to easterly,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. “From Jaipur, their current trajectory till Tuesday afternoon was towards Dausa and Karauli districts in Rajasthan. If the wind pattern further changes towards Delhi then these locust swarms may reach the city,” said K L Gurjar, deputy director, Locust Working Organisation.Senior Delhi government officials said that they are waiting for the final alert from the meteorological department and they are ready to tackle the problem. The swarms are capable of covering a distance of 150 km a day and a swarm that covers an area of a square kilometre can eat as much food as 35,000 people in terms of weight. “The preparations demand insecticides to be spread. But it is to be done in the day time after the locusts are seen in an area,” a senior official in the city government’s agriculture department who did not wish to be named said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wind-patterns-unpredictable-locusts-may-tilt-towards-capital/story-k35OwKak8ZWSfZI9blrSRI.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Monday, schools in Australia’s New South Wales province officially reopened, signalling a “return to normal” that the country, which has seen around 7,100 coronavirus disease cases and 102 deaths, hopes to achieve in stages by July.On Tuesday, two private schools in Sydney, the state’s biggest and most important city, closed after a student tested positive in each; both schools had already opened last week after the state decided it was alright to do so because the number of cases was declining. To be sure, the response to the schools having to close so soon after opening (and, hopefully, temporarily) has been just what it should be – even, non-hysterical, and pragmatic. The state’s education minister said school closures brought about by students testing positive were “something we are going to have to live with”, according to a report in The Guardian. Four other Australian states, including Queensland, have also resumed face-to-face schooling (as it is now called; another coinage necessitated by the pandemic). On Monday, news agency AP reported Queensland’s premier Annastacia Palaszczuk as saying that “we have to take each day as it comes”.Somehow there’s nothing that quite signals a “return to normal” as well as children attending school does – as parents can vouch, it changes the entire rhythm of households in the morning (and not always for the better, but that’s another story).Denmark reopened schools in April. Japan opened some in May, as did Korea. Even China reopened schools in Wuhan, where it all began, in May.There are reports that India plans to reopen schools in July, at least for some classes. That’s the beginning of the term in some parts of the country (including Delhi). Schools reopen earlier in other parts of the country; in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, for instance, the school term starts in June, but given the disease burden in these states (Maharashtra has the highest and Tamil Nadu the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country) that seems unlikely.Still, open they will all have to at some time. Online education privileges the privileged and excludes others. Schools and classrooms try to provide as level a playing field as they can (many fail, and that, too, is another story). Sure, interventions are possible; the state can provide devices (tablets or laptop computers) but it cannot ensure that all students are in an environment that is conducive to learning. Schools, good old-fashioned brick-and-mortar schools, with face-to-face schooling, are still the best way to do that.What does science say on pandemics and school closures?A review of epidemiological studies published in BMJ suggests that closing schools does seem to reduce the transmission of influenza. While the coronavirus disease is not the flu, it can be safely assumed that school closure will reduce its transmission too. However, there’s still no authoritative research on the role of children as transmitters of the coronavirus disease. There are papers suggesting that they don’t get infected much; do not show symptoms even if they are; and are not as contagious as adults who are infected – but none of these are established facts as yet. These are important questions to answer – especially knowing that older people are more vulnerable to Covid-19, and that many children in India still continue to live in joint families, or in nuclear families with at least one parent of a parent being a member of the household.And these are just some of the variables administrators and policymakers will have to factor in while taking a call on how and when schools should be reopened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-8pUYrmSWG4FclZoW3iGNFL.html
27-05-2020||India||India, Australia to sign pact at ‘virtual summit’||New Delhi: India and Australia are expected to make bilateral diplomatic history by signing an agreement for reciprocal access to military logistics facilities and other pacts aimed at developing alternative supply chains when the two sides hold their first “virtual summit” on June 4.The summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison, yet to be formally announced, will be held against the backdrop of heightened friction with China for both countries.It will be Modi’s first virtual bilateral summit and the first time several bilateral agreements will be concluded virtually since the Covid-19 outbreak, two people familiar with development said. The Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA), finalised at the “2+2” or combined dialogue of the foreign and defence secretaries in New Delhi last December, was to be signed during Morrison’s visit in January, which was called off due to the Australian bushfires.With joint exercises and defence cooperation between India and Australia on the upswing, MLSA will remove the need for protracted negotiations for reciprocal access to logistics support every time a manoeuvre is organised, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. It will also improve interoperability between the armed forces of the two sides.Between 2016 and 2019, India has signed similar logistics exchange agreements with the US, Singapore, France and South Korea. While the conclusion of MLSA is significant as the two sides have been negotiating it for some time, there is greater buzz about agreements to be signed in science and technology, research, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment, and rare earth metals and critical minerals which are aimed at creating supply chains in strategic areas that are less dependent on China, the people said.Even before the Covid-19 crisis, the two sides were exploring the possibility of cooperating on rare earth metals such as lithium, neodymium and dysprosium, of which Australia has the world’s sixth largest reserves. More than 90% of India’s imports of rare earth metals, worth $3.4 million in 2016, come from China.The two sides will also look at enhancing their partnership in education as part of measures to shift the focus of Australian universities on the Chinese market, the people said. Prior to the Covid-19 crisis, Australia was home to some 90,000 Indian students.“We’re also looking at agreements in the maritime sphere and water resources and negotiations are underway on some other issues. Research and collaboration on Covid-19 will also figure in the discussions,” said one of the people cited above.Morrison has described India as “a natural partner for Australia”, and Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell has said the two sides have had regular discussions about how they can shape the post-Covid world order. In this context, O’Farrell said Australia supports India’s call for reforming the World Health Organization (WHO) after overcoming the Covid-19 crisis.While tensions between India and China are at a high following the standoff between their border troops in Ladakh, Australia’s relations with China too took a hit after Canberra called for an independent investigation into the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic. Nitin Pai, director of the Takshashila Institution, said it made “absolute economic sense” for India and Australia to reduce the risk of their exposure to China even if the two countries were not grappling with tensions with China and the Covid-19 crisis.“It makes a lot of sense to find a diversity of suppliers on one hand, and to find a diversity of customers for products on the other,” he said, adding the existing geopolitical risks, the pandemic, and travel restrictions make it vital not to put all eggs in one basket and to build a diversity of economic partnerships.On Tuesday, defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted that he had spoken on telephone with his Australian counterpart Linda Reynolds and discussed the response of both sides to the Covid-19 pandemic and possible areas of cooperation.“India-Australia strategic partnership provides a good base for both the countries to work together in dealing with the post COVID challenges. We are committed to take forward the initiatives of bilateral defence and security cooperation under the Strategic Partnership framework,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-to-sign-pact-at-virtual-summit/story-E7bMfB8uYTyFMqb3MhlG4I.html
27-05-2020||India||Apni Party-led new advisory council likely in J&K||Speculations are rife in Jammu and Kashmir about the Centre setting up an advisory council led by Altaf Bukhari in early June as an alternative political front.Apni Party leaders, however, said they discussed the matter last at the March meeting of the party leadership with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to test political waters before Covid-19 struck. It’s not clear whether it is going to take shape or not.The top leaders of Apni Party, including Altaf Bukhari, are silent on the new advisory council, but the leaders who met both the Prime Minister and home minister in New Delhi in March said that the prospect of an interim government was discussed at the time.Political activities came to standstill after a lockdown was enforced across the country, including J&K, to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid19).A senior Apni Party leader and former legislator who was part of the delegation that met Modi and Shah in March confirmed that the prospect of setting up an interim government in J&K before the elections was discussed. “This could be on the table as an option in New Delhi, but council members taking an oath in the first week of June is just a rumour,’’ the former PDP leader said, adding that New Delhi now feels that bureaucrats have failed miserably in J&K and that an advisory council led by a senior politician could help remedy the situation. “This time, there is a political vacuum in J&K and many leaders in New Delhi think that new leadership could act as a buffer between J&K and New Delhi, as Delhi is being blamed for everything wrong in Kashmir and there is visible anger on ground,’’ he said. Another former legislator who resigned from the Congress and joined the Altaf Bukhari-led Apni Party said that it was ambiguous whether the interim setup discussed between the Apni Party leadership and New Delhi had been cleared by the Centre, as everyone was now busy fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. He, however, added that speculations could be true. “Under the Union Territory (UT) model of Pondicherry, the President of India has powers to appoint a council which can function in a UT. That can be the case for our UT as well.’’BJP state spokesman Altaf Thakur termed this a mere rumour spread by politicians. “There is no provision in the constitution which allows the setting up of any advisory council in the UT,’’ he said, adding that those who are being tipped to be part of the new ‘advisory council’ have themselves denied it. J&K Pradesh Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said that BJP government had taken several unconstitutional and undemocratic steps in the last one year and bifurcated the state into small pieces. “We can expect anything from them, but the 12.5 million people of J&K have not endorsed that decision and won’t endorse this as well.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apni-party-led-new-advisory-council-likely-in-j-k/story-nKsq46Tqxep85IUdTiKheO.html
27-05-2020||India||Nearly 200k in Assam affected due to floods||With continued rainfall in northeastern parts of the country on account of Cyclon Amphan, the Central Water Commission has sounded a flood alert even as nearly 2 lakh people have been affected by flooding in 229 villages in seven districts of Assam.Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said that villages in 17 revenue circles of Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Darrang, Nalbari, Goalpara, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia have been affected by floods and nearly 9,000 villagers have been moved to 35 relief camps set up in some of these districts. Around 1007 hectares of fields have been submerged and 16,500 domestic animals and poultry have been already affected, the ASDMA report stated.The Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued a severe flood situation alert for the Brahmaputra in Assam’s Neamati Ghat and Jiabharali in Jorhat and Sonitpur districts, respectively. The highest flood level for the Brahmaputra in the Jorhat stretch is 87.37 metres and the current level is 85.78 metre according to the bulletin issued on Tuesday. In Jiabharali, the highest flood level is 78.5 metres and the current level is 77.36 metres.Beki in Barpeta, Lohit in Tinsukia and the Dibrugarh stretch of the Brahmaputra and many of its tributaries have also recorded above-normal flood levels.Incessant rainfall in Arunachal Pradesh led to a landslide at Arzoo village in Dibang Valley district, killing three members of a family. Chief Minister Pema Khandu announced ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh each to next of kin of the deceased persons. District officials have also been asked to move people to safer areas.IMD in its Tuesday bulletin said that heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over parts of Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura over the next five days. “Cherrapunji has received 1,105 millimetres of rain in the last four days. We’re still compiling the data, which is a departure from normal. There’ll be more flooding in the region, as rains are not likely to stop for the next few days. But the intensity of rainfall may reduce after two-three days. Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura will experience rainfall soon,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate, Skymet Weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-200k-in-assam-affected-due-to-floods/story-QkKci8hxJxeBRyNOS1xHzK.html
27-05-2020||India||Cabby’s Rs 4 lakh traffic challan exposes glitches||New Delhi Mehboob Ali, a taxi driver, has been running in and out of the Delhi Traffic Police headquarters for three days. On Friday, he got a traffic ticket asking him to pay a fine of Rs 4 lakh. The notice said that he was being censured for a host of violations — speeding (Rs 2,000), rash and negligent driving (Rs 5,000), not driving within his lane (Rs 1,000) and jumping a red light (Rs 1,000).Though he was charged with multiple offences, Ali says the fine amount should have been Rs 9,000 (if the prescribed fines for the violations is added up), and not Rs 4 lakh.Ali, whose challans were based on camera-based traffic tickets issued during the lockdown, is not the only one who has complained to the traffic police’s notice department that they are being charged exorbitant amounts for violations and being provided inadequate or incorrect evidence due to alleged glitches in the automated system.Between January and March, 113 of all e-challans issued in Delhi were accepted for “review” (in other words, it was found that there was come discrepancy in them), out of over 1.5 million challans that were issued in the period. Since May 13, when a virtual court was set up to clear challans and examine complaints, 1,528 e-challans have been reviewed in 12 days (till May 25), out of nearly 18,000 that have been admitted in virtual courts.“On Monday, I visited the traffic police headquarters for the third time to clarify that there has been some mistake. The fine amount is too high and I will not be able to afford to pay this much money,” said Ali, who will contest the amount in the virtual court that is presided over by district judges.According to two officials from the Delhi Traffic Police’s notice department who asked not to be named, the apparent glitches thrown up by the automated system fall into four broad categories: one, a single photo is shared as evidence for an offence but challans for multiple violations are issued against it; the vehicle sent as evidence does not match the one being fined; the fine amount adds up to a much more than the sum total of the challans; and the same challan notice is issued multiple times.Joint commissioner of police (traffic) Narendra Singh Bundela said more camera-based fined were being issued to avoid physical proximity between drivers and traffic officials during the Covid-19 pandemic.“We have shifted our strategy from physical enforcement to electronic enforcement in order to protect the health of our personnel and the public. We had come up with the concept of virtual courts to strengthen the system for camera-based prosecutions,” Bundela said.But the system, according to some of the complainants, may not be without its problems.Sunil Saxena, a resident of south Delhi’s East of Kailash, says he started going back to work after the lockdown last Monday, and his first week on the road, received fine demand of Rs 1.23 lakh.“I checked the traffic police website and the proof of the violation is not even my car. I have ‘not accepted’ the fine on the website, but have been asked to come with my drivers’ licence and the vehicle documents within the next 60 days,” said Saxena.Though the increase in the number of people contesting their fines has raised questions about the camera-based challan system as a whole, the traffic police department says the problems are still a small percentage of the total fines issued, and that violations are verified multiple times by a team of traffic officials at the control room.Since March 25, traffic police have issued 100,436 e-challan notices through SMS, and 80 through speed posts. How many of these have been challenged was not immediately available from the traffic police’s notice department.Hardyal Singh, traffic engineering expert from IIT-Delhi, said that since if an integrated traffic management system was in place in the city, such discrepancies could have been avoided.“Delhi has been talking about an integrated traffic management system for traffic prosecutions for many years now, but we are still struggling with basics such as camera installations. However, now that the police is moving towards tech based prosecutions even though it is facing some initial teething problems, it will set the base for a strong prosecution system,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabby-s-rs-4-lakh-traffic-challan-exposes-glitches/story-imtmliXnrrPkVoNIJBEd3J.html
27-05-2020||India||47.6°C: Delhi sizzles on hottest May day in years||Delhi sizzled on Tuesday, recording the highest temperatures in May in at least a decade at the Palam weather station and 18 years at Safdarjung station, under the influence of dry northwesterlies. It is likely to stay hot till the latter part of the week when a western disturbance could bring some rain — and respite from the heat. Back in 2010 in Palam and 2002 in Safdarjung, the same temperatures were recorded — 47.6 degree Celsius (C) in the former and 46 degree C in the latter. To find a higher temperature than those measured on Tuesday, one would have to go back to 1998. The temperatures come on the back of an exceptionally pleasant April in the capital; even the first half of May saw maximum temperatures well below normal in the city. Delhi does get hotter (sometimes), but only in June. Palam’s 47.6 degree C, was 6 degrees above normal and fell in the severe heat wave category; Safdarjung’s 46 degree C was 6 degrees above normal and bordered on the severe heat wave criteria. Churu in Rajasthan recorded the highest temperature in the country at 50 degree C.Last year, Palam recorded its hottest June day ever with a temperature of 48-degree C, only half a degree C above Tuesday’s maximum.The all-time high in May in Safdarjung was recorded on May 29, 1944 — 47.2 degree C and the highest ever for Palam was recorded in 1998 at 48.4-degree C. Safdarjung recorded 46.5 degree C in 1998- and 46-degree C, in 2002. Palam also recorded 47.6 degree C, in 2010, the same as Tuesday.Churu in Rajasthan recorded 50 degree C, seven degrees above normal and the highest in the past four years. Severe heat wave conditions were reported from west Rajasthan, west Madhya Pradesh, south Haryana, Delhi, south Utter Pradesh, north Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha. Ganganagar in Rajasthan recorded 47 degree C, Bikaner, also in Rajasthan, recorded 47.4 degree C, Hisar in Haryana, 48 degree C, and Banda in UP, 48 degree C — all in the severe heat wave category.There are two criteria for recording heat waves: a maximum temperature of at least 40 degree C which is 4.5 degree C to 6.4-degree C higher than the usual; or a maximum temperature of at least 45 degree C for two stations in a sub-division for two consecutive days. A severe heat wave is declared when the maximum temperature is at least 40 degree C and the departure from normal is more than 6.4 degree C or the actual maximum temperature is more than 47 degree C.Due to dry, north-westerly winds over plains of northwest India, Central India and adjoining interior parts of eastern India, present heat wave conditions are likely to continue for the next two days, IMD said in a statement adding that severe heat wave conditions are likely over pockets of Vidarbha on May 27, and the heat wave will continue over parts of Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and East Madhya Pradesh on May 26 and 27.Under the influence of a western disturbance and formation of east-west trough (area of low pressure) in lower levels, rain and thunderstorms are likely in many parts of northwest India on May 28 and 29 following which heat wave conditions will abate.“Super cyclone Amphan sucked out all the moisture from other parts of the country and very dry, northwesterly winds from land side was blowing over northwest India. Plus, we had clear skies and direct sunshine which also led to the peaking of maximum temperatures. There was no intense western disturbance which could change this kind of wind pattern or cause clouding. We can expect some relief in Delhi from May 29,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. The minimum temperature at Safdarjung on Tuesday morning was 28.2 degree C and Palam, 29.1 degree C. According to National Disaster Management Authority’s guidelines for preparation of heat action plan released in 2017, heat waves have caused 25,716 deaths between 1992 and 2016 across various states. “It is likely that the number of actual heat wave related deaths is much higher than the number reported as heat related illnesses are often recorded inaccurately and figures from rural areas are hard to attain. The combination of exceptional heat stress and a predominantly rural population makes India vulnerable to heat waves. Vegetable vendors, auto repair mechanics, cab drivers, construction workers, police personnel, road side kiosk operators and mostly weaker sections of society are extremely vulnerable to the adverse impacts of heat waves such as dehydration, heat and sun strokes,” the guidelines say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/47-6-c-delhi-sizzles-on-hottest-may-day-in-years/story-qxK0ewuP9hxBFnbsPW1BZM.html
27-05-2020||India||HT Salutes: Mumbai’s autodriver sets up community kitchen in Covid-affected area||Cheetah Camp is home to nearly 15,000 dwelling units spread across one kilometer-square in Mumbai’s M-East ward that was once ranked the lowest among all city wards in the Mumbai Human Development Report brought out by the United Nations Development Programme. A decade later, the ward — spread across Govandi, Shivaji Nagar and Mankhurd — is still majorly populated by slums, and is witness to some of the highest incidences of coronavirus infection.While things may not have changed in terms of the human development indices, Cheetah Camp’s residents know how to bail each other out in tough times.In the past two months of the national lockdown, as employment opportunities have dried up for the slum’s migrant worker and labourer residents, 35-year-old autorickshaw driver Salim Shaikh set up a community kitchen that prepared meals for at least 250 to 300 residents every day.Putting together the kitchen was the least of the problems, he said.“We got funds from some people, some gave us ration and we got utensils from those in the catering business to set up this kitchen,” he said. The trouble was that Shaikh had never tried his hand at cooking before. The lockdown made him into one: he learnt to cut vegetables and plan meals and assist his friend Abdullah, who would do the most of the cooking. Another friend Shakir Shaikh, who owns a small shop in the area, would also offer help.Set up in the chota maidan of sector D — a small field in the Camp where tents would come up during weddings or festivals — the kitchen begins operations at 2 pm. At least 20 residents of the Camp are involved: some like Shaikh chop vegetables; others sift out the ration available for that day; still others plan the meal. By 5.30 pm, the stoves are fired up, and everything from pulao to khichdi to egg curry is prepared. By 8 pm, the food is ready for packaging in plastic bags, which are then distributed among the residents by volunteers.During the month of Ramzan, which culminated Monday with the festival of Eid, special treats like ragda and bhajiyaas were prepared for iftaar.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has also supplied at least 300 food packets daily since March. As a result, Shaikh decided to keep the kitchen for evening meals. He has been an auto-driver for six years and lives in Cheetah Camp — named, according to historian Deepak Rao, after the Indian naval ship Cheetah, in the 1960s —lives with his wife, parents, grand-parents and sister in the Camp.“People don’t know how long the lockdown will continue. They have suffered losses in their businesses also,” Shaikh said.“An area in the camp where most migrant workers used to live is almost empty now. Many have left and most are planning to leave,” Shaikh said.Several migrant workers from Mumbai have left for their villages in states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, even as the number of cases in the city has crossed 30,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-s-autodriver-sets-up-community-kitchen-in-covid-affected-area/story-6j5hsjeu68JQFi8oAeN3NI.html
27-05-2020||India||Sharp drop in vegetable prices as buyers stay in||Cherries for Rs 30/lg wholesale in Shimla; the fruit of the season, mango, for Rs 25/ kg wholesale in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur; and tomato for Rs 10/ kg wholesale in Bengal’s Siliguri . The prices of fruits and vegetables in wholesale markets over the past week highlights the steep fall in the price of farm produce in the face of a drop in consumer demand during the lockdown imposed to curb the coronavirus pandemic, experts said. No rebound is likely in the coming weeks and months, they added. “Demand is at rock bottom,” said Devendra Sharma, a Chandigarh-based independent farm expert. “The biggest consumer of the perishable products is the hospitality industry, other than individuals. There are no signs of the industry opening soon. And when it opens, there will not be many customers. So, I don’t expect the demand to improve dramatically in the coming months.”.India expects a bumper production of fruits and vegetables because of an above-normal 2019 monsoon and good winter rainfall. The agriculture ministry’s advance horticulture produce estimate was 313.5 million tonnes for the 2020 season, the highest in five years.The absence of bulk purchases during the lockdown enforced on March 25, which shut public eateries and confined residents indoors, has dented overall demand.“Even households are not buying in huge quantities because of the fear of infection. And there are not many signs of prices reviving soon enough to last year’s level,” said KK Sarangi, an agricultural economist in Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology.New horticulture crops typically start arriving in the markets from March -end . The lockdown took public transport for non-essential goods off the roads, impeding their transport to the markets this year. As the government eased transport norms, some big vegetable wholesale markets including Asia’s biggest fruit and vegetable market at Azadpur in New Delhi and Koyambedu in Chennai were closed because they turned into Covid hot spots.“Nobody (truckers) is willing to take my cherry produce to Delhi or Chandigarh,” said Surinder Singh Bragta after selling his best quality produce for Rs 30 a kilogram in Shimla’s wholesale fruit market. “Last year, I sold similar quality cherry for Rs 100 a kilogram in Chandigarh. I don’t know what will happen to pears and apples which could be harvested in the nest few months. Commission agents are saying this will be worst year for fruits as demand is low.” More than 2,000 kilometers away in Madhya Pradesh’s Neemuch district, Tarun Baheti, a vegetable farmer, said there were no buyers in the market other than local traders. “After so many years, we had a good crop of vegetables. But no one is willing to pay the right price.” “Due to lockdown restrictions, we cannot take the produce to bigger markets. Ladies’ finger (okra) bottle gourd, sponge gourd used to be sold for a maximum of Rs 40 to Rs 50 per kg in the last season but now the rate has come down to about Rs 15 per kg in the wholesale market. Pumpkin is being sold at Rs 5 to Rs 10 per kg,” he added. In Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki district, Ram Saran Verma, a farmer who has won the Padma Shri award for work in agriculture, said wholesale markets were empty in what has been a good harvest season. “There are no buyers. Even the cost to transport the produce to market is not being recovered,” he said. Another Barabanki farmer, Dinesh Rawat, said he lost Rs 1 lakh in May alone because he was not able to transport his cucumber produce to Lucknow, Sultanpur and Agra. “I had to sell it at a local mandi for whatever price it fetched,” he said. In some states such as Bihar, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh, there have been reports of farmers throwing away their produce. Verma said most farmers already lost money this year and either threw away their produce or fed it to cattle. “This year we left the produce in the field itself as there is no point in selling ladies’ finger for Rs 2 per kg” said Bechan Yadav, a farmer in rural Patna. Mritunjay Kumar, a farmer of Sohsarai in Nalanda district, said the cost of transporting the vegetables to the market was more than the selling price. “It is better to give vegetables to cattle, at least they will get some nutrition,” he said. In Odisha’s Dhenkanal district, the pumpkin harvest is rotting in the farms. Manas Barik, who harvested three tonnes of pumpkins on five acres of land in Dhenkanal, said he found no takers for his produce. “The traders want us to sell pumpkin at Rs 5 a kg. It does not cover even transport cost.” The distress is visible in fruit markets, too. In Gaddiannaram fruit market at Kothapet in Hyderabad, Telangana’s largest fruit and vegetable wholesale market, the prices are the lowest in years. “For the last four years, the price of mangoes was between Rs 60,000 to Rs 1.20 lakh per tonne depending on the variety. This year, it is Rs 20,000 to Rs 30,000 per tonne,” said Telangana Fruit Merchants’ Association president Ashok Kumar. He said the prices of sweet lime (mosambi) had come down from Rs 50,000 a tonne to less than Rs 20,000 a tonne. “There is essentially no demand,” Kumar added Some are and hoping things will be normal after Lockdown 4.0 ends on May 31.“We hope that the farmer may start getting decent price from August onwards,”said Patna district agriculture officer Rakesh Ranjan.Officials at the Karnataka Horticulture Producers Co-operative Marketing and Processing Society (HOPCOMS) claimed that prices have recovered in the past one week with the easing of lockdown norms.“Prices of vegetables like onion, potato and others are more stable than the easier perishables such as greens, beans, tomato, capsicum, cucumber which wilt in the summer sun,” said a HOPCOMS official who requested anonymity.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharp-drop-in-vegetable-prices-as-buyers-stay-in/story-e0TrkYrB80a2bfl7RB2rRI.html
27-05-2020||India||2 months on, lockdown has failed in its purpose: Rahul Gandhi||New Delhi: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the four phases of the nationwide lockdown have failed to contain the Covid-19 pandemic and claimed that the tally of cases is rising sharply, drawing a sharp and swift riposte from the government that he is politicising the public health crisis.Gandhi also reiterated that the coronavirus disease outbreak and lockdown have multiplied the unemployment problem and forced many small and medium businesses to go bankrupt.In his fourth video news conference since the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25, Gandhi urged the Centre to spell out its strategy for opening up the country. The current phase of the lockdown will end on May 31.“On March 24, the Prime Minister said the war against the coronavirus would be won in 21 days. Sixty days later, it is now clear that the lockdown has not been able to defeat the virus. Its aim and purpose have failed,” Gandhi said.Maintaining that the number of new cases in many areas around the country is increasing exponentially, the Congress Lok Sabha member said it was clear that the Prime Minister and his advisors had underestimated the scale of the battle against the viral disease.“The Prime Minister was quick to take centre-stage in the early stages of this battle. But now, when his leadership is most needed, he has stepped back,” Gandhi said.The government denied Gandhi’s claims. “He (Gandhi) gave a wrong statement. I want to tell him, when the lockdown was imposed the doubling rate of infection was three days; now the infection takes 13 days to double. This is India’s success and everyone’s success,” Union minister for information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar said.The Congress leader also urged the Centre to inform the country about its exit strategy from the lockdown. The country risks facing a second wave of the pandemic which will be “extremely devastating” if the strategy is haphazard, he warned.On the crisis of migrants who have left the cities and are headed to the hinterland in an exodus triggered by the pandemic and the lockdown , Gandhi said the workers he met told him that they had lost faith in the state and again urged the government to announce an immediate cash transfer of Rs 7,500 to them.“They have a sense of hopelessness, they have been left alone. They have told me ‘hamara bharosa toot gaya’ (we have lost faith). I don’t like hearing those words. I don’t want a single Indian person to say those words. They are saying it more and more. Nobody should lose their faith,” he added.Javadekar countered the charge that the government failed to address the concerns of the migrant workforce and said 300,000 workers had been safely transported in 3,000 special trains, and claimed that Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka (both ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party) had given money to migrant workers. The former Congress chief, who called for monetarily empowering the states to fight the battle against the coronavirus, said if money is not put in the hands of the poor and small and medium industries, there could be “serious economic damage”. He asked the government how it planned to support the migrants and the states in dealing with the crisis.“We need an injection of money and capital. It will be fatal if we do not do it. The unemployment situation in the country has been compounded by the coronavirus problem,” he added.Asked if it was a mistake to prioritise health over the economy, the Congress leader said: “I don’t think it is either health or economy. We are smart enough and intelligent enough that we work out a path that will create a successful compromise between health and economy. However, India has been facing a very serious unemployment problem and this is not new.”Political analyst A Narayana of the Bengaluru-based Azim Premji University said Gandhi had once again stressed the need for putting money in the hands of the people to help them tide over the crisis.“He has also drawn the nation’s attention to the fact that the Centre is not financially helping states which are desperately trying to balance between tackling the pandemic and addressing its economic fallout. Possibly, Gandhi should do more than merely addressing press conferences to put pressure on the government,” he added.In his video conference, Gandhi also addressed the current tensions between Indian and Chinese troops across the Line of Actual Control“What we would like to see is some more transparency on what is going on. It becomes difficult for us to have a position without understanding the facts. I think the government should make it clear to the people of India what exactly is happening on the border,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-months-on-lockdown-has-failed-in-its-purpose-rahul/story-iSXi6aWnIDeFaq7ZcdO8PJ.html
27-05-2020||India||President Kovind yet to approve labour law changes||The Union labour ministry is examining a set of radical changes made by Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat to their labour laws, including moves to freeze them altogether, and may suggest several modifications because some changes could be against “acceptable norms”, a government official said, asking not to be identified. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states passed ordinances to give effect to various changes, some of which effectively suspend labour laws. None of the ordinances has received approval from President Ram Nath Kovid, according to people with knowledge of the matter. Madhya Pradesh sent its ordinance for the president’s approval on May 18. The UP government sent its ordinance soon after the state’s governor Anandiben Patel approved it on May 14. Gujarat too sent its soon after the state’s governor Acharya Devvrat gave his nod. Under the Constitution, labour falls under the concurrent list, which means the Union government and states have joint jurisdiction. Therefore, changes by state need to be ratified by at the federal level. “The main concern is violation of accepted universal norms. Industrial dispute resolution mechanisms, compensation etc are important considerations. Can you simply suspend all labour laws? Legal views matter in this,” the official cited in the first instance added, without elaborating. Uttar Pradesh suspended key labour laws for all units for three years on May 6 through an ordinance. Madhya Pradesh announced on May 7 it was taking a similar course to put all labour laws on hold for new units, barring some provisions of the Factories Act, 1948, for the next 1,000 days.This changes signalled the start of an experiment to remove rigidities in the country’s labour markets and stringent rules on hiring and firing, as global companies start shifting their supply chains away from China and reduce their dependencies on factories in the neighbour. Five other states -- Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Assam and Odisha -- have increased working hours from 8 hours to 12 hours a day for three months. Rajasthan too extended work hours, but rescinded it . However, the moves drew criticism from labour experts, who say suspending the laws not just eased regulation but infringed on workers’ rights. The labour ministry is examining whether the changes impact conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Ten central trade unions wrote to the Geneva-based ILO, stating that changes in labour laws by these states violate workers’ rights and ILO convention No 144, to which, India is a signatory. ILO convention 144 enjoins signatories for tripartite consultations among government, employers and workers.“The moves to simply suspend labour laws effectively brings the North American hire-and-fire model to the Indian hinterland economy. However, they will also lead to a basic violation of universal workers’ rights,” said economist KR Shyam Sundar of the Xavier Labour Relations Institute, Jamshedpur. The ILO has said it was deeply anguished by the move and issued an appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 25. ““Please allow me to assure you that the ILO director general has immediately intervened, expressing his deep concern at these recent events and appealing to the prime minister to send a clear message to central and state governments to uphold the country’s international commitments and encourage engagement in effective social dialogue,” an ILO letter addressed to the trade unions stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prez-yet-to-approve-labour-law-changes/story-Gq45G2x8VTpmLNCNRlhMkO.html
27-05-2020||India||Congress plans online protest demanding aid for migrants||In the absence of mass protests amid social distancing norms during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the Congress has shifted gears to open online fronts. The opposition party is planning to hold an online nationwide protest on Thursday to put pressure on the Centre to accept its demands for providing immediate financial assistance to farmers, migrant workers, daily wage earners and small businesses hit by the pandemic.In a letter to all state unit chiefs, Congress general secretary incharge (organisation) KC Venugopal has asked them to mobilise around 5 million participants on all social media platforms to register their protest and highlight the “sufferings” of migrant workers, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and other distressed sectors.The online campaign will run from 11am to 2pm. “As you know, lakhs of migrant workers, farmers, workers in the un-organized sectors, MSMEs, small scale businesses, fishermen and daily wage earners are in grave distress. They are struggling, without money, food, job and other essentials items,” the letter read.“For over two months now, since the nationwide lockdown began, our nation’s soul has been pained by the pictures and videos of our migrant workers desperately trying to get back to their hometowns and villages. From walking hundreds of kilometres on our highways to packing into trucks, trailers and every form of transport available, many of them have died on their long journey,” it added.In the letter, Venugopal also said the Congress has been undertaking relief efforts and providing all possible support to migrant workers. “Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have been giving suggestions to the central government to alleviate the sufferings of our migrant workers, farmers and daily wage earners. But instead of providing support, the central government continues to ignore the plight of them and has failed to take any meaningful measures.”Venugopal has also asked the state unit chiefs to ensure the participation of over 5 million workers and “sympathisers” in the campaign to be run on different social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-plans-online-protest-demanding-aid-for-migrants/story-s3z6bOvK7ndWFIpzpchnUN.html
27-05-2020||India||Air operations smooth on Day 2, 1 flyer tests +ve||After the resumption of domestic flights the previous day following a two-month suspension was marred by confusion and cancellations amid the reluctance of some states to allow inbound travel,operations on Tuesday were smooth, with airports handling 325 departures and 283 arrivals till the evening civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said.Around 41,673 passengers had flown until Tuesday evening, Puri said, the day after the suspension imposed for the coronavirus lockdown ended. “Airports are abuzz, and passengers are back in the air. Operations have started in Andhra Pradesh from today. These numbers are all set to soar higher,” the minister said, adding that a final report on the how the day’s flight operations went will be prepared after details come in at Tuesday midnight.On Monday, more than half the expected 1,100 flights had to be cancelled as airlines had to reconcile to the varying public health rules of various states and rework their flight schedules. According to civil aviation ministry’s data, 428 flights departed on Monday ferrying 30,550 passengers. There were 404 arrival flights, which means 24 flights had departed just before midnight and would have arrived on Tuesday morning. The maximum number of flights took off from Karnataka with 67 flights ferrying 5,602 passengers of which 60 flights were from Bengaluru alone. The states agreed with the Centre on Sunday to allow a graded reopening of flight operations after putting in place local measures to quarantine and isolate passengers to avoid a spiralling of Covid-19 infections. The number of flights operating across airports were capped, with the Centre allowing only a third of domestic operations.Flights to and from West Bengal will resume on May 28 and those operating from Andhra Pradesh were scheduled to commence from Tuesday while Maharashtra allowed a limited number of flights to depart and arrive in Mumbai. According to the civili aviation ministry, 38 flights departed from Maharashtra on Monday, ferrying 5,124 passengers; they included 24 flights from Mumbai. One hundred and eleven flights took off from Delhi with 8,168 passengers.Concerns over the possible spread of the coronavirus disease following the resumption of domestic travel have been rife. On Monday, a passenger flying on an Indigo flight from Chennai to Coimbatore was found Covid-19 positive. “We received confirmation from the Coimbatore airport doctor that a passenger who travelled on 6E 381 from Chennai to Coimbatore on 25th May evening, has tested positive for COVID-19. He is currently quarantined at ESI state medical facility at Coimbatore. He was seated on-board the aircraft with all precautionary measures including face mask, face shield and gloves, as were the other passengers. Additionally, no one else was seated in his vicinity, significantly reducing the possibility of transmission,” Indigo said in a statement on Tuesday. “All our aircraft are regularly sanitised as a standard operating procedure, and the aircraft operating this flight was also immediately disinfected as per protocol. The operating crew has been grounded for 14 days and we are in the process of notifying other passengers as per the government guidelines, to ensure safety of our passengers and staff,” it added.The two-month suspension of flights has already left the civil aviation sector, globally and in India, reeling. According to the International Air Transport Association (IATA) the airline industry’s global debt could rise to $550 billion by the year-end. That’s a $120 billion increase over debt levels at the start of 2020.“A tough future is ahead of us. Containing COVID-19 and surviving the financial shock is just the first hurdle. Post-pandemic control measures will make operations more costly. Fixed costs will have to be spread over fewer travellers. And investments will be needed to meet our environmental targets. On top of all that, airlines will need to repay massively increased debts arising from the financial relief. After surviving the crisis, recovering to financial health will be the next challenge for many airlines,” said Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s director general and CEO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-operations-smooth-on-day-2-1-flyer-tests-ve/story-gR5jEB6tDOK0suaSmROMDM.html
27-05-2020||India||SC asks govts to arrange food, transportation for migrants||A week-and-half after it said it couldn’t intervene in the ongoing migrant crisis, the Supreme Court on Tuesday pointed to inadequacies and lapses in measures taken by the Centre and state governments in addressing difficulties faced by migrant workers because of the Covid -19 lockdown, as it took suo motu (on its own) cognizance of the crisis two months after it started.A three-judge bench of the top court headed by justice Ashok Bhushan issued notice to the central and state governments and ordered them to make immediate arrangements for the migrant workers’ transportation, food and shelter free of cost.“We take suo motu cognizance of problems and miseries of migrant labourers stranded in different parts of the country….Adequate transport arrangement, food and shelters are immediately to be provided by the Centre and state governments free of cost,” the order said.The court asked the Centre and states to file their responses, treating the matter as urgent. The case will be heard again on Thursday when the central government’s second senior-most law officer, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, will have to assist the court on the measures taken by the central government to alleviate the sufferings of the migrant workers.“We direct the suo motu petition to be taken up day after tomorrow and we request the learned solicitor general to assist the court and by the next date of hearing bring to the notice of the court all measures and steps taken by the government of India and to be taken in this regard”, the bench, which also comprised justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MR Shah, ordered.The apex court’s order of Tuesday was in contrast with the approach it adopted throughout the lockdown, which started on March 25, while handling cases related to Covid-19, particularly petitions highlighting the plight of migrant labourers who left the cities and tried to head home to their homes in the hinterland after losing their livelihoods.On a plea seeking free transport for migrant workers to their states, the top court, on May 15, left it to the states to take action to deal with the problem, maintaining that it cannot pass orders based on media reports.“How can we stop people from walking? It is impossible for this court to monitor who is walking and who is not walking”, the court remarked, commenting on reports of migrant workers walking long distances to get back home.Earlier, in March, in relation to the same case, Mehta tod the court that no migrant was walking back home.Soon after the lockdown was imposed on March 25, migrants by the thousands, who had lost their jobs, started walking back home because no public transport was available. Many were stopped at state borders and sent to shelters. Others continued to walk along train tracks or on highways. In late April, the government announced guidelines for transporting them back home by bus. On May 1, it launched special trains for them, but many continued to walk back home because they did not want to wait for the trains or did not have the documentation required to board them. On May 9, 16 workers walking back home to Madhya Pradesh from Maharashtra, and who had stopped to rest on railway tracks (and fallen asleep) were run over by a goods train. Another plea for payment of minimum wages to migrant workers during the lockdown was also disposed of by the apex court on April 21 without any concrete directions. “If they are being provided meals why do they need money for meals”, Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, who was hearing that case, asked.The order passed on Tuesday had a different tenor to it as the court relied on media reports highlighting the “unfortunate and miserable conditions of migrant labourers” walking and cycling long distances. “This Court has also received several letters and representations from different sections of society highlighting the problem of migrant labourers”, the order said.Twenty advocates practicing at the Supreme Court and the high courts wrote a letter on Monday to the CJI highlighting the plight of migrant labourers and urging the court to intervene.The court in its order seemed to have accepted that the problems of migrant labourers are far from over.“The crises of migrant labourers is even continuing today with large sections still stranded on roads, highways, railway stations and State borders”, the order said.In the present situation, migrant labourers need “succor and help”and a concentrated effort will be required to redeem the situation, the court added.“We, thus, issue notice to the Union of India and all States / Union Territories to submit their responses looking into the urgency of the matter”, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-govts-to-arrange-food-transportation-for-migrants/story-q654zXcJSzoGar5Sw15o3K.html
27-05-2020||India||ICMR says will review use of HCQ in Covid treatment||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will review whether to continue use of hydroxycholroquine (HCQ) to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in India after the World Health Organisation (WHO) suspended human trials till it assess data on its safety and efficacy. The use of the anti-malarial drug as a prophylaxis -- preventive medicine -- will continue in an attempt to ward off infection in people at risk, such as health care workers.“Our experts will be meeting tomorrow ( Wednesday) to assess the evidence that is before us in treating patients with a combination of HCQ and antibiotic azithromycin that is currently being used. A call will be taken after the discussion and a fresh advisory could be issued in this regard based on what experts say,” said an ICMR official, who did not wish to be identified. On Friday, ICMR revised its March 23 advisory on approving prophylaxis use of HCQ, and expanded the pool of people who should be given the medicine to prevent infection, including asymptomatic surveillance workers deployed in containment zones and paramilitary/police personnel involved in Covid-19-related activities.In March, ICMR approved “restricted use” of the drug in the country after available global studies showed there was viral load reduction in Covid-19 patients who took it.“We were always looking at the drug’s efficacy in preventing infection; not really for treatment purposes,” the ICMR official added ICMR also began the use of the drug under observational study mode to get proof of concept, and also did some in-vitro studies in a lab in the National Institute of Virology, Pune, to generate data on its efficacy.“ Many drugs are being repurposed for treatment and for prophylaxis purposes, of which HCQ is one. It’s a safe drug and has been in use for nearly 100 years, which provided the sense of its safety, and the lab studies showed the drug had anti-viral activity. Data generated over the past five to six weeks has shown that it may be working, with no major side-effects.The ICMR advisory is clear that it is to be taken as a prophylaxis drug for actual benefit,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR .The data on assessment of HCQ prophylaxis among 1,323 health care workers indicated adverse effects such as nausea (8.9%), abdominal pain (7.3%), vomiting (1.5%), hypoglycemia (1.7%) and cardio-vascular effects (1.9%). The data from the Pharmacovigilance programme of India reported 214 instances of adverse drug reactions associated with prophylaxis HCQ use.The observational prospective study of 334 healthcare workers at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, out of which 248 took HCQ prophylaxis also showed that those taking HCQ prophylaxis had lower incidence of the Sars-CoV-2 infection than those not taking it.“However, there are certain contraindications for not taking the drug that have been listed in the advisory, and the drug is not to be taken on an empty stomach as that could have caused nausea in maximum cases,” said Dr Bhargava.The dosage given to people in India is 400mg, twice a day, for one day, and subsequently 400mg once a week. The course is recommended for seven weeks.Doctors say some more evidence is required before confidence in the drug can be reinstated.“We are not giving the drug now as enthusiastically as it was given in the beginning given the kind of evidence before us. We will have to look into all aspects of the evidence available; we will talk to experts on this,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, critical care specialist, Medanta Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-says-will-review-use-of-hcq-in-covid-treatment/story-CoiAxnhvOBsBa1odmpmbYP.html
27-05-2020||India||Covid tests set to get cheaper as ₹4,500 price cap removed||In a move that will likely bring down the cost of testing substantially, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday removed the price cap of ₹4,500 on the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, billed as the gold standard for detecting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). States have been given a free hand to negotiate with the approved laboratories and fix the cost of Covid testing.In a letter written to the states, ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said that as testing capacity and infrastructure have improved significantly since the beginning of the outbreak, the ceiling price fixed earlier was not applicable. With domestic production being ramped up, the dependence on imported testing kits is also negligible.“At the beginning of the Covid pandemic, there was a global crisis of testing kits and reagents as India was heavily reliant on imported products for molecular detection of viruses.As such in mid-March no rates for RT-PCR test for Coronavirus was available for reference in the country. Keeping in view the cost of imported kits and efforts involved in carrying out the test, ICMR suggested the upper limit of a single test as INR 4500,” said the letter, a copy of which was reviewed by Hindustan Times.Karnataka took the lead last month and capped the Covid testing price at ₹2,250 in private labs within the state for samples sent by the government.Private labs elsewhere have already begun the process of cost revision. “We have already reworked our costing, and to Delhi government we are offering Covid test at about ₹3,500. It’s a done deal from our side,” said Dr Arvind Lal, chairman and managing director, Dr Lal PathLabs.India has 428 government and 182 private labs engaged in Covid-19 testing, with a capacity of conducting about 140,000 tests a day.“… keeping in view the evolving prices of the testing commodities, the earlier suggested upper ceiling of INR 4500 may not be applicable now and therefore all state governments/UT administrations are advised to negotiate with private labs and fix up mutually agreeable prices for samples being sent by the government and also private individuals desirous of testing by these labs,” said the advisory.The government has been working with domestic manufacturers “…by handholding and promoting them to locally manufacture swabs, viral transport medium and RNA extraction kits.. now testing supplies are also stabilising and many of you have started procuring such kits from local market. Due to varied options of testing materials/kits including indigenous ones, the prices are becoming competitive and are undergoing reduction,” added the advisory sent to all state chief secretaries. Another private lab owner, on condition of anonymity, said lowering prices of Covid testing further could compromise the quality of testing. “The cost hasn’t changed much except for say PPE {personal protection equipment} kits and masks. The test kits are still expensive and cost me say about Rs.1,600 for each test. I haven’t had the confidence in Indian kits yet. We had wanted it to be much higher when ICMR was fixing prices initially but it was capped at ₹4,500. We aren’t making any money out of it, and will get into significant losses.”The domestic kit manufacturers say it is going to be some time before pricing changes significantly.“Pricing depends on multiple factors, not just bulk production; for example the cost of technology plays a role that is usually expensive. An increased production volume does make a difference in lowering costs but how much the cost comes down will hinge on other factors also. For a lab it may help if they are doing more tests in a day because overheard charges will remain somewhat same. But I can say for sure that in some time India is going to be a competitive market globally,” said Hasmukh Rawal, managing director, Mylab Discovery Solutions, a Pune-based manufacturer of RT-PCR diagnostic kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-tests-set-to-get-cheaper-as-4-500-price-cap-removed/story-8vXIP6t9ObXV1GhlDY5JWN.html
27-05-2020||India||Charge sheets filed against 82 foreign Jamaat participants||New Delhi: Delhi Police on Tuesday filed 20 charge sheets against 82 foreigners who allegedly attended a religious congregation organised in March by the Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic missionary group, at its headquarters in New Delhi’s NIzamuddin area, in violation of their visa conditions and the Indian government’s guidelines on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Police said that the Central government has cancelled the visa of the 82 foreigners and blacklisted them. The headquarters, known as the Markaz, went on to emerge as the biggest Covid-19 cluster in India, leading to a spurt in the rate of infection in the city. The charge sheets, running to 15,499 pages, were submitted in the afternoon before duty magistrate Saema Jamil at the Saket court by the crime branch. The court is expected to decide on cognizance of the charge sheets on June 12. A charge sheet is a document that mentions charges and evidence collected against people accused of committing an offence. The court starts a trial only after taking cognizance of the charge sheet. The 82 foreigners against whom the police filed the charge sheet are from 20 different countries. They include 14 from Fiji, 10 from Saudi Arabia, eight Algerians and seven each from Brazil and China, six each from Sudan and the Philippines, five from the US, and four from Afghanistan. Police also filed charge sheet against two each from Australia, Kazakhistan, Morocco and the UK and one each from Ukraine, Egypt, Russia, Belgium, Jordan, France and Tunisia.They all have been booked under Section 14 (b) of the Foreigners Act, Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 51 of the Disaster Management Act and four sections of the Indian Penal Code, 188, 269, 270 and 271, for violating visa conditions, lockdown rules, spreading the virus, and breaking quarantine rule, Delhi Police said in a statement. “These foreign nationals had entered India on tourist visa and had participated in the Markaz illegally. In addition to violating the provisions of visa, these foreign nationals also led to a situation where a highly infectious disease such as coronavirus (Covid-19) infection spread and threatened the lives of the inmates and the general public at large,” the police statement read.The punishment for various offences under the penal provisions ranges from six months to eight years of imprisonment.More than 900 foreign nationals belonging to 34 different countries have been questioned in the case after they purportedly attended the religious congregation despite having entered the country on a tourist visa, the conditions of which prohibits the visa holder from engaging in any missionary activities, crime branch officials associated with the probe said. “The charge sheets have been filed against 82 foreigners since there were enough evidence against them. Charge sheets are being prepared against other foreign nationals, who are accused in the case, country-wise. The remaining charge sheets will be submitted in the next few days,” said a senior crime branch official, requesting anonymity.The HC was also informed by advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel of the Delhi government (criminal), that more charge sheets would be filed within this week against the foreigners.The crime branch had filed a criminal case against Tablighi Jamat chief Maulana Saad and six other top officials on March 31 for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings, issued to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital. Charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and criminal conspiracy were added to the case after some of the attendees of the religious congregation died due to the virus. Police are yet to summon Saad for interrogation, but have got a lookout notice issued against him to prevent him from leaving the country. More than 2,300 people, including foreigners, were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in March-end and lodged in various quarantine facilities in Delhi by the authorities. Many other foreigners were found staying in different religious and residential buildings across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charge-sheets-filed-against-82-foreign-jamaat-participants/story-qKF6TdLYzFPscm1TDNrNLO.html
27-05-2020||India||‘Districts in green zone to help BJP campaign for MP bypolls’: Congress||The Congress has accused the BJP-led Madhya Pradesh government of putting districts in the green zone to help party leaders campaign for the yet to be announced state assembly bypolls. The principal opposition party, which was in power until two months ago, also complained that the BJP leaders are violating the social distancing norms while out on the campaign trail.Stressing its point, the Congress highlighted the situation in three regions.In Gwalior, cases have increased from 72 on May 19 to 107 on May 25; in Morena, they have increased from 38 to 83; while in Bhind they have increased from 25 to 49 during the same period.Ajay Yadav, Madhya Pradesh Congress spokesperson, said the entire Chambal-Gwalior belt, which has 16 of the 24 constituencies, has been declared a green zone despite the high number of Covid-19 cases there.“This has been done to allow BJP leaders and their followers to campaign without any hindrance in the region,” he said.State BJP vice president Vijesh Lunawat said the allegation of the Congress showed that they were giving up already.“The norms are the same for all. There is no exception for the BJP leaders,” he said.The bypolls, necessitated by the resignations of 22 Congress MLAs who rebelled against Kamal Nath, are to be held before September.The 22 rebel MLAs later joined the BJP. The resignations were accepted on March 15 and the elections are to be held within six months. Two seats are vacant because of the death of sitting legislators.Tulsi Silavat, water resources minister in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet, who is expected to contest the bypoll from Sanver, the seat he resigned from, visited the constituency last week, accompanied by BJP MP from Indore Shankar Lalwani and MLA Ramesh Mendola.MP Congress secretary Rakesh Yadav alleged that there was violation of lockdown restrictions and social distancing norms as a crowd surrounded the minister and other leaders. Silawat, however, said the visit had nothing to do with the bypolls and that he was on an official visit to the constituency.“There was no restriction to move around in my constituency,” he said.On May 24, state BJP leaders claimed that 200 Congressmen from Sanchi in Raisen district joined the BJP at the state BJP headquarters in Bhopal in presence of ex-minister Prabhuram Chaudhary. The latter is likely to re-contest from Sanchi. On this occasion too, the Congress accused the BJP of ignoring social distancing rules.The leaders of the BJP and the Congress have held several meetings to prepare for polls in the Gwalior-Chambal region.Union rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who represents Morena in the Lok Sabha, had several meetings with party workers last week in his constituency. Five of the total six assembly seats in Morena district would go to polls.Gwalior is another key district with three assembly seats going to polls out of the total six. MP health minister Narottam Mishra and Pradyumn Singh Tomar, who resigned as minister from Kamal Nath government, has held several meetings in the region. Tomar is likely to contest on a BJP ticket from the Gwalior seat.“The day CM renamed Chambal expressway as Chambal progress way, the party’s campaign in the region started. Leaders are holding small public meetings to inform people about the Congress misrule of 14 months,” Lunawat said.The Congress has appointed Ashok Singh, former Gwalior mayor as Gwalior district president, and has asked senior party leader Gobind Singh to look after the campaign in the region.Another prominent Dalit leader of the Gwalior-Bhind region, Phool Singh Bhariya, was given the Rajya Sabha ticket to strengthen the party’s vote base among Dalits in the region. The Congress has also shifted its war room to Gwalior, indicating that the party was preparing for the polls. “Our biggest challenge is selecting the candidates as the established leaders have joined the BJP. That is an opportunity to prop young leadership in the region,” said a senior Congress leader, who is tasked with candidate selection.Gwalior-based political analyst, Jayant Singh Tomar, said, “The reason why the BJP is ahead of the Congress in the poll campaign is the fact that there is no confusion in the party on candidates’ selection. Also, the party has to ensure its victory on at least nine seats to retain power. The Congress is struggling in the candidate selection process.”The strength of the house has been reduced to 206 from 230 because of the resignation by Congress legislators and death of two BJP lawmakers.The BJP, with 107 legislators, is comfortably ahead of the majority mark of 104.Yadav said the Congress was confident of the victory despite the ruling party creating hurdles for its leaders to campaign. “The high number of Covid cases have exposed the inability of the Shivraj Singh government to handle any crisis. We worked for welfare of the farmers and downtrodden,” he said.Lunawat countered by saying that people would vote against the Congress as they were fed up with their misrule of 14 months. He alleged that the Congress rule brought back corruption in transfer and postings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/districts-in-green-zone-to-help-bjp-campaign-for-mp-bypolls-congress/story-irTLrwZ2BbAMzlcoWBIgvI.html
27-05-2020||India||Maharashtra: New academic session for schools to begin from June 15||Mumbai: Maharashtra education department has announced that it would begin the new academic session for schools in the state from June 15, irrespective of whether the school authorities can reopen their institutions because of the prevailing lockdown restrictions, which were imposed in end-March to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“The new academic year for schools in the state will begin from June 15. We’ll use online learning mode, where schools cannot be reopened because of the pandemic,” said Vishal Solanki, education commissioner, Maharashtra. Schools, however, cannot be reopened from mid-June in Mumbai, a red zone.Earlier, the department had sought suggestions from the stakeholders, including school owners, principals, and parents, for reopening schools in the state. Most responses opposed any bid to reopen schools before at least till the end of July. “If the academic year doesn’t begin on June 15, a lot of students are likely to drop out especially in rural areas and from poor urban households. These students shouldn’t be denied an education. Even if some schools open, it’ll be a relief, as children will get mid-day meals, when many parents are struggling to provide for two square meals a day,” said Hemangi Joshi, a social activist.In Maharashtra, about 30% of students have access to smartphones, or the technology required for e-learning, according to the data available with the state education department. “It’s going to be a challenge, when the new academic session starts on June 15. Most schools are likely to remain shut because of the viral outbreak. While the rest of the students don’t have any access to e-learning tools. Besides, e-learning is not just about staring at a computer screen, as students need to get acquainted with its modes,” said a principal of a Mumbai-based school.The education department is currently sharing online links for students between Class 1 and VIII, which can be accessed through the DIKSHA mobile application. It has also released portable document format (PDF) copies of all the textbooks – from classes 1 to XII — on the website of Balbharti, the state’s school textbook publication bureau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-new-academic-session-for-schools-to-begin-from-june-15/story-AtPhx2rwE3HmH1bOgYECCM.html
27-05-2020||India||BSEB Bihar 10th Result 2020 Latest Updates: Bihar Board class 10th result declared at biharboardonline.com||Bihar Board matric toppers from LakhisaraiSannu Kumar ---477Saurav Kumar ---469Krishna Kumar ---467Vijay Kumar --- 466Alok Kumar --- 465Bihar Board matric result 2020: Top 5 rank holders from MungerAkash Kumar ---470Rimjhim Kumari --- 452Ritik Kumar --- 452Ruchi Kumari --- 451Ritesh Kumar --451Rachi Prasoon --- 449Abhay Raj -- 449Saurav Kumar--- 449Priya Kumari --- 448Gaurav Kumar--- 448Abhinav Kumar --- 448Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: Top 5 rank holders from Araria districtAnkit Raj -- 475/500Payal Kumari --- 471/500Sadan Kumar- -- 470/500Jyotish Anand --- 466/500Suchi Kumar --- 465/ 500Bihar Board 10th Result 2020 HighlightsBihar Board 10th Result 2020 was declared on Tuesday. 80.59% students passHimanshu Raj, son of a vegetable vendor in Rohtas district of Bihar has topped the state by scoring 96.2% Read full highlights hereBihar Board 10th Result 2020: Top 5 rank holders in PurneaShubham Raj -- 473/500Anjali Kumari--- 467/5000Ejaz Ahmed -- 467/500Saurabh Kumar --- 464/500Sayem Alem--- 463/500Mani Muskan --- 462/500Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: Farmer’s son Durgesh Kumar is the second topperDurgesh Kumar, a student of S K High School, Jitwarpur, Samastipur has secured the second rank by scoring 96%. Born in a farmer’s family, Durgesh wants to prepare for the IIT entrance exam and become an engineer.BSEB class 10 topper Himanshu Raj wants to become a software engineerHimanshu Raj of Janta High School Tenyaj, Rohtas has topped the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) Class 10th examination 2020. He has scored 481 marks out of 500 which is 96.20%. He is the son of a vegetable vendor, and wants to become a software engineer.Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: SAV’s supremacy in Bihar board endsThis year, Simultala Awasiya Vidyalay (SAV) has no student in the top 5, while there are just three students among the 41 students in the top 10 Bihar Board first to declare board results this year: Anand Kishor“Bihar board became the first board to declare the results of class X and XII in the country as most of the boards have either not completed the examination or could not complete the evaluation of answer sheets because of the lockdown enforced in the country to contain the spread of Coronavirus infection,” the BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said. 5.2 lakh students pass in 2nd divisionOut of 5,24,217 who passed in second division, 2,57,807 are boys and 2,66,410 are girlsBihar Board 10th Result 2020: Check pass percentage, topper list, full details hereBihar Board 10th result has been declared. Over 12 lakh candidates have passed the examination making a pass percentage of 80.5. Check full details here. Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: Check full toppers’ list hereCheck Bihar Board 10th Result 2020 toppers’ list here Check Bihar Board 10th Result on Hindustan Times Result portalThe Bihar Board 10th Result website is not opening due to heavy traffic. Alternatively check your scores here at Hindustan Times Result portal. Direct link to check Bihar Board matric result 2020 Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: 4 lakh students pass with first divisionOut of 4,03,392 who passed in first division, 2,38,093 are boys and 1,65,299 are girlsBihar Board 10th Result 2020: See pass percentage trends from previous yearsPass percentage in 2017: 50.12%  2018: 68.89%, 2019: 80.73%, 2020: 80.59%Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: Himanshu Raj of Rohtas is the topper with 96.2% marksHimanshu Raj of Janta High School Tenyaj, Rohtas has topped the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) Class 10th or matric examination 2020. He has scored 481 marks out of 500 which is 96.20%. Check Bihar Board 10th topper list here2.8 lakh students failed in the examination2,89, 692 students have failed in the Bihar board examination. Results of four candidates have been kept pending.Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: 14 lakh candidates appeared14,94,071 students had appeared in which 7,29,213 are boys and 7,64,858 girls. Check details hereBihar Board class 10th Result 2020 declaredAfter a long wait, BSEB has finally declared the Bihar Board 10th result 2020 at onlinebseb.in and biharboardonline.com. Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: Few minutes to goIn just few minutes the Bihar Board candidates will be able to download their results online at biharboardonline.com and onlinebseb.in. Stay tuned for updates.Bihar Board 10th Result 2020 to be declared shortlyBihar Board 10th result 2020 will be declared shortly at onlinebseb.in and biharboardonline.com. The education minister of Bihar will announce the results at 12:30 pm.BSEB Bihar 10th Result 2020: State Education Minister to announce results soonBSEB chairman Anand Kishor announced that the Bihar Board class 10th result 2020 will be declared by the state Education Minister Krishana Nandan Prasad Verma at 12:30 pm.BSEB Bihar 10th Result 2020: One hour to go!Bihar Board 10th result 2020 will be declared in an hour. BSEB will upload the Bihar 10th results on its official websites. Candidates will be able to login and check their results online at biharboardonline.com and onlinebseb.inBihar Board 10th Result 2020 shortlyEducation minister of Bihar Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma will soon announce the Bihar Board 10th results 2020 today at 12:30 pm. Stay tuned for more updates.Bihar Board Matric Results: Take a look at last year’s topperSawan Raj Bharti of Simultala Awasiya Vidyalaya (SAV) in Jamui had topped the BSEB Class 10th examination 2019. He had scored 97.2%. Out of the top 10 students in the merit list, 9 were from Simultala Awasiya Vidyalaya (SAV) in Jamui.BSEB Matric Result 2020: Last year pass percentageIn the year 2019, the pass percentage of Bihar Board matric exam was 80.73%. In the year 2018, the pass percentage was 68.89%. BSEB matric result 2020: No press conference this yearThe Bihar Board 10th result will be declared online on the official websites of BSEB. Candidates will not be able to watch it live as there will be no press conference this year. However, we will provide you all the latest updates here.BSEB matric result 2020: How to check Bihar Board 10th result on mobileCandidates do not have to go to cyber cafe to check their Bihar Board 10th results. The official websites of BSEB onlinebseb. in and biharboardonline.com are mobile friendly too. They can check their results online using a smartphone as well. Click here to know more.Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: Why the results got delayed this yearEvery year BSEB declares the Bihar Board 10th results within a month after concluding the exams. Last year the Bihar Board matric result was declared in record 29 days on April 6, 2019. This year the result got delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. The matric evaluation had to be suspended due to the coronavirus lockdown. The evaluation resumed on May 6 and concluded on May 17 after which the result was prepared. Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: List of websites to check BSEB matric resultThe Bihar Board 10th result 2020 will be uploaded on various official sites of BSEB. Here’s the list of websites on which the BSEB Bihar matric results can be checked: onlinebseb.in, biharboardonline.com, biharboardonline.bihar.gov.in, biharboard.online, biharboard.ac.inBSEB Bihar Board 10th result 2020: BSEB Matric Toppers’ ListBSEB will release the list of Bihar Board matric toppers after the result is declared. The list will have the details of toppers like name and roll number along with their scores and their parents’ name and the name of their school. The list will have details of to 10 rank holders. Last year the top 5 rank holders were from Simultala Awasiya Vidyalaya. We will provide you the toppers list here.Bihar Board 10th Result 202: Just 3 hours leftIn next three hours, over 15 lakh students will get their Bihar Board 10th result 2020. The result will be declared at 12:30 pm on Tuesday at onlinebseb.in. Bihar Board 10th Result 2020: Get instant SMS alert after the result is outCandidates can get their Bihar Board 10th result alert as soon as the result is declared by the board. Register here on our HT result portal for free. The registered candidates will receive an alert text and the direct link to check their matric result on their mobile number as soon as the result out. Click here to register nowBihar Board 10th Result 2020: Keep your admit cards readyCandidates are advised to keep their Bihar Board matric admit cards ready so that they can enter their roll number, roll code and registration number as mentioned in their admit card to login on their result page. BSEB Bihar class 10th exam 2020: Education minister to announce the results at 12:30 pmThe education minister of Bihar Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma will announce the Bihar board 10th result 2020 in presence of RK Mahajan, the additional chief secretary of education department Bihar at 12:30 pm on Tuesday.Bihar Board 10th Result 2020 will be declared soonIn just four hours, candidates who have appeared in the exam will be able to check their Bihar Board 10th Result online. Students have been waiting for their result anxiously for the last one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/bihar-board-10th-result-2020-live-updates-bseb-bihar-class-10-matric-result-at-biharboard-ac-in/story-orbUmg1E13YzihHngX9kwJ.html
