28-05-2020||India||The locust menace close to Bihar in east, Karnataka, Andhra and Telangana in south, 16 states warned||A swarm of locusts on Wednesday and Thursday devastated crops in Uttar Pradesh’s Sonbhadhra district, which shares borders with Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh. The pest has damaged crops in six states, leading to the Centre issuing a locust warning to 16 states. UP agriculture officials said that swarms of locusts entered Ghorawal area in Sonbhadra from Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday afternoon and ate vegetable crops in fields in several villages. Jagdish Singh, a local, said that the swarm divided into many groups flew over the villages and damaged the vegetable crops. The damage was not much as most of the vegetable and other crops have been harvested, said district agriculture officer Piyush Rai.Also Read: Locust threat: Bhiwani, Dadri put on alertAbout 1,200 kms away in Bidar, Karnataka, farmers kept a vigil in farms, as the locust were expected to sneak in through western Maharashtra, where they reached on Tuesday. In Bangalore, agriculture minister B C Patil said based on wind direction as predicted by the weather department, the possibility of the locust swarm reaching Karnataka was remote. The locusts are said to be 450 km away from the border district of Bidar and Patil claimed that based on current information, “there is a 99.99% chance that it will not come to Karnataka. So farmers need not worry.”Locust has affected around 100 districts in five states --- Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra and they can reach another 12 in the next few weeks. Officials said another swarm from Pakistan is expected to enter India around mid-June, which would provide fuel to locust activity in the region. In the country’s most agrarian crisis hit Vidarbha region, locust swarms have damaged orange, mango and paddy fields of Bhandara, Gondia, Nagpur and Amravati districts. Swarms of locusts have moved from Kalmeshwar near Nagpur towards Gondia district after attacking crops in neighbouring Bhandara. Joint director (agriculture), Ravi Bhonsale, said a team was rushed to Bhandara on Thursday morning and sprayed pesticides on trees in one km radius in Temani village. “Timely action averted any major loss to crops.”In Agra, there was a sigh of relief on Thursday as locust from Dausa in Rajasthan moved towards Bhangarh in Rajasthan. “Three locust swarms have moved away from Agra and the one nearest to Agra moved towards Madhya Pradesh due to wind flow. However, threat continued from the locust swarm traced at Dausa, 140 km from Agra,” informed Ram Pravesh Verma, district plant protection officer (DPPO). He said on Thursday a swarm was within 30 kms of Agra but due to sudden change in wind direction it got diverted towards Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh. “We are keeping a constant watch,” Verma said, adding some smaller swarms have been killed in Dausa, Rajasthan.In Rajasthan, locust control has been done over 73,000 hectare out of the 95,000 hectare affected in 24 districts, said Suwa Lal Jat, joint director, plant protection division, agriculture department. “As on today, six districts -- Barmer, Jodhpur, Ganganagar, Dausa, Bikaner and Hanumangarh -- are badly affected,” he said. Jat said one swarm was present on the border of Jaipur and Dausa. This may either settle in Alwar or in Dausa. Alwar is just 100 kms from Delhi.In other northern states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttarkhand, agriculture departments have increased the vigil to counter a possible locust attack. Punjab is highly vulnerable as swarms of locust have been seen in Rajasthan’s Hanumanagrh district for the third consecutive day on Thursday. Bathinda chief agriculture officer Bahadur Singh Sidhu said the Rajasthan government officials had informed that the insecticide spray had a positive impact for locust control. Punjab agriculture secretary KS Pannu said the authorities in Fazilka, Bathinda and Muktsar districts that share boundary with Rajasthan have been equipped with ample stock of pesticides to deal with a possible locust attack.Like Punjab, Haryana and Uttarakhand agriculture departments have set up district control rooms to coordinate locust control operations. The officials in these states said that drones have also been procured to spray chemicals and fire tenders and trackers with chemicals are on the standby for pest control operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-locust-menace-close-to-bihar-in-east-karnataka-andhra-and-telangana-in-south-16-states-warned/story-VxbPNhgRdbZ5pa5YNtaNEI.html
28-05-2020||India||Delhi violence case: L-G, govt slugfest over prosecutors||New Delhi: Delhi lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal and the elected Delhi government led by Arvind Kejriwal are again locked in confrontation -- this time over the appointment of special public prosecutors (SPPs) to argue cases related to the February communal riots in northeast Delhi.The face-off is so intense that the L-G on Thursday decided to refer the matter to President Ram Nath Kovind, citing persistent “difference of opinion,” officials in the L-G’s office familiar with the subject said.Documents seen by HT suggest the confrontation, brewing since April, is over whose panel of public prosecutors should represent the state in the trials pertaining to the northeast Delhi riots, which claimed 53 lives and left over 400 injured. So far, the police have registered 752 first information reports (FIRs) and arrested 1,300 people in connection with the Hindu-Muslim violence The L-G, in a string of written communication between him and the Kejriwal government, has stated that the panel proposed by the Delhi Police should be notified and allowed to fight the cases because the riots “disturbed public order” in the capital and “effective prosecution” was needed “to restore faith of the general public and in the Delhi government”. HT has reviewed the correspondence. The Kejriwal government wants its own panel of “independent and technically qualified” special public prosecutors to be appointed to represent the state.On Thursday, the Kejriwal government approved a panel of prosecutors in a Cabinet meeting chaired by the chief minister. Hours later, senior officials in the office of the L-G said on condition of anonymity that Baijal was referring the matter to the President for his intervention.A Delhi government spokesperson said: “Invoking the provision of difference of opinion this time, the L-G has not bothered to make it clear as to how ‘good governance’, a reason cited by him in his previous such orders, is being served by blatantly subverting the process of appointment of public prosecutors. This clearly appears to be a question of Delhi government’s panel versus Delhi police’s panel because the L-G has not pointed out any deficiencies in the Delhi government’s panel, nor has given reasons why Delhi Police’s panel should be preferred. Delhi Police being the investigative agency should have no role in deciding the prosecuting lawyers to maintain the independence of investigation and prosecution. Otherwise, the criminal justice system would be seriously compromised.”The tussle began in the first week of April when Delhi police proposed a set of special public prosecutors to argue the riots cases and the L-G endorsed the move. When the file came to the Delhi government for perusal by the home minister Satyendar Jain, he shot down the police’s proposal, formed a fresh panel of lawyers and issued orders on April 16 that they be notified as the special public prosecutors.“The proposal of the Delhi Police suffered from both technical irregularities and {was} malafide. It was malafide because certain names in the panel were found to be directly related to senior police officers. It was technically irregular because certain names had less than 10 years of experience which is a mandatory condition be appointed as a special public prosecutor,” read home minister’s noting on the file, seen by HT.Documents showed that the Delhi police subsequently withdrew its panel and submitted a second list of special public prosecutors on April 24. But it was again shot down by the Delhi government with home minister Jain reiterating his order of notifying the government’s panel. “The Delhi government had already issued the order for notification of its panel of advocates and since this panel was independent and technically qualified, there was no need to change Delhi government’s panel,” Jain said in his eight-page note to the L-G. Jain met the L-G on May 21, but the differences persisted. In another file noting after the meeting, he wrote: “The L-G has not found any discrepancy on the merits in the panel proposed by the undersigned (home minister). Still, he insisted for the appointment of the panel of advocates proposed by the Delhi police.”The L-G wrote to the government on May 23 stating that he saw no reason to suspect that the lawyers suggested by the police would not perform their duties fearlessly and impartially as officers of the court. The L-G then invoked Article 239AA(4) of the Constitution (difference of opinion with the council of ministers) to refer the matter to the President. Baijal maintained that it was necessary to monitor the progress of these cases so that the guilty in these riots are brought to justice swiftly. “Had this been a routine matter, I would not have invoked the difference of opinion with the proposal of the minister. These cases involved large scale communal violence and thus, require careful handling in view of the gravity and deep impact on the society… We cannot forget that these communal riots had disturbed the ‘public order’ in Delhi to a great extent and created a panic situation in the minds of the general public,” Baijal wrote in a two-page to chief minister Kejriwal and Jain.The communication between the two centres of powers in Delhi also came down to the issue of who has control over the subject, according to the files exchanged between the L-G, Kejriwal and Jain. The Delhi government cited a Supreme Court order dated July 4, 2018, which went in its favour, to point out that “any matter” of the government should not be construed as “every matter” by the L-G and that difference of opinion should have a sound rationale.A statement issued by the L-G’s office on Thursday evening referred to Baijal’s stand on the matter. “The L-G is acting in accordance to the orders of the Supreme Court. The Apex court’s (Division Bench) order dated February 14, 2020 in civil Appeal 2357 of 2017 has already settled the legal position for appointment of Special Public Prosecutors in Para 172 :-‘172) In any case, it may not be necessary to dwell much upon this aspect. The High Court has also categorically held that the power to appoint a Public Prosecutor is relatable to Entries 1 and 2 of List III. In our opinion, the High Court has rightly held that in respect of these entries, the Government of NCT of Delhi has legislative competence under Article 239AA of the Constitution and that the LG under Article 239AA(4) of the Constitution shall act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. This conclusion of the High Court is in tune with the judgment of the Constitution Bench. We, therefore, hold that Lieutenant Governor, while appointing the Special Public Prosecutor, is to act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. This issue is answered accordingly.’Thus, the L-G is the competent authority to appoint special public prosecutors on the aid and advice of the council of ministers. In case of difference of opinion between the L-G and his Ministers, he is not bound by the said aid and advice and can invoke the proviso to Article 239AA (4) of the Constitution,” read the statement. This is not the first time that the L-G and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government have come into confrontation. In 2018, the two sparred over appointing special public prosecutor to fight the case of the alleged assault on former Delhi chief secretary Anshu Prakash by AAP MLAs. Kejriwal and other cabinet minister then staged a nine-day sit-in protest at the L-G’s office. In that case, the home department and the L-G wanted to appoint special public prosecutors, and home minister Jain had maintained that general public prosecutors would serve the purpose. Later, it was a Delhi court which asked for appointing a special public prosecutor after Anshu Prakash filed a plea demanding it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-violence-case-l-g-govt-slugfest-over-prosecutors/story-D8bAuQTztCStxTjGVNSL4N.html
28-05-2020||India||Delhi issues a fresh advisory on swarms||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Thursday issued an advisory to officials across various districts to prepare for a potential locust attack after the central government issued a warning that there was a high chance of the crop-munching insects moving from parts of Madhya Pradesh towards the capital.Delhi minister Gopal Rai said: “Alert and directions have been sent to the revenue commissioners, district magistrates and municipal commissioners regarding the matter… The authorities should carry out spraying of insecticides and pesticides during the night… As the swarm usually flies in the day time and rests during night time, they should not be allowed to rest.”His comments came after the nodal organisation dealing with a possible locust attack warned that Delhi may be targeted by the swarm which hit Jaipur and Uttar Pradesh on May 25, and parts of Madhya Pradesh last week. KL Gurjar, deputy director at the Locust Warning Organisation under the Union agriculture ministry, said: “There is a chance that the swarm in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhatarpur and neighbouring Jhansi area may move towards Delhi. They will settle in the evening and control operations will take place tomorrow morning . But it’s good that Delhi government is on alert just in case a small number reach Delhi from Madhya Pradesh.”The wind direction is easterly now and blowing from the direction of Bihar and UP ,according to the India Meteorological Department.Locusts swarms are capable of covering 150 km a day, experts said, and a one-square-kilometer swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people in terms of weight.In the rural pockets, they are capable of causing crop loss, and in the urban pockets, they can cause damage to trees on the roads and residential areas, said SN Upadhyay, a Gwalior-based entomologist who has worked on locust outbreaks across states. He recommended spraying of insecticides between 7 am and 9 am as locusts are believed to be in the most “sluggish” state in this time window.Delhi, according to government records, has 85,870 acres of agricultural land which is spread largely across the rural belts in the south-west and north-west peripheries of the city. The crop loss is expected to be less because this is not a harvesting season and paddy plantation is likely to begin next month.Bhagirath Choudhary, director, South Asia Biotechnology Centre, a think-tank that works in the field of agriculture with the central government, said that in the last 15 days, the locusts had moved out of their traditional areas in the deserts of Rajasthan and reached Madhya Pradesh and parts of Uttar Pradesh as they sought food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-issues-a-fresh-advisory-on-swarms/story-hDrOWjQCJKsHhWqeirQADK.html
28-05-2020||India||In a virtual protest, Cong attacks govt over migrant crisis||New Delhi: Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said on Thursday that the entire country, barring the central government, had heard the cries of anguish of migrant workers and felt their pain, as the party sharpened its criticism of the way the Centre handled the migrants’ crisis set off by the Covid-19 lockdown. In a video message posted as part of an online campaign by the Congress, Gandhi also urged the Centre to unlock its coffers to help those hit by the lockdown imposed on March 25, which sparked an exodus of tens of thousands of migrant workers from the cities to their homes in rural areas of states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal.The day-long “Speak Up India” campaign was launched by the opposition party to put pressure on the Centre to accept its demands for immediate financial aid to migrant workers, daily wage earners, farmers and small businesses hit by the pandemic.In the absence of mass protests during the pandemic, the Congress had decided to open online fronts against the government. The campaign included messages through Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Youtube accounts.In a letter sent to state unit chiefs, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal asked them to mobilise around 5 million participants on all social media platforms to register their protest.Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken later claimed that over 5.7 million party leaders and workers uploaded their messages on the social media throughout the day.“The campaign reached out to around 100 million people. It was a massive virtual rally. #SpeakUpIndia was also the top Twitter trend worldwide,” he said.The Centre has denied ignoring the plight of the migrant workers left stranded by the lockdown, and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit out at Congress for the campaign.“Congress can neither rule nor play the role of a constructive opposition. What they did today was a drama. The least their party chief could have done was taken a leaf out of BJP president JP Nadda’s book and instructed party workers to feed hungry people and provide whatever help was needed,” BJP leader Shahnawaz Hussain said. As the country experiences a serious economic crisis with loss of livelihoods, the central government has not helped those affected by the pandemic, Gandhi said.“It is for the first time since Independence that such a spectre of pain and anguish has been witnessed, where lakhs of famished and thirsty labourers have been forced to walk hundreds of thousands of kilometres back home barefoot and without any access to medicines or transport,” the Congress chief said.“Everyone across the country except the government heard their cries of pain and trauma,” she added.Instead of loans, Gandhi said the government should provide financial aid to small and medium businesses so that millions of jobs are saved.“Crores of livelihoods have been lost, lakhs of businesses and factories shut and farmers are running from pillar to post to self their produce.”Gandhi urged the Centre to unlock its coffers and help the needy by transferring cash of Rs 7,500 per month to every family for the next six months, ensuring safe and free travel of workers back home and doubling the number of work days to 200 a year under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi stressed the need to take the voice of the poor, migrant workers, and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs)to the government.“India does not need debt, India needs money. Due to Covid-19, a storm has come in India and the poor have been hurt the most. Migrant workers have to walk hungry for hundreds of kilometres across the country and the MSMEs, which provide jobs to crores of people, are shutting down,” he said.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra cited the example of a toddler trying to wake her dead mother at a railway station to highlight the plight of migrants.“We have seen the visuals of a son pulling a cart carrying his parents, a daughter taking her father 1,200 km on a bicycle, many people dying in trains, a child dying in the lap of his father and another child trying to wake up his dead mother on a railway platform. These visuals can make anyone cry. The country is pained to see such visuals,” she said.Separately, former finance minister P Chidambaram attacked the government for discontinuing the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) bonds scheme, calling it another “cruel blow” to the citizens.The 7.75% Savings (Taxable) Bonds cease for subscription with effect from the close of banking business on Thursday. “After lowering the interest rates in PPF {Public ProvidentFfund} and small savings instruments, the abolition of the RBI Bond is another cruel blow. All citizens must demand that the RBI Bond must be restored immediately,” Chidambaram tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-virtual-protest-cong-attacks-govt-over-migrant-crisis/story-RrjEPMBtIQpL6UzwhTFwfI.html
28-05-2020||India||Some high courts are running parallel govts: Solicitor General on migrant workers case||The central government continued to remain obstinate before the Supreme Court in the migrant labourers’ case maintaining that stray incidents on the difficulties faced by migrant workers should not impact the hearing in the case.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, was critical of various high courts passing orders in cases concerning migrant labourers.“The issue is some high courts are running parallel governments,” Mehta said.Various high courts including Gujarat, Madras, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh had passed directions to state and central governments after taking note of the pitiable plight of migrant workers.Mehta also attacked the lawyers who had written to the Supreme Court on May 25 criticising the top court’s silence on the migrant crisis and urging the court to intervene in the matter.The letter was signed by leading lawyers such as P Chidambaram, Anand Grover, Indira Jaising, Mohan Katarki, Siddarth Luthra, Santosh Paul, Mahalaxmi Pavani, Kapil Sibal, Chander Uday Singh, Vikas Singh, Prashant Bhushan, Iqbal Chagla, Aspi Chinoy, Mihir Desai, Janak Dwarkadas, Rajani Iyer, Yusuf Muchhala, Rajiv Patil, Navroz Seervai, Gayatri Singh and Sanjay Singhvi.“All these letters which have been addressed to the court to persuade Supreme Court to take suo motu cognizance of this issue have been written by people who are earning in crores,” Mehta said.He went on to draw a comparison between the lawyers and South African photojournalist Kevin Carter who was awarded Pulitzer Prize for capturing a vulture eyeing a starving child in famine struck south Sudan in 1993. The child, it was reported, was attempting to reach a United Nations feeding centre.Carter had left the place after driving away the vulture but did not help the child reach the feeding centre.“All these people wanting to intervene need to apply the vulture and child story. What have they contributed,” Mehta demanded.Mehta told the court that migrant labourers are taking to the roads on foot because of anxiety due to “local level instigation”.“They are told ‘walk now, trains won’t run. Lockdown extended,” Mehta said.He told the court that the Centre and states are working above political and party lines so that mitigation measures can be taken to address the problem. Mehta also maintained that reports from all states would be needed to get a comprehensive picture of the situation.“Let the states reply and then you will have an overall view,” the SG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-high-courts-are-running-parallel-govts-solicitor-general-on-migrant-workers-case/story-VIyig8sLFcCKH4BMaRqdRN.html
28-05-2020||India||Migrant workers’ law in focus as crisis intensifies||About 200 jobless migrant workers have died in accidents while cycling or walking back to their homes since the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed in late March. Their plight has put a spotlight on the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act enacted in 1979 to protect the rights of migrant workers. States like Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have proposed to register migrant workers, a provision that is already in the law. The Centre plans to bring changes to the law through a new code. Here is an explainer on what the law entails, reasons for its ineffectiveness, and what the government now proposes:Why was the law framed? Many socialist leaders in the Janata Party government of the 1970s were concerned about the exploitation of migrant workers hired from poorer places like Odisha and Bihar for construction projects. They were often paid very low wages and contractors would rarely keep promises made to them. A committee constituted on the recommendation of labour ministers of states in 1977 when the government fell, recommended a law to regulate the employment of inter-state migrant workers. It said the Contract Labour Act, 1970, was unable to protect their rights. Parliament eventually passed the new law in 1980.What protection did the law provide for the migrant workers?The law covers establishments and contractors that employ migrant workers and provides for their registration either with the Central or the state governments. The registration depends on with whom--the Centre or the states--the establishments are registered with. The law requires contractors to get licenses from states where they intend to bring labourers from. With 15 days of hiring, each contractor is required to provide complete details of migrant workers to the registering authority. Contractors have to maintain registers for all migrant workers and provide them a passbook containing details of their employment. The establishments have to provide a displacement allowance of 50% of the wages and fares in addition to wages during any disruption period. They are also required to provide accommodation and health facilities. The law prohibits employment of migrant workers without registration and state governments are required to appoint inspectors to ensure its implementation.What are the penal provisions in the law?The law provides for a jail term of up to a year and a fine of Rs 1,000 for any violation of the law. It gives labour inspectors powers to conduct inspections and take testimonies from workers any time and two-year jail for any obstruction to their work.Why has the law been ineffective? Experts say most governments forgot about the law after the economic liberalisation in the 1990s as there was an increase in the flow of migrant workers to urban areas and fast-emerging industrial towns. The number of migrant workers has increased significantly since. As per the 2011 Census, India had 56.6 million migrants workers mostly from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh. According to state labour bureaus, less than 5% of the migrant workers are enrolled with government agencies. Odisha, however, has a helpline and facilities for children of migrant workers. There is also no provision for companies to file annual reports on migrant workers employed and allowances paid to them. The law is based on the powers of inspectors, which could be misused. What are the lessons learnt from the Covid-19 pandemic?The Centre introduced the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code in Lok Sabha in July 2019 to subsume and replace 13 labour laws including the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act. The code retains some provisions of the law like contractors having to obtain licenses, the displacement and journey allowances for workers. Several other provisions, including the penal ones, have been excluded.A parliamentary panel has recommended a separate chapter on migrant workers in the code and said that every state should have a helpline for migrant workers. It noted the Code should have initiatives similar to those Odisha has adopted for migrant workers like a toll-free helpline, help desk, seasonal hostels for the their children as well as strengthening of the anti-human trafficking units and the setting-up of migration support centres.The Union labour ministry plans to accept the panel’s recommendations and have special social security for migrant workers. Officials say the provisions of the Code will apply to all migrant workers including domestic helps and those working in small factories. Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have sought to make registration of migrant workers mandatory with labour departments and to extend schemes such as subsidised ration under the Public Distribution System to them in the states of their employment through the ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme. Many states have also decided to continue with helplines for workers started during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-law-in-focus-as-crisis-intensifies/story-JdasIACACTryx1008KVyrN.html
28-05-2020||India||How last-minute intel thwarted joint mission by terror outfits||New Delhi: Hizbul Mujahideen’s ambition of carrying out an attack on the lines of the February 2019 suicide car bombing in Pulwama may have been fulfilled on Thursday had security agencies not received last-minute intelligence about the movement of a car packed with a powerful bomb in the area, two counter-terrorism officers said.Troops of Jammu and Kashmir’s Special Operations Group (SOG), Rashtriya Rifles, and the 182nd and 183rd battalions of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) secured all the routes to Pulwama and set up checkpoints on Wednesday night after receiving information that a Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist was driving a white Santro car laden with explosives, the officers said on condition of anonymity.Thy were told that the terrorist may be targeting a convoy of troops or planning to ram the explosive-laden car into a security forces camp.The car, fitted with a powerful bomb made of around 40-45 kg of ammonium nitrate and nitroglycerin, was spotted at Ayangund, Rajpora in Pulwama around 2.30 am on Thursday. The terrorist – identified as Adil – managed to flee through the jungles, but security agencies averted a repeat of the February 14, 2019 Pulwama suicide bombing n which 40 CRPF troopers were killed. The attack carried out by the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terror group prompted the Indian Air Force to bomb a JeM terror camp in Pakistan’s Balakot the same month and brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war. The two counter-terrorism officials cited above said three camps – two of the CRPF’s 183rd battalion and one of the Rashtriya Rrifles -- wee located within 3 km and 5 km of Ayangund where the Santro was intercepted.The area was evacuated by dawn and the bomb-laden vehicle was allowed to explode by bomb disposal squads because defusing it anually was deemed too risky, one of the officers said.J&K director general of police Dilbagh Singh said the attack was suspected to have been planned by JeM and the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). “This is purely a Jaish and Lashkar joint operation. But the (terror) factory is located in Pakistan, whether it produces terrorists of Hizbul, Jaish or the TRF (The Resistance Front),” Singh said.J&K Police Inspector General Vijay Kumar told reporters that It was not the first time terror groups in Kashmir had worked together. JeM, LeT and HM have regularly used each other’s resources and network of “overground workers” to carry out attacks on security forces or civilians, he said.At least five Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists - Hilal Ahmad Mantoo, Owais Amin, Umar Shafi, Aqib Shah, Shahid Wani and Wasim Ahmed Dar – disclosed toe the National Investigation Agency (NIA), after a failed car bombing on a CRPF convoy in Banihal on March 30, 2019, that the HM leadership aspired to carry out a Pulwama-like attack.The NIA will take over the probe of Thursday’s planned attack as well.Under pressure from Pakistan, terror groups have lately increased attacks in Jammu and Kashmir taking advantage of the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.Around 40 terrorists have been killed by security forces in encounters in April and May, including top Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riyaz Naikoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-last-minute-intel-thwarted-joint-mission-by-terror-outfits/story-nQ2hcWlORNawASu7Ux1ESL.html
28-05-2020||India||Monsoon likely in Kerala by June 1||The monsoon is likely to arrive in Kerala around its normal onset date of June 1, weather forecasting officials said on Thursday, after observing new developing patterns that could speed up the progress of the rain system.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) earlier said the monsoon may be delayed by four days but a low pressure that is likely to form over the southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea could help make up for the delay at present. “The low-pressure area is likely to bring rain to the west coast and make conditions favourable for advancement of monsoon earlier than expected. We can expect onset of monsoon over Kerala around June 1 or 2,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD. The Arabian Sea is “very warm” and parts of it are conducive for development and intensification of a cyclone but IMD scientists said it is too early to give details of cyclone development. “The models are not giving us a consensus statement right now. Some are showing intensification to a very intense or an extremely intense cyclone but many other global models are not showing such intensification. So, it’s too early to tell but a low-pressure area will form around May 31 to June 1. Sea conditions are favourable for intensification into a cyclone,” he added. In its April forecast, IMD said monsoon rains this year are likely to be normal at 100% of long period average with model error of 5%. The monsoon, technically known as the southwest monsoon, is crucial for India’s farmers who rely on rain for irrigation of summer crops. Around 60% of the country’s net-sown area does not have any form of irrigation. Millions of farmers wait for the rains to begin summer sowing of major crops, such as rice, sugar, cotton, coarse cereals and oilseeds. Deficient monsoon years have coincided with a drop in rural earnings, a factor that is likely to be more closely watched this year due to the widespread erosion of the economy as a result of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the lockdown it led to.The monsoon season begins in June and lasts till September. The rains usually cover most of the country by mid-July, though the pace is often independent of when it makes landfall on the subcontinent. Private forecaster Skymet Weather said the cyclone that is feared to develop may only move along the coast as a depression. “The low-pressure system that will develop will be a fast moving system and is likely to move along the coast as a depression. It will bring heavy rains to Maharashtra and south Gujarat but may not intensify into a cyclone,” said Mahesh Palawat, VP, climate and meteorology at Skymet Weather. “But the low pressure area will help pull monsoon current upwards and make it conducive for monsoon onset,” he added. Another low- pressure area has already developed over westcentral Arabian Sea. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region during next 48 hours and move northwestwards towards south Oman and east Yemen coast during next three days, the IMD said in a statement. Scientists are not expecting the current low pressure area to have much impact on the Indian coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-in-kerala-by-june-1/story-nVercjssxEdfJVqEuy6HPM.html
28-05-2020||India||100K Indians to return in Vande Bharat Phase 2||New Delhi A total of 100,000 Indians stranded in 60 countries across the globe due to the Covid-19 pandemic are expected to be brought back home by the end of the second phase of the country’s largest repatriation programme on June 13.More than 308,000 Indian nationals around the world have registered with missions abroad to be repatriated on compelling grounds under the Vande Bharat Mission, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual news briefing on Thursday.“We are targeting to bring back 100,000 passengers from 60 countries by the end of Phase II. Preparations for the third phase of Vande Bharat Mission are well underway,” he said. The first phase of Vande Bharat Mission, completed during May 7-16, resulted in the repatriation of 16,716 stranded Indians on 64 flights from a dozen countries. The second phase represents a massive scaling up of the programme, with 429 flights by Air India (311 international flights and 118 feeder flights) from 60 countries.The Indian Navy’s warships will make four sorties to bring back stranded Indians from Iran, Sri Lanka and the Maldives during the second phase.“As of 4 pm today [Thursday], 45,216 Indians have returned. These include 8,069 migrant workers, 7,656 students and 5,107 professionals. About 5000 Indians have returned through land border immigration checkpoints from Nepal and Bangladesh,” Srivastava said.The external affairs ministry has also assisted in the return of stranded Indians from remote locations in Latin America, the Caribbean, Africa, and parts of Europe.“This is being done by taking advantage of foreign carriers flying to India, primarily for evacuation of their nationals. Recently, about 300 stranded Indians from Peru, Mexico, Belize, Guatemala, Honduras, Portugal and Netherlands were brought back,” he said.Unlike the first phase that had only flights operated by Air India, private airlines have been included in the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission. Chartered flights have also begun to operate, and the number of flights is expected to go up further with permission for more chartered flights and efficient use of quarantine facilities.The external affairs ministry is working closely with Indian missions abroad and stakeholders such as state governments, the home, health and civil aviation ministries, Air India and the Indian Navy for the repatriation programme.On Wednesday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar chaired a review meeting with all stakeholders to ramp up the scale of Vande Bharat Mission and enhance its efficiency.The external affairs ministry has said priority will be given to repatriating Indians with compelling reasons to return home, such as those who have lost their jobs, people with medical emergencies, pregnant women and senior citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100k-indians-to-return-in-vande-bharat-phase-2/story-lv2vhBPzpZCiZqUlgQkclL.html
28-05-2020||India||‘Shocking’: Patna HC on viral video of toddler trying to wake up dead mother||Patna High Court on Thursday took suo motu cognizance of report on the viral heart-rending video showing a two-and-half-year-old child trying to wake up his dead mother by pulling the makeshift shroud at the railway platform in Muzaffarpur. The incident happened on Monday.“This warrants intervention by us in exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and as such we take suo motu cognizance of the news item and issue notice,” said the bench of the Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar after the matter was brought to their notice during the course of a hearing, when the latter brought it to the notice of the CJ.Describing the incident as “rather shocking and unfortunate”, the bench requested counsel Ashish Giri to assist the court as Amicus Curaie, as the apex court has also taken cognizance of matters pertaining to the migrants. The bench also asked Additional Advocate General-IX SD Yadav to ascertain from the nominated standing counsel for the state of Bihar in the Supreme Court, as to whether the apex court has taken cognizance of this particular incident or not. In the afternoon session, Yadav said that no information could be ascertained from the standing counsel in the apex court or the solicitor general of India. He, however, told the court that deceased was mentally unstable and had died a natural death during the course of her journey from Surat (Gujarat) and it was reported to railway authorities by her sister and brother-in-law Md Wazir. “The deceased, who had been deserted by her husband, had only one child,” he added.He said that after recording Wazir’s statement, the dead body was allowed to be taken home. “No post mortem was conducted and no FIR was registered. The district administration provided an ambulance up to the place of destination. The orphaned child is in safe custody and under guardianship of the sister of the deceased,” he said, adding that his statements were based on the instructions received and the recorded statement of Md Wazir.Awaiting instructions from the standing counsel in the Supreme Court, the bench fixed June 3 as the next date of hearing. “Let complete facts be made known to the Court, on the personal affidavit of the concerned Principal Secretaries before the next date,” it added.Earlier, the court raised several queries, viz. whether the postmortem of the dead-body was conducted? If yes, what was the cause of death? Did the woman actually die of hunger? Was she travelling alone with her sibling? If not, who all were her companions? Who is now taking care of the children/sibling(s), who unfortunately lost their mother?It issued notices to the union of India through the principal secretary, disaster management, New Delhi, the state of Bihar through its chief secretary, the departments of health & family welfare, disaster management, home, social justice through their principal secretaries, the Indian Railways and the IG (Police).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocking-patna-hc-on-viral-video-of-toddler-trying-to-wake-up-dead-mother/story-rpXTIT7ybwrFdQEXf4VBYP.html
28-05-2020||India||Jaishankar discusses post-Covid-19 economic recovery with EU foreign policy chief||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday held discussions with European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell on initiatives to promote post-Corona economic recovery and preparations for the 15th EU-India Summit.Jaishankar said they also shared perspectives on technology, connectivity and security.“Concluded a review meeting of #IndiaEU relations with EU HR/VP @JosepBorrellF. Discussed initiatives to promote post-Corona economic recovery. Underlined our shared perspectives on technology, connectivity and security. Preparing for India-EU Summit,” Jaishankar said in a tweet.In a statement, the EU said the main topics of their conversation were the response to the coronavirus pandemic and preparations for the 15th EU-India Summit, which had been postponed in March due to the outbreak of the virus.Borrell and Jaishankar confirmed the commitment of both the EU and India to work together to overcome the global pandemic and stressed the importance of an effective global socio-economic recovery, the statement said. Borrell also thanked Jaishankar for India’s assistance in facilitating the repatriation of over 11,000 EU tourists from India. “They agreed on the need to ensure the flow of crucial medical supplies, and on keeping global trade and value chains open,” the statement said.“Borrell and Jaishankar agreed that the current pandemic made the EU-India Strategic Partnership even more relevant. This was true in terms of joining efforts to strengthen the multilateral system, as well as in further developing the bilateral relationship, including trade and investment and security cooperation,” the statement said.The two leaders also discussed preparations for the EU-India Summit, which will be held as soon as possible, it said. “They looked forward to the Summit as an important opportunity to advance on all aspects of the EU-India relationship. They also discussed relevant foreign policy topics, including Afghanistan, China, and Iran,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-discusses-post-covid-19-economic-recovery-with-eu-foreign-policy-chief/story-1Igb74PVsrjJSTQeR4njCK.html
28-05-2020||India||Covid latest: Four deaths in Chhattisgarh quarantine centres in 48 hours||Three kids and one pregnant woman lodged in quarantine centres of Chhattisgarh have died in the last two days while the state government attempts to improve the management of quarantine facilities.The deaths were reported from Balod , Gariyaband, Kabirdham and Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi district of the state.On Thursday morning, a pregnant woman died at the quarantine centre of Darnighoda village panchayat in the Gariyaband district. The deceased was identified as Bhagwati Yadav (25) who was put in quarantine after she returned along with her father from Telangana.Chief Medical Officer of Gariyaband district, NR Navrantna, told Hindustan Times that Bhagwati was severely anaemic. “She was rushed to the government hospital in Raipur on May 14, but after spending six days there, she ran away from Raipur and came back to the quarantine centre. We got her checked twice... but on Thursday morning, she died. The body was sent for postmortem and the report is awaited,” said the CMO.Similarly, a five-month old infant living with his parents in Bhardakala quarantine centre in Balod district died on Thursday.“The infant’s name was Nishant and his parents came from Chandrapur (Maharashtra) on May 14. The baby was not feeling well and on May 24 his sample was taken, which was sent to Raipur on May 25. Since his condition was deteriorating, he was brought to the district hospital in Balod on Wednesday, but on Thursday morning he died,” said sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Balod S Thomas.On Wednesday, death of a two-year-old kid was reported from the newly formed Gaurela-Pendra Marwahi district of the state.“The father of the kid returned from Bhopal. The kid was having some respiratory problem due to which the death took place. Her mother was feeding her milk before she went to the bathroom. When she returned, she found her dead. Later, in the postmortem, it was found that she got choked on the milk,” a senior administrative official told Hindustan Times.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe officer further added that the girl’s entire family had to be quarantined because her father, who had returned from Bhopal on May 18, ran away to his family in the village from the quarantine centre. “The villagers informed us and then the whole family was quarantined,” said the officer.A three-month old from Kabirdham district was the second infant to perish on Wednesday.“The kid was having problems with milk intake, he was shifted from the quarantine centre and admitted to district hospital on May 25. A day after he was reported to be normal but died on Wednesday,” said Block Medical Officer Sanjay Kharsan.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday said that zonal officers have been appointed for monitoring of quarantine centers across the state.Each quarantine centre will have an in-charge officer to monitor the availability of basic facilities including health check-up and corona diagnosis test. The in-charge officers will be responsible for ensuring compliance of guidelines for operating the facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-latest-four-deaths-in-chhattisgarh-quarantine-centres-in-48-hours/story-R1GNWHYo9MgXR5PQ6azPZK.html
28-05-2020||India||India rejects Pakistan’s condemnation of start of work on Ram Mandir in Ayodhya||India on Thursday rejected Pakistan’s condemnation of the start of construction of the Ram Mandir Ayodhya, saying the neighbouring country had no locus standi on the issue.Pakistan had on Wednesday condemned the start of work on the Ram Mandir amid the Covid-19 pandemic, describing it as part of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) efforts to advance a “Hindutva agenda”. It also contended the Indian Supreme Court’s ruling on the Babri Masjid-Ram Mandir issue last year was “controversial” and “failed to uphold the demands of justice”.Responding to Pakistan’s statement, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, “We have seen an absurd statement by Pakistan on a matter on which it has no locus standi.”He added, “India is a nation served by the rule of law and which guarantees equal rights to all faiths. Pakistan’s Foreign Office may take time out and read their own constitution to realise the difference.”Pakistan had also said the Indian Supreme Court’s verdict “shredded the veneer of so-called secularism” and made it clear “minorities are not safe in India”.But Srivastava said: “Given its record, Pakistan should be embarrassed to even mention minorities. After all, numbers don’t lie even if they do.“As for the judiciary, Pakistan must realise that theirs is thankfully not the norm. There are others elsewhere with credibility and integrity that Pakistan understandably finds difficult to recognise.”Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has repeatedly targeted India in recent weeks for its handling of the Kashmir issue and the treatment of the country’s minorities. India has rebuffed such criticism and said Pakistan should focus on ending terrorism emanating from its soil and the harassment of its minorities.Ending a decades-old dispute, the Supreme Court had in November last year paved the way for building a Ram Mandir by a trust at the site in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-pakistan-s-condemnation-of-start-of-work-on-ram-mandir-in-ayodhya/story-3XfZWxYWttNRLR3a0ukdpL.html
28-05-2020||India||India still to hear from Pakistan on proposal for joint operations against locust swarms||India on Thursday said it is still to hear from Pakistan on a proposal for a coordinated response along with Iran to control the problem of desert locusts, which have devastated vast areas in all three countries.New Delhi is in the process of supplying 20,000 litres of the pesticide Malathion, made by Hindustan Insecticides Limited, to Tehran, for anti-desert locust operations, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual news briefing.“In view of the alarming situation of the locust problem this year, we had suggested that [the channel of communication with Pakistan] be activated and coordinated control operations be undertaken,” he said.“We are yet to receive a response from Pakistan,” he added.Hindustan Times had first reported on May 21 that Pakistan had not responded to India’s proposal for coordinated operations along with Iran to tackle the problem.Srivastava said India had taken the initiative for developing regional cooperation to control desert locusts because of the magnitude of the problem this year. India and Pakistan have a channel of communication, at the level of locust officials, that is usually activated in June, he said.People familiar with developments said India had even offered to supply Malathion, which has been found very effective in controlling desert locusts, to Pakistan.In Iran, the pesticides supplied by India will be used to control locust populations in Sistan-Balochistan and South Khorasan provinces, the people said on condition of anonymity.The proposal for coordinated operations was made by India against the backdrop of swarms of the destructive pests making their way to Indian states such as Rajasthan after breeding and maturing in Iranian provinces and Pakistan’s Balochistan province.India had also suggested to Pakistan that the two sides could coordinate locust control operations along their border, the people said.According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), hopper bands of locusts are maturing in the southwestern coastal plains of Iran, and another generation of breeding is underway in the country’s southeast. In Pakistan, adult groups of locusts are migrating to the Indian border from breeding areas in Balochistan, Punjab and Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa provinces.India has an institutionalised mechanism for cooperation with Pakistan, including regular border meetings between locust officers. Six meetings, led by plant protection advisers of India and Pakistan, are held every year from June to November, either at Munabao on the Indian side or Khokhropar on the Pakistani side, for exchanging information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-still-to-hear-from-pakistan-on-proposal-for-joint-operations-against-locust-swarms/story-dej6uKA27mTcTXiFQqnnNJ.html
28-05-2020||India||367 domestic flights operated till 5 pm on Thursday, says Hardeep Puri||A total of 367 domestic flights, carrying 30,136 passengers, operated throughout the country till 5 pm on Thursday, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said.Airports in West Bengal also started operations on Thursday, three days after domestic air travel resumed in India after a gap of two months.All scheduled domestic passenger services were suspended in India from March 25 to May 24 due to restrictions in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.Earlier in the day, Puri had said that 460 domestic flights carrying 34,336 passengers were operated on Wednesday.In the case of West Bengal, the minister on Sunday had said that the state will handle domestic flights from Thursday.“Figures for domestic flights for 28th May 2020 are in. Departures 367, 30,136 passengers handled. Arrivals 310, 25,530 passengers handled. Total movements 677 with 55,666 passenger footfalls at airports.“Total number of flyers 30,136. These are numbers till 1700 hrs for Day 4,” Puri said in a tweet. A total of 428 domestic flights carrying 30,550 passengers and 445 domestic services carrying 62,641 flyers were operated in the country on Monday and Tuesday, respectively. In February this year, when the lockdown was not imposed, around 4.12 lakh passengers travelled daily through domestic flights in India, according to Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data. During the pre-lockdown period, Indian airports handled around 3,000 daily domestic flights, aviation industry sources said.A total of 16 asymptomatic passengers on seven different flights including 13 of them who travelled by IndiGo have tested positive for COVID-19 since the resumption of domestic air services on Monday, according to airlines data. Two of the three asymptomatic passengers who tested positive for the infection had travelled by Spicejet while one took a flight of Air India subsidiary Alliance Air. The Karnataka government, meanwhile, said on Thursday it has requested the civil aviation ministry to reduce the number of flights originating from five states--Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan--in the light of the high number of COVID-19 cases there, hours after a minister said it has “suspended” air travel from these states. Seeking to clarify his statement, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy maintained that Karnataka has not sought imposing a ban on flights from the five states as reported in some sections of the media.“India is flying high. Domestic operation figures for May 27, 2020 (till 23.59 hrs): Departures 460 with 34,336 passengers handled. Arrivals 464 with 33,525 passengers handled,” Puri had said earlier in the day on Twitter.If a flight takes off before midnight and lands in another airport after midnight, its departure and arrival are counted on different days, leading to a seeming mismatch in the figures of a particular day.The Delhi airport, India’s busiest airport, is scheduled to handle 147 departures and 145 arrivals on Thursday, said senior government officials.The Mumbai airport’s operator MIAL said it handled a total of 50 domestic flights on Thursday.International passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country. Airports in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have been allowed to handle a restricted number of daily flights as these states do not want a huge influx of flyers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases.While domestic services resumed in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday, they restarted in West Bengal on Thursday.Though domestic flight operations across the country began on May 25, they could not be restarted in Kolkata and Bagdogra as the state’s machinery was involved in relief and restoration work after cyclone Amphan’s devastation.“Welcome Back, Passengers! Kolkata Airport saw the arrival of 122 passengers from @DelhiAirport after two long months and 40 passengers departed to Guwahati. Proper checks were followed, and regular sanitization was carried out in the terminal which was abuzz with passengers,” the Kolkata airport tweeted.On Thursday, eleven flights took off from Kolkata and an equal number arrived in the city, sources at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport said.“A total of 1,745 passengers arrived and 1,214 passengers flew out of the city today (Thursday),” airport sources said.The airports in Kolkata and Bagdogra are permitted to handle 20 daily flights each from Thursday onwards.While it is not clear how many flights were handled by the Bagdogra airport on Thursday, the officials said 899 passengers arrived while 484 passengers departed from the airport during the day. The West Bengal government recently came up with a set of guidelines for people arriving in the state on domestic flights.According to it, those entering the state from Thursday must submit a self-declaration form, stating that they have not tested positive for COVID-19 in the past two months.The passengers will also need to undergo health screening after they arrive at the airport, the state’s guidelines said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/367-domestic-flights-operated-till-5-pm-on-thursday-airports-in-west-bengal-resume-services/story-lGxS5hQn4saaDSe3QwbaEN.html
28-05-2020||India||Two dead in Assam floods, 3 lakh people affected in nine districts||Despite relief from incessant rain in most parts of the state on Thursday, the flood situation in Assam continued to remain grim with one more death due to drowning and total number of affected people increasing to 3 lakh in 9 districts.According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), one person died at Lakhipur in Goalpara district on Thursday taking the total number of deaths in the first floods of the year to two.With around 2 lakh affected people Goalpara is the worst-hit district. Other flood affected districts are Dhemaji, Nagaon, Hojai, Darrang, Nalbari, West Karbi Anglong, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia.The total number of affected people on Thursday was 2,94,710 in 300 villages of 15 revenue circles. Flood waters have also affected crops in 21,572 hectares, the ASDMA report said.Nearly 16,000 people displaced by flood waters are taking shelter at 90 relief camps in four of the nine affected districts. Nearly 500 people were evacuated by boats and taken to safe places.The Brahmaputra flowed above the danger mark at Nematighat in Jorhat district while the Kopili crossed the red mark at Kampur in Nagaon district.Rainfall and flood waters have damaged many embankments, roads, and bridges and also led to erosion at several places in the affected districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-dead-in-assam-floods-3-lakh-people-affected-in-nine-districts/story-D13DOC8JEotm5xnQjroOlI.html
28-05-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: 115 new cases take Jammu and Kashmir’s tally past 2000||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 115 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday taking the overall tally in the Union Territory to 2036, however, the Thursday figure was much less compared to Wednesday’s 162 cases- the highest single day rise in coronavirus cases.The number of casualties due to the virus rose to 27 in the region after the 55-year old man from north Kashmir‘s Khanpora, who died at a hospital in Srinagar on Wednesday, was confirmed positive for the virus on Thursday.Officials said the man was referred from GMC Hospital Baramulla with fever and respiratory distress to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh(SMHS) Hospital in Srinagar.“The patient expired within hours of admission. His sample tested positive for SARS COV-2 (COVID-19) today,” said nodal officer, Covid-19, Dr Salim Khan.24 of all Covid fatalities in the UT are from Kashmir division and three are from the Jammu division. Officials said that of the new 115 positive cases, 101 were reported in Kashmir while 14 were in Jammu division.Of the 10 districts of Kashmir division, fresh cases were reported in Anantnag, Srinagar, Kupwara, Baramulla, Shopian, Budgam and Pulwama districts, taking the total tally in the division to 1,636.The highest jump was in Kupwara with 45 new cases including 44 travellers, while Baramulla recorded 16 new cases including 12 travellers followed by Srinagar and Budgam, 11 cases each. There were single digit jumps in other districts in the Valley..11 out of the 450 samples tested at CD Hospital were found to be positive, said Dr Salim Khan. “Among the positive cases, three are pregnant women from Anantnag and a doctor of Budgam posted in district hospital Shopian,” he said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19In the Jammu division, the fresh cases were recorded in Jammu, Kathua, Udhampur and Reasi districts, taking the division tally to 400.Five more patients were discharged after recovery – one from Jammu division and four from Kashmir. So far, 859 out of the total 2036 cases have recovered, 763 of those are from Kashmir and 65 are from the Jammu division.At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 849 and 301 in Jammu.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesTill date, 1.55 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 37,009 in home quarantine, 55 in hospital quarantine and 38,021 under home surveillance. Besides these, 79,474 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.The union territory had recorded the highest single day spike of 162 new cases on Wednesday with two deaths due to the respiratory disease. On Tuesday, a 90-year-old corona positive man died at Kashmir’s Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) in Srinagar, while two persons – one each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions – died on Monday due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-115-new-cases-take-jammu-and-kashmir-s-tally-past-2000/story-pDbpda2qEZ8OUwd7uS2EpN.html
28-05-2020||India||10 Bihar migrant workers fly back home as employer plays Good Samaritan||Ten migrant workers from Samastipur are on cloud nine after their first flight from Delhi to Patna on Thursday because it was something they thought was virtually impossible.The man who made it possible for them to fly home is their employer - Pappan Singh Gahlot, a mushroom farmer of Tigipur village in Delhi, where the migrants used to work on a three-acre mushroom field.The 10 migrant workers from Shreepur Gahar village of Khanpur block in Samastipur district were stuck in Delhi during the lockdown, as they stayed back to complete some unfinished work in the fields. Forty of their co-workers had left for home before Holi.Gahlot who turned out to be a good Samaritan, arranged for their stay and food in Delhi during the lockdown. He even sent money to their families in Samastipur.That was not all.When the lockdown curbs were eased, he initially refused to allow them to go home by bus and then by Shramik Special trains but went on to buy them flight tickets worth Rs 68,000 as soon as the government announced resumption of domestic commercial flights.“My concern was that the migrant workers should not go home walking. The heavy rush in trains and buses dissuaded me to allow them to take the bus or train lest they contract coronavirus,” said Gahlot on phone from Delhi.On Thursday, the entire group of workmen — Naveen Ram, Mahesh Ram, Arjun Ram, Lakhendra Ram, Praveen Ram, Chandrashekhar Ram, Amarjeet Ram, Jeevath Ram, Dinesh Ram and Jitendra Ram — could not stop praising Gehlot enough. For them, he has become a demi-god.“Maalik (referring to Gahlot) came to see us off at the airport today and even handed each of us Rs 3,000 so that we can comfortably go home from Patna to Samastipur by road,” said Naveen.“We are going to go back to work for him in August,” said Mahesh, who was visibly elated after deplaning at the Patna airport on Thursday.“Their families have been working for us since 1993 when I took to mushroom farming. I never wanted to highlight the matter, but the media got a whiff of it when the workers were getting themselves checked for coronavirus at a hospital, days before taking the flight,” Gahlot added.The farmers landed at Patna by an IndiGo flight and promptly called Gahlot to express their gratitude.Over 19 lakh migrant workers have returned to Bihar from different parts of India by Shramik Special trains since May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-bihar-migrant-workers-fly-back-home-as-employer-plays-good-samaritan/story-37zIFXREvE5Lcm8R8OnEtL.html
28-05-2020||India||Home Minister Amit Shah speaks to all CMs, seeks their views on extension of lockdown||Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to all chief ministers on Thursday, and sought their views on extension of the ongoing nationwide lockdown beyond May 31, officials said.The telephonic conversations of the home minister came just three days before the end of the fourth phase of the lockdown.The nationwide curbs was first announced on March 25 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, and has been extended thrice.“The home minister spoke to all chief ministers and sought their views on extending the lockdown beyond May 31,” a home ministry official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-speaks-to-all-cms-seeks-their-views-on-extension-of-lockdown/story-hmYJHPFL4yPirh6uc9eB1N.html
28-05-2020||India||Heat wave relents after light showers in parts of north India; slight dip in temps in Rajasthan||The intense heat wave that gripped parts of north India relented on Thursday with light and sporadic showers in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, while Rajasthan saw a slight dip in temperatures after the mercury neared the 50-degrees mark a day earlier.Weather departments in these regions have forecast thunderstorm and light rains in the next 24 hours, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting that heat wave prevailing over plains of northwest and central India will likely further abate from Friday.Cloudy weather and sporadic rain gave the national capital much-needed relief from heat wave.The mercury dropped several notches during the day and further in the evening as strong winds swept across the city and many areas witnessed light rain.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 40.3 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year. On Tuesday, it recorded a high of 46 degrees Celsius -- equalling an 18-year-old record for May.The Palam Observatory recorded the maximum temperature at 41.8 degrees Celsius, down from 47.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. The IMD said the weather stations at Lodhi Road and Ayanagar recorded their respective maximum at 38.4 degrees Celsius and 40.4 degrees Celsius.Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), said a fresh western disturbance and easterly winds at lower levels caused the change in the weather.Dust storm and thunder storm with winds gusting up to 60 kilometers per hour is likely over Delhi-NCR on May 29-30,” he said.In large areas, heat wave is declared when the maximum temperature is 45 degrees Celsius for two consecutive days and severe heat wave is when the mercury touches the 47 degrees Celsius mark for two days on the trot.In small areas, like the national capital, heat wave is declared if the temperature soars to 45 degrees Celsius even for a day, according to the IMD. Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region experienced torrid weather conditions with Banda recording 44.6 degrees Celsius and Jhansi 44.2 degrees Celsius.State capital Lucknow got a little respite from the blistering heat and recorded 35.6 degrees Celsius, the MeT office said.Rain, thunderstorm and also dust storm have been forecast at certain places in Uttar Pradesh during the next 24 hours. Rajasthan’s Churu and Sriganganagar districts recorded 46.9 degrees Celsius. The temperature in Churu hovered around the 50-degrees mark for the past two days. It was 45.4 degrees Celsius in Jaisalmer, 45.2 in Bikaner, 45 in Kota, 44.3 in Barmer, 44.1 in Jaipur, 42.3 in Jodhpur and 41.1 degrees Celsius in Ajmer. The MeT department gas forecast dust storm, thunderstorm and gusty winds of 50-60 kmph is several districts.Light rain at isolated places and gusty winds on Thursday brought slight relief from the scorching heat in Punjab and Haryana as maximum temperatures settled below the 40-degree mark at many places.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, which received light shower, recorded a maximum temperature of 37.5 degrees Celsius, one notch below normal limits, the meteorological department said here.In Haryana, Karnal recorded a high of 35.4 degrees Celsius, down four notches while Ambala registered a maximum temperature of 36.6 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal.Narnaul and Hisar, however, continued to sizzle recording respective maximums of 43.8 degrees Celsius and 44.1 degrees Celsius, though the mercury dropped by a couple of notches in comparison with temperatures recorded in these two towns over the past two days.Punjab’s Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded below-normal maximum temperatures of 38.8 degrees Celsius, 38.7 degrees Celsius and 37.9 degrees Celsius respectively.The weatherman has forecast light to moderate rain and thundershowers at many places on May 29 and 30, and thereafter at isolated places in the state.In Kerala, the government has warned fishermen not to put out to sea from midnight tonight and prohibited fishing activities in view of the possible formation of a low pressure area over South East and adjoining Arabian Sea.The South West Monsoon is expected to hit Kerala on June 1, with a cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal, according to the IMD.As per the IMD bulletin at 5 PM, there was a possibility of the formation of the low pressure area from May 31-June 4 and the conditions were likely to become favourable for the onset of the South West Monsoon on June 1 in Kerala.In the east, an overnight downpour, coupled with gusty winds, claimed at least two lives and dealt a fresh blow to the city and other south Bengal districts on Thursday, a week after Cyclone Amphan battered the state, leaving behind a trail of destruction.In North 24 Parganas, a 40-year-old man was killed and five others were injured after a brick wall collapsed on them, police said.One person died in a lightning strike at Durgapur in West Burdwan district, a disaster management department official said.Sources in the Kolkata Traffic Police said the squall, which started on Wednesday evening, left parts of Central Avenue, MG Road, Bidhan Sarani and Ultadanga heavily waterlogged for at least a few hours, inconveniencing workers undertaking relief work in the wake of the May 20 cyclone.In Howrah, several areas including Panchanantala Road, Shibpur, and Mandirtala remained inundated, with just a few shops lifting shutters during the day.Official sources said the heavy rain, preceded by the Nor’wester, has also disrupted life in Nadia, Hooghly, North and South 24 Parganas, East and West Midnapore districts, which are already under severe strain for the past eight days due to the cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heat-wave-relents-after-light-showers-in-parts-of-north-india-slight-dip-in-temps-in-rajasthan/story-nhqotxmCMqtjzZkRRZK2WM.html
28-05-2020||India||Delhi sees highest single-day spike with 1,024 new Covid-19 cases, tally touches 16,281||Delhi on Thursday registered a record spike of 1,024 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day jump till date, taking the national capital’s total coronavirus tally to 16,281, according to state health department data.There were no deaths reported in Delhi during the last 24 hours and the death toll due to the highly infectious disease now stands at 316 in the national capital.At least, 231 coronavirus positive patients have recovered and been discharged from various hospitals on Thursday.ALSO READ | 3 Delhi Jal Board staff test Covid-19 positive, water utility’s office to be shut for 2 daysTill date, a total of 7,495 coronavirus patients have recovered and been sent home.The previous highest single-day spike of 792 cases was recorded a day earlier on Wednesday.This is the first time that over 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases have been reported in a single day in the national capital.On Wednesday, the total number of coronavirus cases had been 15,257 in Delhi, with the death toll at 303.A total of 129 Covid-19 positive patients were admitted on Thursday in the capital’s Dedicated Covid Health Centres.The Delhi health department’s bulletin, however, added that the cumulative death figure of the capital refers to the fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be Covid-19, according to a report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case-sheets received from various hospitals.India’s total Covid-19 count climbed to 1,58,333 on Thursday, according to Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-sees-highest-single-day-spike-with1-024-new-covid-19-cases-tally-touches-16-281/story-HDHCfGbO6ockdqENK6J5tL.html
28-05-2020||India||Karnataka bars transport from 5 states, then says it sought reduction of incoming flights||Shortly after the Karnataka government announced Thursday that it was suspending arrivals of flights, trains and vehicles from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, MP and Rajasthan into the state to contain the spread of Covid-19, it issued a clarification that it had requested for reduction in number of incoming flights from these five states.The government said that the request for reduction in numbers of incoming flights from the five coronavirus hotspot states for the next fortnight was ‘with the sacred intention that there may not be adequate quarantine facilities, if there is a huge turnout at a short span of time.’The decision was announced by law minister J C Madhuswamy after a cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.However, Karnataka made it clear that it would bar people coming by road from Gujarat, TN and Maharashtra from entering the state. But those who want to go to these states would be permitted, the government clarified.These measures were announced after the state has seen a continuous spike in cases recently, mainly due to those coming from these highly infected states.On Thursday 115 more people tested positive for Coronavirus in the state – almost all of whom had travelled from other states. who had come back or entered the state – taking the cumulative tally to 2,533 cases including 834 discharges and 47 deaths.The government also issued a new SOP by which any person who has completed seven days of institutional quarantine and is asymptomatic can be permitted for home quarantine without a Covid test as long as the he or she undergoes medical checkup – which includes thermal screening where temperature has to be less than 37.5 degree centigrade and pulse oximetry should be greater than 94%.All elderly (above 60 years of age) and those with co-morbidities like blood pressure and diabetes are to be clinically evaluated before shifting them to home quarantine. All such people shall mandatorily be under home quarantine and their hands stamped as well as details entered into quarantine watch app. The government has taken this measure to ease the pressure on the institutional quarantine mechanism as a large number of people are coming into the state, Madhuswamy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bars-transport-from-5-states-then-says-it-sought-reduction-of-incoming-flights/story-B01oVmCvOShlc6tYip4vgI.html
28-05-2020||India||India calls for ‘constructive and positive efforts’ to resolve border row with Nepal||India on Thursday called for “constructive and positive efforts” to end a border row with Nepal, saying mutual sensitivity and an environment of trust are necessary for handling such issues among neighbours.Earlier this week, the Nepal government deferred its plan to move a constitutional amendment in Parliament to update the country’s political map, which depicts Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepalese territory, after the main opposition Nepali Congress party sought time to discuss the issue.This development allowed some breathing room for the two sides to tackle the border row, which began after Nepal protested against India’s recent opening of an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the Chinese border. Nepal claims Lipulekh but the external affairs ministry contended the road was “completely within the territory of India”.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual news briefing that India is monitoring the situation in Nepal related to recent developments on the boundary issue. “We note this matter is receiving careful consideration in Nepal, taking its seriousness into account,” he said.“India is open to engaging with all its neighbours on the basis of mutual sensitivity and mutual respect, in an environment of trust and confidence. This is a continuous process and requires constructive and positive efforts,” he added, without giving details.Nepal’s budget for fiscal 2020-21 was presented in Parliament on Thursday, and much of the discussions within the House are expected to focus on it. The Nepali Congress is scheduled to meet on Saturday to discuss the constitutional amendment, while the government is planning to take up the matter again on Sunday.The constitutional amendment is necessary to give legal backing to the new political map. While India has said Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura are part of its territory, it has remained open to dialogue to resolve the issue.The ruling Nepal Communist Party has a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly or upper house of Parliament, enough to pass the amendment, but needs the support of other parties to pass it in the House of Representatives or lower house.Srivastava said India attaches “great importance” to its historical and friendly relations with Nepal. “In recent years, our relations have been on an upward trajectory which is evident from expanding and diversified bilateral cooperation and increased [Indian] assistance for development and connectivity projects,” he said.“This has resulted in timely implementation of several large-scale and critical projects. Even in these challenging times of Covid-19 pandemic, India has ensured unimpeded trade and supply of essentials, including medicines to Nepal, besides providing assistance in terms of medical supplies and other facilitation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-calls-for-constructive-and-positive-efforts-to-resolve-border-row-with-nepal/story-bxdWWNdQZRIa2e715AfyAJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Covid-19 recoveries outstrip active cases in Odisha||Odisha achieved an important benchmark on Thursday in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic with the number of fully recovered patients exceeding the number of active cases.The state which recorded its first case on March 15, had seen its numbers spike in the last fortnight before scripting a turnaround of sorts.“More than half of those affected with Covid-19 have been cured and have returned to their homes. Our death rates are among the lowest in the world. This is a big achievement for a state like Odisha and we the people of Odisha. Powerful nations of the world and big states of India, rich states have not been this successful in the war with corona. This is an extraordinary achievement for the Odia people,” chief minister Naveen Patnaik said in a pre-recorded video message aired on local TV channels.On Thursday, 75 Covid-19 patients in the state recovered taking the total number of recoveries to 887 while the number of active Covid-19 cases was 776 after 67 new cases were detected. The state’s Covid-19 tally is now 1,660.Additional chief secretary of health department, Pradipta Kishore Mohapatra said Odisha’s recovery rate is now around 49 per cent compared to the national average of 41 per cent.As per ICMR guideline, Odisha is discharging Covid-19 positive cases with very mild symptoms after 10 days of detection with a caveat that they should not have fever for three days consecutive days. Health authorities have also discontinued the practice of conducting two back-to-back tests on such patients before discharge.“The recovery rate will go up in the coming days as we are seeing more and more asymptomatic cases,” said Mohapatra.On social media however, Patnaik’s claims of Odisha’s lowest death rates came under fire with some pointing out that a state like Chhattisgarh has had no deaths.Renowned epidemiologist Jayprakash Mulyil also said this is not the time to boast about the lowest death rate. “We are still in the middle of a pandemic and it would be better to take stock after it is over,” he said.Meanwhile, chief minister Patnaik has urged the people to sing Odisha’s state song ‘Bande Utkal Janani’ at 5.30 pm on May 30 to motivate corona warriors.“Bande Utkal Janani was the original song of Utkal Sammilani during the movement for the formation of a separate province of Odisha. Now, it will inspire us to strengthen our commitment to the fight against coronavirus. It will provide us the strength to face the challenges ahead,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recoveries-outstrip-active-cases-in-odisha/story-F6riNQjfSWfKVniuRa6UjO.html
28-05-2020||India||Coronavirus vaccine latest updates: 30 groups trying, many working at good pace, says govt||Nearly 30 groups in India, ranging from big industry players to individual academics, are trying to develop vaccines to fight coronavirus, Principal Scientific Adviser K VijayRaghavan said on Thursday.Of these 30, 20 are working at a good pace, he said.“About 30 groups in India, big industry to individual academics are trying to develop vaccines to fight Covid-19 of which 20 are keeping a good pace,” VijayRaghavan said at a media briefing. Without naming the entity, he said some players are at a pre-clinical stage and may reach the clinical stage by October. He said vaccine development currently takes nearly 10 years and costs around USD 200-300 million, but the aim the world over is to find a vaccine for coronavirus in a year. But this requires a parallel processing, he noted. “Instead of working on one vaccine and seeing whether it works for a 10-year period, and investing on that, we have to invest in 100 vaccines (development). The world is investing on more than 100 vaccines at the same time,” he said, adding that the entire process will now cost USD 2-3 billion. VijayRaghavan said it is also essential to go past the regulatory process without comprising on quality while finding a vaccine.Elaborating the work done by the Indian companies and institutions in vaccine development, he said efforts are being made to develop it within the country. On the other hand, Indian companies and institutions have also partnered with entities outside working on the same mission.He also cautioned that the logistics of making a vaccine accessible to everyone will be a big challenge as the most vulnerable lot will need it the most. Designing a new drug, he said, is a “very very big challenge” and just like a vaccine it takes a very long time. “Most attempts fail and thus you have to try a lot,” he said. He said the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has been working on using different types of drugs for fighting the coronavirus. VijayRaghavan said the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and the AICTE have also embarked on a drug discovery hackathon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-vaccine-latest-updates-30-groups-working-at-good-pace-says-govt/story-hesrUsPjjDbRHnSQBbCu9J.html
28-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 84 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, CM slams critics for running down state and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times84 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, CM slams critics for running down stateKerala reported 84 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday in the highest spike yet to take the tally to 1,088 while a Covid-19 patient died to take the casualties to eight, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Read more. NHRC issues notices to Centre, Rlys, Gujarat and Bihar over migrants’ woesThe National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) said Thursday that it has sent notices to the Union home secretary, the Railways and the governments of Gujarat and Bihar over hardships faced by migrants onboard special trains due to delay in services and lack of food and water allegedly leading to sickness and death of some of them. Read more.Hydroxychroloquine should be used as per guidelines, its benefits outweighs risks: Niti Aayog memberAs per the current available data, benefits of anti-malarial drug Hydroxychroloquine (HCQ) “outweighs” the risks, if any, Niti Aayog member V K Paul said on Thursday, asserting it should be used as per guidelines and recommendations made by the scientific community. Read more.Akshay Kumar apologises to Twinkle Khanna, says ‘mere pet pe laat mat maro’ after he forgets her in PadMan tweetAs PadMan completed two years of its release, Akshay Kumar lauded the team for placing their faith in a film on a ‘taboo’ subject and creating awareness about it. While he tagged his co-stars Sonam Kapoor and Radhika Apte in his tweet, he left out his wife Twinkle Khanna, who was the producer. Read more. TikTok rating on Google Play shoots up to 4.4 stars in just 24 hoursTikTok’s rating on Google Play Store has taken a completely different turn as it now stands at 4.4 stars. Just yesterday, the app’s rating was 2.9 stars and in less than 24 hours it has shot up to 4.4 stars. Read more.I’m getting my boobs out: Chrissy Teigen’s controversial home coronavirus test was in preparation for surgeryModel and Cravings cookbook author Chrissy Teigen recently faced backlash when she posted a video of herself getting a coronavirus test done at home. Read more.This choking seal was helped by rescuers, its thankful glance will melt your heart. WatchYou may have heard the phrase ‘not all heroes wear capes’. Some, like these sea life rescuers, wear gloves and use scissors as a tool for salvation.This just over 40-second-long clip was posted on TikTok by an account called ‘namib_naude’ on May 26. Read more. Assam floods: Brahmaputra continues to swell, around 10 lakh affectedWater level continues to rise in river Brahmaputra, as Assam deals with a major flood crisis. The Chief Minister said that around 10 lakh people have been affected by the deluge and around 9 districts are severely hit. Disaster Management authorities in the state said that around 321 villages are completely under water. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-84-new-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-cm-slams-critics-for-running-down-state-and-all-the-latest-news/story-lgGQ6BlPwgSjlHIE57JIeI.html
28-05-2020||India||‘Even God would have failed’: MP minister says loan waiver promise was a fraud by Congress||Farmers welfare and agriculture development minister in Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet, Kamal Patel, dubbed the previous Congress government’s farmers loan waiver scheme ‘a fraud’ committed on farmers while dropping enough hints that the present BJP government is not going to continue with the scheme.In the run-up to 2018 assembly elections, the Congress party had promised to waive loan of farmers up to Rs 2 lakh per head. The then Congress president Rahul Gandhi had backed that commitment by claiming that if Congress failed in keeping its promise within the first 10 days of coming to power, the chief minister would lose his post.After coming to power, the Congress launched ‘Jai kisan fasal rin maafi yojna’ to implement loan-waiver promise for about 5 million farmers to the tune of approximately Rs 55,000 crore. It added a rider that the loan waiver scheme will be implemented in phases with farmers having loans up to Rs 50,000 per head to be covered in the first phase and no waiver of loans for income tax payee farmers.The then government claimed to have waived off loans of 2 million farmers, worth approximately Rs 7,000 crore, in the first phase until March, 2019. The then chief minister Kamal Nath announced that about 1.2 million farmers would benefit from loan waiver of Rs 11,675 crore in the second phase that began as late as in December 2019.In an interview, Kamal Patel likened the Congress’ promises to that of a leader from his district, Harda, who used to contest assembly elections as an independent candidate with lofty promises to bring back India’s looted gold and silver from England, making temples of gold and people’s houses with silver and of making air travel so convenient that people could land helicopters in their fields to curb road accidents.For Coronavirus Live Updates“Congress knew it was not going to win the elections. It had won 58 seats in 2013 assembly elections and feared that due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s welfare initiative, it might not win even 20 seats; hence they decided to tell lies only. The Congress Vachan patra (election manifesto) was full of promises to such an extent that even God would not have been able to fulfill it had he got down to Earth”, said the minister.Kamal Patel said, “The Congress tried to lure every section of the society. Farmers were promised Rs 2 lakh per head loan waiver that meant the waiver amount will multiply several times depending upon loan takers in a family. They promised Rs 4,000 per month to unemployed youths, Rs 1,000 pension to the physically challenged, regularisation of services to daily wagers and guest faculty in degree colleges and many other promises. Was this not fraud and deceit? That’s why I asked farmers to go and lodge FIR against the Congress leaders for committing fraud on them with a criminal conspiracy.”The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The minister said the BJP government was working on making farmers self-reliant so that they wouldn’t need loans.“In just two months, the BJP government headed by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had taken several decisions to increase income of farmers and make them self-reliant. The bar on the maximum amount of weighing of the agriculture produce at mandis had been done away with. This would save farmers’ diesel and time worth crores of rupees. Similarly, raising the limit of procurement for gram, lentil and mustard from 15 quintal to 20 quintal per hectare has resulted in additional income of Rs 762 crore to the farmers.Hitting back, the then agriculture minister Sachin Yadav said Congress’ loan waiver scheme was a response to farmers suicide during BJP’s 15-year rule in the state. He claimed the Congress government was going to launch the third phase of loan waivers from June 1 before it got toppled.“I challenge chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and agriculture minister Kamal Patel to tour the state with me to know the reality. The fact is, during the BJP’s regime of 15 years, Madhya Pradesh had earned a bad name as a state with highest number of farmers’ suicide cases due to wrong policies of the BJP. We waived loans worth Rs 11,500 crore of 2.66 million farmers in the first and the second phase and we were going to launch the third phase from June 1.”He added, “People are highly upset with the BJP government and will give a befitting reply to it in the ensuing bypolls in the state.”The state Congress spokesperson Abhay Dubey echoed the sentiment.“We had handed over a list of 21 lakh farmers to Shivraj Singh Chouhan ji at his bungalow when he was in the Opposition. There was no statement from him on this. But no one can help if BJP has decided to only tell lies. Congress will be back in power after the bypolls for 24 assembly seats and will not only waive the remaining farmers’ loans but also transfer some monthly amount in the bank accounts of migrant labourers,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-god-would-have-failed-mp-minister-says-loan-waiver-promise-was-a-fraud-by-congress/story-70JuFodkcU23NzgqdKIucL.html
28-05-2020||India||NHRC issues notices to Centre, Rlys, Gujarat and Bihar over migrants’ woes||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) said Thursday that it has sent notices to the Union home secretary, the Railways and the governments of Gujarat and Bihar over hardships faced by migrants onboard special trains due to delay in services and lack of food and water allegedly leading to sickness and death of some of them.In a statement, it observed that the “state has failed to protect the lives of the poor labourers onboard the trains”.It said it has taken suo motu cognizance media reports that the trains which are ferrying the migrant labourers are not only starting late but are taking many additional days to reach their destinations.“In one of the reports, it is alleged that many migrant labourers lost their lives during their journey by train due to longer duration and no arrangements for drinking water and food etc,” the NHRC said.Two persons reportedly died in Muzaffarpur and one each in Danapur, Sasaram, Gaya, Begusarai and Jehanabad in Bihar, including a 4-year-old boy. All of them reportedly died due to hunger.“In another incident, a train reportedly started from Surat district in Gujarat for Siwan in Bihar on May 16 and reached Bihar on May 25, after nine days,” the NHRC said.The Commission has observed that the contents of the media reports, if true, amount to gross violations of human rights. The aggrieved families have suffered irrevocable loss, it said.It has issued notices to the chief secretaries of Gujarat and Bihar, Chairman of the Railway Board (CRB) and Union home secretary seeking detailed reports.The chief secretaries of the government of Gujarat and Bihar are expected to specifically inform as to what steps were taken to ensure basic facilities, including medical help for the migrant labourers who boarded the trains, it said. The response from all the authorities is expected within four weeks positively, the statement said.On Wednesday, at least seven deaths were reported aboard Shramik Special trains that have been deployed to ferry stranded migrants but the Indian Railways said most died of existing illnesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-issues-notices-to-centre-rlys-gujarat-and-bihar-over-migrants-woes/story-BMX3XwjmAvccVzVY7QRzgO.html
28-05-2020||India||Pune focuses on senior citizens in view of 56% deaths due to Covid-19||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to pay greater attention to senior citizens in Covid-19 containment zones since the highest number of coronavirus fatalities in the city are among them.As of May 27, a total of 273 people have died due to Covid-19 in Pune, with people above the age of 60 accounting for 153 of those deaths. As per PMC data, senior citizens account for almost 56 percent of the total deaths in the city due to the contagion.Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Fatalities are highest among people above the age of 60 and in many cases there have been late admissions, as a result of which they are critical at the time of admission itself. The PMC has now decided to concentrate on this group to bring down the death ratio of senior citizens.”He said instructions have been given to the medical staff to focus on the check-up of senior citizens in the containment zones. This would include a basic check-up, temperature, blood sugar levels, blood pressure and other illnesses. Specialists from Indian Medical Association will assist in the check-up for chest pain and diabetes, he said.Also Read: Covid-19 cases in Pune district climb to 6,643; death toll 298This would include a swab test for those with primary symptoms of Covid-19.PMC health officer Ramchandra Hankare said, “We are concentrating on the containment zones mainly. As the senior citizens are turning critical after becoming positive, we have decided to keep focus on them and do their check-up in the containment zones.”Pune city has a total of 65 containment clusters which are located in high density areas. A number of slums in the city have turned into containment zones, with the most critical ones located in Bhavani Peth and Kasba-Vishrambaug wards.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesA civic officer said the PMC is gathering data on senior citizens from various sources such as senior citizens’ organisations, senior citizens’ cell with Pune police and through door-to-door surveys. The civic body is also planning to bring restrictions on the movement of senior citizens in the containment and other zones in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-focuses-on-senior-citizens-in-view-of-56-deaths-due-to-covid-19/story-XePQQgepftpHB0VpX8esiL.html
28-05-2020||India||Engaged with China to resolve border row peacefully: India on Trump’s offer to mediate||India on Wednesday said it was engaged with China to resolve the border issue while reacting to US President Donald Trump’s offer to mediate between the two countries to settle the festering dispute.“We are engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve it,” External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, replying to a volley of questions at an online media briefing.In the midst of the tense border standoff between India and China, Trump on Wednesday said he was “ready, willing and able to mediate” between the two countries.“We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute,” Trump said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/engaged-with-china-to-resolve-border-row-peacefully-india-on-trump-s-offer-to-mediate/story-1G3ZWFdyisKSZ7z9S7G8rM.html
28-05-2020||India||Law school grads arrange flight for over 165 Jharkhand migrants stranded in Mumbai||Over 165 migrant workers were ferried back home to Jharkhand from Mumbai in a chartered flight, which was arranged by the alumni network of a Bengaluru-based law school, making it the first such instance in the country amid the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, an official statement said.The Air Asia flight carrying 169 migrant workers and five children left the western metropolis at 6.25 am and reached Ranchi, the Jharkhand capital, around 8.25 am, an airline spokesperson said.The spokesperson said the National Law School (NLS) alumni association had taken on lease a 180-seater A320 plane, a first such charter operation by the budget carrier since passenger services resumed in the country.“AirAsia India is proud to be a part of this initiative that helps migrant workers, adversely impacted by the lockdown, reach their homes and families.“We have been working closely with the organisers, alumni of the National Law School, who we understand have independently crowdfunded their efforts to assist and repatriate migrant workers from Mumbai to Ranchi,” the official said in a statement.At Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Airport, the migrant workers underwent a medical screening and the administration provided them with food packets, before sending them off to quarantine centres in different districts of Jharkhand in buses.Expressing gratitude to the alumni association of the law school in Bengaluru, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren said, “This is the first time in the country that a plane brought mazdoor back during the lockdown. I appreciate the effort of the Alumni Network of National Law School, Bengaluru.” Shyel Trehan, one of those behind the initiative, said in the statement, “We are happy to have made this very small contribution to addressing a massive travesty. I would like to thank AirAsia for all their support.” “This was a massive group effort with Priya Sharma, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT Bombay, and the alumni from the National Law School working together,” Trehan said.One of the workers, after completing the formalities at the airport, said he would want to thank the law school alumni network and the state for ensuring his safe return.“I work as a welder in Mumbai. All of us are happy to return. I would like to thank everybody who facilitated our return,” he told reporters.Soren, on his part, said the state is committed to bringing back all the migrant workers stranded in different corners of the country and in this endeavour, the “government has established communication with the Centre”. PTI PVR IAS RMS RC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-school-grads-arrange-flight-for-over-165-jharkhand-migrants-stranded-in-mumbai/story-xSO1u8nB8HPpzci0b0u7KO.html
28-05-2020||India||32-year-old cancer patient tests Covid-19 positive hours after his death in Uttarakhand||A 32-year-old cancer patient in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district, who died on Thursday morning while in home quarantine, tested positive for Covid-19 hours after his death. Health officials have attributed his death to cancer and not coronavirus.The cancer patient was a resident of Ramnagar and had returned from Delhi on May 25 where he was undergoing treatment since the past four months. Dr. Bharti Rana, chief medical officer of Nainital said the health department was not aware of the patient’s travel history to Delhi.“He was being treated at a private hospital for quite some time, where the doctors took his samples for testing. Meanwhile, the patient was sent home where he died on Thursday. As of now, we will isolate all his family members and take their samples for testing. Personal protection kits have also been given to the family members for protection while completing the rituals,” said Dr. Rana.On Monday, another person was declared Covid-19 positive four days after his passing on May 21. The Monday health bulletin acknowledged that the 48-year-old man, who had returned from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh and was under home-quarantine, had tested positive for disease but didn’t name the virus as the cause.For Coronavirus Live Updates“As per protocol the man’s samples were sent for RTPCR examination on May 22 which was detected as positive for Covid-19. The cause of death could not be ascertained as per the post-mortem examination report. Hence viscera is preserved and sent for histo-pathological analysis.”Dr. Manoj Bahukhandi, chief medical officer of Pauri Garhwal district said that a team of doctors had been sent to the village of the cancer patient to analyse the situation and take samples of his close contacts. This is the fourth Covid-19 case where the cause of death is not being attributed to the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32-year-old-cancer-patient-tests-covid-19-positive-hours-after-his-death-in-uttarakhand/story-pFOYg4PnhvYG2bRpIv5O1J.html
28-05-2020||India||1 lakh Indians to be brought back by end of Vande Bharat phase 2 mission: MEA||Close to one lakh Indians stranded abroad will be brought back home by the end of the second phase 2 of the Vande Bharat Mission, MEA sources said.The second phase of the mission ends on June 13.Some 3,08,200 Indians have registered with the missions abroad to come back home amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The navy will make four sorties to Sri Lanka, Maldives and Iran to bring back stranded Indians.At least, 5000 Indians have come back by land borders of neighbouring Nepal and Bangladesh recently.Last week, the government had added 141 more flights to West Asian countries for the second phase of the Vande Bharat Mission, its massive repatriation programme for citizens stranded abroad because of Covid-19-related travel restrictions.The flights were added due to increased demand from citizens stranded in West Asian countries and the availability of adequate quarantine facilities in states for the returning Indians. As with all the flights operated so far under Vande Bharat Mission, priority would be given in the second phase also to Indian nationals with valid reasons for returning to the country.The second phase of the repatriation programme began on May 16 and will continue till June 13.Almost all the flights being sent will be by state-run Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express. Private airlines too are likely to be included in the third phase of the Vande Bharat Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-lakh-indians-to-be-brought-back-by-end-of-vande-bahrat-phase-2-mission-official/story-nJuqUgX6xfepGUwSHmakSK.html
28-05-2020||India||‘If you cheat, then…’: CPI (M) legislator in welcome speech to new members||CPI (M) legislator PK Sasi, stating the “party policy”, is heard telling new members that if they cheat the party by leaving it, it will go to any lengths to “trouble them”.“If you are with the party it will protect you come what may, but if you cheat it will go to any extent to trouble you. That is the policy of our party for long,” he said addressing a group of Muslim League workers who quit the party to join the ruling CPI(M). The controversial law-maker, who was earlier suspended from the party for alleged sexual misconduct, made the speech in Shornur (Palakkad) on Wednesday. He also said the party will support everyone who believes in its ideology come what may and it has a strong bond with workers. It is not clear how the speech got leaked to the media. As controversy swirled around his speech, he expressed regret by saying it was a slip on his part. “I spoke these words just to inspire a group of people who left our rival party to join us. It was a party function and I should not have used such words. I really regret it,” he said. The Congress and the BJP have sought action against him, saying “he was spelling out the violent nature of the party.” The ruling CPI(M) is yet to comment on his speech but many leaders expressed serious reservations over it, saying “it was unwarranted and uncalled for”. The video shows that more than 25 people attended the meeting and social distancing norms were flouted. “They are beyond the law of the land. They can indulge in anything and get away. The party is there to protect them,” said Congress MLA Anil Akkara, who is in home quarantine with three party MPs for meeting stranded people along the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border two weeks back.A legislator from Shornur Sasi was suspended from the party for six months last year after a woman leader filed a sexual harassment complaint against him. Later a two-member party commission, which investigated the complaint, found no evidence of sexual advances, but his telephonic conversation with the complainant was not suited to the stature of a Communist leader. Subsequently, action was taken against him.Later he was welcomed back into the party fold. The complainant did not file a police complaint as directed by the party. Though the Congress and BJP asked the party to hand over her complaint to the police it refused saying it was an internal matter of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-you-cheat-then-cpi-m-legislator-in-welcome-speech-to-new-members/story-x0ZuAGnITvji2KW6U9oCVO.html
28-05-2020||India||Manipur’s Covid-19 tally goes up to 55 with 11 new cases||Manipur has reported 11 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in the last 24 hours, as the overall tally in the state rose to 55, health officials said on Thursday.Dr Kh Sasheekumar Mangang, additional deputy director and spokesperson of the state health department, in a press release said that seven and four people tested Covid-19 positive at Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) and Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS), Imphal, respectively. “The patients, whose conditions are stable, will be shifted to Covid-19 centres at RIMS and JNIMS,” the release said. A patient, who was admitted to the JNIMS after showing symptoms of the viral disease, was discharged on Thursday after he tested negative a day before, the release added.So far, five Covid-19 patients have recovered in Manipur, including four in April and May. There are still 50 active Covid-19 positive cases in the state amid growing fears of a spike, as more people are arriving on a daily basis by all modes of conveyance because of the easing of lockdown restrictions, which were imposed from March 25 to contain the spread of the viral outbreak.On Thursday, two special trains, carrying over 1,301 stranded people, from Kerala and Gujarat arrived at Jiribam railway station, the only railhead in the landlocked north-eastern state and located about 220 kilometres west of the state capital, Imphal.Later, the passengers were taken to quarantine centres, as per the state government’s guidelines. So far, 17 special trains, carrying stranded people from Manipur, have arrived at Jiribam.Similarly, 1,485 passengers, including 173 on Thursday, have come back by air after domestic flight services resumed on May 25, sources said.Manipur has tested 7,758 people for Covid-19 till Thursday. A total of 10,489 and 3,709 are lodged at community and institutional quarantine centres, respectively, another official source added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-covid-19-tally-goes-up-to-55-with-11-new-cases/story-HLDCTR65EOWPHF7jPnx00J.html
28-05-2020||India||Karnataka suspends all transport from 5 states to stem Covid-19 spread||Karnataka on Thursday announced that it was suspending arrivals of flights, trains and vehicles from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan into the state to contain the spread of Covid-19, ANI reported.Among these five states, Maharashtra has the largest number of Covid-19 cases at over 56,000 followed by Tamil Nadu with more than 18,000 and Gujarat with more than 15,00 cases. Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have over 7,000 cases each.Karnataka recorded 115 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday to take the state’s tally to 2533, the state’s health department said.Domestic flights which resumed on Monday after a two month lockdown will now not be able to fly into Bangalore form these five states.Much of the rail traffic in recent times has been Shramik Special trains ferrying stranded migrant workers home to different parts of the country.Among the five states that it has put on the blacklist, Karnataka shares borders with Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-suspends-all-transport-from-five-states-to-stem-covid-19-spread/story-XFc8w9wPBtu6HT2sGBl8mJ.html
28-05-2020||India||In Bengal, more than 400 migrants test positive for Covid-19, state count soars||More than 400 migrant workers who returned from other states over the recent weeks have tested positive for Covid-19, resulting in a surge of Covid-19 cases in West Bengal’s rural areas.Of them, the districts of Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum, Hooghly and Howrah are the most affected, as most of the state’s migrant workers hail from these districts. Of Bengal’s 23 districts, only two in north Bengal are presently unaffected by Covid-19.Malda, Uttar Dinajpur, Birbhum and Bankura had been among the districts unaffected by Covid-19 till two weeks ago. However, over the past one week, Malda has recorded 70 new Covid-19 cases and Murshidabad 53 new cases, while Hooghly and Howrah have recorded 84 and 98 cases, respectively, from the rural areas of these districts. Bankura has recorded 15 cases and Nadia 19 cases while East Burdwan has recorded 21 new coronavirus cases.“Most of those who tested positive for Covid-19 in the past week, except for those in Kolkata, were migrant workers. We anticipate the numbers to go up as more results are awaited,” said a senior state government official who did not want to be identified.On Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee blamed the Centre for forcing the state to accept more migrant workers than its intake capacity, given the precautions that needed to be maintained.“The Centre’s unplanned movement of migrant workers is turning rural Bengal red. It will also turn rural India red,” CM Banerjee said.The state government has decided to requisition more schools to turn them into institutional quarantine centres for returning migrant workers. Those returning from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi will be sent to institutional quarantine centres, the administration has decided.Banerjee’s statement, however, has created a political controversy. Congress’ Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “It is utterly insensitive for the chief minister to blame migrant workers for the spread of Covid-19. Migrant workers have been one of the biggest victims of this lockdown. We should sympathize with them and create proper infrastructure and management,” Chowdhury said.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state unit president Dilip Ghosh, too, took digs at her. “The CM is treating the migrant workers unfairly. It is because of the state’s inability to create jobs that they went to other states in search of jobs. It’s the state’s responsibility to look after their well being,” Ghosh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-more-than-400-migrants-test-positive-for-covid-19-state-count-soars/story-lq3SOm6tLNfzbk70m8mJsJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Excited, nervous, panicky: 10 stranded migrants board their ‘first flight’ of lifetime to reach Patna||Would they be allowed to enter with slippers? What would happen when the plane takes off? Would they be safe? The questions raced through the minds of 10 migrants on Thursday as they readied to fly home from New Delhi to Bihar, an unforgettable first flight made possible by the generosity of their employer, a farmer in the national capital.Getting through airport formalities was intimidating but they had help from an official who guided them till the plane. Excited, nervous and a little panicky as they settled in their seats, many closed their eyes as the plane taxied and then tilted sharply at take-off, Naveen Ram, among the 10 workers taking their debut flight, told PTI after landing in Patna.Some of them put their heads down on the table in front as the plane steadied in the skies, not daring to look out of the window even when the flight landed, Naveen said. All 10 farm workers, stuck in Delhi because of the coronavirus forced lockdown, belong to Samastipur in Bihar. They had never dreamed they would get on a plane but they did thanks to Pappan Singh, a mushroom farmer in Delhi’s Tigipur village, who bought their tickets.Recounting the experiences of the morning, one which they will remember all their lives, Naveen said people at the Delhi airport were looking at them when they entered carrying jute bags and wearing slippers. “We were not well-dressed like others. We didn’‘t know what we should do next after entering the airport because it was our first experience of travelling in a plane. We took the help of an airline official,” the 27-year-old said. A reporter from PTI, which first reported their story, helped arrange for an official to escort them through the airport and complete the formalities. Naveen, too, did not look out when the plane was taking off and landing. “We had been wanting to meet our families for some time but could not do so because of the lockdown, None of us had ever thought that we would be going home in a plane one day,” he said.But that was not the end of the thrilling ride for the group, catapulted to national news at a time when migrant stories are made of arduous journeys battling hunger and heat on foot, cycle, bus or train.Several mediapersons were waiting to interview them when they landed at Patna after the 6 am flight from Delhi, said Naveen’s fellow traveller and co-worker Jitender Ram.“We never expected to get so much attention. Yesterday, my friend phoned me, saying he was watching me on a news channel. We will always remember such a wonderful experience,” Jitender said.Asked whether he will come back to Delhi after the lockdown is over, Naveen said, “Definitely, we will come back to Delhi when our ‘malik’ calls us.” “How can we leave our employer who has cared for us so much? We will be returning by the end of August. We have promised him,” added Lakhindra Ram as his co-travellers nodded vigorously in agreement. Full of praise for their employer, who saw them off in Delhi saying that he looked forward to their return, the group left for Samastipur district from Patna airport in a vehicle arranged by their employer.Pappan Singh, who has helped rewrite the migrant narrative of tragedy and helplessness, said he called his workers every step of the way, from after they entered Delhi airport to when they stepped into the plane -- asking if all was okay, if they had taken their boarding passes, checked in their bags and safely made their way to the gate. “I wanted everyone to give them respect the way I do. I was very concerned as my workers were not well-dressed like other passengers. Some of them were wearing slippers and carrying jute bags.“I am happy that they have finally reached their home state,” Pappan told PTI.Pappan had booked tickets worth Rs 68,000 and gave each Rs 3,000 in cash so they did not face any problems when they reach their home state.He had completed all their medical formalities, in accordance with the requirements specified, so they have a smooth journey home. “These 10 workers would have left for their homes in Bihar in the first week of April on train but they could not go due to the lockdown,” he said, adding that he had made several attempts to send them back to their home state in a Shramik Special train but could not manage to do so. “I could not have taken a risk by allowing my workers to walk thousands of miles as it would have put their lives in danger because we are getting to know these days that migrants meet road accidents while going home,” he said. PTI BUN NAC SNS MIN MIN MIN MIN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excited-nervous-panicky-10-stranded-migrants-board-their-first-flight-of-lifetime-to-reach-patna/story-luTvuQfcESrqmh1npziHAJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Explainer: Migrant workers to get social security in the new avatar of 1979 law that was not so effective||There is a national law, the Inter-State migrant workmen (regulation of employment and conditions of service) Act, 1979, to protect migrant workers in the time of crisis such as the present Covid pandemic. Despite legal protection, about 200 migrant workers have died during the 65-day lockdown in accidents on roads and rails while on their way home. Several state governments such as Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have proposed to register migrant workers, a provision which is already there in the law, and the Central government now plans to modernise the regulation through a new code. Here is an explainer on what the law entailed, reasons for its failure and what the government now proposes.Why was the law framed? Many socialist leaders in the Janta Party government were concerned about exploitation of migrant workers from poorer states such as Odisha and Bihar, where contractors called Sardars or Khatadars lured workers (called Dadan labourers) for large construction works outside the state at very low wages and never kept their promise, said objectives of the migrant workmen law. After a recommendation of labour ministers of all states, in 1977, a committee was constituted to propose a law for protection rights of migrant workers. The committee recommended a law to regulate the employment of inter-state migrant workers as Contract Labour Act of 1970 was not able to protect their rights. Parliament passed the new law in 1980.What protection the law provides for migrant workers?The law covers every establishment and contractor that employs migrant workers and provisions for their registration either with the Centre or the state governments depending on whether the establishment is registered with the state or Centre. The contractor is required to get license from the state he intends to bring labourers from. Within 15 days of hiring, each contractor is required to provide the complete details of the migrant worker to the registering authority. The contractor has to maintain a register of all migrant workers and also provide them a passbook containing details of the employment. The establishments have to provide displacement allowance of 50% of the wage and journey fare in addition to wages during the disruption period. The establishments are also required to provide accommodation and health facilities. The law also prohibits employment of migrant workers without registration. The state governments were required to appoint inspectors to check whether provisions of the law were implemented or not.What are the penal provisions in the law?The law provides for jail term of up to one year and fine of Rs 1,000 for violating any contained provisions. The law also says that the owner of the establishment employing migrant workers can be prosecuted for violations under the law. As the labour inspector is the principal implementer of the law, the law gives him powers to conduct inspections and take testimonies of the workers at any time. It also provides for 2 years of jail for obstructing his work.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesWhy the law was not very effective? The experts said most of the governments forgot about the law in post liberalization era as there was an increase in flow of migrant workers to urban centers and fast emerging industry towns. The number of migrant workers increased between 1991 and 2011 Census with India having 56.6 million inter-state migrants in 2011. Most of them were from the Hindi speaking belt of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. According to reports of the state labour bureaus, less than 5% of the migrant workers are enrolled with any state government agency with the only exception of Odisha, which has a helpline and facilities for children of migrant workers. Officials said that there is no provision for companies having to file annual reports on migrant workers employed and allowances paid to them with the labour departments. The entire law was based on powers of inspectors, which could have been misused. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19What are the lessons learnt from Covid pandemic for welfare of migrant workers?The Central government has introduced Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2019, in Lok Sabha in July 2019, which aims to subsume and replace 13 labour laws including the migrant workmen Act. The code retains some provisions of the migrant workmen act such as contractor having to obtain a license and pay displacement and journey allowance to workers. However, several other provisions including the penal ones were not retained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explainer-migrant-workers-to-get-social-security-in-the-new-avatar-of-1979-law-that-was-not-so-effective/story-PNqSZnxtBCGIBQgjssVtpJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Entire country but central government heard the cries of migrant workers: Sonia Gandhi||The Congress on Thursday stepped up its attack against the Centre on the migrant workers’ deepening crisis triggered due to the mishandling of lockdown restrictions that were imposed from end-March to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Party chief Sonia Gandhi said the entire country, except the Union government, had heard the cries and felt the pain of migrant workers.In a video message posted as part of the Congress’s nationwide online campaign, she also urged the Centre to unlock its coffers to help those affected by the Covid-19-induced lockdown.The day-long “Speak Up India” campaign was launched by the opposition party to put pressure on the Centre to accept its demands for providing immediate financial aid to farmers, migrant workers, daily wage earners, and small businesses hit by the pandemic.The online campaign included messages through Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube accounts.Later, Congress leader Ajay Maken claimed that over 5.7 million party leaders and workers uploaded their messages on social media throughout the day. “The campaign reached out to around 100 million people. It was a massive virtual rally. #SpeakUpIndia was also the top Twitter trend worldwide,” he added.Gandhi said while the country is passing through a serious economic crisis because of the loss of livelihood of lakhs of people from all walks of life, the central government has not helped those affected the most by the pandemic.“It’s for the first time since the independence that such a spectre of pain and anguish has been witnessed, where lakhs of famished and thirsty labourers have been forced to walk hundreds of kilometres back home barefoot and without any access to medicines or transport,” the Congress chief said. “Everyone across the country except the government heard their cries of pain and trauma,” she added.Instead of loans, Gandhi said the government should provide financial aid to small and medium businesses in a bid to save millions of jobs. “Crores of livelihoods have been lost, lakhs of businesses and factories shut and farmers are running from pillar to post to sell their produce,” she said.Gandhi urged the Centre to unlock its coffers and help the needy by transferring cash of Rs 7,500 per month to every family for the next six months, ensuring safe and free travel of workers back home besides increasing the number of workdays to 200 under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), which was launched by the erstwhile Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government in 2005.The Congress had decided to open online fronts against the government because of the strict adherence to social distancing norms due to the pandemic. In a letter to state unit chiefs, the party general secretary KC Venugopal had asked them to mobilise around five million participants on all social media platforms to register their protest.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi stressed the need to take the voice of the poor, migrant workers, small and medium businesses to the government.“India doesn’t need debt, India needs money. Due to Covid-19, a storm has come in India and the poor have been hurt the most. Migrant workers have to walk hungry for hundreds of kilometres across the country and the MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises), which provide jobs to crores of people, are shutting down,” he said.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra cited the heart-breaking example of a toddler in Bihar trying to wake her dead mother at a railway station to highlight the plight of migrants.“We’ve seen the visuals of a son pulling a cart carrying his parents, a daughter taking her father 1,200 km on a bicycle, many people dying in trains, a child dying in the lap of his father and another child trying to wake up his dead mother on a railway platform. These visuals can make anyone cry. The country is pained to see such devastating visuals,” she said.The visuals of a toddler trying to wake her dead mother on a railway platform went viral on Wednesday. According to railway officials, the woman had a prior ailment.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit out at the Congress for the campaign.“The Congress can neither rule nor play the role of a constructive opposition. What they did was a drama. The least their party chief could have done was taken a leaf out of BJP president JP Nadda’s book and instructed party workers to feed hungry people and provide whatever help was needed,” BJP leader Shahnawaz Hussain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/entire-country-but-central-government-heard-the-cries-of-migrant-workers-sonia/story-pUDyO5eK2t0DJjRgSWhAVI.html
28-05-2020||India||12 IndiGo passengers who travelled on four flights test positive for Covid-19||A total of 12 asymptomatic passengers who travelled in four flights of IndiGo have tested positive for Covid-19, the airline said on Thursday. Three passengers who travelled on Delhi-Jammu flight on Tuesday, six passengers who were on Bengaluru-Coimbatore flight on Wednesday, two passengers who were on Delhi-Coimbatore flight on Wednesday and one passenger who was on Bengaluru-Madurai flight on Wednesday tested positive for the novel coronavirus, the airline said. Domestic passenger flights resumed in India from Monday. Since then, 16 passengers of three different airlines have tested positive for COVID-19. On Thursday evening, IndiGo said in a statement, “A few asypmtomatic passengers who travelled on IndiGo flights were discovered to be COVID-19 positive on May 28, 2020. This included 3 passengers on 6E 955 from Delhi to Jammu on May 26, 6 passengers on board 6E 6992 from Bengaluru to Coimbatore on May 27 and 2 passengers on 6E 908 from Delhi to Coimbatore on May 27. Earlier during the day, the airline said in another statement, “An asymptomatic passenger who travelled on IndiGo on 6E 7214 from Bangalore to Madurai on May 27, 2020 was discovered to be COVID-19 positive during the mandatory testing at the quarantine facility in Madurai on 27th May.” The passenger had observed all precautionary measures, including wearing face mask, face shield and gloves, like other passengers on the aircraft, IndiGo added. “All our aircraft are regularly sanitized as a standard operating procedure, and the aircraft operating these flights were immediately disinfected as per protocol,” the airline said in both the statements. “The operating crew has been home quarantined for 14 days and we are in the process of notifying other passengers as per the government guidelines, to ensure safety of our passengers and staff,” it said in both the statements. SpiceJet had said on Wednesday that two of its passengers who travelled from Ahmedabad to Guwahati via Delhi on Monday tested positive for COVID-19.On Tuesday, IndiGo had said that a passenger who travelled on flight 6E 381 from Chennai to Coimbatore on Monday evening tested positive for the disease. Air India had stated on Wednesday that a passenger who was on an Alliance Air flight from the national capital to Ludhiana tested positive for coronavirus and a total of 41 people, including five crew members, had been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-indigo-passengers-who-travelled-on-four-flights-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-bBpEclHc6mp2Pt0x1Z7UkL.html
28-05-2020||India||Covid-19: With revenues taking a hit, Rajasthan mulls selling, leasing property||Reeling under the Covid-19 lockdown, the Rajasthan government is exploring ways to generate revenue by disposing or selling unused properties, through leasing or by taking help of other financial tools.The revenue collection in Rajasthan in the first month of the 2020-21 fiscal has fallen by 70%. There was a shortfall of Rs 18,000 in revenue in the last fiscal, 2019-20.In a recent meeting chaired by the chief secretary, discussions were held on ways to generate revenue to support the state economy as it fights the coronavirus disease.“It was discussed in the meeting, how revenue can be generated, there are ways such as disposing unused properties and land or giving them on lease. But there are new ways also such as InvITs and consol bonds. The government is exploring all ways,” said a senior official, who attended the meeting.He said all department heads are asked to identify properties, which are lying unused and could be sold or given on lease. Every department has different rules and procedures, thus making it a time consuming exercise. To tide over it, they are looking to centralise the list of properties, land and buildings, and to create a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to look into it.The SPV will chalk out rules and procedures to dispense properties and if required necessary changes will be made in Rajasthan Transparency and Public procurement act, he said.“The market is not stable and chances of getting the right prices would be difficult. In view of which, leasing a property for 20-30 years could generate revenue for the state without selling any asset,” he said.In addition to it, options such as InvITs and Consol bonds are also looked into. He said InvITs are designed to pool money from a number of investors to invest in a project or assets that give cash flow for a period of time. Part of this cash flow would be distributed as dividend back to investors. Similarly, Consol bond, also known as perpetual bond, is a financial security issued by the government as a means of raising money. They are issued at a fixed price and bear a nominal fixed interest rate.Facing financial crunch, the state government had deferred a part of salaries of legislators and its employees, including the all-India services officers, such as IAS and IPS, in March.A finance department official had stated that the biggest drop in tax revenue was seen in stamps and registration and vehicle tax because there was virtually no sale of property and vehicles.The target for stamps and registration for April 2020 was Rs 466 crore, the state got only Rs 6 crore. Similarly, for vehicle tax, the target was Rs 500 crore, and the state has managed to collect only Rs 8 crore, which is a little more than 1 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-with-revenues-taking-a-hit-rajasthan-mulls-selling-leasing-property/story-b1RpPrJIL4rK0I457GJv4M.html
28-05-2020||India||Plan to auction Tirumala temple properties put off||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the country’s richest temple of Lord Venkateshwara at Tirumala in Andhra Pradesh’s (AP) Chittoor district, on Thursday decided against selling any of its properties, including plots of land, gifted by the shrine’s devotees over the years.A resolution to this effect was passed by the TTD trust board at its meeting held through a video-conference facility in Tirumala amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the country. The decision was taken following a controversy over the latest proposal by the TTD to auction 50 of its properties located in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Rishikesh in Uttarakhand.The TTD kept the proposal in abeyance following the instructions from AP chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy because of severe criticism from the opposition parties, particularly the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and various Hindu religious groups.TTD trust board chairman YV Subba Reddy clarified that the decision to auction unviable properties was taken during the previous Telugu Desam Party (TDP) regime and at a recent board meeting, it was proposed to constitute teams to suggest a way forward about the earlier decision.“Now, the board has decided not to auction or sell any of the properties of Tirumala temple, including plots of land, buildings, and other gifts donated by the shrine’s devotees. In case of any encroachment of temple land or properties, the TTD will constitute a committee, comprising seers of various mutts, devotees, and board members, to find a way out to evict the encroachers,” Subba Reddy told media persons after the board meeting.The board also decided to order an inquiry into the decisions taken by the previous board during the erstwhile TDP government’s rule. “We’ve ordered a vigilance inquiry into the decisions of the previous board. We’ve also recommended to the government to take action against those who launched a malicious campaign against the TTD,” the chairman said.The board has resolved to adopt transparency in the allotment of guest houses on the Tirumala hills. Specific guidelines would be followed in the allotment of guest houses, he added.The board also decided to make all arrangements for the restoration of darshan for pilgrims in the post-lockdown scenario. “We’ve written to the state government to allow reopening of the temple for darshan by following strict guidelines to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Once we get permission from the government, we shall open the temple for darshan again,” Subba Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-to-auction-tirumala-temple-properties-put-off/story-pQPx21BykGv3lo8UBzf0kK.html
28-05-2020||India||Mitron mobile app by 5 IIT Roorkee alumni is India’s answer to TikTok||In sync with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to think and use local, five Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Roorkee passouts have developed a video-sharing mobile application ‘Mitron’, as India’s answer to popular Chinese app TikTok. The app available in Google store has already been downloaded 5 million times.This app was developed by these five alumni from IIT Roorkee within two months and it has emerged as one of the most downloaded apps in recent weeks.Called ‘Mitron (friends) Indian short video’, this app has already witnessed a whopping five million downloads in Google Playstore just behind the Aarogya Setu app, which is widely being backed by the Indian government owing to its need for monitoring and fighting the Covid-19 epidemic in the country.Launched on April 11, Mitron has been devised to give TikTok users an Indian platform to make, edit and attach variations on their self-shot videos.Core developer of this app, Shivank Aggarwal, a 2011 IIT-Roorkee alumni said that the basic idea was to provide an indigenous platform to multiple users who are glued to TikTok and other foreign video sharing apps.Citing overwhelming response leading to various technical-network issues, Shivank said that a dedicated Mitron team is keeping a tab on all aspects and improving the features to make sure it becomes an uniform choice for all users.“While launching this app, we were quite optimistic of its success but five million-plus downloads in just less than two months has been a blessing for all of us (app developer team). Appreciation and response from the people have made us more determined to make it in sync with similar app variants at the global level. We named it in Hindi as we wanted to have a distinct identity of this Indian app,” Shivank said.Vaibhav Rawat, a B.Tech student residing in Smith Nagar, termed the Mitron app as having several features similar to other apps but with some distinct features too.“Mitron provides users with easy features to shoot, edit and share videos and at the same time users can browse top videos from across the globe. We can say goodbye to TikTok since now we have the Mitron app which people can use here,” said Vaibhav Rawat.App-software expert Akash Ohri pointed out that if the Mitron app has to ensure more user base then they need to have hassle-free shooting, uploading and voice features in the application.“Till date, there is a Swadeshi curiosity and charm. But if they don’t rectify the bugs and improvise, it won’t be easy to maintain the unprecedented growth that the team has witnessed in a short span,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mitron-mobile-app-by-5-iit-roorkee-alumni-is-india-s-answer-to-tiktok/story-tSNe781r4lm9wJP57WOZPL.html
28-05-2020||India||235 Indians stranded in Bangladesh return via three land border posts in NE||A total of 235 Indian nationals, who were stranded in Bangladesh for over two months, due to the nationwide ongoing lockdown restrictions, which were imposed on March 25 to control the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, returned to the country on Thursday via three land border posts in the north-east region.The repatriation was part of the Centre’s ongoing Vande Bharat mission – the biggest evacuation exercise since the invasion of Kuwait by the then Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein in 1990. A bulk of those returned home included students and workers from Tripura, Assam, Meghalaya and Manipur.A total of 129 people from Tripura returned through the Agartala-Akhaura border, where the Indian High Commissioner to Bangladesh, Riva Ganguly Das, was present to oversee their departure.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Parliament (MP) from West Tripura constituency Protima Bhoumik was present at the Agartala-Akhaura border to welcome the Tripura residents back home. The MP gifted face masks and hand sanitisers to the Indian High Commission team.Around 100 of the returnees from Assam came back through the Sutarkandi-Sheola border post and a few others from Meghalaya and Manipur returned via the Dawki-Tamabil frontier post in Meghalaya.Noni Gopal Dutta, a Tripura resident, was one of those Indian nationals, who returned home on Thursday. He had gone to Bangladesh as a tourist on March 11 and his visa was to expire on March 26. When Dutta reached the border post on March 23 to return to India, he was sent back, as the international border had been sealed because of the lockdown restrictions.“I immediately contacted the Indian Embassy officials, who took good care of me for the past two months. I had lost touch with my family for the past two months, as my mobile phone had got stolen. I’m excited to return home,” Dutta said in a video shared by the Indian High Commission authorities in Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/235-indians-stranded-in-bangladesh-return-via-three-land-border-posts-in-ne/story-bptmRV1nIGrIrnPuyUoOxM.html
28-05-2020||India||Fight against coronavirus will be won through vaccine: Niti Aayog member||As India’s Covid-19 infection tally climbed to over 1.58 lakh, the government on Thursday said the country’s pharmaceutical industries are trying their best to find a vaccine to beat the virus.“The fight against coronavirus will be won through vaccines and drugs. Our country’s science and technology institutions and pharma industry are very strong,” VK Paul, a member of the Niti Aayog said at a briefing.Like in many other countries, India’s scientific institutions are also working furiously to find a vaccine for the virus that has affected almost 5.8 million people across the world.The government’s Principal Scientific Advisor (PSA) Professor K. Vijay Raghavan who also addressed reporters at the briefing said the country is on the right track to develop a vaccine.“There are about a total of 30 groups in India, big industry to individual academics, who are trying to develop vaccines, of around 20 are keeping a good pace,” Raghavan said.He also spoke of a hackathon for computational drug discovery.“All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and CSIR have embarked on a drug discovery hackathon - this is a high-end hackathon - where students are trained with information on how to do computational drug discovery,” he said.Asked whether the coronavirus has mutated since it first struck late last year, Raghavan said there has been no change in the fundamental properties of the virus.“We have not seen any change in the fundamental properties of the virus till now. In the next few months both nationally and internationally tests will be available that can be done on an individual,” he said.He also underlined the importance of the RT-PCR test regimen to detect coronavirus.“RT-PCR test is testing for the presence of the virus and is agnostic whether you have symptoms or not. Whether you are asymptomatic, if you have the virus it will be detected,” Raghavan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fight-against-coronavirus-will-be-won-through-vaccine-niti-ayog-member/story-kJu3M5QYhXQh3znv53dShJ.html
28-05-2020||India||As locusts invade Maharashtra, Centre assures Mumbai not in their path||The Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) under the Union agriculture ministry clarified on Thursday that there is no locust swarm heading for Mumbai and that the predators were currently restricted to eastern Maharashtra.“The invasion is restricted to parts of eastern Maharashtra with districts in Vidarbha affected in the state. The wind direction from Madhya Pradesh is favourable for their movement and food availability in these zones,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director, LWO. From Wednesday onwards, reports accompanied by unverified photographs across social media said a locust attack was expected in Mumbai from Gujarat from Thursday morning onwards. “Though locusts can survive in humid conditions of Mumbai, there is no warning for the city as the wind direction will not allow locusts’ movement to the coastal city from Gujarat,” said Gurjar.He added that the department was constantly monitoring the movement of the swarms and prior alerts were issued to the state but not for Mumbai and the rest of the Konkan region.“No such warning has been given for the Konkan region including Mumbai so far,” he said. The insecticide officer, Rajan Naringrekar, of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation confirmed they had not received any alerts from the state or central bodies about any locust attacks in the city. Double whammy for Covid gripped Maharashtra, now in throes of locust swarmsThe state agriculture department,too, confirmed that there was no indication of locust movement towards Mumbai. “We are constantly getting updates from the Locust Warning Organisation, and no such warning or alert has been issued for Mumbai,” said Suhas Diwase, agriculture commissioner, Maharashtra. “The wind direction is currently such that the swarms are present only towards eastern Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh border zone. If there was any indication of their movement to Mumbai, we would have issued an alert to district authorities but no such information has come to us so far.”The India Meteorological Department’s aerodrome meteorological division in Santacruz (for civil aviation services) said there was no visible difference in visibility on Thursday. “If there was a large locust swarm, it would have been spotted by us but nothing like that has been identified by us,” said Sunil Kamble, scientist, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-locusts-invade-maharashtra-centre-assures-mumbai-not-in-their-path/story-9QgmrTMifaVYA8ZeQdYIQN.html
28-05-2020||India||254 attacks on Mumbai Police staff, helpline gets record number of calls: Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday said that there has been a steady increase in the number of calls received on the police helpline 100, in connection with attacks on police personnel deployed during lockdown and also on frontline healthcare workers in the state. The minister said that a total of 254 instances of assaults on policemen had been recorded till date.“As many as 96,697 such calls have been received on the police helpline. There have been 254 instances of assaults on policemen that have left 86 of them injured. There have been at least 40 attacks on healthcare professionals too,” Deshmukh said. The helpline calls led to at least 833 arrests during the last two months, the state home minister said. Maharashtra, is the worst-affected state during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease and has reported over 50,000 Covid-19 positive cases, almost one-third of the country’s total count of coronavirus patients.A day earlier, on Wednesday, the Maharashtra Home Minister strongly dismissed reports about possible deployment of the Indian Army in Mumbai and Pune for 10 days amid rising coronavirus cases.“A rumour is being spread on WhatsApp and other social media platforms that the Army will be deployed in Mumbai and Pune to implement 10 days of strict lockdown. This is completely untrue,” Deshmukh had tweeted.“The Maharashtra Cyber Cell has initiated action against those spreading this rumour. Do not forward such messages,” he posted. Responding to the fake news that had been circulating, the Mumbai Police urged the people of Mumbai not to fall prey to it.“If it reaches you, break the chain and do not forward. All essential supplies will be available and movement permitted only as per lockdown guidelines,” the Mumbai Police had tweeted.The lockdown in Maharashtra is due to continue till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/254-attacks-on-mumbai-police-staff-helpline-gets-record-number-of-calls-deshmukh/story-jV9G0ihHIUTHcaPrasNL4K.html
28-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand launches Mukhyamantri Swarozgar Yojana for returnee migrants||To retain the migrants who have returned to the state during the lockdown, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday inaugurated the Mukhyamantri Swarozgar Yojana.Rawat instructed the officials that information about this scheme should be conveyed to every village so that the youth can avail of this scheme.“This scheme should be widely publicised through public representatives and district level officers so that the maximum number of villagers can take advantage of it. Under this scheme, the district magistrate should coordinate with the bankers so that the beneficiaries do not have any problem in taking loan,” said Rawat.The migrants who apply under this programme will get quick approval from the authorities concerned and their applications will be forwarded to banks with immediate subsidy which will be 25% in the hill districts and 15% in the plain districts.The project aims at giving self-employment opportunities to youth and a boost to reverse migration, especially entrepreneurs returning to Uttarakhand and encourage skilled and unskilled artisans, handicrafts and unemployed youths to start their own business. The scheme will offer credit facility through nationalised banks, scheduled commercial banks and cooperative banks.Under the Yojana, the margin money will be provided as a grant by the MSME department. According to the MSME policy, the maximum limit for margin money in classified category A will be 25% of the total project cost, 20% in category B and 15% for projects of the total project cost in C and D category. Margin money will be adjusted as a grant after the successful operation of the enterprise for minimum two years.A person needs to be at least 18 years of age to be able to apply under the scheme. The applicant or his family member will be benefited only once under the scheme.Experts have termed this initiative as a game-changer especially in the hilly areas, while cautioning that much will depend on its implementation.Over one lakh migrant workers have returned to the state with more coming every day. SS Negi, vice chairman of state rural development and migration commission, which has been working on plans to curb migration from hilly areas, has suggested various measures to the government for the people. He termed it is a ‘game-changer.’“We have been suggesting to the government to start a similar programme in the hilly areas since last one year. And now when they have finally done it, we believe it will really fly off,” said Negi.The official said the commission has conducted a study in the hilly area in which they found that many people are already running their venture availing the benefits of PMEGP.“People there are running their own gymnasiums, beauty parlours, dhabas, mobile repairing shops and others. Now when there is another similar programme by the state, people will definitely avail this also,” said Negi.He said the initiative has come at the right time as the migrants who have returned have brought “valuable experience with them.”“The migrants who have returned are experienced in their work which they used to do in other states. If they go for the programme then they won’t have to do much because they already have the skills and experience. It will prove to be a force multiplier as after starting their ventures, they will employ other people of their respective areas,” said Negi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-launches-mukhyamantri-swarozgar-yojana-for-returnee-migrants/story-HXVC4p0Jx6n65iMjZ0Y2UK.html
28-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi issues advisory to tackle locust threat as capital braces for attack and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi issues advisory to tackle locust threat as capital braces for attackThe Delhi government on Thursday issued an advisory on preventive measures to control a probable locust attack in the national capital. Read more.‘No fare to be charged from stranded migrants, railways to give food during journey’: Supreme CourtThe Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the Centre to ensure free travel to stranded migrants to their home states by trains and buses even as the government contended that it is taking “unprecedented steps” to meet the challenging crisis during the Covid-19 lockdown. Read more.Double whammy for Covid gripped Maharashtra, now in throes of locust swarmsWhile Maharashtra’s struggle to contain coronavirus continues, it has now got a fresh headache in the form of swarms of locusts that have entered the state and were reported to be moving towards Gondia district on Thursday after having attacked crops in neighbouring Bhandara. Read more.Air India employee unions seek Rs 50,000 crore financial package for national carrierA joint forum of Air India employees and staff unions has sought a Rs 50,000 crore financial succour from the government for the national carrier, stating that the airline is a necessity for the country. Read more.‘I was rushing through deliveries’: Harbhajan Singh recalls when Pakistan’s Misbah smashed him for three sixes in 2007 T20I finalThe 2007 T20I final between India and Pakistan turned out to be an epic thriller. The memorable contest between the two teams in the inaugural T20I World Cup saw various twists and turns, but eventually, the MS Dhoni-led side emerged victorious after Pakistan batsman Misbah-ul-Haq scooped a delivery in the final over to Sreesanth at short fine-leg. Read more. Apple to let you customise MacBooks, iMacs etc in India: What this means for customersApple is going to let its customers in India customise the iMac, the MacBook, Mac Mini etc as per their needs. The tech giant has started offering their full Mac portfolio with a configure-to-order (CTO) or build-to-order (BTO) option in India. Read more. Despicable Me’s Gru and Minions share tips on social distancing, fun at home in new coronavirus PSAWho can forget the famous former supervillian Gru and his well-meaning but clumsy and adorably incompetent bright yellow Minions from the animated “Despicable Me” movie franchise? Read more. Netizens are calling this dog Hachiko’s brother, his story will make you reach for the tissuesRemember Hachiko, the dog who waited for his human in the same spot for years even after his death? This dog in Wuhan, China will remind you of that same story and the beloved dog Haachi. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-issues-advisory-to-tackle-locust-threat-as-capital-braces-for-attack-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2uGg2XuVt7sgymCURz3FNP.html
28-05-2020||India||HarperCollins to publish PM Modi’s letters to mother goddess||Many letters that Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a young man wrote to mother goddess, whom he addressed as ‘jagat janani’, every night on varied topics will be published in a book form in English next month.HarperCollins India said “Letters to Mother”, translated from Gujarati by renowned film critic Bhawana Somaaya, will be released as ebook and hardback. These letters have been taken from Modi’s diary, dating back to 1986.“This is not an attempt at literary writing; the passages featured in this book are reflections of my observations and sometimes unprocessed thoughts, expressed without filter...” a HarperCollins India statement quoted Modi as saying.“I am not a writer, most of us are not; but everybody seeks expression, and when the urge to unload becomes overpowering there is no option but to take pen and paper, not necessarily to write but to introspect and unravel what is happening within the heart and the head and why,” he said.As a young man, Modi had got into the habit of writing a letter to ‘jagat janani’ every night before going to bed. The topics were varied: there were seething sorrows, fleeting joys, lingering memories.“In Modi’s writings there was the enthusiasm of a youngster and the passion to usher in change. But every few months, he would tear up the pages and consign them to a bonfire. The pages of one diary, dating back to 1986, survived, however. These are now available in English for the very first time,” the statement said.According to Somaaya, Modi’s strength as a writer is his emotional quotient.“There is a raw intensity, a simmering restlessness which he does not disguise and that is his attraction,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harpercollins-to-publish-pm-modi-s-letters-to-mother-goddess/story-5oho5K5GtQ4qKnL46QLUUJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Double whammy for Covid gripped Maharashtra, now in throes of locust swarms||While Maharashtra’s struggle to contain coronavirus continues, it has now got a fresh headache in the form of swarms of locusts that have entered the state and were reported to be moving towards Gondia district on Thursday after having attacked crops in neighbouring Bhandara. An alert has been sounded in the Gondia district, reported PTI and added that authorities have swung into action to deal with the approaching menace. Locust swarms are currently also sweeping across several other Indian states in the western & northwestern part affecting Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, according to the agriculture ministry.Authorities have confirmed that an agriculture team rushed to Bhandara in the early hours of Thursday to spray pesticides with the aid of two fire tenders in Temani village of the district after information on locusts reaching the areas was received. Pesticides were sprayed on crops and trees in one-km radius in the Bhandara village“When the team reached the area in the early hours, pests were seen on mango, teak, moha, jambhul, ber and other trees. Pesticides were sprayed and by morning, a large number of the crop-eating pests fell from trees and died,” divisional joint director of agriculture Ravi Bhosle said.He said that while the mango trees were the most affected, the pests ate leaves and left the fruits alone. He added that they couldn’t damage the paddy fields.The official confirmed that the locust swarms were now heading eastwards with the wind towards Tiroda tehsil in neighbouring Gondia district.The agriculture ministry had earlier released information that till May 26, an area of around 47,308-hectare at 303 places in Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh had been covered by control operations against locusts. It added that the Locust Circle Offices (LCO) are working in coordination with district administration and state agriculture departments.Also Read: Centre steps in after locust attack spreads to 5 states, swarm splits into two: Latest updatesThe ministry has also deployed 89 fire brigades for pesticide spray; 120 survey vehicles; 47 control vehicles with spray equipment and 810 tractor-mounted sprayers for the purpose of locust control as per the requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/double-whammy-for-covid-gripped-maharashtra-now-in-throes-of-locust-swarms/story-xA1tGkrritQkLrmU5spJvJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Assam reports 48 new Covid-19 positive cases; overall tally doubles in three days||Assam reported 48 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases on Thursday, as the north-east’s most-populous state’s overall tally rose to 832 and doubled in only three days.The return of around one lakh stranded people to the state since the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed between March 25 and May 3 to contain the spread of the pandemic, and lifting the ban on intra-state travel is being attributed to the spike in Covid-19 positive cases.State health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that over 90% of Covid-19 positive cases detected in the past three weeks are among those patients, who returned to Assam from other states.Assam recorded its first Covid-19 positive case on March 31, when a 52-year-old cancer patient contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease. It took another 37 days for the figure to reach 50 on May 7 and in 10 days to double to cross 100 on May 17. In another four days on May 21, the figure doubled to go past 200 and crossed over 400 in four more days on May 25. Of the total Covid-19 positive cases, nearly 700 patients have returned to the state by road or train since May 4. A passenger tested Covid-19 positive after travelling by air from Ahmedabad to Guwahati earlier this week since the resumption of flight services on May 25. Domestic air travel was suspended from March 25 due to the imposition of nationwide lockdown restrictions. Recovered patient tests Covid-19 positiveHealthcare officials in Assam are at a loss after a woman cancer patient, who had recovered from Covid-19 earlier in May, tested positive for the disease on Wednesday again.The woman, a resident of Upper Assam’s Golaghat district, had contracted the disease in Delhi during treatment for cancer in the national capital. Her husband and an acquaintance, who had accompanied her, had also tested Covid-19 positive. While her husband succumbed to the disease and was cremated in Delhi, the woman and her acquaintance recovered and returned to Assam on May 22.She was put under quarantine in a government-run lodge on the outskirts of Kaziranga, as per the state government’s guidelines. However, on Wednesday, she tested Covid-19 positive again. She has been shifted to the Jorhat Medical College (JMC) for treatment. “Her case could be one of false positive. At times, tests give false results. Similar instances have been reported from other states and countries. We have sent the patient’s test results to the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and are waiting for the report,” minister Sarma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-reports-47-new-covid-19-positive-cases-overall-tally-doubles-in-three-days/story-lcEe3MBdHaqtdLIP7YnvIK.html
28-05-2020||India||Punjab police seize 8 kg heroin in Tarn Taran near Indo-Pak border||The Punjab Police on Thursday busted a drug smuggling racket seizing 8 kg of heroin valued at Rs 40 crore from a wheat field in the border district of Tarn Taran and arrested a smuggler who had allegedly buried the narcotic.Tarn Taran Police said the seizure was made by its anti-narcotic cell.The drug was buried in the wheat field situated across the barbed wire fence and ahead of the zero line near Rattoke village of Bhikhiwind sub-division on the India-Pakistan border.Police also arrested one Gurlal Singh of Rattoke village, who had allegedly buried the heroin concealed in plastic bottles. Police suspect the drug was smuggled from across the border.According to police, Gurlal and his accomplices who are yet to be identified had been in contact with Pakistani smugglers.Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Tarn Taran, Dhruv Dahiya said besides heroin, they have also recovered 30 gm opium from the border.“We were tipped off that Gurlal had buried a contraband of heroin in a wheat field near the barbed wire fence ahead of the zero line. Various teams under the supervision of deputy superintendent of police (DSP-Detective) Kawaljit Singh were formed. The teams with the help of the BSF personnel conducted search operations near the fence, and during this, five plastic bottles filled with heroin, that were buried in the wheat field, were recovered. The total contraband’s weight is 8 kg and 30 gms,” senior superintendent of police (SSP), Tarn Taran, Dhruv Dahiya said.He said Gurlal was arrested from the village.“The contraband is worth Rs 40 crore in the international market,” DSP Kawaljit Singh said.The SSP said preliminary investigation has revealed that Gural is a smuggler and had earlier been booked for attempted murder and also under the Arms Act in 2015 after he along with his accomplices allegedly attempted to cross the border and opened fire at the BSF to smuggle heroin from across the border. He was also booked in 2019 for allegedly attempting to break open an ATM machine with a gas cutter at Chabhal village.DSP Kawaljit Singh said Gurlal’s father Karnail Singh owns 10 acre agriculture land — four across the barbed will fence till the zero line and six along the fence in Rattoke village.The SSP said they expect to make more seizures and arrests in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-police-seize-8-kg-heroin-in-tarn-taran-near-indo-pak-border/story-CAu9IbODeUSDYklgMUoAaM.html
28-05-2020||India||‘No fare to be charged from stranded migrants, railways to give food during journey’: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the Centre to ensure free travel to stranded migrants to their home states by trains and buses even as the government contended that it is taking “unprecedented steps” to meet the challenging crisis during the Covid-19 lockdown. A three-judge bench asked the solicitor general Tushar Mehta about the confusion over payment of travel fare of stranded migrant workers and said that they should not made to pay for their journey back home. “What is the normal time? If a migrant is identified, there must be some certainty that he will be shifted out within one week or ten days at most? What is that time? There had been instances where one state sends migrants but at the border another State says we are not accepting the migrants. We need a policy on this,” the bench told Mehta.The government has repeatedly told that the fare is not being charged from the labourers, explaining that the railway ministry is carrying 85% of the ticket fare and the state governments 15%. The bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that the originating state shall provide meals and water at the station and during the journey, the railways would provide the same to the migrant workers. It said that food and water be also provided to them for travel in buses. The states should set up help desks to disseminate information about arrangements made for migrant workers, said the order. The Centre told the top court that it has sent 97 lakh migrant workers - 50 lakh by Shramik Specials and 47 lakh via road - home between May 1 and 27, adding 80 percent of those are from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.The bench, also comprising Justices S K Kaul and M R Shah, directed that states shall oversee the registration of migrant workers and ensure that they are made to board the train or bus at the earliest.The top court noted in its order that even after registration for travel, the migrants have to wait for a long time for their turns to come. The bench noted submissions of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who said instructions have been given to state governments to facilitate a bus or vehicle if any migrant workers are seen walking on foot.Migrant workers found walking on the roads, said the court, should immediately be taken to shelters and provided food and other necessary facilities. The bench, which had on May 26 taken suo motu (on its own) cognizance of the miseries of migrant workers, said it believed that the Centre and state governments were required to be given some time to bring on record the steps taken by them on the issue. It said that details regarding number of migrant workers, plan for transportation, mechanism for registration and other relevant information should be brought on record. It also said that the Railways has to provide trains as and when state government put in such request. The bench has posted the matter for further hearing on June 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-fare-to-be-charged-from-stranded-migrants-railways-to-give-food-during-journey-supreme-court/story-ZuqPlO1RDE5HA1oohNM2tO.html
28-05-2020||India||Pulwama repeat foiled: IED-laden car had a fake number plate of a BSF officer’s motorbike||The IED-laden car intercepted in Pulwama carried a fake number plate allotted to a motorbike registered in the name of a BSF officer, Sahil Kumar, at regional transport office in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir to mislead the forces, said officers.DGP Dilbagh Singh, who shared the pictures of the Santro car carrying at least 30 kgs of explosives and its fake number plate with HT, said, “It was a false number plate used on the car to mislead the security forces.”The DGP said the details of the real owner of the car shall be shared later.Kathua district police chief, SSP Shailendra Kumar Mishra said, “The number plate used on the Santro car was of a motorbike belonging to Sahil Kumar, an ASI of the BSF posted in Budgam.”“The motorbike was registered in his name here in Kathua,” he added.Mishra informed that the BSF officer had nothing to do with the matter and it was a ploy of the terrorists to mislead the security forces.The car with the fake registration number accelerated after the driver was signalled to stop. When the police opened fire, the driver first sped off, then abandoned the car and escaped.The car was found later, a few kilometres away.The security forces were acting on a tip-off about a vehicle laden with explosives on the move in the valley with the aim to target a security camp or vehicle.Watch:Car with 60 kg explosives intercepted in Pulwama, major attack avertedOn Febraury 14, 2019, in a similar modus operandi, a Jaish terrorist Aadil Dar had rammed his explosive laden vehicle into a CRPF convoy of 78 buses in Pulwama killing 40 CRPF men.The commandant of CRPF’s 76 Battalion, NK Pandey and his men still remember the black day when they lost five of their colleagues, who were among the 40 CRPF men from various units travelling to Kashmir.The convoy of 78 buses had left CRPF transit camp here in Jammu on the fateful day around 4 am and the bus that bore the brunt of suicide bombing belonged to the 76 Battalion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pulwama-repeat-foiled-ied-laden-car-had-a-fake-number-plate-of-a-bsf-officer-s-motorbike/story-5YfX7kN3EO66X5xHVpnNvJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Air India employee unions seek Rs 50,000 crore financial package for national carrier||A joint forum of Air India employees and staff unions has sought a Rs 50,000 crore financial succour from the government for the national carrier, stating that the airline is a necessity for the country. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Joint Forum said that Air India is a “necessity” for the country, especially in times of crises, and a financial package will not only help the flag carrier but also the entire aviation sector and the economy. The prime minister earlier this month announced a Rs 20 lakh crore package, which combined the government’s earlier announcements on supporting key sectors as also measures rolled out by the Reserve Bank of India, to help revive the economy amid the coronavirus pandemic crisis. Leading rating agencies have forecast the Indian economy to contract by 5 per cent in the current fiscal due to the impact of the crisis. “We thank you for the financial package of Rs 20 lakh crores to boost industry and the economy. As you will agree that civil aviation is of paramount importance in today’s context and therefore it is extremely necessary to boost the aviation industry and restore normal operations at the earliest, which is crucial for the economy to stabilise. “In view of this, we request you to kindly grant Air India a financial package of Rs 50,000 crore which will go a long way in ensuring that Air India emerges as the strongest and best airline of India,” the Joint Forum said in the letter. Stating that Air India has once again played a crucial role for the nation by bringing back stranded Indians from all parts of the world including several offline stations at a time when airlines all over the world had ceased operations due to the pandemic, the Forum said that the carrier  “even at peak of the COVID 19 pandemic operated flights to and from Wuhan which is the origin and centre point of the coronavirus.” Besides, Air India staff went out of the way at considerable “personal risk” to ensure smooth operations of several cargo and charter flights all through this period thereby facilitating the smooth movement of medicines and medical equipment between India and many other countries including China, it said. Air India has always performed national duties irrespective of the serious risks involved, it said adding it has been established beyond doubt that Air India is a necessity for the country especially in times of crises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-employee-unions-seek-rs-50-000-crore-financial-package-for-national-carrier/story-Hxg5MTfe6QqSUiRqgDpfUM.html
28-05-2020||India||Heavy rain, gusty winds claim two lives, disrupt restoration work in cyclone-hit Bengal||An overnight downpour, coupled with gusty winds, claimed at least two lives and dealt a fresh blow to the city and other south Bengal districts on Thursday, a week after cyclone Amphan battered the state, leaving behind a trail of destruction.In North 24 Parganas, a 40-year-old man was killed and five others were injured after a brick wall collapsed on them, police said.One person died in a lightning strike at Durgapur in West Burdwan district, a disaster management department official said.Sources in the Kolkata Traffic Police said the squall, which started on Wednesday evening, left parts of Central Avenue, MG Road, Bidhan Sarani and Ultadanga heavily waterlogged for at least a few hours, inconveniencing workers undertaking relief work in the wake of the May 20 cyclone.In Howrah, several areas including Panchanantala Road, Shibpur, and Mandirtala remained inundated, with just a few shops lifting shutters during the day.Official sources said the heavy rain, preceded by the Nor’wester, has also disrupted life in Nadia, Hooghly, North and South 24 Parganas, East and West Midnapore districts, which are already under severe strain for the past eight days due to the cyclone.Protests that had been raging on in the Amphan-hit city seeking resumption of power and water supply, were missing on Thursday, with private power utility CESC claiming that electricity has largely been restored in the metropolis.In Roy Bahadur Road area of Behala, however, residents claimed they were still reeling under water crisis, and uprooted trees blocking major roads were yet to be cleared.“We are working on war footing to clear the road and resume water supply, now that power has been restored in the locality,” a KMC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-gusty-winds-claim-two-lives-disrupt-restoration-work-in-cyclone-hit-bengal/story-xZ4paXMBDC94hkxsyJIE4H.html
28-05-2020||India||IndiGo passenger who travelled on flight from Bengaluru tests Covid-19 positive||An asymptomatic passenger who travelled on an IndiGo flight from Bangalore to Madurai on Wednesday tested Covid-19 positive during the mandatory testing at the quarantine facility in Madurai. This is the fourth such case after domestic flight operations resumed on May 25. The airline said that the infected passenger observed all precautionary measures including face mask, face shield and gloves, like other passengers on-board the aircraft.“All our aircraft are regularly sanitised as a standard operating procedure and the aircraft that operated this flight too was immediately disinfected as per protocol. The operating crew has been home quarantined for 14 days and we are in the process of notifying other passengers as per government guidelines, to ensure safety of our passengers and staff,” an IndiGo spokesperson said. ALSO WATCH | Covid-19 Update: China prepares for war; IndiGo crew grounded; Karnataka templesTwo passengers who travelled on May 25 (the first day of flight resumption after two months) were found to be infected with the virus. These passengers had travelled from Ahmedabad to Guwahati on the SpiceJet flight SG 8152. “Covid-19 tests were conducted at Guwahati after landing and the passengers were quarantined. The test reports came on May 27. The operating crew has been quarantined and SpiceJet is coordinating with government agencies in notifying other passengers who had travelled with them,” the airline had said.Another passenger on a Delhi- Ludhiana Air India flight on May 26 too had tested positive for Covid-19. As a result of this, the national carrier had to quarantine 36 passengers and four crew members in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-passenger-who-travelled-on-flight-from-bengaluru-tests-covid-19-positive/story-tW111YFrk2O9igWvD0JBiN.html
28-05-2020||India||Liquor baron hires 180-seater plane to ferry three family members, help: Report||A Bhopal-based high net worth individual hired a 180-seater A320 plane of a private carrier to ferry four family members to New Delhi, in a bid to avoid crowd at the airport and in flight amid the Covid-19 outbreak, officials said on Thursday.The person, who is a liquor baron, chartered the aircraft to send to Delhi his daughter, her two children and their maid, who were stuck in Bhopal since the last two months due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, sources said.The plane arrived here from Delhi on Monday with crew only and flew back with just four passengers for whom it was specially hired, they said.“The A320 180-seater plane arrived here on May 25 to carry four members of a family, probably due to the coronavirus scare. It was chartered by someone and there was no medical emergency, an airline official said, refusing to divulge any further details.Bhopals Rajabhoj Airport Director Anil Vikram could not be contacted for comments.According to aviation experts, the cost of hiring an Airbus-320 is about Rs 20 lakh.Domestic commercial flight services resumed from Monday, after a nearly two-month break due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/liquor-baron-hires-180-seater-plane-to-ferry-three-family-members-help-report/story-DkjohE8rh0g4axBS2SuaBK.html
28-05-2020||India||Delhi issues advisory to tackle locust threat as capital braces for attack||The Delhi government on Thursday issued an advisory on preventive measures to control a probable locust attack in the national capital.It called for organising awareness programmes for the public/farmers to prevent/control the probable attack of swarms of locusts in the national capital territory (NCT) of Delhi.It said that since the swarms usually fly during the day and rest at night, they should not be allowed to rest.“Concerned authorities may carry out spraying of insecticide/pesticide as per need during the night,” the advisory by the Development Commissioner of Delhi said.Delhi labour minister Gopal Rai also convened a meeting at his residence to discuss preparations to meet the locust threat, ANI reported.The locust swarms which first attacked Rajasthan have now spread to four other states - Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.Much of the current swarms of locusts are not yet adults. In favourable wind conditions they can travel long distances in a single day which makes tracking them difficult.The Centre has also pitched in to help states battle the locust attack that can lay to waste agriculture fields. On Wednesday, the Union agriculture ministry said that locust control operations have been stepped to neutralize the threat in the affected states.In Maharashtra, the state agriculture department has issued a ‘locust warning alert’ for all 11 districts in Vidarbha and four districts in north Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-issues-advisory-to-tackle-locust-threat-as-capital-braces-for-attack/story-DALd16JzhiVpref8gSAFjO.html
28-05-2020||India||Monsoon likely to make onset over Kerala around June 1: IMD||The southwest monsoon is expected to reach the Kerala coast around its normal date of June 1 and earlier than forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).This is because conditions are becoming favourable for monsoon winds to advance as a low pressure area is expected to develop over the Arabian Sea between May 31 and June 4.An area of low pressure formed over west-central and adjoining southwest Arabian Sea on Thursday. It is likely to intensify into a depression on Thursday and move northwestwards towards the south Oman and east Yemen coasts during the next three days.It is also likely to intensify into a cyclone but may not impact India’s west coast, IMD scientists said.Another low pressure area is likely to form over southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea, close to the Indian coast between May 31 and 4 June.“Scattered low and medium clouds with embedded intense to very intense convection lay over southeast and west central Arabian Sea,” IMD said in its cyclone bulletin for Thursday.IMD director general M Mohapatra said: “The second low pressure area is likely to bring rain to the west coast and make conditions favourable for advancement of monsoon earlier than expected. We can expect onset of the monsoon over Kerala around June 1 or 2.”He added, “This low pressure area is close to the Indian coast and is likely to bring rain. The present low pressure area is far from our coast and isn’t likely to have a huge impact on the west coast. It’s already very close to the Yemen and Oman coasts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-make-onset-over-kerala-around-june-1-imd/story-7Z7Lq4VScXG8HQfFohhryO.html
28-05-2020||India||‘Taking unprecedented steps’: Centre to Supreme Court on migrant workers||The Centre on Thursday told the Supreme Court that it has sent 97 lakh migrant workers home since May 1, further underlining that it has taken “unprecedented steps” to meet this “unprecedented crisis”. “This is an unprecedented crisis and we are taking unprecedented measures,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the court during a hearing on migrant labourers’ situation amid Covid-19 lockdown. The top court remarked that stranded migrant workers who want to travel back to their home states should not be stopped.“When a migrant worker wishes to go to a state, no state can say that we will not take you,” a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan remarked while hearing a suo motu case initiated by it on migrant labourers.The court also remarked that the government should work out a timeframe within which migrant workers desirous of returning to their home states can be transported. During the interim period, food and other facilities should be provided, Justice Ashok Bhushan said. Giving a break-up of the numbers, the government told the apex court that 50 lakh migrants have been moved to their homes by Shramik Specials between May 1 and 27. Another 41 lakh workers were sent via road, the government added. “Ninety seven lakh migrants have been transported since May 1,” said Mehta.The Solicitor General said details of all stranded migrants can be obtained only when the states provide that information, adding that over 80 percent of those workers who have been sent home are from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. “Let the states reply and then you will have an overall view. Don’t let stray incidents impact the hearing,” he said.Earlier today, speaking at Congress’ ‘SpeakUp’ campaign, party president Sonia Gandhi underscored how the country is witnessing a “dard ka manzar (immense pain)” as migrant workers are trudging the highways, many among them bare foot, to get home amid the Covid-19 lockdown. She accused the Central government of being oblivious to the plight of these poor people. On Tuesday, the top court had issued notices to the Centre and the state governments, saying there have been “inadequacies and certain lapses” on their part in dealing with the migrant workers’ situation.Media reports, the court order said, had been “continuously showing the unfortunate and miserable conditions of migrant labourers” walking on-foot and cycles from long distances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/91-lakh-migrants-moved-till-date-centre-tells-supreme-court/story-BUpylAQf3oZy1HvWxK2wYO.html
28-05-2020||India||Amid lockdown, Assam youth starts LED bulb-making unit at home||Dipen Taid (27) is an assistant teacher in a government-run school in Assam. But every afternoon he is revelling in his newfound role as a budding entrepreneur.Taid, who hails from Simaluguri village in Dhemaji district, located on the north bank of the Brahmaputra river, has started a light-emitting diode (LED) bulb-making unit at his home amid the ongoing lockdown restrictions imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Taid has been working at a school in lower Assam’s Barpeta district, located over 500 kilometres away from his native Dhemaji, for the past three years. He returned to his village in March owing to the prevailing lockdown restrictions and is conducting online classes for his students since then.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“I get busy with my LED bulb-making unit after my online classes get over. I’ve got a lot of spare time because of the lockdown. I started the unit two weeks ago and have trained four youth from my village to assemble and manufacture LED bulbs,” he said.Taid’s venture echoes the entrepreneurial bent of mind of a commerce graduate, whose late father was a humble farmer, as he has had no technical know-how of LED making bulbs. Online videos are all that he watched before starting the enterprise with an initial investment of Rs 25,000 to buy a bulb-making machine and the parts needed to assemble 100 LED bulbs. He made the purchases from a Madhya Pradesh-based firm.The initial response to his venture has been a roaring success, as the first lot of 100 bulbs sold like hot cakes in a jiffy. Now, he has placed a fresh order for the supply parts for 25,000 bulbs from the same company.Indra Kumar Taid, Taid’s neighbour, waxed eloquent about the novel initiative. “I visited his unit, and immediately purchased three bulbs for Rs 160 each. I’ve been using them for over a week, and can vouch that they’re better than many of the reputed LED bulb brands available in Dhemaji,” said Taid’s customer.Ratul Missong, another customer of Taid, said the bulb he purchased five days ago is brighter than any other he has used in the past.The popularity of his product can be gauged from the social media response. On May 24, he put out a post on social media, which received over 2,700 likes and shared around 1,000 times. He has been flooded with calls from people, who either want to buy the bulbs manufactured by him or start similar units.“I’ve got calls from all across from Assam, except those districts located in the Barak Valley and Karbi Anglong. I cannot scale up my production because of financial constraints. I’ve delayed accepting fresh orders till July,” he said.Taid plans start a new brand called KB Lights – the first initials of his late father Kenokamal and mother Bajumati. He has already chalked out his plans for the future. If KB Lights lights up his financial prospects, he plans to quit his job as a teacher and concentrate on expanding the LED bulb-making unit.“I can only support my immediate family with my earnings, if I work as a teacher. However, I can become a job creator, if I manage to flourish in my business venture,” said Taid.“Assam’s youth don’t need to migrate to other states in search of their livelihoods. They can become self-reliant in their home state, if they can start their own ventures with small investments,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-assam-youth-starts-led-bulb-making-unit-at-home/story-LDYXtwQp5uZdJZkEu0tgiP.html
28-05-2020||India||BMS welcomes Centre’s objection to change of labour policies||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), which spearheaded demands to roll back changes in labour laws by several states, has welcomed the Centre’s objection to states having taken the ordinance route for dispensing with the laws.Labour laws were changed by several states, including Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, as part of efforts to spur economic activity amid the Covid-19 crisis.Several states also opted to suspend labour laws to woo investors, particularly those wanting to shift base from China to India. The Kerala government brought an ordinance to nullify a high court order prohibiting the compulsory deduction of a month’s salary of its employees. After the International Labour Organization (ILO) expressed concern at attempts to roll back long-standing labour laws and said India, as a signatory, has to abide by its commitments, Union labour minister Santosh Gangwar clarified the laws wouldn’t be dispensed with.BMS president CK Saji Narayana said in a statement that Gangwar’s comment – that the complete suspension of laws is not reform based on settled national and international positions – “exposes the blunder of ordinance route adopted by the four states”.He also noted that Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while announcing the Rs 20-lakh crore package, had said the government will not take the ordinance route for changing labour laws.“The trend of increasing working hours from eight hours to 12 was started by the Rajasthan government and adopted by nearly 15 states. Now the reverse trend of ‘correcting the mistake’ has started with first the Uttar Pradesh government reverting back to eight hours, followed by the Rajasthan government. BMS demands other state governments also to follow it,” Narayana said.To protest against the changes to these laws, BMS, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swyamsevak Sangh (RSS), led nationwide demonstrations on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bms-welcomes-centre-s-objection-to-change-of-labour-policies/story-5SANbfppa7nFMn3IkWf6hO.html
28-05-2020||India||Odisha priest beheads man following dreams that it would end Covid-19||A 70-year-old priest has been arrested in Odisha for allegedly beheading a man, believing that the killing will end the coronavirus pandemic.The 55-year-old was beheaded in the premises of the temple on Wednesday night, the police said.Police officials said that Sansari Ojha is a priest at Goddess Brahmani temple in Bandhahuda area of Narasinhapur block in Cuttack. Ojha claimed he was ordered to carry out the beheading the the goddess in order to bring an end to the pandemic, the police said.On Wednesday night, when the victim Saroj Kumar Pradhan visited the temple and was bowing before the goddess, Ojha came up from behind and rained blows on Pradhan’s neck with a scythe. Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) of Athagarh, Alok Ranjan Ray, said that the accused priest later surrendered to the police and confessed to committing the murder.“During interrogation he admitted to the murder claiming it was ordered by the goddess,” said the SDPO. The police, however, said that the priest had a long-standing dispute with the deceased over a mango orchard on the outskirts of the village.The murder weapon has been seized by the police.Odisha, meanwhile, reported 67 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. The state’s tally now stands at 1,660, according to the state health department.Of the new patients, 65 had recently returned to the state from various parts of the country and were in different quarantine centres across districts, while two others were detected with the infection as a result of the contact-tracing exercise, the health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-priest-beheads-man-following-dreams-that-it-would-end-covid-19/story-JmIYE7hIvTKN1jgWoZL7bP.html
28-05-2020||India||‘We should hang our heads in shame’: Kapil Sibal on video showing toddler trying to wake up dead mother||Congress leader Kapil Sibal has expressed anguish over the incident in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur where a toddler was seen trying to wake up his mother from the eternal sleep.“Are migrants not our responsibility? When you see a child trying to wake up his dead migrant mother. Mothers losing their children because of hunger and thirst. No food, no water in Shramik Specials. Foetid toilets and packed coaches. We should hang our heads in shame!” he tweeted on Thursday. Are migrants not our responsibility ?When you see a child trying to wake up his dead migrant mother Mothers losing their children because of hunger and thirstNo food , no water in Shramik SpecialsFoetid toilets and packed coaches We should hang our heads in shame !The heart-wrenching video was tweeted on Wednesday by Sanjay Yadav, an aide to RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav. It shows a toddler trying - and failing - to wake her mother up who lay dead on the platform, a blanket placed over the body. The toddler covered his own head with the blanket after failing to wake the woman up.Also Read: Toddler tries to wake up dead mother at Bihar railway stationThe video further showed that as the woman lay still, the toddler wobbled away from her, announcements continuing in the background about the arrival and departure of trains.“This small child doesn’t know that the bedsheet with which he is playing is the shroud of his mother who has gone into eternal sleep. This mother died of hunger and thirst after being on a train for four days. Who is responsible for these deaths on trains? Shouldn’t the opposition ask uncomfortable questions?” tweeted Yadav.However, the railways had a different story to tell.The railways said that the train was travelling from Surat (in Gujarat) to Purnea (in Bihar) and arrived at Mansi station (in Bihar’s Khagaria district) at 9:17 am on platform number 3 where some people were seen deboarding the body of the woman.Based on a submission given by the dead woman’s brother-in-law to the railway police, the railways said that the woman had been suffering from a heart ailment and had undergone a surgery on March 22.She was discharged on May 24 and undertook the journey thereafter, the brother-in-law said in his written submission, according to the railways.Ramakant Upadhyay, the Dy SP of the Government Railway Police in Muzaffarpur, said the incident occurred on May 25. He told reporters that the woman, who was accompanied by her sister and brother-in-law, had died on the train.A massive exodus of migrant workers is on in several parts of the country, unprecedented in magnitude since Partition.The humanitarian crisis still unfolding on highways and railway platforms has shone light on disturbing tales of entire families walking hundreds of kilometres with little children on foot in a seemingly endless march to escape hunger.People have been found travelling on trucks and in the hollow of concrete mixing plants, and in many cases, dying from hunger and exhaustion before reaching their destinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-should-hang-our-heads-in-shame-kapil-sibal-on-video-showing-toddler-trying-to-wake-up-dead-mother/story-xeWSybrMLgmqDWi5NZOwlN.html
28-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan and Covid-19: Survivors recount tales of horror and grit||Cyclone Amphan which affected more than 10 million and killed 86 people was the strongest cyclone to hit West Bengal in a decade. Tanmay Chatterjee and Joydeep Thakur spoke to the people who faced the full fury of the cyclone. ‘As if the lockdown was not enough to cripple us...’, says honey seller Gopal MondolThe nationwide lockdown had already crippled Gopal Mondol, 55, even before Cyclone Amphan hit. Every year, in April and May, he would enter the tiger-infested mangrove forest of the Sunderbans to collect honey. But this time, the forest authorities did not issue any permit. “As if the lockdown was not enough to cripple us, now we have been hit by the cyclone. We have lost almost everything. Our house is gone,” Mondol said.Mondol said his father, two brothers and cousins were killed by tigers. Yet he continues to enter the forest to collect honey and beeswax from the hives of wild bees, as it is a lucrative business. “My family and I had to take shelter in a local school building along with dozens of other villagers. The cyclone has devastated our village. Saline water has gushed into the villages. Ponds and croplands have all been destroyed. We don’t know what to do,” Mondol said.Mondol’s son works in Bengaluru as labourer. His grandson and daughter-in-law live with Mondol. The nine-year-old studies in a village school.“During the lockdown, we were getting some help from the government in the form of rice, dal and potatoes. But that was not enough. We hardly have any money left. My son is not able to send any money either as he has no work there,” Mondol lamented.‘We had to ensure safety and social distancing’: Bureaucrat recounts experienceSudipta Mandal found himself literally at the eye of the storm when Cyclone Amphan struck last week. The 46-year-old block development officer for South 24 Parganas in Kolkata was in charge of Sagar Island, one of the worst-hit by the cyclone that made landfall on the coastlines of Bangladesh and West Bengal on May 20. After the Indian Meteorological Department issued the warning earlier this month, Mandal supervised the rescue and relief operations with nearly 500 officials and volunteers. Together, they evacuated around 45,000 villagers from various islands and shifted them to shelters.This is not his first rehabilitation effort. He was also involved in the operations after Cyclone Fani hit Odisha in May 2019, and a few months later, Cyclone Bulbul that hit the Bengal coast. “Cyclone Amphan was by far the most destructive. Now that the cyclone has passed, relief and reconstruction work has started,” he said.The challenge was greater due to the coronavirus pandemic. “We not only had to shift villagers to safe locations but also ensure that there was social distancing. Around 500 migrant workers who had just returned from other states had to be kept in six quarantine centres,” Mandal said, adding, “My family members including my parents called me frequently to ask about my safety. But there was no mobile connectivity.”‘Doubt if our roof is intact, wish I could talk to my kin’Ever since she watched television footage of Cyclone Amphan battering large parts of the South 24 Parganas district, Arati Sardar, 45, has not stopped praying for her family at Chunakhali, a remote gram panchayat area in the Sunderbans.“I tried calling my husband and daughter. Their phones have not rung even once in five days. One of our relatives from another part of the district told me that there is no electricity and mobile phone towers have collapsed. I cannot take this anxiety anymore,” Sardar said.“A lot of people have died, they said on television,” she added.The 45- year-old homemaker started taking a train to Kolkata to work as a domestic help when her husband, a mason, lost his job because of his excessive drinking, three years ago.Ever since the nationwide lockdown began on March 25, Sardar has been stranded at her employer’s home in Gariahat, south Kolkata. Her son, also a migrant worker, is stuck in Bengaluru where he recently underwent a kidney operation.“The roof of our home is covered by an asbestos sheet. I doubt it is intact. We have some date palm, mango, banana and other trees on a small piece of land. The orchard must be ravaged. I wish I could talk to my husband once,” Sardar said.‘Such calamites can come again... need to be ready’: Septuagenarian hails renewable sources of energySeptuagenarian SP Gon Choudhury and his wife Swapna, 69, live in their own house in east Kolkata with two domestic helps. Their son, an engineer, lives in London while their daughter, a doctor, lives in Australia.Choudhury, a former government employee is a renewable energy expert and received the Green Oscar award in 2003. And thus, at a time when Madurdaha, a residential neighbourhood in east Kolkata plunged into darkness as Cylcone Amphan tore into Bengal and Bangladesh’s coastlines and high tension electric wires snapped at grid supply sites, Choudhury’s house enjoyed uninterrupted power supply.Choudhury installed a rooftop solar panel in 2018, which produces 1 kilowatt of power when the sun shines — enough to operate a small pump to fill the overhead tank in emergency, apart from running lights, fans and even charge mobile phones. The Choudhurys use a combination of solar power and grid.On the day the cyclone made landfall, Choudhury said that his children kept calling him and his wife to check on them. “My son and daughter were concerned as it was a huge cyclone and mobile networks were down.”The cyclone devastated large parts of the Sunderbans, and the city of Kolkata, and left millions homeless and 86 dead.“Kolkata being a cyclone prone city, such calamities would come again. Every house should explore this option of becoming self-reliant,” Choudhury, who has served as a United Nations expert, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-and-covid-19-survivors-recount-tales-of-horror-and-grit/story-xVXwXJeibd0ohYRd929D6O.html
28-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Maharashtra starts review and planning for easing Covid-related restrictions and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maha govt starts review and planning for easing Covid-19-related restrictions from June 1With just four days for lockdown 4.0 to end on May 31, the Maharashtra government has started a review and planning for easing Covid-19-related restrictions from June 1. Maharashtra imposed a lockdown from the midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown began. Read moreIn rural Lucknow, boys join sisters in making sanitary padsIn much of India, the word ‘menstruation’ is taboo and a large part of the population, particularly women, shies away from talking about menstrual products out of embarrassment. But in rural Malihabad (Lucknow) two girls Aneesha and Deeksha are enlisting their brothers’ help to sew sanitary pads. Read moreAre Covid-19 testing facilities available in all districts, HC asks StateThe Bombay high court has directed the Maharashtra government to disclose whether testing facilities for detecting Covid-19 infections are available in every district of the state. Read more50% of people infected with Covid may experience altered sense of taste: StudyNearly 50 per cent of people who contract Covid-19 may experience altered or lost sense of taste, according to a review of studies.The review, published in the journal Gastroenterology, could provide diagnostic hint for clinicians who suspect their patients might have the deadly disease. Read moreFinding sponsors a problem for T20 World CupThere are many reasons why hosting the Twenty20 World Cup amid the pandemic this year could be a fraught affair. The biggest concern is, of course the players—even if one member gets infected, a team will be knocked out as all players will have to go into quarantine. Read moreHema Malini issues clarification for ‘classist’ Kent RO ad that showed house helps as disease carriersActor and politician Hema Malini has issued a clarification after an advertisement featuring her was slammed for being classist. The ad, for a dough kneading machine, has been taken down by Kent RO. Read moreDonald Trump vs Twitter: Jack Dorsey says they will continue to point out incorrect informationAfter Twitter decided to prompt users, for the first time ever, to fact check US President Donald Trump’s tweets warning that his claims about “mail-in ballots were false” and “has been debunked by factcheckers”, White House has said that Trump will sign an executive order on social media companies on Thursday. Read moreMenstrual Hygiene Day 2020: To attain menstrual health, we require community involvementMenstruation is a normal biological process, which is the key in maintaining the reproductive well being of a woman. Myths and taboos in the society have resulted in a high level of secrecy about the basic menstruation facts -- leading to shame and exclusion for women and girls. Read morePredator waits to strike its prey in this picture. Can you spot it?Pictures of wildlife in their natural habitat usually leave people impressed and often surprised. Sometimes, such pictures also end up posing a challenge when they feature animals hiding in plain sight. Read moreWatch| Covid-19: How India’s lockdown is different, what GDP contraction means||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharashtra-starts-review-and-planning-for-easing-covid-related-restrictions-and-all-the-latest-news/story-XgqBailgNOITITqfqwGCFL.html
28-05-2020||India||Covid-19: Freeze on new posts, transfers as Chhattisgarh on austerity drive||With lockdown having affected the state revenue collection, the Chhattisgarh government on Wednesday decided to put a freeze on creating new posts, transfers, foreign tours, purchase of vehicles, and holding meetings in expensive hotels, among other measures.According to the state finance department’s order, effective from May 31, recruitment on any vacancies, except vacancies of direct recruitment, and appointment on compassionate grounds can be done only after prior permission of the same department.For posts that were earlier approved by the finance department, but recruitment was pending, the concerned department will have to take permission again before recruiting on these posts.Proposals to the finance department in the context should include the information about annual financial burden after recruitment and the need for recruitment on given posts.It has further directed all the departments to follow standard procedure for regular promotion, but transfers due to promotion should be avoided.“Payment of arrears as a result of promotion-upgradation will remain pending till the next orders of the finance department. To control the establishment expenses of departments, the government has banned creation of new posts in all the departments, public undertakings, and municipal bodies with immediate effect. Under special circumstances, new posts can be created after taking permission from the Finance Department,” the department notification said.The expenditure on foreign tours will remain completely banned and government officials are not allowed business class fare during air travel and in first class compartments of trains under government expenses. Unnecessary official tours without approval from competent authority will remain prohibited.Departments have been directed to organise minimum possible meetings and to curtail the expenses on events such as conferences, seminars, government programmes.In the fiscal year 2020-21, purchase of new vehicles is completely banned. Only the vehicles required for essential services can be purchased after taking permission.“Annual salary increment payable to state government employees from July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2020 has been postponed until further notice. However, this order will not be applicable on government employees retiring before January 1, 2021 and July 1, 2021,” the finance department directed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-freeze-on-new-posts-transfers-as-chhattisgarh-on-austerity-drive/story-LF1lfrPJwwO1e5XRxr72ML.html
28-05-2020||India||India’s trade with South Asia less than 4% of global trade; China’s up by 546%||India’s trade with countries in South Asia has remained less than 4% of its global trade since the late 1980s while China has increased its exports to the region by 546%, from $8 billion in 2005 to $52 billion in 2018, according to a new study.The study by Brookings India, released on Tuesday, noted that South Asia remains one of the least economically integrated regions in the world. Intra-regional trade remains well below its potential, at only 5% of the region’s global trade, because of “protectionist policies, high logistics cost, lack of political will and a broader trust deficit”.India’s regional trade growth from 1991 until 1999 was minimal, according to the study titled “India’s limited trade connectivity with South Asia”. In 2008, India’s trade with South Asian neighbours reached a decadal high of $13.45 billion. Following a dip in 2009 due to the global financial crisis, India’s trade with its neighbours doubled in the next five years, touching $24.69 billion in 2014.The slowdown in India’s exports to South Asia in 2015 and 2016 coincided with the 13% decline in India’s global trade, from $19 trillion in 2014 to $16.5 trillion in 2015. Intra-regional trade revived in 2017, reaching a peak at $24.75 billion, and picking up further in 2018 when it rose to $36 billion, according to the study.India’s largest export market in the region is Bangladesh, followed by Sri Lanka and Nepal, whereas the largest imports by value come from Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.All countries in the neighbourhood have a trade deficit with India, the highest in 2018 being Bangladesh ($7.6 billion), followed by Nepal ($6.8 billion).The study says that despite the growing trade volume, India’s trade with its neighbourhood has remained roughly between 1.7% and 3.8% of its global trade. This has happened despite trade agreements such as the SAARC Preferential Trading Arrangement (SAPTA), followed by the South Asian Free Trade Area (SAFTA) agreement, as well as the Indo-Myanmar Border Trade Agreement, the ASEAN–India Trade in Goods Agreement and the Indo-Sri Lanka Free Trade Agreement.In contrast, China has consistently increased its trade with South Asia, barring a slight dip after the global financial crisis of 2008. In 2014, China’s trade reached a high of $60.41 billion, whereas India traded approximately one-third that amount at $24.70 billion.Though China’s trade volume with South Asia is consistently larger, excluding Pakistan reduces the gap to almost half. This gap is attributed to the China–Pakistan Free Trade Agreement signed in 2006, which increased trade significantly between both countries.The study’s analysis of India and China’s shares in the global trade of the South Asian countries revealed only the landlocked countries (Afghanistan, Bhutan, and Nepal) had a higher trade share with India when compared to China. While exports to China from the region have been minimal, imports from China have been growing since 2012 in Myanmar, and since 2014 in the Maldives, Bangladesh, and Pakistan.In the case of Sri Lanka, there was heavy reliance on imports from India till 2013, owing to the Indo-Sri Lanka Free Trade Agreement. However, post-2013, both India and China export at par to Sri Lanka.“In the last two decades, China has established itself as a major trade partner of South Asia. Beyond Pakistan, China has made inroads into South Asia by becoming Bangladesh’s top trading partner in 2015, and bolstering trade and investment with Nepal, Afghanistan, Maldives and Sri Lanka. This mainly reflects the region’s strategic importance for China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), particularly the smaller South Asian countries,” the study said.The study recommended several steps to help improve India’s regional trade, including revisiting and redoubling the focus on free trade agreements, eliminating barriers and other protectionist policies, and enhancing cross-border infrastructure such as integrated check posts.Data from World Bank’s World Integrated Trade Solution (WITS) database and the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) Direction of Trade Statistics (DOTS) database on trade by India and China with Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, the Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka was analysed for the study.The study focused on India’s import and export with South Asian states from 1988 to 2018 and China’s trade with South Asia, excluding India, from 1992 to 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-trade-with-south-asia-less-than-4-of-global-trade-china-s-trade-with-region-increases-by-546/story-NqV2EfMvnpjypgV6LFPiwO.html
28-05-2020||India||Rajya Sabha secretariat begins oath preparations||The Rajya Sabha secretariat has begun preparations for the swearing-in of 37 MPs elected unopposed to the upper house, a person aware of the development said on Thursday. Two sets of days in June have been identified for administering oath to the members from 10 states elected in March. Dates will be communicated to the MPs once the Rajya Sabha Chairman, M Venkaiah Naidu, finalises them.According to the functionary who spoke on condition of anonymity, Naidu has asked the secretariat to frame a plan for the staggered swearing-in of the newly elected MPs.“Two sets of dates for the first week of June and two for the second week have been identified. The dates will be finalised, depending on flights and the quarantine rules to be followed. The MPs have to be given sufficient time to get to New Delhi,” the functionary said.Two MPs, also speaking on condition of anonymity, said they had been asked to be prepared for June 4 and 5.“I was told the dates will be confirmed soon, but to remain ready for next Thursday or Friday,” said one MP.While 37 members were elected unopposed, elections to fill 18 of the total of 55 vacancies were scheduled for March 26. But the elections have been deferred indefinitely because of the Covid-19 pandemic.“The MPs will be called in batches after May 31, when lockdown 4.0 ends. They will be administered the oath of office in the chairman’s chambers, following all protocols for social distancing,” said the functionary quoted above.The oath ceremony will not be open to even families of the MPs, in keeping with the strict protocol of limiting the number of people present in the House.Among the 37 who were elected unopposed are Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Union minister Ramdas Athawale, Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi, and Congress’s Rajeev Satav. From Tamil Nadu, DMK’s Tiruchi Siva, deputy speaker M Thamidurai from the AIADMK and TMC chief GK Vasan were among six elected unopposed.In April, the Rajya Sabha secretariat had announced that the newly elected members had been advised to wait for subscribing to the oath or affirmation till the end of the Covid-19 lockdown.It said while members elected to the house are entitled to make and subscribe the prescribed oath or affirmation and take their seat in the House only upon commencement of their term of office under relevant provisions of the Representation of the People Act, the Constitution (Article 99) and rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Rajya Sabha do not prescribe any time limit for a newly elected member to subscribe oath or affirmation.New members are not entitled to sit, participate and vote in the House or in a committee until they have subscribed the oath or affirmation.The order also said newly elected members are entitled to all facilities, perks and privileges available to Members of Parliament from the date of commencement of their term of office, which is the date of notification of their election to the Rajya Sabha by the law ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-secretariat-begins-oath-preparations/story-dy3zEw4q2OqPvFpzce1VKL.html
28-05-2020||India||‘India has seen migrants’ pain but BJP has not’: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday spotlighted how the country is witnessing a “dard ka manzar (immense pain)” as migrant workers are trudging the highways, many among them bare foot, to get home amid the Covid-19 lockdown. This is the fourth phase of lockdown, which is set to end on May 31. “Unka darr, unki siski, unki peeda desh main sabne suni, par shayad sarkar ne nahi (Everyone saw their pain, heard their cries, but may be the government has still not seen it),” said Sonia Gandhi in a video message to migrants. The video is part of the party’s ‘SpeakUp’ campaign to help raise the voice of the poor, migrants, small businesses and the middle class people before the central government.The Congress president urged the Central government to provide every poor family Rs 7,500 for the next six months to tide over the difficulties. She also said they should be given Rs 10,000 immediately. A free and safe ride home, said Gandhi, must be ensured for the thousands of migrants, who are suddenly out of jobs because of nationwide lockdown.To make sure migrants returning home have gainful employment, Sonia Gandhi requested the government to hike the working mandays in NREGA to 200.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while laying out the final tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package, had said the government will now allocate an additional Rs 40,000 crore to MGNREGA to provide employment boost. This amount is in addition to a little over Rs 61,000 crore budgeted for 2020-21.On Tuesday, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court issued notices to the Centre and states, saying there have been “inadequacies and certain lapses” on their part in dealing with the migrant workers’ situation. The court ordered the Centre and the states to immediately provide transport, food and shelter free of cost to the stranded workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-seen-migrants-pain-but-bjp-has-not-sonia-gandhi/story-1KxHx27bgfRKFpYgSDuvhM.html
28-05-2020||India||Health ministry issues guidelines on reuse, disinfection of eye protection goggles||A single goggle can be worn at least six times as a component of a personal protective equipment (PPE) kit by a healthcare worker, according to the latest guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) on the rational use of the special glasses while attending to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients or related swab samples.“Goggles may be issued to each healthcare worker, who will decontaminate them after every use. Goggles to be disinfected by users and reused at least five times each, whereby one pair of goggles will suffice for six days. They may use them rationally till their transparency decreases, or they get damaged. The ratio of issue of goggles to coverall is recommended at 1:6,” the advisory said.Goggles are key to a PPE kit, whose components after their use are discarded as bio-medical waste as per the standard operating procedure (SOP). However, the goggles that conform to the prescribed quality specifications of the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) can be reused after proper disinfection, the ministry said.“The purpose of this document is to enable individuals to reuse goggles used by them and allowing an extended use without running the risk of contracting infection,” the advisory said.The ministry has been issuing advisories at regular intervals to guide healthcare workers on how to rationally use their protective gear after the country faced an acute shortage of PPE kits during the initial stages of the viral outbreak, leading to widespread panic and a public outcry.“We don’t face any shortage anymore but a rational use of the protective gear is still advisable. One must not waste the resources just because the requirement is being met. The ministry has been consulting experts and issuing appropriate guidelines on a regular basis, as it is an evolving situation,” said a senior government official, requesting anonymity.The Centre has provided 1.14 and 9 million N-95 masks and PPE kits, respectively, to the states and other central institutions to date.“We’ve identified over 100 domestic manufacturers and in about two months have developed a robust industry indigenously, which has a capacity of manufacturing close to 3 lakh masks and PPE kits each daily. It’s a remarkable feat. Besides, the country is not dependent on the import of these items anymore,” the official added. The Union Ministry of Textiles has identified eight laboratories to run a quality control test of the PPE kits manufactured indigenously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-health-ministry-issues-guidelines-on-reuse-disinfection-of-eye-protection-goggles/story-bD4nEo2rOUr5QQwlb7rCBI.html
28-05-2020||India||Are Covid-19 testing facilities available in all districts, HC asks State||The Bombay high court has directed the Maharashtra government to disclose whether testing facilities for detecting Covid-19 infections are available in every district of the state.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice KK Tated passed the order on Tuesday in response to a public interest litigation filed by a fisherman named Khalil Ahmad Hasanmiya Wasta, who complained about the lack of testing facilities in Ratnagiri district.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe bench asked government pleader PP Kakade to furnish the information by Friday, when a hearing of the case is scheduled.Wasta, who hails from Rajiwada area in Ratnagiri district, approached the high court through advocate Rakesh Bhatkar, and sought a direction to authorities to establish a full-fledged Covid-19 testing facility, approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), on May 7.ICMR has approved a testing facility at BKL Walawalkar Rural Medical College at Ratnagiri. Wasta’s petition contended this facility is yet to become functional as it doesn’t have a certificate issued by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories.The petition further states the population of Ratnagiri is 16.15 lakh, and of the six hospitals in the district, two are reserved for treating Covid-19 patients.It states that initially there were only seven Covid-19 cases in the district, and by the end of April, two of the patients died and the others recovered. There were no Covid-19 patients at the beginning of May.The petition added that in the first week of May, authorities allowed local migration and granted passes to 44,531 people for entering Ratnagiri. At about the same time, about 30,000 people entered the district without permission, and as a result, 29,259 persons were kept in home quarantine till May 19 and 4,634 swabs were to be sent for testing, the petition said.Of these swabs, 92 were found to be positive for the Coronavirus and the result of 426 tests is pending.The 58-year-old fisherman’s petition stated the swabs are required to be sent for testing at Miraj in Single district – 178 km from Ratnagiri and 237 km from Dappli, the end point of the district.It added that after the virus spread rapidly in different parts of Maharashtra, the testing facility at Miraj refused to accept swabs from Ratnagiri as it was overburdened.Thereafter, the district collector instructed medical teams in the district on May 15 not to collect swabs of all migrant workers for testing.Against this backdrop, Wasta asked the court to direct state authorities to make the testing facility at Ratnagiri functional at the earliest, as any delay in testing would be dangerous to human life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-covid-19-testing-facilities-available-in-all-districts-hc-asks-state/story-P9gnSoQV89Y2YPNKfnQUmL.html
28-05-2020||India||Pulwama’s 60 kg car bomb seized by cops could be Lashkar-Jaish joint op||A car packed with 60 kg explosives was intercepted in a late night operation by a joint team of security forces in South Kashmir’s Pulwama district, averting what could have been a repeat of the 2019 suicide bombing of a CRPF bus that killed 40 soldiers more than a year ago.The explosives were later detonated by the Jammu and Kashmir police on an isolated stretch since it was considered too risky to defuse the car bomb. In a video released by Jammu and Kashmir Police, the car is seen turning into a huge ball of fire before enveloping the area in thick smoke.“This is such great work. Imagine if this had led to loss of lives. Just grateful this is not mixed in with human ash,” said Kashmir police officer Rayees Mohammad Bhat, who also tweeted a 9-second video of what he described as the “ashfall” from the explosion.Jammu and Kashmir police officers who examined the car bomb before it was detonated suspect Waleed Bhai, a notorious bomb maker of the Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group, had put together the car bomb. Huge tragedy averted in Kashmir! An intended IED attack in Pulwama in South Kashmir foiled owing to alertness of security forces.See the controlled explosion of IED in the car it was being carried in. Imagine the havoc that would've been caused if terrorists had been successful pic.twitter.com/XCoHpWAtU9But the car bomb, a senior police officer told Hindustan Times, also exemplifies that the line between terror groups was only notional since they were working closely and were increasingly moved from one group of another.“This is purely a Jaish and Lashkar joint operation. But the (terror) factory is located in Pakistan, whether it produces terrorists of Hizbul, Jaish or the TRF (The Resistance Front,” Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh told Hindustan Times.The initial intelligence input that led to an overnight operation in Pulwama was that a Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist was driving the car. The input didn’t indicate which route he would take. “So joint teams of the J&K police, CRPF and Army mapped all the possible routes and set up checkpoints,” a Jammu and Kashmir police officer said.When the car suspected to be carrying the bomb was spotted at Ayekhand, the security forces - who had positioned themselves away from the road - started firing at the car. The terrorist drove for a bit before stopping the car and escaping in the jungle.The explosives were being carried in a drum on the rear seat of the Santro car which had a fake registration plate. “Possibly more explosives could be fitted elsewhere in the vehicle,” a police officer said.Security forces waited till dawn and evacuated people living in the neighbourhood. “The vehicle was exploded in situ by the Bomb Disposal Squads as moving the vehicle would have involved serious threat,” the police said. Initial investigations said the vehicle’s registration number was traced to a scooter issued in Kathua district of Jammu province.A top Kashmir police officer told Hindustan Times that they had been working on this case for the last two months. “This would have been a repeat of the (2019) Pulwama bombing,” he said, referring to the suicide bombing of a CRPF convoy that killed 40 troopers and led India to carry out air strikes at a terror facility in Pakistan’s Balakot. Islamabad retaliated by attempting to carry out strikes at Indian installations in Kashmir. India shot down an F-16 plane that was being used to fire at Indian locations.A senior counter-terror official in Delhi saw a link to the planned car bombing and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s repeated statements about a “false flag operation in Kashmir”.A senior counter-terror official in Delhi saw a link to the planned car bombing and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s repeated statements accusing India of prepping for a “false flag operation in Kashmir”.The reference to a ‘false flag operation’ is part of Imran Khan and his government’s narrative that Pakistan does not sponsor terror groups in Kashmir and India falsely accuses Islamabad of involvement so that it can launch attacks.“The sequence of events clearly demonstrate that PM Imran Khan had been preparing the ground to deny involvement in terror attacks orchestrated from its territory and support of the deep state,” a counter terror official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pulwama-s-60-kg-car-bomb-seized-by-cops-could-be-lashkar-jaish-joint-op/story-H27kv45oXh28DWmFPuJMSI.html
28-05-2020||India||Maha govt starts review and planning for easing Covid-19-related restrictions from June 1||With just four days for lockdown 4.0 to end on May 31, the Maharashtra government has started a review and planning for easing Covid-19-related restrictions from June 1. Maharashtra imposed a lockdown from the midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown began. On June 1, the state will have been in lockdown for 69 days.State government officials have said restrictions will be relaxed in a phased manner. “Lifting of curbs will be announced in advance. There will be more relaxations but in a calibrated manner and in phases,” an official said. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has hinted restrictions will be eased on a trial basis to gauge the people’s response. In a meeting with district collectors, divisional commissioners and municipal commissioners on Wednesday, he said the number of Covid-19 cases had surged in districts with fewer cases after restrictions were eased. Experts said Maharashtra has to be extremely cautious about lifting restrictions. Anant Bhan, a researcher on global health, bioethics and health policy, said: “The exit strategy has to be carefully applied and in a calibrated manner. The decisions have to be more local, at ward levels, and the impact needs to be constantly monitored.” On Wednesday, Maharashtra recorded more than 100 deaths due to Covid-19, which has bruised the state more than others. As of May 27, Maharashtra alone accounted for 36% of the total cases in the country. With 105 fatalities recorded on Wednesday alone, the state’s toll went up to 1,897. The total number of infections recorded till Wednesday evening was 56,948. Of these, more than 37,000 are active cases. Starting from May 17, the state has recorded more than 2,000 new infections for 10 days in a row. The state’s worst-affected city, Mumbai, reported 1,044 new cases on Wednesday. The state has also witnessed intense political activity in the past few days, with a tussle between the Central and state governments over the Shramik Special trains for migrant workers and the BJP unit in Maharashtra attacking the state government over the growing number of Covid-19 cases.The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi alliance put up a united front, with leaders from the Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party addressing a joint news conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-govt-starts-review-and-planning-for-easing-covid-19-related-restrictions-from-june-1/story-TRl3tJaLBY6SDkpo1Nd6lK.html
28-05-2020||India||Govt dealt another blow to citizens, says Chidambaram as RBI bonds scheme stopped||Congress leader P Chidambaram has lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government for discontinuing the Savings (Taxable) Bonds scheme.“Government has dealt another blow to citizens who save, especially senior citizens. It has discontinued the 7.75 per cent RBI Bonds,” Chidambaram said on Twitter. Government has dealt another blow to citizens who save, especially senior citizens. It has discontinued the 7.75 per cent RBI Bonds.“Government did this once before in Jan 2018. I protested vehemently. Next day they re-introduced the bond but reduced the interest rate from 8 per cent to 7.75 per cent. Effectively, after tax, the bond will yield only 4.4 per cent. That is now taken away. Why? I deplore this action,” the former finance minister said in other tweets posted om the same matter.The scheme, commonly known as RBI , is popular among retail investors who looking for safety of principal and a regular income.“The Government of India, hereby notifies that the 7.75 per cent Savings (Taxable) Bonds, 2018...shall cease for subscription with effect from the close of banking business on Thursday, the 28th of May, 2020,” said a notification on Wednesday.The Reserve Bank of India too has notified the Cessation of 7.75 per cent Savings (Taxable) Bonds, 2018. Interest on the Bonds is taxable.The Bonds are issued at par at Rs 100. The minimum subscription was fixed at Rs 1,000.As per the scheme, the bonds are be repayable on the expiration of seven years from the date of issue.The interest rate on bank fixed deposits as well as lending rates are on decline with the Reserve Bank of India lowering the key short-term lending (repo) rate. The repo rate is currently at historic low of 4 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-dealt-another-blow-to-citizens-says-chidambaram-as-rbi-bonds-scheme-stopped/story-by2ptKzSHScuBlja7s54gJ.html
28-05-2020||India||PM pays tributes to Savarkar on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid tributes to freedom fighter and Hindutva ideologue Veer Savarkar on his birth  anniversary, saying he motivated several people to join the freedom struggle.“On his Jayanti, I bow to the courageous Veer Savarkar. We remember him for his bravery, motivating several others to join the freedom struggle and emphasis on social reform,” the prime minister wrote on Twitter.He also shared a clip of his May, 2018 “Mann ki Baat” radio programme in which he referred to Savarkar.“It is indeed sad that we kept on calling the events of 1857 only as a rebellion or a soldiers’ mutiny for a very long time … It was Veer Savarkar who boldly expostulated by writing that whatever happened in 1857 was not a revolt but was indeed the First War of Independence,” he had said.Vinayak Damodar Savarkar was born in 1883.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-pays-tributes-to-savarkar-on-birth-anniversary/story-REzpfKYdopdkHD48vTXUbO.html
28-05-2020||India||What Mamata Banerjee told Amit Shah on Bengal’s Covid-19 crisis handling||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention on Wednesday in the alleged “whimsical” functioning of the railways in sending Shramik Special trains to West Bengal and urged the BJP-led Centre not to pursue politics when the state is battling a dual crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic and trail of destruction left behind by Cyclone Amphan.The state’s infrastructure is “stretched to its limit” after the May 20 cyclone and it can receive very few trains carrying migrant workers back on a daily basis as of now, she said.The state considers the ferrying of a large number of migrant workers by the railways as a big problem for public health. The pressure should be “optimal and well managed”, Banerjee said.“The state government is facing a dual crisis of the COVID-19 pandemic and the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. Our infrastructure is completely stretched. The railways is sending Shramik Special trains to the state every day according to its whims and fancies, without even bothering to inform us,” she said.“Where will we keep these migrant labourers for institutional quarantine? This is not the time for politics. We are facing a very tough situation and we need time and space to tackle it,” the chief minister said, ahead of the slated arrival of 11 Shramik Special trains in the state in the evening.Banerjee, one of the most vocal critics of the BJP, hit out at the saffron party, saying, “They can disturb me politically, but why are they causing harm to the state? West Bengal is facing such a major disaster. It will lead to a spike in COVID-19 cases. Who will take the responsibility then?” “I request the prime minister and Union home minister to look into the matter so that there is no spike in COVID-19 cases in the state. The prime minister should intervene,” the feisty Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo said.The TMC government had asked the railway ministry not to send Shramik Special trains to the state till May 26 in view of the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. However, a total of 41 such trains are scheduled to arrive in the city this week.The railways, however, said no trains were being “planned” by the national transporter and it was only operationalising the trains that have been asked for by the states.“The railways was given a demand with details such as the number of passengers, originating and destination points. All the related coordination is being done by the state governments. The railways is a medium providing service by arranging rakes based on the request from these states,” it said.Around 41 trains were to leave for West Bengal on May 26, but by midnight, only 10 had departed, the railways said.So far, 35 trains have terminated in Bengal, 22 are in transit and three more are in the pipeline, according to data provided by the national transporter.“It is because of the sudden announcement of the lockdown that we are facing this migrant labourer crisis. I had earlier told Union Home Minister Amit Shah that if his government feels that we cannot handle the COVID-19 crisis, why don’t they (Centre) handle it on its own?” Banerjee said.Asserting that the coronavirus cases were brought under control in the state, the chief minister said there was a recent spike after 25 per cent of the migrant labourers, who returned from other states, tested positive for the disease.Most of these cases were returnees from the hotspot areas in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, she said.“We had come up with a plan, according to which everyone would have come back in a few days in a phased manner. But we got to know only on Tuesday that many trains are coming from Maharashtra. I myself spoke to the Maharashtra government and they said they were informed of it at 2’o clock the night before. Had the Centre drawn up a plan with us, the railway ministry consulted us, it would have been better,” Banerjee said.Elaborating on her government’s stretched infrastructure, she said it is not possible for it to institutionally quarantine all those returning to the state.“So we have asked the district magistrates concerned to create a block-wise task force for every district to ensure that those returning from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra can be institutionally quarantined in local schools.“The self-help groups will arrange for food for those at the quarantine centres. After 14 days, they will be tested and those who test negative will be sent home. Those from other states, who are asymptomatic, can go home but must stay in home quarantine for 14 days,” Banerjee said.West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh termed Banerjee’s allegation against the Centre as “baseless”.“All the states have accepted hundreds of trains carrying home their migrant labourers. The West Bengal government is the only exception. It did not create facilities and infrastructure for quarantine for the last two months,” he said.The West Bengal government had last week announced that it would receive 225 Shramik Special trains carrying migrant labourers who were stranded in other states.The issue of migrant labourers snowballed into a major political crisis between the Centre and West Bengal recently, with the former accusing the TMC government of not doing enough to take back migrant labourers from the state. The TMC has dismissed the allegation as baseless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-mamata-banerjee-told-amit-shah-on-bengal-s-handling-of-covid-19-crisis/story-Hwq3wQCsavLMko2whFe0EO.html
28-05-2020||India||Delhi farmer buys plane tickets to send 10 workers to their homes in Bihar||A farmer in Delhi sent 10 of his workers home on a flight to their home state Bihar on Thursday.Pappan Gehlot, a mushroom farmer, paid for their flight tickets because the migrant workers have toiled for him for the last 20 years.“We tried to book trains tickets but were unable to do it. Then we thought these people have been working with us for over 20 years, their journey should be safe. So we got them medically examined and arranged flight tickets for them,” Pappu’s brother Niranjan Gehlot told news agency ANI.The workers said their dream came true. “I had never thought I will get to sit in an aeroplane, our employer made the arrangements for us,” said one of the workers as he arrived at the Indira Gandhi International Airport to board the 6 am flight to Patna on Thursday.The workers said they can’t believe they are going to their villages in Samastipur - not walking or cycling thousands of kilometres, or scrambling for a seat on a bus or train - but on a plane.“I never imagined in my life that I will be traveling in a plane. I don’t have words to express my happiness. But I am also little bit nervous about what I have to do when we reach the airport tomorrow,” Lakhinder Ram, who will be returning with his son, told news agency PTI.Ram, 50, who has been working for Gehlot for 27 years, said the farmer has been taking care of their food and accommodation since the lockdown began on March 25.Gehlot has a mushroom farm in Delhi’s Tigipur village. He bought the tickets worth Rs 68,000 and also gave each worker Rs 3,000 so they don’t face any problems when they reach their home state.Gehlot said that he has been doing mushroom farming since 1993 which has a season between august and March.These workers wanted to go to their village in the first week of April, but couldn’t because of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-farmer-buys-plane-tickets-to-send-10-workers-to-their-homes-in-bihar/story-zgT37jbr4wnzEkjJQYe5fI.html
28-05-2020||India||Centre steps in after locust attack spreads to 5 states, swarm splits into two: Latest updates||Centre has pitched in to help states battling an attack by the desert locusts. The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare on Wednesday informed that locust control operations have been stepped up in affected states to combat the menace.“89 fire brigades for pesticide spray; 120 survey vehicles; 47 control vehicles with spray equipment and 810 tractor-mounted sprayers have been deployed for effective locust control, as per requirement during different days,” the ministry said.Five states - Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh - are affected by the swarms moving at great speed. Also Watch | Crop-eating locusts wreak havoc in Rajasthan & MP“As of today, there are active swarms of immature locust in Barmer, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Bikaner, Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Sikar, Jaipur Districts in Rajasthan and Satna, Gwalior, Seedhi, Rajgarh, Baitul, Devas, Agar Malwa district of Madhya Pradesh,” the ministry said on Wednesday.In Maharashtra, officials reported that the swarm split into two groups after pesticide was sprayed between Monday night and Tuesday morning. One group is moving towards Parseoni in Nagpur while the other entered Bhandara, said officials.“The swarm travelled over 100 km on Wednesday from Andhalgaon, Mohadi taluka back into Ramtek tehsil in Nagpur, and again into Tumsar Bhandara. They have settled at orchards surrounding Temani,” said Ravindra Bhosale, divisional joint director agriculture.The state agriculture department issued a ‘locust warning alert’ for all 11 districts in Vidarbha and four districts in north Maharashtra.In view of rising concerns of possible locust attack, the Odisha government on Wednesday issued guidelines for farmers in the state and asked them to take preventive steps suggested in this regard.As preventive measures, farmers need to spray their crops with a solution based on neem seeds extract mixing with water or they can also spray their crops with neem-based pesticides available in the market by mixing with water as suggested in the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-steps-in-after-locust-attack-spreads-to-5-states-swarm-splits-into-two-latest-updates/story-lra4i6m3HtdQzKhvTI06NI.html
28-05-2020||India||Respite from heatwave from today, rainfall, thunderstorm likely in parts of India||The maximum temperatures are likely to recede from Thursday in north India, which is reeling under a severe heatwave, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.“Under the influence of a western disturbance and an east-west trough in lower levels and likely occurence of rain-thunderstorm from 28-30 May, maximum temperatures over plains of north India are likely to recede fom 28th onwards with substantial reduction of heatwave condition from 29th May,” the IMD said in its bulletin on Thursday morning.The western disturbance currently lies over northeast Afghanistan and adjoining Pakistan at 5.8 kilometre above mean sea level, the IMD bulletin further said.Western disturbance is a cyclonic circulation which originates in the Mediterranean Sea. Traversing central Asia, it brings rains to the hills and plains when it comes in contact with the Himalayas.The weather department said that the maximum temperature over North-West, Central and West India will fall by 3-4 degrees Celsius during next two-three days.There is also prediction of isolated to scattered rainfall or thundershowers in North-West and Central India.The temperature in north and central India has been hovering around 47 degrees Celsius for the past four-five days.The maximum temperature in Churu, which had recorded 50 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, was 49.6 degrees on Wednesday, followed by 48.9 degrees in Ganganagar and Bikaner districts of Rajasthan.Bathinda in Punjab recorded 47.5 degrees Celsius, while it was 47.2 degrees in Delhi.On the progress of the southwest monsoon, the IMD said it had further advanced into some more parts of south Bay of Bengal, most parts of Andaman Sea and Andaman and Nicobar Islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/respite-from-heatwave-from-today-rainfall-and-thunderstorm-expected/story-B7JlXvBswOq0TasUy2iPlI.html
28-05-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat: Delhi Police files 35 charge sheets against 376 foreigners||The Delhi Police has filed total 35 charge sheets against 376 foreign nationals from 34 countries for attending a religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz here in violation of visa conditions and indulging in missionary activities amid the Covid-19 outbreak in the country, officials said on Wednesday. Twenty charge sheets against 82 foreigners from 20 countries were filed before a court on Tuesday and 15 charge sheets against 294 foreign nationals from 14 countries were filed on Wednesday. According to the charge sheets, all the foreign nationals have been booked for violating visa rules, violating government guidelines issued in the wake of coronavirus pandemic and regulations regarding the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure. They have also been booked for offences under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Foreigners Act. The Centre has cancelled their visas and blacklisted them. The 294 foreigners charge-sheeted on Wednesday belonged to Malaysia, Thailand, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and several African nations. Out of the 82 foreigners chargesheeted earlier, four of the accused were from Afghanistan, seven each from Brazil and China, five from the US, two each from Australia, Kazakhstan, Morocco and the UK, one each from Ukraine, Egypt, Russia, Jordan, France, Tunisia, Belgium, eight from Algeria, 10 from Saudi Arabia, 14 from Fiji and six each from Sudan and Philippines. A large congregation organised by the Tablighi Jamaat in the Nizamuddin area of the national capital in March had emerged as a major hotspot of coronavirus in the country. Some of the participants, who were later tested positive for coronavirus, had travelled to their home states across the length and breadth of the country. More than 900 foreign nationals who are accused in the case belong to 34 different countries and charge sheets are being prepared country-wise, under sections of the Foreigners Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of the IPC. On Tuesday, the police had submitted a status report in the Delhi High Court. In the status report, the Delhi Police had said that in order to substantiate the legitimacy of their visit to India, the passports of 723 accused foreigners and ID cards of 23 accused Nepal nationals have been taken into possession. Over 150 accused foreign nationals were unable to provide their passports. Efforts were being made to account for all the passports in this regard, the report stated. The punishment for various offences under penal provisions ranges from six months to eight years of imprisonment. An FIR was registered against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi and six others on March 31 on a complaint of the Station House Officer of Nizamuddin. Kandhalvi was later booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after some of the attendees of the religious congregation died due to Covid-19’, police said. Many Tablighi members and their contacts have been quarantined in the country after the Centre and the state governments conducted a “mega operation” to identify them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-delhi-police-files-35-charge-sheets-against-376-foreigners/story-VHqzEaD1iKijI8LWUXvZqN.html
28-05-2020||India||Bihar crosses 3,000-mark, Delhi records 792 fresh Covid-19 cases: State tally||India witnessed another big spike in the number of Covid-19 cases on Thursday. For the seventh day in a row, more than 6,000 new cases of Covid-19 were recorded, according to the Union health ministry which took the nationwide tally to close to 1.6 lakh. According to the Union health ministry update, India recorded 6,566 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours (between Wednesday and Thursday).The number of coronavirus disease fatalities in the country stands 4,531 while over 67,691 people have successfully recovered from the disease.The national capital saw its tally of confirmed cases rising to 15,257 with 792 fresh cases being recorded on Wednesday - its highest single-day spike. The death toll in Delhi rose to 303.Here’s a look at Covid-19 state-wise tally.The Big 4MaharashtraCovid-19 cases in Maharashtra reached 56,948 on Thursday. The state has recorded 1,897 deaths so far, highest in the country, while 17,918 have recovered from Covid-19.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with 18,545 coronavirus disease cases so far. While 9,909 people have recovered from the disease here, 133 patients have died.GujaratIn Gujarat, the third worst-hit state by the coronavirus pandemic, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 15,195 on Wednesday. Gujarat has seen 7,549 people recover from coronavirus while 938 people have died.DelhiThe national capital reported 792 infections of the disease till Thursday, according to the Union health ministry.It comes days after the number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Delhi fell below 500 (412) for the first time in a week. The fresh cases took Delhi’s infection tally to 15,257.States with more than 6,000 casesRajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan reached 7,703 on Thursday. The state has reported 173 fatalities while 4,457 patients have recovered from the infection in the state.Madhya PradeshAs many as 7,261 people have been infected from Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh till date. Three hundred and thirteen people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 3,927 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 6,991 in Uttar Pradesh. While 3,991 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 182 have died from the infection here.Situation in other statesIn West Bengal, coronavirus cases have crossed the 4,000-mark and are rapidly rising. The number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 4192 on Thursday. There have been 289 deaths and 1,578 recoveries in the state. Domestic flight services resumed in the state on Thursday.States with under 3,000 coronavirus cases include Telangana, Odisha, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka and Haryana. Bihar saw a spike in the number of cases and its tally now stands at 3,061.Kerala crossed the 1,000-mark in the number of Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, the state’s tally stood at 1004.Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases while Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya and Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli has reported two cases of Covid-19.All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Mizoram have recovered. Arunachal Pradesh has two Covid-19 patients and one of them has recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-crosses-3-000-mark-delhi-records-792-fresh-covid-19-cases-state-tally/story-T2Eu54PWYxhqsMl2uNpciP.html
28-05-2020||India||After 12-hour rescue ops, 3-year-old who fell in Telangana borewell found dead||A three-year old boy who accidentally fell into an open borewell on Wednesday evening died due to asphyxiation in Telangana’s Medak district, the police said on Thursday.The body of Sanjay Sai Vardhan, who belonged to Patancheru in Sangareddy district on the outskirts of Hyderabad, was retrieved by National Disaster Response Force teams in the early hours of Thursday, after nearly 12 hours of intense rescue operations.The incident took place in the boy’s maternal grandfather Mangali Bhikshapathi’s agricultural fields in Podichanpally village of Papannapet block. Sai Vardhan, along with his parents -- Goverdhan, a photographer by profession and Naveena, a homemaker -- and two elder brothers came to the village a few days ago.The police said Bhikshapathi had abandoned the borewell as he did not get any water even after digging 120 feet deep. On Wednesday morning, he got another borewell drilled but it also did not yield any water.As he was getting the borewells filled one after the other, Goverdhan came there along with his wife and children. “While his grandfather was inspecting the closure of one of the borewells, Sai Vardhan accidentally slipped into the adjacent open borewell,” the police said.Soon after the boy fell into the borewell, police rushed to the spot along with revenue officials of Medak district to begin the rescue operations. A 108-emergency vehicle also arrived at the spot to supply oxygen into the borewell, after locating the boy about 25 feet deep in the borewell.Medak collector K Dharma Reddy, superintendent of police Chandana Deepthi, revenue divisional officer Sai Ram and local MLA Padma Devender Reddy also visited the village to supervise rescue operations.The district authorities summoned teams of NDRF, which along with the revenue authorities, started digging a parallel well by roping in excavators to reach out to the boy.“Despite our best efforts, we could not save the boy, who apparently died of asphyxiation. His body was retrieved from under the debris that fell on him at around 25 ft,” a police official involved in the rescue operations said.The body of Sai Vardhan has been shifted to a government hospital in Medak for post mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-12-hour-rescue-ops-3-year-old-who-fell-in-telangana-borewell-found-dead/story-DY7FguFo9i7b9CD5Sk2IhP.html
28-05-2020||India||Another big spike of over 6,500 Covid-19 cases in India, nearly 200 dead in 24 hours||The number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday reached 1,58,333 after 6,566 new infections were reported across the country in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed.This is the seventh day in a row that India has reported more than 6,000 cases of Covid-19. On May 22, 6,088 people tested positive and 6,535 contracted for the respiratory disease on Tuesday. On Wednesday, 6,387 new cases were reported.The country’s death toll stands at 4,531 after 194 people died between Wednesday morning and Thursday morning. There were 67,691 patients who have recovered and sent home so far.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi continued to report a rise in Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra’s tally of has reached 56,948 and the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state rose to 1,897.The health ministry, meanwhile, said on Wednesday that the recovery rate has improved further to cross 42 per cent.“Around 42.45 per cent patients have recovered so far,” a senior health ministry official said.The national capital saw its tally of confirmed cases rising to 15,257 with 792 fresh cases being recorded on Wednesday - its highest single-day spike. The death toll in Delhi rose to 303.A nationwide lockdown has been in place since March 25 and its ongoing fourth phase is scheduled to remain in place till May 31. While several relaxations have been given in this phase for allowing various economic activities, educational institutions are among those that have not been allowed to open as yet.Domestic flights also began operating this week in a phased manner, while special migrant trains have been running since May 1 and special international flights were started on May 7 to bring back stranded Indians and expatriates from abroad.India figures among the 10 worst-hit countries in terms of spread of the deadly virus. Globally, more than 56 lakh have tested positive so far, and over 3.5 lakh have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-big-spike-of-over-6-500-covid-19-cases-in-india-nearly-200-dead-in-24-hours/story-r20H6VndcNAb9tJrk7xcWO.html
28-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Kolkata airport welcomes passengers as flight services resume in Bengal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kolkata airport welcomes passengers as flight services resume in Bengal after 2 monthsDomestic flight operations to and from West Bengal resumed from Thursday after a gap of two months due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The Kolkata airport tweeted that 122 passengers from Delhi arrived in the city after two months. Read moreHome guards, nurses test positive at Covid-19 hotspots in OdishaTwo personnel of the home guards in Odisha’s Covid-19 epicentre of Ganjam district and two nurses working in a Covid-19 hospital of Balasore district, another epcientre, tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Wednesday. Read moreExtradition of Huawei’s CFO to US may deter Canada-China relationsTies between Canada and China could be headed towards further trouble as a judge in Vancouver cleared the way for continuing extradition proceedings against a senior executive of Huawei. Read moreFate of World T20, IPL could be decided todayThe International Cricket Council (ICC) could decide on the fate of the 2020 T20 World Cup at its board meeting on Thursday. The World T20 is scheduled in Australia from October 18 to November 15. Read moreMenstrual Hygiene Day 2020: Do I really need periods?It’s one of those days. You are on a period –and it is heavy and painful. You don’t feel like going for work. But you have an important meeting and cannot possibly miss it. You drag yourself out of bed, down a few pain killers and rush to work. Read moreXiaomi’s Redmi Display A1 with 23.8-inch screen size launched in China: Here’s the price and specificationsXiaomi seems to be in a product launch spree these days. A few days ago it introduced an 18W dual-port charger, screwdriver kit, Redmi Smart TV and new Redmi laptops in China. Now, it has launched the Redmi Display A1 in its home country. Read moreUGC asks Universities and colleges not to compel students into paying fees immediatelyHigher education sector regulator UGC has asked universities and colleges to not compel students into paying fees immediately and look into individual cases sympathetically. Read moreHrithik Roshan is quarantining with ex Sussanne Khan and their sons at his stunning sea-facing home. See inside pics, videoHrithik Roshan, whose chock-a-block calendar rarely allows him to spend months at a time with his sons Hrehaan and Hridaan, is using the lockdown to spend quality time with them. Read moreWatch| India-Nepal tussle: Oli govt forced to defer new map claiming Indian territory||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kolkata-airport-welcomes-passengers-as-flight-services-resume-in-bengal-and-all-the-latest-news/story-tfO0bNlB02aoYSfb9OT8mO.html
28-05-2020||India||Kolkata airport welcomes passengers as flight ops resume in Bengal after 2 months||Domestic flight operations to and from West Bengal resumed from Thursday after a gap of two months due to the Covid-19 lockdown.The Kolkata airport tweeted that 122 passengers from Delhi arrived in the city after two months.“Welcome Back Passengers! #KolkataAirport saw the arrival of 122 passengers from @DelhiAirport after two long months and 40 passengers departed to #Guwahati. Proper checks were followed and regular sanitization was carried out in terminal which was abuzz with passengers,” the (Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International) NSCBI airport posted on Twitter. Welcome Back Passengers!#KolkataAirport saw the arrival of 122 passengers from @DelhiAirport after two long months and 40 passengers departed to #Guwahati. Proper checks were followed and regular sanitization was carried out in terminal which was abuzz with passengers. pic.twitter.com/ZrqmPBxDSfThough domestic flight operations across the country began on May 25, it could not be restarted in Bengal as the state machinery was involved in the relief and restoration work after Cyclone Amphan devastated many areas of the state.On Thursday, 10 flights will take off from Kolkata and an equal number will arrive in Kolkata, news agency PTI reported. Domestic flight operations will also resume at Bagdogra airport in north Bengal too.Passengers flying to and from the state have been asked by the West Bengal government to mandatorily submit “filled up self-declaration form” at the time of arrival to the state health officials.As per the revised guidelines issued by the state government for flyers, all passengers will have to undergo health screening at the point of departure and only “asymptomatic” passengers shall be allowed to board the plane.On arrival, health screening shall be done for all the passengers.The government further said in the guideline that all samples will be collected for coronavirus test from all symptomatic passengers.Those with moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to the dedicated Covid-19 health facility and managed accordingly. Those with mild symptoms will be asked to go for home or institutional isolation.Adequate publicity for maintenance of social distancing norms and health hygiene protocol should be done at the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-airport-welcomes-passengers-as-flight-services-resume-in-bengal-after-2-months/story-PaV3OSMLMeStsp6oufRIBO.html
28-05-2020||India||Home guards, nurses test positive at Covid-19 hotspots in Odisha||Two personnel of the home guards in Odisha’s Covid-19 epicentre of Ganjam district and two nurses working in a Covid-19 hospital of Balasore district, another epcientre, tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Wednesday.Ganjam SP Brijesh Roy said that the two home guards were on duty at Jagannathpur railway station where the Shramik Special trains have been bringing in the migrant workers since the last three weeks. They were also on duty at a quarantine centre.“Both of them are undergoing treatment in Parala Maharaja Covid-19 hospital and Tata Covid-19 Hospital,” he said. So far, 368 people in Ganjam have tested positive of which 283 recovered.The two nurses were on duty at a Covid-19 hospital of Balasore town for quite some time. Both of them have been admitted to the same hospital where they did their duty.On May 19, a 36-year-old police constable of Bhubaneswar had tested positive after coming in contact with a migrant labourer of other state. However, the cop was later discharged from the hospital as he was asymptomatic.Apart from police and nurses, a doctor too has been infected by Covid-19. A paediatrician working in a government hospital in Cuttack tested positive on Tuesday.Meanwhile, a two-month-old baby girl died on Wednesday at a quarantine centre in Bargarh, a day after she arrived with her migrant worker parents. The baby’s parents and other family members had returned from Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday.The exact cause behind her death is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-guards-nurses-test-positive-at-covid-19-hotspots-in-odisha/story-hrbgumiH17u9b3tlj4R01N.html
28-05-2020||India||Maharashtra returnees account for 84% of 135 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka||As many as 84% or 114 of the 135 new coronavirus cases reported in the past 24 hours in Karnataka were of Maharashtra returnees, even as the state’s tally rose to 2,418, an official said on Wednesday. “New cases reported from Tuesday 5 p.m. to Wednesday 5 pm, 135,” said a health official.The total cases with domestic travel history were 123 of the 135 cases. Covid-19 cases spiked in Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, Yadgir, Bidar, Raichur, Bengaluru Urban, Davangere, Kalaburagi, Hasssan, Belagavi and Udupi.Of the total cases, 1,588 are active, while 781 patients have been discharged. Fourteen patients are currently admitted in ICU.In the past 24 hours, 17 patients were discharged, including four in Shivamogga, three in Bidar, two each in Benglauru Urban, Davangere and Kalaburagi, and one each in Chikkamagaluru, Haveri, Dharwad and Ballari.A majority of the new infections are now occurring in younger people.Of the new cases, 82 were men and 53 women, including 16 patients below the age of 10.On Wednesday, three patients succumbed to Covid.A 69-year-old woman from Yadgir district succumbed to the virus.The Maharashtra returnee was brought dead to a designated hospital at Yadir on May 20 and had tested corona positive now, an official said.This was Karnataka’s 45th Covid death and Yadgir’s first.Similarly, a 49-year-old man from Bidar died of the Virus, the state’s 46th Covid death and Bidara¿s third.“Positive case 1,712adiagnosed with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) admitted in designated hospital, Bidar with complaints of fever, cough and breathlessnessadied on Wednesday,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-returnees-account-for-84-of-135-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka/story-jW02YsU5oZV3xs0vq65nCN.html
28-05-2020||India||Odisha couple who had eloped to Gujarat gets married at quarantine centre||A a time when Covid-19 has caused massive upheaval across the world, a young couple in Odisha got married in the quarantine centre. The two had ran away from their respective homes in January this year.On Sunday, Saurabh Das, a 19-year-old youth of Sagada village in Puri district, married his girlfriend Pinkyrani Das in a quarantine centre of the same village at the end of 14 days of quarantine. Saurabh had eloped with Pinkyrani in January this year to Ahmedabad where the two lived as a couple. However, the girl’s family did not lodge any FIR against the boy’s family.As the plastic factory where Saurabh worked in Ahmedabad shut during lockdown, the two were finding it difficult to come back. After much difficulty, the couple landed in Sagada village and were quickly taken to the quarantine centre.“The two had checked into the quarantine centre on May 10 after returning from Ahmedabad, where Saurabh worked in a plastic factory. Though both showed symptoms of Covid-19, their swab tests came negative. As the girl had become pregnant, we decided to get them married off. They got married on May 24 after completing 14 days of institutional quarantine at Sagada village,” said Nimapara Block Development Officer Manoj Behera.As their family members can’t enter the quarantine centre, two teachers who are in-charge of the quarantine centre acted as parents of the bride and groom. The local sarpanch, ward member, ASHA worker and Anganwadi worker helped organise the marriage.Meanwhile, 76 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Odisha on Wednesday, taking the number of cases to 1,593, a health department official said.Of the fresh cases, 74 people returned to Odisha from other states like Gujarat, West Bengal, Maharastra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand, and were lodged at different quarantine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-couple-who-had-eloped-to-gujarat-gets-married-at-quarantine-centre/story-rmWIg1FmCxc0YIvuwZhEQJ.html
28-05-2020||India||RLP demanded CBI probe in alleged suicide of Rajasthan cop, launches campaign||The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), which has three legislators in Rajasthan Assembly, has launched a campaign seeking probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged suicide of a police officer in Rajgah, in Rajasthan’s Churu.Party convenor and Lok Sabha MP from Nagaur, Hanuman Beniwal, directed party office-bearers and workers to give memorandum at every district and sub-division headquarters across the state with the demand.Earlier, on Tuesday, the RLP had launched a social media campaign, posting 1,50,000 tweets to make the hashtag for CBI probe trend. “We have tried to draw attention of the CM towards this demand but there’s been no reaction from him so far,” Beniwal said.Vishnu Dutt Vishnoi, station house officer of Rajgarh police station, killed himself in the government quarters early Saturday morning. He left two suicide notes, one addressed to the Superintendent of Police (SP) and the other to his family, in which he spoke about being under pressure.“People of the state want to know the reason that led an SHO to kill himself. He also made notes in the general diary of the police station about being under pressure,” the RLP leader said.The state government has ordered inquiry by the crime branch into the case after Vishnoi’s family alleged foul play. A crime branch team led by SP Vikas Sharma arrived in Rajgarh on Tuesday to begin investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlp-demanded-cbi-probe-in-alleged-suicide-of-rajasthan-cop-launches-campaign/story-XadOLQwMd6cy88iKvFFxHK.html
28-05-2020||India||Aggression by India will receive ‘befitting response’: Pakistan foreign minister||Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said on Wednesday that any aggression by India will receive a “befitting response” as the country’s people and armed forces are always ready to respond to any Indian hostility.State-run Radio Pakistan quoted Qureshi as saying in a statement: “India’s bellicosity is aimed at provoking Pakistan, but we showed patience in the past and will exercise restraint in future too.”However, the foreign minister made it clear Pakistan “reserved complete right to its defence”.Qureshi said the Pakistan Army had downed an Indian drone on Wednesday, which “was an example of India aggression”. He didn’t give details or say where the drone was downed.He added, “We prefer the path of peace but our desire for calm should not be misconstrued as our weakness.” Qureshi also gave a “clear message to India to act sensibly and live with peace”, according to Radio Pakistan.There was no immediate response to Qureshi’s remarks from Indian officials. The immediate provocation for Qureshi’s comments also couldn’t be ascertained.In recent weeks, both Qureshi and Prime Minister Imran Khan have repeatedly targeted India over the situation in Kashmir and the treatment of India’s minorities. Khan even criticised India’s handling of a border row with Nepal in a tweet on Wednesday.India has rejected such criticism by Khan and other Pakistani leaders as interference in the country’s internal affairs and called on Pakistan to address the issue of terrorism emanating from its soil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aggression-by-india-will-receive-befitting-response-pakistan-foreign-minister/story-jIVQvaExQqIdTDtRwHLJMO.html
28-05-2020||India||3-year-old boy falls into 120 feet open borewell in Telangana, rescue ops on||A three-year-old boy accidentally fell into a newly drilled open borewell in Medak district of Telangana on Wednesday and rescue operations are on to pull him out, police said.Oxygen was being supplied into the 120 feet open borewell and earth excavation machines have been pressed into service to dig around it, they said.An NDRF team has reached the spot and joined the rescue efforts, they said.The incident happened at around 5 pm in an agriculture field located in Papannapet mandal of the district when the boy was walking with his grandfather and father, a senior police official told PTI over phone.A district official said the boy’s family members noticed the child falling into the uncovered borewell and initially tried to rescue him by using a ‘sari’, but in vain.Rescue efforts were underway to get the child out and senior district and police officials are monitoring the operation, the official said, adding they were using cameras inside the borewell to locate the boy.The borewell into which the child fell was one among three dug by the family since Tuesday night to try and find water for their fields.But none of them yielded any water, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-year-old-boy-falls-into-120-feet-open-borewell-in-telangana-rescue-ops-on/story-JRQodxBAch3uplcUhVVpSI.html
28-05-2020||India||List steps to deal with serious Covid-19 patients, says Delhi HC||Taking suo moto cognisance of a video clip in which a man had alleged that his mother, who was suffering from Covid-19, was asked to shift hospitals, the Delhi high court on Tuesday directed the Centre and the Delhi government to state the arrangements made to deal with serious patients who require immediate hospitalisation. The court sought the status of functional and responsive helpline numbers being operated by them, as many of them were said to be found non-functional.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar said the authorities “should assess the adequacy of the helpline capacity and state whether the same is sufficient to deal with the present call traffic and the traffic expected in the future”.The Delhi government’s standing counsel (criminal), advocate Rahul Mehra provided 10 helpline numbers, including the interactive 1031. He said the helpline numbers were found not to be functioning efficiently and instructions had been issued to set the system in order in the next couple of days.Appearing for the Centre, standing counsel Kirtiman Singh told the court that number 1075 is an all-India helpline number and about 3 lakh calls have been received on it so far.The order comes after the court took note of a video by one Deepak Bhardwaj, who had said the deputy medical superintendent of Max Hospital, Patparganj, asked him to arrange a ventilator and bed in another hospital. His mother, Shyama Sharma, was admitted to Max Hospital, Patparganj, on May 19 and tested positive for Covid-19 on May 21.“The patient continues to be under treatment at Max Hospital, Patparganj, and the family is convinced with her course or treatment at the hospital. Since the matter is sub-judice, we would not like to comment any further,” said Max Healthcare in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-steps-to-deal-with-serious-covid-19-patients-says-delhi-hc/story-YWZWDbGohJwd3sLNbeb2DL.html
28-05-2020||India||Former PM HD Deve Gowda likely to re-enter parliament through Rajya Sabha||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, who celebrated his 87th birthday on May 18, is likely to re-enter Parliament through the upper house when elections are held in the next few months. Four Rajya Sabha MP’s from Karnataka are retiring on June 25 after completing their six year term. These include two from Congress – Prof M V Rajeev Gowda and B K Hariprasad while Prabhakar Kore from the BJP and D Kupendra Reddy from JDS will also retire.Deve Gowda lost the May 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Tumkur after giving up his traditional stronghold of Hassan to his grandson Prajwal Revanna, who is the sole party representative in the lower house of parliament. His grandson had even offered to resign to ensure that Gowda could go back to Lok Sabha in a by-election, but the offer had been rejected. Now, the Janata Dal (Secular) leader is said to be interested in going back to parliament ‘to protect Karnataka’s interests.’A contestant from Karnataka requires 44 votes to get elected to the Rajya Sabha. Given the current composition of the Karnataka assembly, BJP can elect two Rajya Sabha MP’s and Congress one but it will have additional votes to spare. The Janata Dal currently has 34 members in the state legislative assembly and is short by 10 votes to send a RS member on its own. JDS MLC and party spokesperson T A Saravana said, “There is an internal party consensus that the state would enormously benefit from having a senior voice like that of Deve Gowda ji in parliament. Even the country would benefit from listening to his sage advice and suggestions. While the party is insisting that he stand for polls, he is yet to take a decision.”Saravana claimed that the additional votes required could be mopped up easily given the ‘excellent equations’ that the former PM maintains across party lines. ‘He is in good health, travels across the state and country building the party and addressing people’s issues. So the party has unanimously requested him to contest the RS polls. There is no senior leader like a Mallikarjuna Kharge, a Veerappa Moily or a K H Muniyappa in parliament today to protect Karnataka’s interests as BJP has failed to do so, that is why Gowdaji should be in the upper house.”Congress spokesperson V S Ugrappa said any decision on supporting Gowda’s candidature for the upper house would be taken by the ‘party high command.’ However, another senior leader of the party who did not want to be identified said, “Gowda has very good equations with Congress President Sonia Gandhi. They have been on politically cordial terms even after the fall of the Congress –JDS coalition government. So the party may not be averse to helping a secular senior leader like him get back to parliament as we need a strong opposition to counter the fascist forces ruling the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-pm-h-d-deve-gowda-likely-to-re-enter-parliament-through-rajya-sabha/story-zeLquIjQfHXdtYIAb8h4SL.html
28-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Japan, which unveiled a trillion-dollar stimulus to revive its Covid-19 and lockdown-hit economy in April, is reported to be planning another trillion-dollar stimulus. The new package includes direct subsidies for companies to help them cover cost of operations, health care aid for individuals, and financial assistance for local governments. The government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has said the total of the two packages will work out to around 40% of the country’s GDP. The fiscal cost of the package isn’t clear. HT’s analysis estimated that of the previous trillion-dollar package at around $454 billion or 9.13% of the country’s GDP.The European Commission has also said it is working on a package of between €750 billion ($823 billion) and €1 trillion ($1.97 trillion) for the region, including a proposed 500 billion euro ($548 billion) fund that can be tapped by member-countries whose economies have been hit hard by the coronavirus disease pandemic.Also read: A shrinking GDP could curtail govt’s ability to help the poorThe US Heroes Act, which promises $3 trillion in support, including another round of cheque payments to eligible Americans, is unlikely to be passed by the Senate, but there is talk that there will be a follow-up to the $2 trillion package announced in the CARES Act. Including monetary measures, HT’s Analysis calculates that the US has announced a total package of $6.8 trillion of which the fiscal cost is around $940 billion (this is a very conservative estimate and excludes loans and guarantees).The consensus estimate for the fiscal cost of India’s $277 billion package is around $29 billion.Plans for a second stimulus package underline a realisation in countries around the world that the impact of the pandemic and the lockdowns enforced by many countries to slow its spread – in the absence of a cure, a lockdown is the only way to break the chain of infections – will be harder than originally estimated. According to a Reuters poll of economists released on Wednesday, the global economy will shrink by 3.2% this year. A similar poll last month predicted that the decline would be 2%. The International Monetary Fund said in April that global growth would decline by 3% in 2020, and its managing director Kristalina Georgieva recently hinted that this could be revised down. But while this year will be worse than estimated, the economists polled by Reuters expect next year to be better. The poll said global growth could bounce back to 5.4% next year, up from the 4.5% predicted in April’s poll, although this is largely the base effect shining through.Also read: China’s industrial firms profits fall in April but at slower paceIn India too, the immediate impact on the economy is likely to be harder than expected. State Bank of India said in a research note on Tuesday that India’s GDP could contract 40% in the first three months of the year (April-June) and by 6.8% in the full year (2020-21). But it expects growth to bounce back once the country opens fully. Rating agency Crisil, which sees the country’s economy shrinking 5% in 2020-21, expects the first quarter to see a 25% fall in GDP.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Much depends on when the country reopens fully. And much also depends on when India starts flattening the curve – in terms of new cases of Covid-19, and in terms of daily deaths. Neither is happening right now: both the number of new cases and that of daily deaths are continuing to rise. And at some point in the next few months, India is going to have to start thinking in terms of a new package that can revive demand, put more money in the hands of individuals, and financially support businesses. It’s probably too early to talk of it – the ink on the documentation of the first package is yet to dry and many of the notifications related to it are yet to be issued – but developments in the US, Japan, and Europe clearly indicate that the economy needs more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-e9RPSrUeDUyhx6KQ6k0wnJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Telangana sees sharp spike of 107 new Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths in single day||Telangana witnessed a sharp spike in the number of deaths and Covid-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours on Wednesday – with a total of six deaths and 107 positive cases, the highest single-day jump, an official bulletin released by the state medical and health department said.The previous highest death toll due to Covid-19 in a single day in Telangana was also six, recorded on March 30. Similarly, the largest number of positive cases for Covid-19 recorded previously was 79 on May 11.However, the department has not disclosed from where these fresh six deaths were reported, their age group and their other ailments.The number of deaths and positive cases in Telangana has been rising steeply after the commencement of Lockdown 4.0 on May 18, with a lot of relaxations on the movement of people including commencement of passenger trains, Vande Bharat flights bringing stranded Indians from abroad and also restoration of intra-state bus services.In the last 10 days, as many as 29 deaths and 547 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Telangana.The state government has attributed this steep rise in the number of deaths and positive cases to the large scale return of migrant labourers from other states, particularly Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Gujarat, foreign evacuees and deportees from Saudi Arabia, many of whom had tested positive.As many as 297 out of the total number of 2,139 positive cases recorded till now, are that of migrants (173), foreign evacuees (30) and deported people from Saudi Arabia (94).“On Wednesday alone, out of 107 positive cases reported in the state, 68 cases are that of Saudi Arabia deportees (49) and migrants (19). Only 39 cases belong to the local Telangana people, mostly from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC),” the official bulletin said.The government said as many as 458 deportees were airlifted from Saudi Arabia and they have been quarantined in government quarantine centres in the state. Of them, 94 deportees have tested positive for Covid-9 and are being treated.Similarly, large numbers of migrant workers are returning from various other states of the country. These migrants are being home quarantined and monitored by the district authorities. Symptomatic migrants are being tested. Majority of the migrants are arriving from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Bihar etc.The department has requested the people to inform the local authorities in case they identify any persons and migrants who have recently arrived in the towns and villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-sees-sharp-spike-of-107-new-covid-19-cases-6-deaths-in-single-day/story-X8ReiVAPeseEmjlHCtH3nM.html
28-05-2020||India||After several deaths in Shramik trains, railways says most died of existing illness||At least seven deaths were reported Wednesday aboard Shramik Special trains that have been deployed to ferry stranded migrants but the Indian Railways said most died of existing illnesses.“A few deaths have been reported in Shramik special trains. In most of these cases, it is discovered that those who died are old sick people and chronic disease patients, who had actually gone to big cities for medical treatment and could come back only after the Railways started these Shramik Special trains,” a spokesperson of the ministry of railways said.The statement came after a 35-year-old migrant was found dead on board a Shramik Train in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur. A video of her body lying on the platform next to her toddler went viral video on social media on Wednesday.The ministry attributed her death to a recent heart surgery, adding that it was also corroborated by her son.In another case reported from Bihar’s Muzaffarpur a four-year-old son of a migrant was found dead on board another Shramik Train. Another case from the state was from Danapur where the body of a 70-year-old man was found in Mumbai-Darbhanga Shramik Special train.The body of 45-yea-old a resident of Bahraich (UP) was also found aboard the Vapi-Deen Dayal Upadhayay Junction Shramik Special train when it reached Sagar railway station. According to the railways, the body has been kept at the district hospital for postmortem and for testing for Covid-19.In Uttar Pradesh, a trainwith migrant workers from Mumbai reached Manduadih, Varanasi, on Wednesday with two dead passengers -- physically challenged Dashrath Prajapati (30), and 63-year-old Ram Ratan Gaud, according to PTI.“It is reported that both the people who died were already ill. One of them, a 30-year-old man, was suffering from paralysis, and was undergoing treatment for kidney disease in Mumbai. The other person, who was 63, also suffered from other diseases,” the ministry of railways tweeted responding to allegations over two death in the train from Mumbai.Till Wednesday, the national carrier has run 3,604 Shramik Trains ferrying nearly 48 lakh migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-several-deaths-in-shramik-trains-railways-says-most-died-of-existing-illness/story-oQCQKeSzGYHEGQdQYI31fM.html
28-05-2020||India||Telangana govt allows further relaxations to lockdown norms||Announcing further relaxations in lockdown norms, the Telangana government on Wednesday permitted all types of shops, except malls, to open in Hyderabad and lifted the night ban on plying state Road Transport Corporation buses.It, however, decided not to allow buses to run in Hyderabad for some more days in view of the Covid-19 case load, an official release said.Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao held separate meetings with ministers andofficials on the Covid-19 situation and implementation of lockdown, among others and took decisions on several issues, it said.These include payment of the Aasara (social security) pensions without any change, extending provision of 12 kg rice per person to the poor in June in view of the lockdown and continuing with deductions in salaries of public representatives, All India Service officers, government employees, outsourcing and contract workers for this month.However, the financial assistance of Rs 1,500 given to poor ration cardholders would not be given in June, it said.The measures have been taken keeping in view the fall in states income, the release said.Telangana should get Rs 12,000 crore every month, but in May it received Rs 3,100 crore, including the states share in Central taxes (Rs 982 crore), it said.On the COVID-19 situation, Rao said people should not feel scared about the virus as the spread was not an alarming scale, though relaxations were given in lockdown guidelines.However, they should be cautious and alert to avoid contracting the virus.The Chief Minister said the health department was ready to meet any increase in the number of positive cases and provide treatment.He instructed officials concerned to provide emergency care to Covid-19 patients whose health deterioates, the release said.Rao had earlier announced extension of lockdown in the state till May 31, with several relaxations, as per which shops in Hyderabad were allowed to open on an alternate odd- even basis.As per the relaxations on Wednesday, all shops in Hyderabad, except malls, will be allowed to open from May 28.State-run RTC buses have been exempted from night time curfew restrictions and will be allowed to ply to their destinations.Taxis, autos and other passenger vehicles would be allowed at the bus stations, the release said. Separately, Rao instructed the officials to hold low key state formation day celebrations on June 2 due to the lockdown. “Except paying tribute to the martyrs and hoisting the national flag, no meetings or programmes should be held,” the release quoted him as having said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-govt-allows-further-relaxations-to-lockdown-norms/story-ubE7ulbz2sR4XRcfJ0fqRM.html
28-05-2020||India||Daati Maharaj arrested for flouting Covid-19 lockdown norms||Self-styled preacher Daati Maharaj was arrested on Wednesday night for violating the lockdown rules by organising a religious ceremony at Shanidham temple in Asola in South Delhi on May 22, police said. “Daati Maharaj was arrested in the case registered under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 34 (common intention), Section 54B of Disaster Management Act, and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act at the Maidan Garhi police station on May 23. He has been released on bail,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.Earlier in the day, the police claimed to have questioned Daati Maharaj in the case. Police officers privy to the probe said that they found a poster placed on the temple’s boundary wall, “urging people to come for the gathering on May 22.”“The temple had been opened to the public despite government orders prohibiting religious gatherings,” a senior police official said.Investigators said that at least 40 outsiders had attended the ceremony in contravention of the nationwide lockdown in place to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Police had registered the case after videos and photographs of the religious gathering were circulated on social media platforms. Though HT could not confirm the authenticity of the video clips, DCP Thakur had confirmed that the visuals were of the self-styled preacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daati-maharaj-arrested-for-flouting-covid-19-lockdown-norms/story-MqCEhkNZHS8kAQQEqcwp1K.html
28-05-2020||India||List pvt hospitals for free or affordable Covid care: SC tells Centre||New Delhi The Supreme Court has tasked the Centre with identifying private hospitals across the country for treating patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) either free or at a nominal cost. The suggestion came on Wednesday from a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde that was hearing a public interest litigation on the excessive fees being charged by private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients.“When the nation is fighting a battle against the pandemic, all such private hospitals which are running on public land (allotted at concessional rates) or are running under the category of ‘charitable institutions’ should be called upon to provide the hospitalization and treatment to the Covid-19 patients pro bono publico (free of cost) or on no-profit basis,” said the petition filed by lawyer Sachin Jain. The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, found merit in the submission and requested solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, to take instructions on the matter and respond within a week. The bench told Mehta, “These hospitals have been given land either free of cost or at concessional rates. They should treat patients also for free.”Jain informed the court that a majority of the citizens cannot afford the high cost of treatment at private hospitals. Many are not covered by insurance schemes that can foot the bills. Given the resource crunch of government-owned hospitals, he argued, “It becomes apparent that the government/public health sector alone may not be able to manage the fallout, and hence, extensive participation of the private healthcare sector would be required.”At present, there is no cost regulation for treatment of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals, the petition filed by Sachin Jain stated. . The petition said hospital beds and basic treatment can be offered at a concessional prices; surgical operations or procedures can be kept out of the ambit of free or concessional treatment.Mehta informed the apex court that a decision of this nature is a policy matter and must be left to the wisdom of the government. He agreed to take instructions on the matter from the government and respond to the concerns expressed by the court within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-pvt-hospitals-for-free-or-affordable-covid-care-sc-tells-centre/story-mOsM1qhyUXssEvsj1ybdsL.html
28-05-2020||India||Some issues bound to be there among 3 allies: Maharashtra minister Nitin Raut||Maharashtra energy minister and senior Congress leader Nitin Raut says there is a certain level of dissatisfaction among his party colleagues over lack of consultation in the state cabinet. In an interview to HT, he says some of proposals put forth by Congress ministers are not cleared by the cabinet. However, Raut claimed that the MVA government is stable and will last its full term.Q: There are reports of rift within the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). What do you have to say?A: These are all baseless rumours. The coalition government is stable and will last its full five year term. There is clearly an attempt by the BJP to detabilise the government but they will miserably fail in their nefarious designs.Q: But there are differences within the alliance. Privately, Congress ministers have been complaining about lack of consultation on important matters.A: When three partners are running a government, some issues are bound to be there. We try to resolve them internally. Though the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) talks to us on some matters, we are not completely satisfied.Q: Could you please elaborate that?A: ‘Baat karne ke liye karte hain par kam ki baat jab hoti hai to kaam nahi hote hain (He talks to us but our work doesn’t happen). I mean the chief minister does consult us but majority of our proposals are not cleared and not even discussed in the cabinet.Q: Did you discuss this with the chief minister?A: Yes, we have expressed our unhappiness.Q: And you have conveyed that to your party high command?A: NaturallyQ: Was Rahul Gandhi’s statement an expression of that resentment?A: Rahulji is our leader. What he said is that Congress on its own is in power in Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Puducherry and there we will not shy away from implementing any pro-poor or pro-people scheme. But we are a small partner in Maharashtra and we are not going to dictate terms to our other allies and we will not be able to fulfil all our promises. But that doesn’t mean that Rahul ji talked about pulling the government down. He meant that the alliance partners should address the shortcomings in the consultation process. A leader has to keep in mind the interests of his party and the workers.Q: But Congress is also considered a weak link in the ruling alliance and reports suggest that some of its legislators might even desert the party and pull the plug on the government?A: Congress has its own ideology and identity. All our legislators got elected on the basis of the party ideology and its strengths. I don’t think the BJP will break us.Q: Did you consult NCP chief Sharad Pawar who is said to be an architect of this alliance?A: Congress is a national and an independent party. We talk to our leaders and we will not go and express our displeasure before leaders of other parties. That will be inappropriate.Q: BJP is demanding President’s rule in Maharashtra, saying the government has failed in containing the coronavirus in the state, especially Mumbai.A: We are fighting a war against coronavirus. BJP talks failure in Maharashtra but the highest death rate in the country is in Gujarat. So, will they demand President’s rule there. The spike in coronavirus cases in Mumbai is because of the Namaste Trump event as hundreds of people came there from Ahmedabad. There is a conspiracy in destabilising the Maharashtra government. Their dream of toppling the government will never come true. Also, the increase in Covid cases is because Maharashtra is the only state that has done aggressive testing and also the recovery rate is much higher than other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-issues-bound-to-be-there-among-3-allies-nitin-raut/story-U5onAjbRFFbLP6ue2xqFPO.html
28-05-2020||India||Congress, BJP spar over government’s Covid strategy||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi interacted with Harvard University professor Ashish Jha and Swedish epidemiologist Johan Giesecke as part of his series of video conversations with thought leaders on the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences on the Indian economy. In their separate interactions with Gandhi, Jha said the lockdown has slowed down the virus spread while Giesecke insisted India will ruin its economy if the severe restrictions continue. The two underlined the pandemic was unlikely to go away soon and called for aggressive testing to contain it.Jha, who heads the Harvard Global Health Institute, said the world will not be free of the problem until 2021. “The reason to do the lockdown is that you are trying to slow down the spread of the virus. It is a 12-18 month problem and the world will not be free of this till 2021,” Jha said during the interaction, the video of which was released on Wednesday.Giesecke, who believes lockdowns are of no use and eventually most people will get the virus, said India should have a soft lockdown as more deaths will occur due to severe restrictions than the disease. “...it is better to skip the lockdown, take care of the old and the frail, and let the other people have the infection. Most people will not even be sick. They will not even notice they have it.”But if there is a lockdown, Giesecke, a professor emeritus at Stockholm’s Karolinska Institute and an infectious disease clinician, said, relaxing it has to be step-wise. “You wait 2-3 weeks and see what happens. If the disease spreads, take one step back and try another restriction. ...it will take months to really ease out the lockdown completely. But you must bring one restriction at a time and see what happens.” Jha called for the need to create a certain level of confidence while opening up the economy, saying if people are scared, they will not engage in economic activity. He expressed confidence that a vaccine for the disease will be available in a year. “Three vaccines from America, China and Oxford are showing promising results and maybe one of them or all turn out to be effective...”Gandhi, who has held similar interactions with former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan and Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee, said there will be a new world after the pandemic and the balance of power between China and the US will change. “Like 9/11 was a new chapter, this [Covid-19] is a new book,” Gandhi said when Jha asked him how will the virus change the society in two years. “I hope this disease will bring people together and bring them to the realisation that you cannot fight this disease as different religions, or different communities, different castes, different genders.”Gandhi said there is a potential opportunity in fighting the disease. “We are able to start a conversation and understand that everybody is required to fight this disease and we are able to work together to get out of this.”Jha said the world is entering an “age of pandemics” and added there has been an increasing frequency of these outbreaks over the last century. “This one [Covid-19] is the worst in 100 years. I am confident that this is not the last large global pandemic... in the next 20 years.”Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad separately hit out at Gandhi and accused him of trying to weaken the country’s resolve to fight the challenge. Ravi added Gandhi’s campaign is based on “falsehood, deliberate twisting of facts and misinterpretation”. He added if anyone has better solutions to offer, the government is willing to look into them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-bjp-spar-over-govt-covid-strategy/story-GAntB92qneKKny2boPb43N.html
28-05-2020||India||Kerala testing rate poor, say health experts; CM denies charges||Kerala, which was the first state in India to report a coronavirus (Covid-19) case in January, has been praised for high recovery and low mortality rates related to the pandemic even as many experts say its testing rate is poor and needs to be ramped up before caseloads shoot up.The state has done only 58,200 tests in four months and ranks very low in terms of total testing, they said citing official statistics. “It is a fact the state’s test records are very low. It seems it failed to heed periodic warning of experts,” said physician and health activist Sreejith N Kumar. Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, for instance, have conducted 2, 28, 914 and 4,12, 714 tests until May 27 since reporting their first cases in early March, according to the Union health ministry statistics.. The Indian Medical Association (IMA)’s Kerala chapter on Tuesday wrote a letter to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and urged him to increase the testing or else the state will have to pay a heavy price. “To get a clear picture, at least 100 tests per lakh [100,000] population will have to be done. Other states are way ahead in testing. Testing facilities should be allowed in the private sector also,” the letter said, a copy of which HT has seen. It added the government was not sharing information with IMA though it has pledged full support to it.The letter said no details regarding symptomatology, clinical progression of the disease, or patient details have been shared with the medical community. This is important as all medical professionals treating Covid-19 patients need to know these details, it added. As criticism mounted, Vijayan on Wednesday said, “We have decided to increase the number. By this weekend, we hope we can do at least 3,000 tests daily.”  On Wednesday, 1,400 tests were conducted. The average rate of testing nationally is 539 tests per million and the country is ranked 52nd among countries in terms of the testing rates.But experts said the number is still too little as the caseload has increased in the last few days with the easing of travel restrictions and the return of expatriates. “We have been telling the government [over the] last two months about the need to increase tests. Even a layman will say the test rate is abysmally poor. Without tests, how will you get a picture? The state is precariously poised if it did not increase its numbers,” said IMA state president Dr Abraham Verghese. Epidemiologist Jayaprakash Mulliyil also said the state should increase its tests at least now. “Tests are best way to contain the spread. We have experiences of some foreign countries before us. It is time for Kerala to increase them,” he said.The number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala crossed the 1,000 mark as 40 more people were diagnosed with the disease on Wednesday. Vijayan said out of 1,004 cases reported so far, 445 are active while the state has reported six fatalities. He added the new cases include 28 people who have come to Kerala from other states and eight expatriates. Experts say out of 1,150 tests done on Tuesday, 67 people tested positive and added without a large volume of tests, a clear picture will not emerge. “Test, test, test this was the World Health Organisation’s slogan from day one. We missed it somehow. Results are there to see. A man who was injured after a jackfruit fell on his head and a driver who received spinal injury in an accident were tested positive recently,” said Dr Verghese. Union minister V Muraleedharan, who is from Kerala, accused the state government of often hiding data to keep its record intact. “If you check the list of total tests in the country, Kerala’s position is 26th. No doubt, in public relations, it is the first. It is not even following ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] guideline on community transmission tests,” said the minister in Delhi. Vijayan dismissed these charges saying people who are jealous of the state’s track record are raising such apprehensions. “Our records speak. We have increased the number and doing sentinel tests also. There is no need of any worry on this count,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-testing-rate-poor-say-health-experts-cm-denies-charges/story-Cgyk2VwQJOcRewlbTSBbbL.html
28-05-2020||India||Train Covid helpers, volunteers in infant, postnatal care: Govt||The Union health ministry has asked states to train coronavirus disease “warriors” making house visits in antenatal, postnatal and newborn care as well so that they can screen and refer to health experts those in need of medical attention in Covid-19 containment and buffer zones.“House-to-house visits conducted by healthworkers/Covid warriors for Covid purpose should be utilised to enquire about services required for pregnant women and linkages to the required service should be provided. Covid warriors may be trained in these services, if required,” reads the directive, a copy of which has been seen by HT.A key focus areas is women who need abortion services. The surveillance workers will be trained to track and screen women, newborns and children for early signs of illnesses other than Covid-19. “Unwanted pregnancies have negative impact on maternal and new born health. Regulating fertility is thus a necessity. There is need to enhance provision of safe abortion services besides post-partum and post-abortion contraception,” said the health ministry directive.The ministry has asked for condoms to be treated as essential medicines, and said home delivery of the contraceptives should be allowed in containment zones. Some of the other services outlined as essential are related to pregnancy care and management, newborn care and childhood illness management, immunization services, management of severe acute malnourishment (SAM) among children, family planning services, comprehensive abortion care services and adolescent health services.“Critical services for women, children and adolescent should be provided irrespective of their Covid-19 status. Under no circumstances should there be a denial of essential services,” said the directive.Most of the health services, except for those requiring mass gathering such as health camps, are allowed in the green zones. Days are fixed for services such as sterilisation, which is now provided to not more than 10 people a day for effective implementation of social-distancing norms.The directive comes in the backdrop of concerns that non-Covid essential health care services could be neglected as the entire effort is concentrated on combating the coronavirus disease. “The virus is here to stay so waiting for it to go doesn’t make sense. What we need is to adapt our strategies keeping in mind the social distancing and other preventive measures outlined by the government of India. It’s essential to start work now as, if you look at the data between March and April this year as compared to last year, there is a serious shortfall in providing non-Covid essential services, including in the maternal and child health sphere. It could lead to higher morbidity and mortality,” says Antaryami Dash, head of nutrition, Save the Children, a non-profit working in the areas of child care and nutrition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-covid-helpers-volunteers-in-infant-postnatal-care-govt/story-eugDa7vFTSdplPv6LTPQ7M.html
28-05-2020||India||House panels to begin work starting June 3||Indian Parliament’s in-house panels will resume work on June 3 with a briefing from Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on the situation arising out of the lockdown caused by the coronavirus outbreak and the ministry’s handling of it, officials aware of the plan said.Bhalla will brief the standing committee on home affairs, chaired by senior Congress leader Anand Sharma, said the officials, who requested anonymity. After Parliament closed on March 25 as a part of the nationwide lockdown, no parliamentary committee meeting has taken place in the past two months. The standing committee on home affairs will be the first to meet since.No other parliamentary committee had intimated plans to hold a meeting to the secretariat as of press time, but the panels on information technology and environment and the Public Accounts Committee are expected to announce their schedule shortly.Discussions of the home ministry panel on Covid-19 assume importance because the ministry has played a pivotal role in imposing and enforcing the lockdown and offering relaxations in restrictions to the public from time to time. Bhalla’s briefing is expected to be followed by questions from members.Sharma’s decision to resume in-camera meetings of the house panel at the Parliament complex comes after an ambitious plan for the panels to go online, amid a suspension of air and train travel, failed to take off amid concerns that the confidentiality of these standing committee meetings could be compromised.Rajya Sabha chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla had asked officials to submit reports on the possibility of digital meetings but as train and flight services resumed, the officials felt there was no immediate need for online meetings because members are in a position to travel to Delhi.Nine rooms in Parliament House and annexe have been identified for holding regular meetings of the 24 department-related standing committees and another six rooms are being prepared for other committees of both Houses, said an official.Naidu and Birla have also told officials to arrange more chairs and microphones in the committee chambers to ensure social distancing....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panels-to-begin-work-starting-june-3/story-y29c1uBAlw6Ulwrwg2jHSN.html
28-05-2020||India||Welfare mainstay MGNREGS off to slow start this fiscal year||At a time when millions of migrant workers who have returned home to the hinterland are looking towards it for a livelihood, the government’s flagship rural jobs programme has got off to a slow start in the new financial year, government data show, amid the lockdown and social distancing norms put in place to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Less than 57% of the people who sought work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) have received jobs under the programme, which offers 100 days of manual work a year to at least one member of every rural household. According to the official data, 50.81 million people have sought jobs under MGNREGS since the financial year started on April 1; until May 27, 28.80 million received work, generating 315 million person days of employment. In all of last year, 84.5% of workers who demanded jobs were provided work.Economist Himanshu, an associate professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University, said the figures reflected a slow start to the MGNREGS. “The underlying reasons for such a low rate of jobs being provided are the initial phase of the lockdown that had stalled all activities and many states had been late in identifying works for beneficiaries. And even when the work started the health norms and social distancing order had created some restrictions,” Himanshu said.MGNREGS had its budget raised byRs 40,000 crore under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India programme) of the Narendra Modi government, taking total funding for the programme this financial year to more thanRs 1 trillion, as the Centre sought to meet ad-itional demand for rural jobs.Also Read: The government must ramp up MGNREGSSince the lockdown for the coronavirus disease started on March 25, millions of migrant workers, mainly daily-wage earners who found themselves without a job, have left the big cities and headed home to their villages in states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal. Uttar Pradesh alone claims to have received 2.6 million returning workers.Many of them have been looking to MGNREGS as they seek to tide over the Covid-19 crisis. Rural development ministry officials maintained that job allocations under the scheme, the only welfare programme with a budget in excess ofRs 1 trillion, would gain momentum. They expect MGNREGS to emerge as the backbone of the rural economy amid the pandemic.Three figures are key to assessing the impact of MGNREGS on the ground: jobs demanded by beneficiaries, jobs offered by the states and jobs provided to workers.While 50.8 million people have demanded jobs in the first two months of the financial year, the states have offered work to 50.1 million, out of whom only 28.8 million have been actually provided jobs. According to experts, this vast difference between the number of jobs offered and actually provided underlines the role of the states.“The states always show very high levels of job offers to avoid paying compensation as per the law. But the impact of MGNREGS actually depends on how many people finally get work,” said Himanshu.With the harvest season coming to an end and the lean agriculture season setting in plus millions of returning migrants seeking jobs, the pressure on MGNREGS for work allocation is expected to grow. April-July is the peak season for MGNREGSRural development ministry officials also said that until May 22,Rs 33,300 crore — one-third of the revised budget for the full year — had already been sanctioned, out of whichRs 24,500 crore had been released to the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/welfare-mainstay-nregs-off-to-slow-start-this-fiscal-yr/story-wKzHckEuxJ6cl2YwaJf4YO.html
28-05-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan: A trail of death, misery and destruction||At around 1am on May 19, winds of around 80kmph woke up Sanjay Mandal. A resident of Bali island in the Sunderbans delta of West Bengal, Mandal was used to the vagaries of weather in a region where roughly four million people co-exist with heavy monsoons, storms and the Royal Bengal Tiger. “Winds of that speed mean nothing to us,” said Mandal. He turned around and slept.The government had, two days before, sounded an alarm about an approaching super cyclone and evacuated roughly 360,000 people from the delta, but Mandal was not one of them. Next morning, he knew something was wrong. When the high tide surged in at around 8am, it was not the silt-heavy muddy water that the Muriganga river usually brings, but clear blue water that swelled two metres above the usual height.Mandal and his neighbours quickly formed a plan.Pivoting on their experience with the 2009 cyclone Aila, they took 35 boats out and rowed their way onto shallow waters – the logic being that the gushing river would inundate their low-lying island homes but they would safely wait for the low tide to set in – a common practice in the marshy mangrove delta where the cycle of tides drives local life.By 3pm – the time the tide was supposed to withdraw – they knew the plan had gone awry. The squall tossed their boats around and threatened to crash them into rocks, and the winds were only gathering speed. Mandal and his friends rowed towards land, abandoned the boats at the shore and ran towards a local school. At 4pm, the mobile phone connection snapped.From atop the building, the group saw their boats being hurled violently in the wind, followed by the sound of the embankment crumbling and columns of water submerging their homes. “We thought nothing would survive this disaster. Everything would be finished,” he said.The cyclone subsided around 11pm. “Our homes weren’t there anymore, only water. It was as if large parts of our island had disappeared in six hours,” he said, admitting that he had underestimated the strength of the cyclone.Of the 35 boats, only one was in sailable condition; so the group took it out to survey the damage. They rowed for roughly 50km, and two hours, but found nothing but breached embankments, washed away roads and clumps of mud where kachha houses once stood.“Everywhere we went, there was only water. In every island, embankments had given way. Nothing had survived Amphan.” The embankment near Mandal’s home was part of a 16km stretch of decades-old fortification protecting the low-lying islands against storm and tide surges. None of that remains. Neither do roughly 600,000 houses in the delta. For eight hours on May 20, Amphan pummeled four Bengal districts in the fiercest cyclone in the region in a century that left 86 people dead and roughly 10 million people homeless. In interviews with 20-odd local residents, bureaucrats, experts and activists a week later, HT pieces together the trail of devastation that chief minister Mamata Banerjee has estimated at Rs 1 lakh crore.PRECARIOUS LIFE Perched on the southernmost tip of Bengal, the Sunderbans mangrove archipelago is collection of 102 islands – 54 of which are inhabited – that form a crucial carbon sink and eastern India’s biggest protection against coastal flooding and cyclones.The islands have had human settlements since the 1830s but the population started swelling at the turn of the century and then exploded in the decades following the partition of Bengal when hundreds of thousands of people – many of them poor and lower-caste refugees – cleared forests and settled in the islands. Many of them started building embankments to keep the saline water out of the low-lying islands, and began farming.Today, roughly a third of the population of the south 24 parganas district – under which the largest chunk of population falls – is scheduled caste and another third is Muslim. “Even among the Muslims, many are other backward castes and do small jobs or are farm labourers,” said Swagato Sarkar, a sociologist and professor at Jindal Global University.Ringed by rivers and battered by torrential showers, farming and fishing are the two mainstay of the under-developed region whose biggest concern is transportation, though it is barely 80km from the state capital Kolkata. Rickety water ambulances make up for the lack of proper health facilities and a bridge to the biggest island, Sagar, has been hanging fire for decades.It takes four or five showers every year to just wash away the salinity of the soil; in other regions, when the flood water recedes, it leaves plants as is; in the Sunderbans, the salty water makes plants rot. In the past three decades, a new problem has worsened the lives of locals: Hastening soil erosion and rising sea levels that have submerged whole islands and forced people to relocate to new homes every 20-30 years. For these groups of climate refugees, the cyclone has not only destroyed their houses but also left them without a homeland.Sheikh Abdul Rauf is one of them.Now 50, Rauf is one of 3,000-odd residents of Ghoramara island, from where residents started fleeing 30 years ago because the river was slowly eating into the land.“I heard from my father that we had several hectares of land. Back then the island was huge. But gradually all our land got eroded. Every time we lost a house, we had to rebuild it a little inland. Even three years ago the river was at least 25 min walk from my house. But now it is barely 15 metres away,” he added.Rauf worked as a tailor in Kolkata’s Kidderpore area but rushed to his village on March 23, fearing an impending lockdown. The next day, he summoned his four sons, Ansaruddin, Ashrafuddin, Azaharuddin and Akramuddin, from Kerala, where they worked as daily labourers. All congregated at their house in Ghoramara by March 25, the day the government clamped a nationwide lockdown.On May 18, district authorities hustled them out to a relief camp in Sagar.Rauf held out for two days but he, too, was shifted on May 20 – hours before the cyclone struck his house. On Sunday, the family returned to the village only to find that there was nothing to return back to – the house, the backyard and the farms were all marooned.“We were forced to leave the island in search of work. Then the virus forced us back. Now the cyclone has again evicted us. Where are we supposed to go now?” said Rauf. THE DEVASTATION The scenery changes quickly along the Basanti highway, the 80-km road that takes tourists from the bustle of Kolkata to the tip of the Sunderbans.Highrises give way to red-brick factories and chimneys of the Kolkata leather complex and then coconut palms and thatched roof huts on either side of the road, small bag and jewellery making units functioning out of single-storey asbestos sheds and vendors selling Rs 5 tea cakes and small packets of puffed rice spiced into the special Bengali delicacy: Jhalmuri. The drive takes roughly three hours.Now, however, the road is the high land as fields and villages continue to be under chest-deep water and villagers scramble to reach relief camps. Stretches of train tracks are under water and swathes of land in the north and south 24 parganas – the peculiar name dating back to a unit introduced by the Delhi Sultanate and implemented by the British – continue to be cut-off from the mainland.In November 2019, cyclone Bulbul, which was much lower in intensity than Amphan, pounded the same region and damaged 500,000 houses and roughly 300,000 acres of agricultural land. A second, and more severe cyclone in Amphan has broken the back of the region, said Sunderbans development minister Manturam Pakhira.“No mud house is left. Pakka houses have no roofs. There is no block in the district that is not affected. Even if we want to restore electricity quickly, there are no poles left. The main jetty in the area has been washed away and more than 650,000 houses destroyed,” he said.The block development officer of Sagar, Sudipta Mandal, admitted that it would take another week for communications and electricity to be normalized. “Even in Bulbul, we had phone connectivity, this is worse,” he added.In the neighbouring district of East Midnapore, at least 330,000 houses have been damaged and 4,000 sq km, comprising 20 blocks and five municipalities have been hit said Partha Ghosh, district magistrate of East Midnapore.“Evacuated people have been kept in more than 800 shelters. Tarpaulins have been sent and dry food is being distributed. At the same time embankments which have been breached are being repaired so that saline water could be stopped from entering the villagers,” added Ghosh.Locals know this, and their biggest concern is water supply. Despite being surrounded by rivers, the main source of drinking water is tubewells, which are rendered useless because saline water has seeped into them. In some areas of Gosaba and Rangabelia, residents have put mud embankments around tubewells. Others stand in queues for an hour to fill a pitcher of water. “After Aila, it took many years for the ground water to become sweet. Plus, arsenic in the local groundwater sources will make water problems worse,” said Asim Mondal, a professor at the Ramkrishna Mission College, Narendrapur.As for electricity, no one holds out hope. “We will be lucky if power comes back even in three months,” said Sanjay Mandal.ASSESSING DAMAGE Experts say the cyclone’s damage can be classified into tangible losses in the short and medium term and intangible changes in the socio-political fabric, agriculture and environmental patterns in the long term.The first concern is agriculture, on which roughly two-thirds of the region is dependent. The worry, experts say, is not that the standing crop will be affected – by the end of May, 80% of the Rabi crop is harvested anyway – but the impact of the saline water on the main kharif season.“The soil is heavy and drainage is almost non-existed. Because of the damaged embankments, salt water has entered the soil and may continue to do so at high tides. In the next two months, paddy will get badly hit,” said Himadri Sekhar Sen, a former professor at Calcutta University.To gauge the extent of the problem, he pointed at the salinity after the 2009 Aila cyclone, whose effect still lingers. “In salty water, the crop is not able to suck nutrition from the ground, so 50% yield may be affected. Draining the soil is the only solution but it wasn’t done sufficiently after Aila,” he added.The state government says 105,000 hectares of crops have been damaged, and 100,000 hectares of betel leaf cultivation – the most-popular source of income in Sunderbans islands.Crops are affected even in districts 300km from the Sunderbans. In Murshidabad, for example, mango growers say their produce is destroyed. “This time we were expecting good harvest of mangoes. But Amphan has left nothing of the mango orchards,” said Mosharaf Hossain, Murshidabad zilla parihad chief.The second concern is fishing, another economic mainstay especially deeper into the Sunderbans. The cyclone destroyed hundreds of bheris, or fishing ponds, and swept saline water into fresh-water sources; as a result, the supply of fresh-water fish to Kolkata – the main revenue generator – has been disrupted.“This land, those fishery ponds – they are all gone. Fishes worth crores of rupees have been swept into the river Buri from a few neighbouring villages alone,” said Asit Mahato, a resident of the north 24 parganas district.Mahato supported a family of five with the produce from his one-acre pond, locally called bheri. He spent Rs 1 lakh for the lease amount and almost an equal amount to buy fish seeds. He had taken a loan from a bank to pay the lease amount for the fishery pond. Now his pond is ruined, and the walls and roof of his two-room house have collapsed.“We have no home, we have no resources left and we have no prospect of earning with all the lobsters, tiger prawns and bektis gone. We are doomed.”The third concern is animal husbandry, because many families have cattle that they use for personal use and make milk products. The government says 900,000 domestic animals perished.In Kakdwip, residents of Gobindarampur village have started selling their cattle because saline water has left nothing for the cattle to eat or drink. All the tube-wells are under water, sweet water ponds are full of saline water and dead fish and crops on the fields destroyed. Food and drinking water is scarce and cannot not be spared for the cattle, residents say. “We had to collect the rotten fish floating all around and dump them into the river,” said Sujoy Mahata, a villager.A fourth lingering concern is Covid.The state has roughly 4,000 infections and the two-month-long lockdown has gutted the economy, especially the supply chains to Kolkata that most of the south Bengal countryside is dependent on. With no earning, the cyclone is likely to further eat into the savings of the poor.Secondly, fear of the virus has hampered relief with concerns of no social distancing at camps. “We have been tried to wash hands and keep distance but it is the toughest challenge,” said Pakhira. Ironically, the relative isolation of the Sunderbans that was a boon in March and April – there was a virtual ban on entry of visitors to the islands – has now turned into a problem. “Very few of us are infected, but we are worried that those coming for relief from Kolkata, even the volunteers, can carry the virus,” said Mandal.How quickly can the economy rebound? The answer, experts say, is embedded in Bengal’s economic structure that is wedded to political party affiliations.“In the last 20-30 years, a rent-seeking economy has been created. Most of the economic activities in Bengal are mediated through the party structure, from government programmes to market transaction,” said Sarkar.The fear in such structures is that ruling party functionaries may get more relief. “Mamata has herself appealed to be neutral,” said Sarkar.The first enterprises to resuscitate could be the small garment-making units, groups of women making puffed rice and running micro units from their homes. “Many of these are run by Dalits and OBC Muslims,” said Sarkar.The impact on the fragile local ecosystem and alarming erosion is unpredictable, but experts say it was a long-time coming.A 2016 paper published in Climatic Change journal said the Sunderbans – with an average elevation of 2 metres above sea level – was “under threat from inundation and subsequent wetland loss”.Tuhin Ghosh, one of the authors of that article and a professor at Jadavpur University, said the problem of erosion was exacerbated by the incomplete building of guide-walls (only one of the seven proposed structures meant to protect islands from storm surges was fully built) that changed the course of rivers.“The repairing of the embankments was never done properly, so they couldn’t take the pressure of the cyclone surge. Now that they’ve been left more brittle, the rate of continuous erosion may increase,” he said. Moreover, with dams being built upstream, the delta has been starved of sediment that helps secure marshy islands “It is now 1/10th. So the islands are sinking. When sedimentation decreases, erosion increases,” he said.This can have unforeseen consequences. If the local climate changes, it disturbs vegetation, wildlife and the thousands of people whose livelihoods depend on it.In the Sunderbans, for example, harvesting honey from combs is the only economic activity for marginal tribespeople deeper in the delta. But combs thrive at 12-14 feet, and hives at lower heights are not stable. If continuous erosion begets stunted trees, it will devastate the incomes of thousands.“These people go in every 15 days to fetch the honey and earn around 30,000 – that’s an income for four months under danger of being wiped out,” said Ghosh.To better fight future climate disasters, he proffers a two-step plan: Mitigation (minimizing impact) and preparedness. “But we don’t even know what we need to prepare against, so I am not hopeful.”THE AFTERMATH Amphan unleashed a humanitarian tragedy of scale not seen in Bengal since 1867, and some of the worst-affected people across eight districts are poor, come from marginal castes and tribes and are older.In Bangaon near the India-Bangladesh border where the largest community comprises the Matuas, a scheduled-caste sect focusing on teachings of self-respect and education, the cyclone has shattered homes and livelihoods.“Many community members are engaged in flower picking, but the plantations are gone. Many are refugees so they have nowhere to turn to,” said Ameya Sarkar of the Matua Mahasangha.In Gosaba, Malati Mandal is struggling to feed her children because half her hut has been inundated, and she has lost her job as a domestic help in four homes in Kolkata. But her husband is hopeful that he will get employed by a contractor to remove trees and clear the roads.In East Midnapore’s Kanthi, Bablu – who agreed to give only his first name – is certain he cannot rebuild his shop and will have to become a migrant worker After Aila clobbered south Bengal in 2009, too, tens of thousands of young men left their homes in search of work because their lands were too salty and their local economies too poor. ““The impact on the marginsalised sections will be felt for years,” said Jaydeep Sarangi, a Dalit writer and activist. A week has passed since Amphan but authorities are still scrambling to assess the damages. The state government estimates 200,000 people are still in relief camps, 450,000 electric poles uprooted and 150,000 km of electricity lines damaged.At least 160 km of river embankments and 4 km of sea dykes are ruined, and nearly 6000 km of roads have been washed away. The death toll stands at 72 – a figure attributed to the evacuation of 850,000 people to relief camps before the storm.But even for those who have survived, the horrors are unfolding.Chandan Patra, a worker at a leather factory near Kolkata, was staying at the unit during the lockdown but a day before the cyclone, decided to go visit his village of Mohanpur, in the north 24 parganas.But the squall and rising waters damaged the road leading to his village, so he was forced to stop and go back. The next day, panicked calls from his family told him that all 15 embankments protecting the village had been breached, and their home marooned.Over the next seven days, locals were able to repair five of them, but the water level is still somewhere near waist level, and Patra’s ageing parents and ailing sister are stuck in the house.“Our family is perched on the bed, and is cooking rice in the room with the water swishing about. We haven’t received relief, and salt water has entered the tubewell,” he said, appealing for support from the army, bulldozers and mechanized pumps to expel the sheets of water that has cut off the village from the road.“I am safe, but I don’t know how long they will be able to survive,” he said. “Please help us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-a-trail-of-death-misery-and-destruction/story-Y5DVaWIW63ZBhSiA1QVFUJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Locust swarms likely headed to MP from Rajasthan||New Delhi: Locust swarms were likely to move from Rajasthan’s Dausa to Dholpur and Morena in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday and damage all kinds of vegetation and not only standing crop, the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) said while calling a reported alert that they were headed towards Delhi incorrect.Small swarms of the species of grasshoppers have also reached as far as Vidarbha, other parts of Maharashtra as well as Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. “The alert that they are headed towards Delhi on Wednesday is incorrect. They are headed towards Morena for now,” said LWO’s directorate of plant protection quarantine & storage deputy director, KL Gurjar.LWO has deployed drones and 50 teams to track the swarms in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Fire brigades are also being deployed depending on the size and location of the swarms. “We have controlled them over 47,000 ha of land in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. The swarms, which have reached Maharashtra, are very small. Thankfully, we did not have any standing crop there but they can destroy all kinds of vegetation,” said Gurjar. The teams are spraying organophosphate insecticides, malathion 96 and chlorpyrifos, depending on the location. Gurjar said they will control the swarms before they start breeding during the monsoon next month and ensure there is no second wave.LWO said wind patterns have pushed the main branch of the voracious desert locust towards Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra from Rajasthan and threaten crops like cotton, pulses and maize, ahead of a crucial rice-planting season. “Current winds patterns will propel the pests towards newer parts of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, sparing Delhi for now,” an official of the top locust monitoring wing of the agriculture ministry said. “For the next two days, moderate winds could blow them into parts of eastern Madhya Pradesh and Vidharbha of Maharashtra, as winds are northwesterly,” Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology, of Skymet, a private forecaster, said. Delhi could be spared for another four days. Winds after two days will take the opposite direction from what they are now, travelling from Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh towards Rajasthan, Palawat said. A cyclonic formation over Rajasthan thereafter may change winds patterns towards Delhi, he said. Locusts can fly up to 150 km daily and a one square km swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people in a single day, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)’s Desert Locust Information Service bulletin.Rajasthan is the worst-hit state by the swarms and they overran Jaipur on Monday. The Centre has released aid worth Rs 68.65 crore to compensate farmers there for last year’s pest attack. The compensation under the National Disaster Relief Fund was cleared for release by a high-level committee headed by Union home minister Amit Shah, according to a document dated May 23 reviewed by HT.The country continues to be on alert for crop-munching desert locusts, which according to a UN warning, pose a “severe” risk to the country’s agriculture this year. There has been an early-than-usual summer invasion of the species of grasshoppers from across Pakistan.This has prompted the Union agriculture ministry to consider importing equipment from the UK, apart from deploying drones, satellite-derived tools, special fire-tenders and sprayers at pre-identified border locations.A briefing of FAO states that the current situation remains extremely alarming in East Africa. “At this time, there is a risk that swarms will migrate to the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border as well as to Sudan and perhaps West Africa.”A surge in locust attacks since last year is also being attributed to favourable breeding weather caused by a large number of cyclones in East Africa. India, China and Pakistan face the most risk in Asia, according to the UN. Pakistan has already declared an agricultural emergency.LWO on May 15 warned locust swarms were expected to arrive in India from spring breeding areas and said it will continue to be vigilant over their possible invasion.Experts said excess rains in the pre-monsoon season in north India also provided greener pastures for the locusts to thrive earlier than normal this year. The deadly locust invasion in Africa, Middle East and South Asia has been linked to freak weather associated with climate crisis. “Heavy rain triggers the growth of vegetation in arid areas where desert locusts can then grow and breed. These locusts which migrated to India early this year might have found greener pastures as the pre-monsoon rains during March-May were in excess over north India this year,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology. K K Singh, a senior scientist at India Meteorological Department, said there is not a direct link. “We cannot say that because we had excess pre-monsoon rains and greenery in the northwest and central India so locusts have invaded us. There are many other factors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locust-swarms-likely-headed-to-mp-from-rajasthan/story-Oa4OeAi8u2GC7OK0GCY5bK.html
28-05-2020||India||Central govt issues notification to bring PM CARES under CSR activity||The government has issued a notification with retrospective effect enabling the treatment of contributions made by companies to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund, formed in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease pandemic, as corporate social responsibility (CSR) spending. Requests by some states, including West Bengal, to allow contributions made to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to be treated as CSR expenditure were declined, two officials aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.  “It is because this will restrict the use of the bulk of CSR funds in only 6-7 industrialised states where most of the companies are located,” one of the officials said.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi reiterates demand for audit of PM-Cares fundThe notification to include PM CARES in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013, related to CSR, along with the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund, was issued on Tuesday. “This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on 28th March 2020,” it said. HT has seen a copy of the notification. PM CARES Fund was set up on March 27 to deal with the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. It announced its first allotment of Rs 3,100 crore on May 13 for ventilators, the welfare of migrant workers, and supporting a programme to develop a vaccine against Covid-19.The official quoted above cited past instances wherein two industrial states--one in the north and another in south India--had tried to “arm-twist” companies located in their regions to spend their entire CSR money locally. “Such tendencies need to be curbed for equitable distribution of CSR funds across the country.”Also Read: Indian Covid-19 vaccine development to be backed by PM-CARES FundHT on April 17 reported that West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman urging the Centre to include the CM’s Relief Fund in Schedule VII of the Companies Act.The Companies Act requires firms with a net worth of Rs 500 crore or more, or turnover of Rs 1,000 crore or more, or net profit of Rs 5 crore or more in the immediately preceding financial year, to mandatorily spend 2% of average net profit of the preceding three years on CSR. Money earmarked for spending on CSR activities is about Rs 15,000 crore a year. According to an industry estimate, about Rs 50,000 crore has been spent on CSR since 2014-15 and around Rs 30,000 crore remains unspent.A company’s board is empowered to plan, decide, execute, and monitor the activities under CSR on the recommendations of a committee. The government has specified broad areas of spending in Schedule VII. Approved activities under CSR include eradicating extreme hunger, poverty, promotion of education, promoting gender equality and women’s empowerment as well as reducing the child mortality, improving maternal health and combating diseases. Ensuring environmental sustainability and prompting employment enhancing vocational skills are other activities approved under CSR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-govt-issues-notification-to-bring-pm-cares-under-csr-activity/story-0lIkSNsZH5fgNpXphD6mxJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Women fighter pilots could get longer stints: IAF chief||What began as a five-year experiment to allow women to fly fighter jets in the Indian Air Force could now see them serve longer in the demanding role, with the IAF set to review the previous decision, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Wednesday.The IAF chief, in an interview, spoke in detail about the ongoing reforms in the defence sector, budget cuts likely to be triggered by the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic on the economy , the role of the locally-made light combat aircraft (LCA) in the air force’s modernisation and the theaterisation of the Indian military.Also Read: In Supreme Court verdict, 11 occasions army’s women officers distinguished themselvesNine women have been commissioned as fighter pilots after the experimental scheme for their induction into the combat stream was introduced in 2015, a watershed in the air force’s history.“As far as the performance of women fighter pilots is concerned, the IAF is satisfied with their progress and we intend to extend this option (beyond five years). The response and performance of women who have joined the fighter stream has been very good,” Bhadauria said.Currently, there are a total of 111 women pilots serving in the IAF, including those who fly transport planes and choppers.The IAF chief spoke about his expectations from the reforms announced by the government in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ --- especially raising the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the manufacture of defence equipment to 74%.Also Read: Role of women officers in Indian armed forces | HT Explainer“Raising the FDI limit from 49% to 74% is a huge step as it will pull more foreign investment into the industry. It will also bring in technical know how and incentivise transfer of technology for foreign manufacturers,” Bhadauria said.He said the measures for the defence sector would provide a fillip especially in areas such as fighter/transport aircraft manufacturing and aero engine design.Asked to comment on the likely cut in the military’s budget because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the IAF chief said the air force was working on reducing expenditure through various steps aimed at rationalising and re-prioritising its procurement plans.“All international and large-scale domestic exercises have been cancelled. Further, cost-cutting measures in revenue and reorienting our procurements is also being done. We will carefully calibrate the available resources to ensure current combat capabilities are not affected,” Bhadauria said.The IAF chief, who operationalised the second LCA squadron at Sulur on Wednesday, said the LCA programme was vital to the air force’s future plans and would form the core of its fighter fleet in the coming decades. The IAF has so far ordered 40 LCAs split in the initial operational clearance (IOC) version and the more advanced and final operational clearance (FOC) configuration.Bhadauria said the IAF was looking forward to signing the contract for 83 LCA Mk-IA jets soon. In March, the defence ministry approved the purchase of the 83 fighters from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited with the deal expected to be worth Rs 38,000 crore.Asked to comment on the theaterisation of the Indian armed forces, Bhadauria said, “Success in any future operational scenarios hinges on joint operational planning, training and integrated application of forces...The IAF along with the army and navy will do what is necessary to achieve this. The Air Defence command study, headed by the IAF vice chief, is shaping up well in terms of contours and broad structure.”An Air Defence command will include air defence resources of all the three services.Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a Theatre Commander. Such commands will come under the operational control of an officer from any of the three services, depending on the function assigned to that command. Experts believe that theatres are key to the way battles will be fought in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-fighter-pilots-could-get-longer-stints-iaf-chief/story-EnTPUpfWl7eflSNTImnoXN.html
28-05-2020||India||Heatwave continues to scorch Delhi for 5th day||Delhi recorded heat wave conditions in all or some of its stations for the fifth consecutive day on Wednesday according to India Meteorological Department, with Palam recording a maximum temperature of 47.2 degree C, six degrees above normal and in severe heat wave category; Safdarjung, 45.9 degree C, six degrees above normal; and Ayanagar, 46.7 degree C.Several other parts of northwest India also continued to record severe heat wave conditions on Wednesday. Maximum temperatures are likely to drop by 1 to 2 degrees on Thursday. “On May 29 and 30 we can expect easterly winds of about 50 to 60 kmph. There may be thunderstorms and dust storms also. There will be dry, hot northwesterly winds blowing over the region till then. Since they are blowing mainly over land region, they are hot. We can expect normal temperatures till June 3 after which temperatures will pick up again,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, Delhi.Under the influence of a western disturbance and an east-west trough in lower levels and likely occurrence of rain or thunderstorm from May 28 to 30, maximum temperatures over plains of north India are likely to recede from May 28 onwards with substantial reduction of heat wave conditions from May 29 . Under favourable wind conditions over parts of central India, heat wave conditions are also likely to reduce from these areas from May 29, IMD said in its bulletin.Due to enhanced cloud cover and deepening of southwesterly winds up to mid tropospheric levels, the southwest monsoon has further advanced into some more parts of south Bay of Bengal, most parts of Andaman Sea and Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Wednesday. Conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some parts of Maldives-Comorin area and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea, remaining parts of Andaman Sea and some more parts of south and central Bay of Bengal during next 48 hours, IMD said on Wednesday. Monsoon is likely to make onset over Kerala on June 5, four days late compared to its normal onset date of June 1.Due to strong southerly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast India at lower tropospheric levels, heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls are likely over Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram during next two days. Heavy rainfall at some places over parts of south peninsular India is also likely from May 27 to 30.The Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued a severe flood situation alert for the Brahmaputra in Assam’s Neamati Ghat and Jiabharali in Jorhat and Sonitpur districts on Wednesday. Cherrapunji and Mawsynram in Meghalaya received 129 to 136 cm rain over the past five days since May 22 , all in extremely heavy rainfall category, according to RK Jenamani, senior scientist at National Weather Forecasting Centre. When rainfall is more than 20.5 cm in a day it is categorised as extremely heavy rainfall by IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-continues-to-scorch-delhi-for-5th-day/story-g9ZaVPX1v5qRrTKIitORGJ.html
28-05-2020||India||Toddler tries to wake up dead mother at Bihar railway station||A toddler’s vain attempt to wake up his dead mother from eternal sleep on a railway platform in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur on Wednesday presented the most poignant picture of the massive migrant tragedy unfolding across several states.A video tweeted by Sanjay Yadav, an aide to RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, shows the child walking unsteadily up to his mother’s body, tugging at the blanket placed over her, and when failing to wake her up, covering his own head with it.As the mother still lay still, he wobbles away from her, announcements continuing in the background about the arrival and departure of trains that would bring in tens of thousands of people in a rush to get away from hunger and hardship they face in large cities that could sustain them no more. Also Watch | Migrant woman travelling to Bihar delivers baby in Shramik special train“This small child doesn’t know that the bedsheet with which he is playing is the shroud of his mother who has gone into eternal sleep. This mother died of hunger and thirst after being on a train for four days. Who is responsible for these deaths on trains? Shouldn’t the opposition ask uncomfortable questions?” tweeted Yadav.Also read | Migrants’ kid dies as father hunts for milk at railway stationHowever, police had a different story to tell.Ramakant Upadhyay, the Dy SP of the Government Railway Police in Muzaffarpur, said the incident occurred on May 25 when the migrant woman was on way to Muzaffarpur from Ahmedabad by a Shramik Special train.He told reporters the woman, who was accompanied by her sister and brother-in-law, had died on the Madhubani bound train.“My sister-in-law died suddenly on the train. We did not face any problem getting food or water,” the officer said, quoting the deceased’s brother-in-law who he did not name.He said on getting information, poice brought down the body and sent it for postmortem.Citing the brother-in-law of the deceased, Upadhyay said she was aged 35 years and was undergoing treatment for “some disease” for the last one year in Ahmedabad. “She was also mentally unstable,” he said.When persistently queried about the cause of death, he said,”Only doctors can tell”.A massive exodus of migrant workers is on in several parts of the country, unprecedented in magnitude since Partition.The humanitarian crisis still unfolding on highways and railway platforms has shone light on disturbing tales of entire families walking hundreds of kilometres with little children on foot in a seemingly endless march to escape hunger.People have been found travelling on trucks and in the hollow of concrete mixing plants, and in many cases, dying from hunger and exhaustion before reaching their destinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toddler-tries-to-wake-up-dead-mother-at-bihar-railway-station/story-AjUSDiaTK3Is9kjTaiYGPN.html
28-05-2020||India||Piyush Goyal asks industry to start working for post-Covid period, says worst for economy is over||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday asked the industry to start working for the post-Covid period with good ideas and firm implementation plans as worst for the economy is over and revival is in the air.He said this while meeting industry and trade association through video conference. It was the fifth such meeting since the lockdown to assess the impact of Covid-19 pandemic and take note of their suggestions to put the economy back on track.“...it would be better to be ready and start working for the post-Covid period, with good ideas, firm implementation plans, and to make India a world power,” he said.The minister said that “worst for the economy is over. Things are looking up, and revival is in the air”.Expressing concern, he also said that India is still import dependent on several routine items like furniture, toys, and sports shoes despite the fact that the country has technical prowess as well as skilled manpower.Goyal called upon the industry to make efforts in this regard, by thinking about sustainable, and out-of-the-box ideas.He assured the associations that their suggestions are duly examined, and timely action is taken on the rational, and genuine demands. Further, he said in the last three decades post-liberalisation, the country progressed but the focus was city-centric.“The rural and backward areas remained deprived, forcing millions of people from there to migrate to cities for employment and opportunities,” he added.The meeting was attended by representatives of various entities, including CII, FICCI, ASSOCHAM, NASSCOM, PHDCCI, CAIT, FISME, Laghu Udyog Bharati, SIAM, and ACMA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/piyush-goyal-asks-industry-to-start-working-for-post-covid-period-says-worst-for-economy-is-over/story-z4IuMQ9nw8q7bjUKBUJvpK.html
28-05-2020||India||Swarms of locusts enter Maharashtra||Mumbai: The skies over six blocks in three districts of Maharashtra darkened on Tuesday as a swarm of locusts entered the state almost 17 years after the last locust invasion. A swarm of desert locusts, which is a type of a species of short-horned grasshoppers, flew across Vidarbha’s Amravati, Wardha and Nagpur, and while major food crops are not under threat, as the sowing season is still a fortnight away, fruit orchards and vegetable farms are likely to be affected by the crop munching insects. They were spotted descending on orange orchards of Katol in Nagpur, as well as the neem trees in Morshi and Warud in Amravati.According to the state agriculture department the swarm is reported to be at least 10km long and 2km wide -- the insects are unique in the way that they change their behaviour from solitary to gregarious insects that forage for food together -- and the swarm has covered a distance of about 120 km in the past three days. ALSO WATCH | Crop-eating locusts wreak havoc in Rajasthan & MP“The invasion began from Katol (in Nagpur) on Monday morning. While major crop damage is not expected since we are close to monsoon and sowing in these areas begins by June 7, orange orchards are threatened by this invasion. A 25% loss is being estimated as of now for those owing these orchards,” said Ravindra Bhosale, divisional joint director agriculture, Nagpur division. As the swarm moves further south into the rural areas of Nagpur like Kamleshwar, hectares of cabbage, ladyfinger, cauliflower, and kidney beans crops are under threat.“An escaping population of desert locusts made their way from Madhya Pradesh into Amravati district on May 24 due to the current wind direction and the presence of forest patches where they can grow and breed as well as citrus trees. Over 48 hours, they have covered to two more districts showing an unusual swarming behaviour,” said Dr KL Gurjar, deputy director and national coordinator on mitigating locust attacks, Locust Warning Organisation, adding that the last time Maharashtra witnessed such an invasion was in 1993, in Dhule. Subhash Nagade, divisional joint director agriculture, Amravati division said the locust swarm has only exacerbated villagers’ woes who are already dealing with Covid-19 cases and the extremely hot weather.However, the government has been tackling the issue. While the locusts themselves pose no harm to humans, they can only be killed using chemicals. District officials, with the help of the fire department carried out hours-long drives of spraying pesticides across affected areas in all three districts in the intervening night between Monday and Tuesday. “We learnt that the swarms were asleep on the citrus trees. The villagers were able to pin point the exact locations, and an overnight extermination drive saw thousands of dead insects across a 17-km stretch at Katol. However, on Tuesday morning, those that survived began swarming to other talukas,” said Bhosale.“We expect the invasion to be controlled within a few days in Maharashtra. However, another escaping population from MP cannot be ruled out,” Gurjar said, adding that the wind direction was the reason behind such a possibility.Gurjar also said that efforts were on to control locust in Jaipur, Dausa and Karauli regions in Rajasthan and added that all state governments have been given instructions on how to control the fast migrating pest.The country is witnessing a severe locust outbreak active across Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and now Maharashtra. These rapidly reproducing crop munching pests can fly up to 150km in a day. Central and state bodies have stepped up efforts to control the menace as it poses crop vulnerability and threat to food safety if the outbreak is not contained.Experts said the outbreak started due to heavy rain over east Africa and Arabian Peninsula due to warm waters in the western Indian Ocean in late 2019 with the swarm originating in the Horn of Africa, and entered India after breeding in Baluchistan, Iran and Pakistan.“These warm waters were caused by the phenomenon called the Indian Ocean Dipole—with warmer than usual waters to its west, and cooler waters to its east. Rising temperatures due to global warming amplified the dipole and made the western Indian Ocean particularly warm,” said Dr Roxy Mathew Koll, Senior Scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, adding that the locusts migrating to India may have found greener pastures due to above normal pre-monsoon rains during March–May for north and central India, including the Vidarbha region. “Heavy rain triggers the growth of vegetation in arid areas where desert locusts can then grow and breed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swarms-of-locusts-enter-maharashtra/story-vo5yIsp9UUo3OL6GqX5d7N.html
