29-05-2020||India||North Bengal hospital refuses to test samples sent by Sikkim due to spike in Covid-19 cases||The Himalayan state of Sikkim alleged on Friday that the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) in Siliguri town, West Bengal government’s biggest hospital in the region, has refused to test swab samples it sends for Covid-19 tests.NBMCH had been regularly testing swab samples sent from Sikkim where only one citizen was infected so far. Though Sikkim carries out the Truenat-Beta-CoV test, samples were being sent to NBMCH for a second confirmation.Pempa Bhutia, health secretary of Sikkim, said, “Eighty-five samples were returned by NBMCH on Thursday while 750 samples sent earlier are yet to be tested.”Sikkim stopped sending samples from May 19. Officials in Sikkim said NBMCH authorities told them that the hospital was carrying out more tests than before since the number of cases in Bengal has gone up.Sikkim’s health minister Mani Kumar Sharma said, “We understand the pressure being faced by NBMCH. We are hopeful that the samples lying there will be tested even if the process may be delayed.”Praloy Acharjee, chief medical officer of health, Darjeeling district, said, “We are augmenting the testing capacity at NBMCH. We will, however, test samples from Sikkim that are marked urgent.” NBMCH’s Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory is testing up to 1,500 swab samples a day now. It receives more than 2,000 samples a day from different parts of north Bengal. The number of Covid-19 cases is rising fast in the region. Four people tested Covid-19 positive in the Darjeeling hills on Friday.An NBMCH doctor, who did not want to be quoted, said, “The reason for refusing samples from Sikkim is the pressure the hospital is facing due to increased testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/north-bengal-hospital-refuses-to-test-samples-sent-by-sikkim-due-to-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-ZhEusVndHHjHofp2LW9RwI.html
29-05-2020||India||KCR takes part in Yagams to ward of evils, inaugurates Kaleshwaram project reservoir||Known for his staunch belief in Hindu Vedic rituals, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday took part in two major ‘havans’ seeking divine intervention to overcome all obstacles in the development of the state and ward off evils plaguing the state like Covid-19 pandemic.KCR, along with his wife Shobha, arrived at the Kondapochamma temple at Teegul Narsapur village of Jagdevpur block in Siddipet district at 7.45 am and participated in “Chandi Homam.”The chief minister offered “Poornahuti” indicating the successful completion of the ‘homam’ to appease the goddess, the presiding deity at Kondapochamma temple. The couple also took “Veda Asheervachanam” (blessings) from the Vedic pundits.Finance minister T Harish Rao, endowments minister A Indrakaran Reddy and other TRS leaders accompanied the chief minister.At around 10 am, KCR went to Kondapochamma Sagar project site, where he welcomed popular Vaishnavaite seer Sri Tridandi Chinna Jeeyar Swamy. Both of them took part in Sudershana Yagam at the pump house and offered “purnahuti” to the deities.Later, the chief minister inaugurated the pump house and switched on the motor that lifted Godavari water into the discharge canal which fills the Kondapochamma Sagar reservoir of 15 tmc (thousand million cubic feet) capacity. KCR and Chinna Jeeyar Swamy performed puja (prayers with rituals) for the Godavari river.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Speaking to reporters at Markook in the afternoon, the chief minister said he would soon make an announcement to benefit the farming community in the state, which would be first of its kind in the country.“Please bear with the suspense for a week. I will make some major announcements for the farmers in the state very soon. The finances have already been worked out and it is going to be unprecedented and unparalleled in the country,” he said.Stating that the net worth of agriculture production in the state would be a staggering Rs 1 lakh crore per annum, KCR said it was all achieved in a short span of 6 years which no other state could boast of. “We can rightfully say we have achieved Bangaru Telangana (Golden Telangana) now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-takes-part-in-yagams-to-ward-of-evils-inaugurates-kaleshwaram-project-reservoir/story-TcTaOfpdvQnnij9syUmk7I.html
29-05-2020||India||Tripura Covid-19 tally at 250 with 10 fresh cases||Total 10 persons, including one from BSF 86th Battalion were tested Covid-19 positive on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 252. Of the ten cases, eight were Bangladesh returnees, one from Gurugram and another from 86th Battalion of BSF.“ 10 people found COVID-19 #POSITIVE in Tripura today after test of 915 persons. (1 person Gurugram returnee, 8 are Bangladesh returnees & 1 person is from 86 BN BSF). Airport passengers all tested negative. Govt is taking all precautionary measures to keep everyone secure,” Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb wrote on his Twitter.According to latest Health Department’s record, 171 Covid-19 patients were recovered and samples of total 25,403 persons were tested. The state government earlier declared to conduct tests on the persons returning from different states of the country and abroad on the basis of 1:5 ratio.The government also constituted Corona Awareness and Monitoring Committees in panchayat and village councils with public representatives as members. Laying stress on home quarantine for those who have returned the state, these committees have been asked to set up at least one quarantine centre in their respective areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-covid-19-tally-at-250-with-10-fresh-cases/story-w3SLCrjScP62H3314ziNGL.html
29-05-2020||India||European Parliament’s panel on human rights expresses concern at arrest of Indian activists||The European Parliament’s subcommittee on human rights has conveyed its concerns to the Indian government over the arrest of activists Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha and the handling of protests on issues such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.In a letter sent to the Union home minister on Thursday, the chair of the subcommittee, Marie Arena, also expressed concern at the action taken by the government against activists and others such as Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, Kafeel Khan and Sharjeel Imam.There was no immediate reaction to the development from Indian officials. In the past, India has usually rejected such criticism by members of the European Parliament as interference in its internal affairs.The European Parliament’s subcommittee on human rights is a body that monitors human rights developments across the globe and advocates in favour of the respect for fundamental rights.“It is in this context that we are closely following the protection of human rights defenders in India and wish to express serious concerns about the recent arrests of Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha by the National Investigative Agency,” Arena wrote in her letter.“It is particularly alarming to note that human rights defenders cannot conduct advocacy activities, notably in favour of India’s poorest and most marginalized communities, without becoming subject to intimidation and harassment, but equally worrying is the fact that terrorism charges, including under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), are used to silence them,” she added.The European Parliament had also “noticed that various forms of legitimate peaceful protests against laws, policies and governmental actions, including the Citizenship Amendment Act, have been portrayed as terrorist activities under this legislation, resulting in a number of arrests under this umbrella. This is notably the case for human rights activists such as Safoora Zargar, Gulfisha Fatima, Khalid Saifi, Meeran Haider, Shifa-Ur-Rehman, Dr Kafeel Khan, Asif Iqbal and Sharjeel Imam who were recently arrested by the Police,” the letter said.Arena further wrote: “Consequently, we strongly believe that measures should be urgently taken to stop impeding and criminalising the work of human rights defenders by means of overly broad national security legislation and to respect their freedoms of association and expression.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/european-parliament-s-panel-on-human-rights-expresses-concern-at-arrest-of-indian-activists/story-1S7qFoLX92iiA5zk9si7VI.html
29-05-2020||India||Kerala reports 62 new Covid-19 cases, one death||Kerala has reported one death and 62 new virus cases on Friday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said adding among the infected two are Air India crew and two prisoners and a health worker. Among 1,150 total cases, 577 are active and more than 1,24,000 are under observation in the state.A 65-year-old man, who returned from the middle-east, last week died in Kottayam on Friday taking the death toll to 9. An acute diabetic, he was on ventilator for last two days. The CM said the state expected a sharp rise in cases with the return of expatriates and people stranded in other parts of the country and there was no need of panic on this count.The CM reiterated that the state has got best recovery and lowest mortality rates in the country and its testing rates were in commensurate with new cases and infection rate. “When you test 100 people in the state 1.7 are testing negative whereas in the country it is 5 per cent. And the fatality rate is 0.5. We are going by the directive of the Indian Council of Medical Research,” he said dispelling doubts over low rate of tests in the state. Recently many from the opposition had questioned the state’s low testing rate. While Kerala had conducted 62, 746 tests as on Friday its neighbours Karnataka and Tamil had done at least five to six times more tests than it. But the CM maintained that the state’s records are best. “Out of 577 active cases only 45 people got infected from others. Local spreading rate is less than 10 per cent. That is why we are saying that no community transmission took place in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-62-new-covid-19-cases-one-death/story-eyGUMgK46tNizqI7HqlLEM.html
29-05-2020||India||In highest single-day spike, Telangana reports 169 new Covid-19 cases||Telangana on Friday reported 169 new Covid-19 cases, the highest-ever number of positive infections reported in a single day in the state since the outbreak of the coronavirus. With this, the southern state’s tally has risen to 2,425.The state also reported four deaths, taking the overall toll due to Covid-19 to 71.Telagana been witnessing a steep rise in the number of positive cases and deaths due to Covid-19 since lockdown 4.0 came into force on May 18. The number of deaths has gone up by 37 and the number of positive cases by 833 in the last 12 days.In the last two days, as many as eight deaths and 286 positive cases were reported in the state.According to the official bulletin released by the state medical and health department, out of 169 cases reported on Friday, 100 cases were that of local residents of Telangana, including 82 in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits, 14 in Ranga Reddy district and two each in Medak and Sangareddy districts. Five migrants and 64 deportees were also found Covid-19 positive.The four deaths included a 53-year- old man suffering with Carcinoma Thyroid who died after being treated in hospital for a week, a 59-year- old man, suffering with Multiple Myeloma, who died after his admission in the hospital three day ago, a 62-year- old man suffering with Hemiplegia, who died after undergoing treatment for 13 days and a 60-year-old woman suffering from hypertension and associated co-morbidities, who had been hospitalised for five days.The government attributed the rise in the number of cases to migrant workers and deportees or foreign evacuees returning from other countries.So far, as many as 458 people have returned from abroad and they were quarantined in government centres in the state. Of them, 207 have tested positive for Covid-19.Similarly, a large number of migrants have been returning from other states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, and Bihar. These migrants are being home quarantined and monitored by the district authorities. Till date, 180 migrants have tested positive for Covid-19 and are being treated, the bulletin said.The state health department requested the people to inform the local authorities in case they identify any new persons and migrants who have newly arrived in the towns and villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-highest-single-day-spike-telangana-reports-169-new-covid-19-cases/story-8T1TeUMFYC7yCpbK7W91bK.html
29-05-2020||India||ED attaches Dubai villa, 5 Swiss bank accounts of AgustaWestland scam accused Rajiv Saxena||In one of the biggest attachments so far in UPA-era AgustaWestland scam, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth US dollars 50.90 million (equivalent to Rs 385.44 crore) including a villa in Palm Jubeirah, Dubai and five Swiss bank accounts belonging to AgustaWestland scam alleged middleman Rajiv Saxena, who the agency says managed the proceeds of crime and tainted money of many high profile and High Net worth Individuals (HNIs).The value of the villa in Palm Jumeirah (Dubai) is worth 20 million Dirhams and money attached in five Swiss bank accounts is worth US dollars 45.5 million, the ED said in a press statement on Friday. The agency had sent a Letter of Request to Swiss Confederation to restrain his Swiss bank accounts and ensure that Saxena did not transfer or dispose-off the suspected proceeds of crime.The accused-turn-approver in AgustaWestland scam, Saxena was deported to India from the UAE on January 31 last year and arrested under money laundering act for routing money belonging to several accused.ED has claimed that Saxena is a ‘hawala operator’ and accommodation entry provider who runs the accommodation entry business in Dubai through numerous companies known as Matrix Group companies and has laundered proceeds of crime in the cases of AgustaWestland scam, or VVIP chopper scam.Saxena is also named as accused for assisting Ratul Puri, nephew of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath, in money laundering in the VVIP chopper scam as well as a separate case against Moser Baer India Ltd related to bank fraud. “Rajiv Saxena created structures for laundering proceeds of crime generated by accused of both cases either for the kickbacks in AgustaWestland case or defrauding banks by mis-utilising the loans given to Moser BaerThe agency has lately been trying to get his approver status revoked claiming that he misled the investigators and withheld crucial information. However, a Delhi court has refused to revoke his approver status, which is being challenged by the agency in Delhi high court.“Rajiv Saxena manages the proceeds of crime and tainted funds of many high profile and High Net worth Individuals (HNIs). He has admitted to laundering the proceeds of crime not only of the AgustaWestland deal but also various other defence deals. The proceeds of crime have also been transferred to the personal accounts of Rajiv Saxena and his wife Shivani Saxena (also an accused in AgustaWestland case),” the ED press release stated.In the Moser Baer case, the ED said, the proceeds of crime belonging to Deepak Puri (father of Ratul Puri) amounting to USD 16.33 million were also managed by Saxena.“From the analysis of digital evidences and accounts of the Puri family maintained by Rajiv Saxena, it has been revealed that the amount of USD 16.33 million is proceeds of crime in the hands of Rajiv Saxena belonging to Deepak Puri and is parked in the accounts of companies of Matrix Group. Similarly, proceeds of crime belonging to Ratul Puri and transferred to Rajiv Saxena from an undisclosed foreign entity have also been attached,” said the ED.Saxena’s lawyer R K Handoo said, “What’s happening is very wrong and is harassment of Rajiv Saxena by the agency. He was made an approver and now the agency is making these claims. Won’t the statement given by him against any person become null and void in that case?”Puri’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal refused to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-attaches-dubai-villa-5-swiss-bank-accounts-of-agustawestland-scam-accused-rajiv-saxena/story-5X3yqR6kIUNMNRJfUV3jzH.html
29-05-2020||India||UN Secretary General honours Indian Army Major Suman Gawani||UN chief Antonio Guterres on Friday honoured peacekeepers Major Suman Gawani from India and Commander Carla Monteiro de Castro Araujo from Brazil with the 2019 UN Military Gender Advocate of the Year Award, saying their “inspiring work” promotes equality in the forces. Secretary General Guterres bestowed the award to Gawani and Araujo in a virtual ceremony, commemorating the International Day of Peacekeepers. This is the first year the prestigious award has gone to a peacekeeper from India. Military Observer Gawani has recently completed an assignment in South Sudan. Araujo is working in the United Nations’ Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic. Guterres underscored the essential role played by women peacekeepers for the success of UN peace operations. He said Gawani and Araujo’s “inspiring work has made a remarkable difference in promoting gender equality and empowering local women and your own colleagues.” “Your contributions are proof that women peacekeepers are vital to peace and security everywhere,” the UN secretary general said. Guterres said during her deployment with the UN Mission in South Sudan, Gawani mentored more than 230 Military Observers on conflict-related sexual violence and ensured the presence of women military observers in each of the mission’s team sites. She also trained the South Sudanese government forces and helped them launch their action plan on conflict-related sexual violence. Guterres also paid tribute to the military, police and civilian personnel who laid down their lives in the line of duty. Four Indian peacekeepers and a civilian personnel were among the 83 military, police and civilian personnel who were honoured posthumously with the prestigious Dag Hammarskjöld Medal for their courage and sacrifice in the line of duty. Major Ravi Inder Singh Sandhu and Sergeant Lal Manotra Tarsem, who served with the UN Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS); Sergeant Ramesh Singh with the UN Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL); Private Johnsion Beck with the UN Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) and Edward Agapito Pinto, who served in a civilian capacity with the UN Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) posthumously received the medals in the virtual ceremony. The year 2020 marks the 20th anniversary of Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. The theme for the International Day of UN Peacekeepers this year is ‘Women in Peacekeeping: A Key to Peace.’ Guterres, who has been a staunch advocate for increasing the participation of women in UN peacekeeping, said with each passing day women peacekeepers help improve all aspects of peace operations and performance -- better access to local communities, prevent and reduce conflict, serve as role models for peers and others. “In addition, we have seen that our operations are better able to build trust with those in need of protection when their staffing reflects the communities in which they serve. This is another reason why increasing the number of women in peacekeeping is so crucial,” Guterres said, adding that peacekeeping is more effective for everyone when “we have more women peacekeepers at all levels, including in decision-making.” “We will continue to do everything we can, including with our troop and police contributors, to reach this goal,” he said India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti, in his message on Peacekeepers Day, said Gawani “epitomises, in many ways, the rich values of Indian peacekeepers.” Tirumurti honoured India’s brave men and women who have served as peacekeepers selflessly in foreign lands to preserve international peace and security. “Indian peacekeepers have been at the forefront of this effort. They have been widely admired for their bravery, professionalism and selfless service. But India’s long standing UN peacekeeping contribution has not come without cost. India has lost more peacekeepers than any other member state of the United Nations,” he said, in a video message. Over the last 70 years, more than 160 Indian military, police and civilian personnel have lost their lives while serving in the UN missions around the world. With the world battling the COVID-19 pandemic, Guterres said UN peacekeepers continue to protect vulnerable local populations, support dialogue and implement their mandates while fighting coronavirus. “They are doing everything they can to be an integral part of the solution to this crisis while keeping themselves -- and the communities they serve safe. But the virus is not the only threat that our peacekeepers face. Hostile acts, improvised explosive devices, accidents and diseases continue to take a heavy toll,” he said, as he paid tribute to the 83 military, police and civilian personnel from 39 countries who lost their lives last year serving in the UN peace operations. India is the fifth largest contributor of uniformed personnel to UN Peacekeeping. It currently contributes more than 5,400 military and police personnel to the UN peacekeeping operations in Abyei, Cyprus, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lebanon, the Middle East, Sudan, South Sudan and Western Sahara as well as one expert to the UN Assistance Mission in Somalia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-secretary-general-honours-indian-army-major-suman-gawani/story-OoxyUWAR9itqkFdvqkEq9M.html
29-05-2020||India||Manipur Covid-19 tally rises to 59 with four more cases||Manipur has registered 4 more Covid -19 positive cases taking the state’s total to 59, while two cases discharged after recovery, state health officials said on Friday.Stating that the cases were tested last night at the VRDLs (Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory) of Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) and they were found Covid-19 positive, the Covid-19 common control room in a press release, on Friday said, “They are now admitted in the COVID care facility at RIMS.”Stating that their conditions are stable, the first release which was available around noon added, “All necessary control measures like containment and contact tracing are in place.”With the new confirmed cases, the total number of positive cases in the state has increased to 59 and after discharge of the two more from RIMS, the number of active cases now stands at 52, according to second press release which was made available around 8.30 pm.So far the total recovered cases in the state is 7, the release said. Earlier five cases have recovered during their treatment and discharged from the hospitals in April and May.Meanwhile Shramik Special train from Delhi with around 1600 stranded people of the state, arrived at Jiribam railway station, 220 km west of Imphal on Friday,according to official sources.Later, the passengers were taken to quarantine centres, as per the state government’s guidelines. So far, 18 special trains, carrying stranded people from Manipur, have arrived at Jiribam.Similarly, around 500 passengers on Friday, have come back by air after domestic flight services resumed on May 25,sources said.At this juncture,in an effort to spread awareness to the public on Covid-19 pandemic, a Joint Committee along with representatives from different Civil society organizations of the state was formed in Manipur.The Joint Committee was constituted with MLA Th Satyabrata of Yaiskul assembly constituency as convener and Assembly Deputy Speaker K Robindro and MLA H Dingo of Sekmai assembly constituency as co-conveners,sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-covid-19-tally-rises-to-59-with-four-more-cases/story-EhYwXNxe1eIRPYzu7XobQI.html
29-05-2020||India||73-year-old home quarantined man dies in Uttarakhand’s Almora||A 73-year-old man under home quarantine died in Almora district on Friday, said health officials.Health department officials have sent his body for post-mortem and collected samples for Covid-19 testing.The patient had returned from Delhi on May 21 where he lived with his son. According to his family members, he was an asthma patient.Dr Savita Hyanki, chief medical officer (CMO) Almora said that the person had been screened when he returned to Almora and directed to remain in 14 days home quarantine. “His family members told us that his condition deteriorated on Thursday late night. They rushed him to Bhikiyasain community health centre in the district, where doctors declared him brought dead,” she said.“We have sent his body for post-mortem. The exact cause of his death will be known after post-mortem report is received, “ she said.Dr Hyanki said they will also collect samples of his family members for testing. “Personal protection kits have also been given to the family members for protection while completing the rituals,” said Dr. Hyanki.On Thursday, a 32-year-old cancer patient who was under home quarantine in Ramnagar in Nainital district, died and within hours following his death, his samples tested positive for Covid-19. After his death, health officials said that the person died of cancer and not coronavirus. The patient had returned from Delhi on May 20 where he was undergoing treatment for cancer for the past four months at a hospital in the national capital.On Monday (May 25), samples of one 48-year-old man, who had died on May 21, tested positive for Covid-19. He had returned from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh and was under home-quarantined. The cause of his death could not be ascertained as per the post-mortem examination report, so it was preserved and sent for histopathological analysis, according to health officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/73-year-old-home-quarantined-man-dies-in-uttarakhand-s-almora/story-IXcRHQaZaJXJDNkVgdvbFN.html
29-05-2020||India||Jagan’s first year as Andhra chief minister marked by welfare and vengeance, say experts||YSR Congress party president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy will be completing one year in office on Saturday, a period in which he has earned both bouquets and brickbats.A slew of welfare schemes implemented by Jagan has by and large consolidated his vote bank at the grassroots level and fetched him a lot of goodwill. The establishment of village secretariats to bring the administration to the villages and the appointment of over three lakh village volunteers were landmarks that helped the government directly deliver the benefits of various schemes, be it pensions or ration, to the beneficiaries at their doorsteps.His entire focus during the last one year was on delivering the promises made during his marathon 3,600-km long padayatra in the run-up to the general elections. “He has done tremendous social engineering in the implementation of his manifesto in the name of Navaratnas (nine jewels), so that every vulnerable section of the society that forms his vote bank benefitted from his schemes,” political analyst and Osmania University professor K Nageshwar said.He pointed out that schemes like Amma Vodi, enhanced pensions and fee reimbursement had won him a lot of support from the people. “Even in the formation of his cabinet and filling up of various nominated posts, Jagan had followed this social engineering – providing 50 per cent of the posts to SCs, STs, OBCs, minorities and women,” Nageshwar said.However, Jagan’s acts of vengeance against his political rivals, confrontation with constitutional systems and a host of other controversial decisions taken without proper homework, reflected his inexperience in administration and incurred the wrath of the judiciary.For a man, who led his party to victory with a landslide majority – 151 out of 175 state assembly seats and 22 out of 25 Lok Sabha seats with nearly 50 per cent vote share, it should have been a smooth sailing in the administration.But from the day one, Jagan’s action allowed an impression to gain ground that he was vengeful towards opposition Telugu Desam Party in general and his bête noire N Chandrababu Naidu in particular, who, he believed was responsible for his imprisonment for 16 months between 2012 and 2013 in the alleged illegal assets case.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIn his first public speech minutes after being sworn-in as the chief minister, Jagan made his intentions clear: undo whatever his predecessor had done. So, he announced that all the ongoing works taken up by the Naidu government would be stopped immediately.As a result, several projects worth thousands of crores, including works on Amaravati capital city and Polavaram major irrigation project, had come to a halt for several months. Many of the projects like Amaravati core capital works by Singapore Consortium, Machilipatnam Port, Krishnapatnam Port SEZ, Convention Centre by Lulu group at Visakhapatnam, Adani group’s data centre at Viskahapatnam etc have been shelved.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The Jagan government claimed to have saved a few hundreds of crores in the name of “reverse tendering” for projects like Polavaram and Veligonda, but the projects are yet to take off in full swing and the cost overrun due to the delay in projects may turn out to be much more than what has been saved.“Right from the beginning, Jagan has been adopting a destructive and vengeful attitude, which was evident from the demolition of convention hall Praja Vedika. Reducing the security cover for Naidu, slapping a demolition notice on his riverfront residence near Vijayawada or foiling an opposition protest rally at Atmakur in Palnadu region and targeting individual TDP leaders by destroying their financial roots, were some of the examples of Jagan’s vendetta politics,” alleged TDP official spokesperson Panchurmarthi Anuradha.Jagan ordered several inquiries alleging insider trading in the land acquisition for Amaravati, but nothing has been proved till date, she pointed out.The decision to shift the administrative capital from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam has been one of the many controversial decisions taken by Jagan and thousands of farmers who had given away 34,000 acres of lands for the capital have been agitating against the move, but the chief minister is unmoved.Besides, several controversial decisions like the review of Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) signed during the previous TDP regime with solar and wind power producers, introduction of English medium in government schools, abolition of legislative council just for referring the three-capitals bills to the select committee, removal of state election commissioner by promulgating ordinance and painting of government buildings with YSRC party colours have come under the scanner of judiciary.“While there is no doubt that Jagan has been able to fulfill most of the promises he made for the poor people by taking up welfare programmes, there has been not a single industry or infrastructure project worth naming during the last one year. Welfare and development are like two wheels of the cart, but the Jagan government is totally imbalanced due to the neglect of developmental programmes,” observes political analyst Srinivas Rao Manchala.However, the YSRC says it has been an eventful year for the government. “We have been able to provide four lakh jobs in village and ward secretariats within four months of taking the oath,” Jagan claimed, while addressing the beneficiaries of his schemes through a video conference on Friday.“The system has been so effective that in the times of coronavirus, three rounds of household surveys were held and the pension, ration, rice and dal were provided by the social delivery system of village and ward volunteers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-s-first-year-as-andhra-chief-minister-marked-by-welfare-and-vengeance-say-experts/story-bgroDTkyh1nYtePHNQePtL.html
29-05-2020||India||Karnataka sees biggest single-day spike with 248 new Covid-19 cases||With 248 new Covid-19 positive cases being registered on Friday, Karnataka again witnessed its biggest single-day spike in coronavirus cases. Interestingly, of the 248 new cases, 227 have a history of inter-state travel. On Thursday, the state government had appealed to the union civil aviation ministry to reduce the number of incoming flights into the state – especially from coronavirus hotspots like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh - so as to ease the pressure on the institutional quarantine mechanism in the state.This biggest single-day spike of cases takes the total Covid-19 positive cases in the state to 2,781 of which 1,837 are active cases and 894 people have been discharged. On Friday, a 50-year-old woman from Chikkaballapura who had tested positive for Covid-19 passed away at a designated hospital in Bangalore, bringing the total number of deaths due to the virus, in the state to 48.A health and family welfare department official who did not want to be identified – as he is not authorized to speak to the media—said, “Returnees from Maharashtra constitute nearly 85% of the new cases apart from a few others from Gujarat and Rajasthan. Local transmission is very low amounting to almost zero. This is why we requested the Centre to reduce incoming flights to the state and barred even road traffic from coming in from some of the neighbouring hotspots.”What has been a greater concern for the government has been that it is interior districts like Mandya, Yadgiri, Kalburgi, Hassan and Raichur which are seeing the majority of new cases. “The health infrastructure in those districts is not as robust as those in say Bangalore, Mysore or even a Dakshin Kannada which is the cause of worry as, if there is a further sharp increase then there might be a tremendous strain on our resources there,” the official quoted above added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-with-248-new-covid-19-cases/story-pvxxFMAxeKxUhZTi4Bm6NK.html
29-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh records its first Covid-19 death, total cases rise to 415||Chhattisgarh recorded its first death from coronavirus disease, Covid-19, on Friday when a 37-year-old man succumbed to the disease in capital Raipur, health officials said. “The man, who was resident of Raipur rural was suffering from cough and cold and was admitted at a private hospital in Raipur on Wednesday”, a health official said. Health minister TS Singhdeo tweeted about the first death and wrote, “Sadly Chhattisgarh registers its first COVID death. A patient admitted to a private hospital developed ILI symptoms and his sample was sent to AIIMS Raipur for testing. The test has come out positive in the morning but by then unfortunately the patient had passed away.” Sadly Chhattisgarh registers it’s first COVID death. A patient admitted to a private hospital developed ILI symptoms and his sample was sent to @aiims_rpr for testing. The test has come out positive in the morning but by then unfortunately the patient had passed away.On Tuesday, a 36-year-old migrant worker had died of Covid-19 in state’s Durg district. However, since he was in transit to his home state West Bengal from Maharashtra, so the Chhattisgarh health department did not count the death in the state tally. The state reported 17 new coronavirus infections on Friday, taking the total count to 415. In all, 100 patients have recovered from the disease while the state has conducted 63,992 tests so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-records-its-first-covid-19-death-total-cases-rise-to-415/story-kRc6FItTVdowBUtmcoL3ZK.html
29-05-2020||India||TN breaches 20K mark with biggest single day spike of 874 Covid-19 cases; 9 deaths takes toll to 154||Nine more people succumbed to Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu, which witnessed its highest single day spike of 874 cases taking the infection count past the 20,000 mark, the health department said on Friday.With the latest fatalities, the death toll in the state has risen to 154.According to a department bulletin, the total number of positive cases stands at 20,246 till date.The number of active cases, including those people in isolation wards, was 8,776.Friday marked the third straight day when the number of positive cases crossed the 800 mark in the state. Among the 874 cases, 141 were those who had arrived from various states, the health bulletin said. As many as 11,313 people have been discharged in the state till date while the number of people cured today was 765. With the single biggest day surge of 618 cases, Chennai continued to lead in the number of COVID-19 cases among districts and now has a tally of 13,362 cases. Neighbouring Chengalpattu district also saw the cumulative cases touching 1,000 mark adding 61 fresh cases today. Among the fresh cases today,as many as 135 people from Maharashtra, three from Kerala, one each in West Bengal, Telangana, Karnataka tested positive for the virus. Those who succumbed to the virus today were--five men-- two aged over 80 years and two women (all from Chennai), a 77-year-old man from Thiruvallur and a woman of the same age from neighbouring Chengalpattu. The state capital also leads in the number of those who died due to COVID-19 with 11, followed by 11 each from Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur districts. Children below the age of 12 years who contracted the contagion were numbering 1,203 while as many as 1,806 people above the age of 60 have tested positive for the virus, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-breaches-20k-mark-with-biggest-single-day-spike-of-874-covid-19-cases-9-deaths-takes-toll-to-154/story-6CrUtzrujs8jc2IdUiw70I.html
29-05-2020||India||Lockdown 5: Mamata allows pvt offices to work with 100% staff from June 8; says nothing on local train||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday announced that all private offices can operate in the state with cent per cent workforce and govt offices with 70 % workforce from June 8. The jute mills and tea industry, however, are allowed to summon full staff strength from June 1, when all religious places will also have the permission to open provided they do not let more than 10 persons congregate at a time.“Jute and tea industries will be allowed to operate with 100% workforce from June 1. From June 8, all government and private offices can operate with their full workforce,” Banerjee said at the state secretariat on Friday.However, she later released another statement to clarify that the staff strength in government offices will only be allowed up to 70%. “With multiple crises in the state, we have decided to increase State Government workforce capacity from 50% to 70%. Continuation of relief & restoration work is one of the top priorities & this workforce increase will ensure that public services are uninterrupted and unhindered,” she announced on social media later on Friday. The private sector, she said should judiciously decide on the staff complement to ensure everyone’s safety. “In the Private sector, I urge all to stay safe, work indoors as much as possible and to the best of their abilities. Prerogative lies with the respective managements of private entities to decide on workforce capacity & act accordingly,” Banerjee added. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHer decision to allow private offices to function with full workforce without clarifying whether local trains and metro rail will resume operations, created confusion among the office goers.“If local trains do not ply, how would I reach office?” asked Samir Biswas, a resident of Serampore in Hooghly district, about 30 km from Kolkata, who works at a private firm in central Kolkata.Some netizens raised the question on social media and some also commented on Mamata Banerjee’s Facebook page. There are many who daily travel for work to Kolkata from distant districts of Nadia and Burdwan, covering over 100 kilometers one way.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19According to CM Banerjee, “Government buses are plying with 20 passengers. Auto-rickshaws and taxis have been allowed to ply with two passengers. Whether more passengers could be allowed on buses, needs to be considered.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national secretary Rahul Sinha said the chief minister was taking decisions without planning. Party state unit president Dilip Ghosh said, “The private busses have said they cannot operate with 20 passengers without increased fare. The government flatly refused any increase in fare. So, the private buses are not on the streets. I wonder how people are going to reach the office.”In another important decision, she allowed the opening of religious places from June 1 while taking a dig at the Indian railways’ handling of the Shramik specials during the pandemic.“Since the Centre is allowing huge gatherings in Shramik Special trains, not even leaving the middle berths empty, there is no reason why religious places should not be opened with restrictions. However, no religious gathering or festival would be allowed. Only 10 persons can gather at a religious place at any given time.”In further potshots at the railways, Banerjee staunchly disapproved of its decision to reopen middle berths for occupancy in Shramik specials encouraging crowding. “I wonder whether they mean to run Shramik Special trains or corona special trains,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-5-mamata-allows-all-offices-to-work-with-100-staff-from-june-8-says-nothing-on-local-train/story-RfTrpqJgTVRz8qiCSu8KzO.html
29-05-2020||India||Maharashtra sees 116 deaths, 2,682 new Covid-19 cases take state tally past 62,000||Maharashtra on Friday reported 2,682 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the state count to a staggering 62,228, according to state health department data.At least 116 deaths due to the infectious Covid-19 disease were reported on Friday, but health department data indicated only 46 of the fatalities are from the last two days, while the remaining death figures are from May 16 to 26.Maharashtra is the worst-hit state amid the Covid-19 pandemic with the highest concentration of coronavirus positive patients in the country. ALSO READ | India’s Covid-19 tally tops 1.65 lakh with highest single-day spike of 7,466 casesA total of 8,381 coronavirus positive patients have recovered in the last 24 hours—the highest in a single day so far and have been discharged from various hospitals across the state. The total number of recoveries now stands at 26,998, according to the health department.With the addition of 116 fatalities, the state’s death toll has mounted to 2,098.Capital city Mumbai on Friday reported 1,447 new Covid-19 cases taking the coronavirus positive cases tally in the city alone to 36,932.In Mumbai, currently, there are at least 19,745 active Covid-19 cases.India too on Friday reported 7,467 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours in the highest single-day surge, taking the tally to 1,65,799, according to the Union health ministry.This is the first time India has reported more than 7,000 cases in a single day and the surge in the Covid-19 numbers comes just days ahead of the fourth phase of the lockdown which is scheduled to end on May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sees-116-deaths-2-682-new-covid-19-cases-take-state-tally-past-62-000/story-xNuXQea4zSWV6oYvWYpqGO.html
29-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ED attaches assets worth Rs 385 crore from AugustaWestland scam accused Rajiv Saxena and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ED attaches assets worth Rs 385 crore from AugustaWestland scam accused Rajiv SaxenaThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday said it has attached assets totalling Rs 385 crore belonging to AugustaWestland chopper scam accused Rajiv Saxena under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Read more.Five dead in Assam floods; over 3.81 lakh people affected in seven districtsWith two more deaths reported on Friday, the death toll in the first spate of floods this year in Assam rose to five. Over 3.81 lakh people in seven districts of the state are affected. Read more. 71 Shramik Special trains diverted due to congestion: Railway Board chairmanOnly 1.85% of the total Shramik Special trains being run were diverted between May 20 and May 24 due to route congestion, Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav said on Friday adding that 71 trains had been diverted. Read more.Maharashtra has few migrants left after 11.5 lakh return home, 8 Shramik trains cancelledThe Maharashtra government, as on Friday, has managed to send back nearly 11.5 lakh stranded migrant workers to their home states, mostly onboard around 800 Shramik Special trains that started operating on May 1, a senior IPS officer from the state police told HT. Read more. Trump defends India-China mediation offer as effort to address PM Modi’s ‘mood’US President Donald Trump has defended his offer to mediate the India-China border dispute saying Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been unhappy about the situation. Read more. Bowlers shared jokes to overcome pain: Shahid Afridi recalls Virender Sehwag and Rahuld Dravid’s innings in Lahore Test against IndiaWhen India toured Pakistan in 2004 for a full series after a long gap due to the Kargil war, Virender Sehwag and Rahul Dravid were the top performers in India’s 2-1 win over their arch-rivals. Read more. ‘Live, love and laugh. Keep this as the motto of your life. You will always be happy’: Bejan DaruwallaFamous astrologer Bejan Daruwalla has passed away in Ahmedabad due to alleged Covid-19 complications aged 89. He was admitted in the hospital on ventilator support. Read more. Who would have thought a video of two kids hugging will leave people this emotional. Here’s the reasonA video of two cousins hugging each other for the first time after several days is the wholesome content that may fill you up with sheer warmth and evoke a joyous feeling in your heart. Read more. Parents protest against Chandigarh schools for charging fees during lockdownParents of students in at least five Chandigarh schools are protesting against charging tuition fees during Covid-19 lockdown. Schools, however, insist on being paid to cover expenses including staff salaries. Parents say schools have no right to charge fee unless they are taking online classes. The UT education department refuses to mediate between the two, having recently modified its March 29 order that had deferred payment of fees. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-385-crore-from-augustawestland-scam-accused-rajiv-saxena-and-all-the-latest-news/story-QdX0YTSpNtiHYYoiDZ8abJ.html
29-05-2020||India||IIT-IIM alumnus S Gopalakrishnan appointed as additional secretary in PMO||S Gopalakrishnan, a senior Tamil Nadu cadre IAS officer, has been appointed as additional secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office. Gopalakrishnan’s appointment was cleared by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday.The 1991 batch IAS officer is currently serving at the ministry of electronics where his responsibilities include issues related to e-governance, Internet of Things, artificial intelligence, emerging technologies, startups and innovation.Gopalakrishnan is an electrical engineering graduate from Indian Institute of Technology Madras and a postgraduate from the Indian Institute of Management Bangalore. He also holds a masters degree in development studies from the Erasmus University of Rotterdam.The ACC order issued on Friday also cleared the appointment of Bihar cadre IAS officer C Sridhar as a joint secretary and Himachal Pradesh cadre IAS officer Meera Mohanty as a director at the PMO. Sridhar, a 2001 batch officer with a post-graduate in agriculture with specialisation in genetics and plant breeding, is a senior deputy director at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration at Mussoorie, colloquially referred to as the IAS academy. Meera Mohanty is serving at the Cabinet Secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-iim-alumnus-s-gopalakrishnan-appointed-as-additional-secretary-in-pmo/story-9KDPOJ99QB7eL9mc9e7ZoM.html
29-05-2020||India||Twin earthquakes in Haryana in one hour, tremors felt in Delhi||A 4.5 magnitude earthquake occurred in Haryana’s Rohtak district on Friday that was felt in neighbouring Delhi and adjoining districts of the national capital region. According to the National Center for Seismology, the first quake of medium intensity one of 4.5 magnitude, hit the Haryana city at 9.08 pm at a depth of 5 km.The epicentre of the earthquake is about 50 km from Delhi.The second quake was of lower intensity of magnitude 2.9 and occurred at the same location at 10 pm., the NCS said.There were no immediate reports of any loss of life or property. The earthquakes reported on Friday evening, like the last few quakes felt in Delhi and adjoining areas, were shallow quakes which often lead to greater damage than more powerful deep ones.The quakes in Rohtak were assessed to have occurred at a depth of 5 km.This was the fourth quake in or around Delhi this month.A 2.5 magnitude earthquake with its epicentre in Faridabad district was recorded by the National Centre for Seismology at 4.24 pm on Thursday evening. There was another mild quake on May 15 measured to be of 2.2 magnitude with its epicentre at 9 km from central Delhi.On May 10, people in Delhi and nearby areas felt tremors when a 3.4 magnitude earthquake occurred with its epicentre in Sonia Vihar.Two earthquakes were also reported on two consecutive days in Delhi last month.Seismologists say it is not unusual for the epicentre of these relatively small earthquakes to be in Delhi and neighbouring Haryana, seismologists said.Also, a larger proportion of people have been feeling the earthquake because most people are at home and there is far less noise associated with traffic movement due to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown.Here is how the Twitter reacted to the news:  Earthquake of Magnitude 4.6 and Depth 3.3km strikes near 16km East-SouthEast of Rohtak, Haryana.#Earthquake https://t.co/tVXaD6Aaxn pic.twitter.com/M3i9HBkY8B The epicentre was Rohtak, depth 3 km, Richter Scale was 4.6 #Earthquake #Earthquake tremors felt in Delhi and adjoining states.We pray for everyone's safety.2020 just keeps adding new challenges each day.Stay strong! Its high time to help each other instead of abusing and fighting.#earthquake pic.twitter.com/PqS2SiD7qK Delhi falls on Sunatra Fault Line, hence it is more prone to such tectonic vibrations. No need to Panic.#earthquake pic.twitter.com/Nlv8Hpb4y5 MotherEarth are you drunk 🍻 Delhi-NCR on every weekend.. Earthquake #earthquake pic.twitter.com/tMDrRJY9yzDelhi falls under the fourth-highest zone in India, making it vulnerable to earthquakes. But there haven’t been too many earthquakes which have its epicentre in the national capital. Delhi mostly experiences tremors when a quake hits regions as far as central Asia or the Himalayan ranges, known to be a high-seismic zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-tremors-felt-in-delhi/story-iqNSy9qQoKqBRlbx9F7lQN.html
29-05-2020||India||‘Lockdown brought out our creative side’!||Lucknow-girl Amrapali Gupta is making the best of the lockdown period. Away from the shoots of daily soaps, the actor is spending quality time with her family. Keeping up her creative quotient Amarpali recently shot a video with husband and actor Yash Sinha. Interestingly, they shot the entire video during the lockdown phase. The duo donned multiple hats for the shoot and even did the job of a director and a DOP for the video.Talking over phone, the ‘Qubool Hai’ actor said, “My show ‘Bahu Begum’ got wrapped in December and I finished the shoot for ‘Tujse Hai Rabta’ by January end. I have given audition for some shows but then the lockdown happened so everything for now is on hold. Let’s see when the projects restart and we will be back on sets.”Amarpali feels household work is meant to be shared, “We live in a joint family of eight. Besides, we have a cook and a help staying with us so nothing much changed for us. Yes, two other helps who used to visit us daily have stopped. My in-laws don’t let me do much household chores so maximum of time is devoted to my four-year-old son Kabir. But then we are there to help each other any which way.”During the period she started picking up kathak again. “I have restarted my kathak practice. There had been a long gap in between so I started training with online help. To be in the industry, you need to keep on reinventing yourself and this period has given everyone this opportunity.”Telling more about the making of the video, she said, “The close-ups were shot much easily but the real challenge was when both of us have to share the frame. So, for two days, we took help of our cook Ashok for shoot. Then we used tripod and some desi-methods for the shoot. The lighting was also done with the available resources. Since, we don’t have yellow bulbs in our house so we covered the white ones with yellow towels to achieve the required light. The dresses too were from our personal wardrobe based on the theme of white. All in all the week-long shoot was truly a fun experience. I feel this lockdown has brought out our creative side well,” she shared.The song, ‘Teri Bindiya’ has been sung by Amitabh Narain. “The big question was how to choreograph it? So, we took help of choreographer Chirag Zaveri. I have worked with him in ‘Teen Bahuraaniyaan’ and it was really sweet of him to shoot a dummy sequence with his wife to guide us through the sequence. That’s how everything fell into place. With so much misery around with this video we hope to bring some joy in lives of our fans.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lockdown-brought-out-our-creative-side/story-jyIjVSFl9l7uLgEBdMOgbJ.html
29-05-2020||India||Blessed to live so close to nature: Celina Jaitley||Living in her beautiful house on Alps in Austria, Lucknowite and actor Celina Jaitley is coping with the situation in her own way. “We have had a lockdown since January, since we are very close to Italy. But now they have started easing the restrictions in phases,” says the actor over phone.She with hubby Peter Hagg and three sons are far from town. “We are blessed to live high up in the Alps where fresh air and glacier waters are plentiful. It’s wonderful to live so close to nature. While most countries around the world continue to accelerate the fight against Covid-19 by imposing further and extended lockdown measures, Austria is bucking the trend and easing its restrictions. I have been focusing on teaching my half-Austrian boys about our culture besides their curriculum which is in German. They have been enjoying the Mahabharata and learning Sanskrit mantras as well as studying about India geographically,” says the light eyed actor.An alumna of City Montessori School, Celina misses her relatives in Lucknow, “We have a house near Shahnajaf Imambara in Hazratganj. My grandmother is and has been my superpower as she is an amazing-woman of great learning and education, besides my maternal aunts and uncles too are there in city of nawabs. And I am looking forward to meet them soon.”After taking a sabbatical from films in 2012, she made a comeback with film ‘Season’s Greeting’ which had Lillete Dubey as her mother. “To fulfil my mother’s last wish, I will continue doing cinema. Last year, before she passed away, she told me that acting was my calling and I should always pursue it. I took a break from films as I was only getting to play glamorous characters where as I was looking for meaningful roles and fine scripts. So when I did get to do something so meaningful I just had to say yes.” It was then she got this offer. “I took up this project as it was a tribute to Ritupurno Ghosh and beautiful story, relation between mother and daughter; it has lyrics of Gurudev Rabindra Nath Tagore and the film revolves around the cause I am closely associated with that is LGBT rights. I would love to do a biopic and a comedy on the lines of ‘No Entry’ again. Also I work with UN Free and Equal campaign for LGBTQIA Rights and it keeps me well connected to my cause,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/blessed-to-live-so-close-to-nature-celina-jaitley/story-LRLHegtxwUtkRu6KPQQS3O.html
29-05-2020||India||Maharashtra has few migrants left after 11.5 lakh return home, 8 Shramik trains cancelled||The Maharashtra government, as on Friday, has managed to send back nearly 11.5 lakh stranded migrant workers to their home states, mostly onboard around 800 Shramik Special trains that started operating on May 1, a senior IPS officer from the state police told HT. The officer added that not only a very small number of migrants are now left to be sent back, but also many of the remaining migrants are now cancelling their return trip after receiving assurance of regular food and work from employers.The police said that most of the stranded migrants who had registered to return home by Shramik special trains from Maharashtra have been dispatched except those from West Bengal since trains to the state were suspended due to the state government’s preoccupancy with the destruction caused by super cyclone Amphan. Police said they, too, would be sent back soon.“Registration of new applicants for Shramik special trains has dropped drastically and hardly any migrants are now registering. We have observed that even those migrants who had registered for Shramik special trains are now backing off and opting to stay back in the city as their employers have assured them regular work and supply of food. As a result of this, many Shramik special trains had to be cancelled. On Thursday 11 trains were supposed to start from Mumbai, but as migrants backed off, only 3 trains operated,” said a senior police officer.Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary (special) and head of the three member committee formed to oversee the stranded migrants issue in Maharashtra confirmed the development, “The Mantralay staff--over 1,400 state government employees-- who were given the task to assist police force in the registration process for the migrants, have been asked to return to their office after May 31 as very few stranded migrants are left in the city.”Lakhs of migrants faced tough times in the state after a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAfter the announcement of Shramik Special trains, the procedure for registering migrants by Mumbai Police started on May 2. Busses were also used to send migrants home. The first bus with migrants left on May 4 for Rajasthan from Mumbai. Desparate to go back home, many migrants started gathering in areas outside railway stations. And as a result, the city witnessed chaotic situations outside Bandra and Kandivali railway stations and also in Dharavi in the last two weeks. Thousands of migrants along with their families had to spend nights outside the stations after trains were cancelled without prior intimation.Nearly 20 stranded migrants died in various accidents in the state during the ongoing lockdown. This includes 16 deaths in Aurangabad when a goods train ran over migrants sleeping on railway tracks during the night. A 58-year-old woman from Vasai also died while waiting for her token pass for the Shramik Special train to Uttar Pradesh’s Jaunpur.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Film actor Sonu Sood, too, has helped several migrants reach home by arranging transport for them.Lakhs of poor migrants left for their states on their own. While some hired private vehicles many chose to walk.No senior police official from Mumbai Police, state intelligence department and law and order department of the state police could provide information on the number of migrants/labourers who had left the state on their own without any government assistance. Senior IPS officers said they did not maintain such data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-has-few-migrants-left-after-11-5-lakh-return-home-8-shramik-trains-cancelled/story-yUUVGpGZvvtwUny15Ox2DI.html
29-05-2020||India||71 Shramik Special trains diverted due to congestion: Railway Board chairman||Only 1.85% of the total Shramik Special trains being run were diverted between May 20 and May 24 due to route congestion, Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav said on Friday adding that 71 trains had been diverted. The national carrier till Friday has operated 3,840 Shramik Specials trains ferrying 52 lakh passengers to their home states. “Out of 3,840 trains, 71 were diverted to deal with network congestion only between May 20 and May 24, as the railways had to meet the demand of the respective states, nearly 90% of the trains were going to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar,” Yadav said. Among the destination-states for which the trains were diverted were Bihar (51), Uttar Pradesh (16), Jharkhand (2), Assam and Manipur (1 each).Among the originating-states, for which trains were diverted were Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan.He also added that it is not possible for trains to get “lost”. The clarification came amid criticism over delays and diversions of Shramik trains.The railways had come under criticism over the delay and diversion of several Shramik Trains in the last week. A Gorakhpur-bound Shramik Special train from Maharashtra ended up in Rourkela, Odisha adding two days and five states to the original journey, leaving its passengers clueless. With several Shramik Special trains bound for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar being delayed and diverted over the past two days, the ministry of railways on Sunday said the convergence of trains to these destinations have caused congestion in the network adding that the total number of trains to the region has increased. Most of the destinations in UP are around Lucknow-Gorakhpur sector and in Bihar around Patna. Of 565 trains running since yesterday, 266 were going to Bihar and 172 to Uttar Pradesh, the ministry had said. “Only four trains took more than three days to reach the destination states in the north eastern part of the country,” Yadav clarified adding that allegations of trains taking nearly nine days to reach were incorrect. Yadav said there was also uncertainty in demand that led to the congestion. “As per railway capacity, it was not a 24-hour steady flow. The originations of Shramik Special trains took place after completing all the local protocols by the state mostly in post noon 16-24 shift. Thus, this left one third route capacity per day to handle these trains,” he said. “On arrival, all passengers were registered and screened by state governments, which limited the capacity of terminals to handle trains. As against 20 minutes taken in normal trains, it took one to three hours in releasing the train at terminals,” he added. Demand for Shramik Special trains, has lately been diminishing he said. “It appears that demand for these trains is declining from the originating state. 137 trains were flagged yesterday (Thursday) and 172 the day before (Wednesday). Demand for trains has been going down in the last two days,” Yadav said.Nearly 1,524 Shramik Specials operated in the last one week from May 22 till May 28 ferrying over 20 lakh passengers. On May 20, as many as 279 trains operated in a single day. As of last week, originating states had indicated a demand of 923 trains for migrants, which had come down to 450 trains as of Thursday, Yadav said. “Railways have accommodated almost all requests received from the sending states and we are ready to meet all demand of Shramik movements. We will run Shramik Trains for as long as they are needed. Each and every migrant will be transported,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/71-shramik-special-trains-diverted-due-to-congestion-railway-board-chairman/story-tJp3DDqRQ3hCOMVevKuPvM.html
29-05-2020||India||Five dead in Assam floods; over 3.81 lakh people affected in seven districts||With two more deaths reported on Friday, the death toll in the first spate of floods this year in Assam rose to five. Over 3.81 lakh people in seven districts of the state are affected.According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), two persons drowned in flood waters at Lakhipur in Goalpara district and Doboka in Hojai since Thursday.At present a total of 381,320 persons in 356 villages of Nalbari, Goalpara, Nagaon, Hojai, West Karbi Anglong, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts are affected by floods.Nearly 22,000 persons uprooted due to floods are now taking shelter in 190 relief camps in 4 of the affected districts. Goalpara with 16,300 topped the list followed by Hojai with 5299 staying in these camps.Twenty four boats were deployed by the State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) and National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) in Goalpara and Hojai districts to evacuate 3,880 persons to safety.Most major rivers in the state including Brahmaputra and its tributaries continued to remain in spate on Friday. The Kopili flowed over the danger mark at Kampur in Nagaon district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-dead-in-assam-floods-over-3-81-lakh-people-affected-in-seven-districts/story-YDQQclP1mWJAZ1WQslRyDL.html
29-05-2020||India||Bejan Daruwalla, famous astrologer, dies at 89||Famous astrologer Bejan Daruwalla died at a private hospital in Ahmedabad on Friday evening, his family said. He was 89.His son Nastur Daruwalla, speaking to PTI, denied the speculation on social media that his father had contracted coronavirus. Daruwalla was suffering from only pneumonia, he said. The Apollo Hospital in the city confirmed that Daruwalla died during treatment, reported PTI.“Saddened by the demise of renowned Astrologer Shri Bejan Daruwalla. I pray for the departed soul. My condolences. Om Shanti....,” tweeted Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani. Saddened by the demise of renowned Astrologer Shri Bejan Daruwalla. I pray for the departed soul. My condolences. Om Shanti...An ardent devotee of Lord Ganesha, Daruwalla once admitted his whole family is into astrology.Daruwalla, says his website, was once asked by the Dalai Lama to put his hand on the Tibetan spiritual leader’s head at the India International Centre in Delhi.Among his most famous predictions is the one about Narendra Modi beating his competitors hands down to “win the game”. He made the prophecy just before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. “Narendra Modi’s Moon and Mars are together. Moon is for popularity and Mars is for energy. The combination of two makes him a winning material. For all these reasons, Narendra Modi will win the game,” was his prediction ahead of the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bejan-daruwala-famous-astrologer-dies-at-89/story-U5A0d3vifqBpuAKWIeVzBK.html
29-05-2020||India||Covid 19 patient jumps quarantine to attend BJP event in Uttarakhand, booked for attempt to murder||A coronavirus patient has been booked by Uttarakhand police for ‘attempt to murder’ since he allegedly jumped quarantine to attend a free-ration-kit distribution programme organised by the Bharatiya Janta Party on May 25 at Ramleela ground in Haridwar.Currently recuperating at Mela Hospital’s Covid-19 care unit in Haridwar, the infected person has been booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant.), 307 (attempt to murder) and under relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act.He is accused of exposing several people at the public function to the risk of infection including the urban development cabinet minister Madan Kaushik, who was the chief guest at the free ration kit distribution function and arrived at the venue within a couple of hours after the virus infected person had left the Ramleela ground after receiving a free ration kit from the organisers.The youth was tested for Covid-19 on May 21 and his report came positive on May 26.Station house officer of Haridwar city police station, Praveen Singh Koshyari registered a case against the person on a complaint by Dr Vinay Kumar for allegedly violating quarantine norms.District magistrate, Haridwar, C Ravi Shankar said the local intelligence unit and police had identified twenty-eight persons who attended the ration kit distribution programme to be home quarantined as a precautionary measure.The list includes Mukesh Kaushik, brother of cabinet minister Madan Kaushik and several BJP district and ward office bearers and activists.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19BJP district general secretary Vikas Tiwari and ward councillor Lalit Rawat said they follow the quarantine protocol as per the directions issued by the administration and health officials.But some BJP activists whose name figured in the home quarantine list have expressed resentment on social media over their inclusion.“We urge the administration not to be biased and come under pressure from any VIP or so-called senior party office bearers. Many in this list were not in the main contact or near the said COVID positive person but still their name has figured in the list, while some, who were in close proximity have been left,” said a BJP leader whose name figures in the list.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesLocal intelligence unit personnel, wishing not to be named, said that about 500 people had attended the ration kit distribution programme and the list of people to be quarantined was compiled on the basis of information gathered. “Based on video footages and photographs of the event and statements of the organisers and receivers, the list was compiled,” the intelligence unit personnel said.Congress Mahanagar president Sanjay Aggarwal alleged the district administration didn’t quarantine local legislator and cabinet minister Madan Kaushik under pressure, while normal citizens and migrants were being forced into quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patient-jumps-quarantine-to-attend-bjp-event-in-uttarakhand-booked-for-attempt-to-murder/story-8772lluERgmVZ1iKftIK5J.html
29-05-2020||India||Kerala all set for monsoon but something is amiss||Dark clouds have started hovering over the horizon of Kerala, God’s Own Country, a sign of the impending monsoon in the season’s first stopover in the country. The spectre, amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, appears ominous in light of last two monsoons when torrential rains left behind a trail of death and destruction in the coastal state.Pre-monsoon rains have lashed many areas, indicating a downpour over the next couple of days.The south-west monsoon, often called the season of plenty, is likely to keep its annual date with the state on June 1.Initially, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities had said the onset would be delayed by four to five days, but on Thursday it became abundantly clear that the four-month season’s arrival is bang on time. Clouds will start a northward journey after drenching Kerala.Monsoon is a symbol of prosperity, as hope springs eternal for a bumper harvest, much to the delight of farmers, policymakers and economists alike. But this year, Covid-19, touted as a once-in-a-century life-altering event, has been a dampener.To be sure, the ‘monsoon magic’, as the state tourism markets the season, is absent this time due to the viral outbreak. Only jaded police personnel are standing guard on empty beaches and the thriving Ayurveda and wellness centres, which make a killing during this tourist high season, are busy counting their losses. While houseboats in the backwaters have been converted into makeshift Covid-19 quarantine centres.Usually, itinerant travellers and shutterbugs throng the state during monsoon, and some even travel following the northerly-moving clouds. But, the pandemic has kept such seasonal adventures at bay, as travellers are running for cover from the highly-contagious pathogen.Fear is the key this monsoon in Kerala.“I had renovated my Ayurveda resort four months ago at an estimated cost of over Rs one crore. I was eyeing a good footfall of high-end foreign tourists. But this tourist season is over even before it started. The aftershocks will be felt next year as well, as the hospitality sector has been a frontline sector that has been roiled by the pandemic,” said PK Prakash, a resort owner in Vizinjam.State tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran echoed Prakash, as the viral outbreak has crippled the thriving sector. “It’ll take long to recover,” he said.Many schools and other shelters, which usually house flood-affected people during monsoon, are either occupied by migrant workers or Covid-19 patients.Kerala was devastated by floods in 2018 when over 400 people had died and at least 10 lakh were affected. Last year, too, the floods had claimed 110 lives. The ravages of the floods in two consecutive years are still visible in several places in Idukki and Wayanad. Monsoon-related epidemic such as dengue, leptospirosis, chicken guniya and other maladies are an annual feature.“We’ve asked all medical units to report mass cases of pneumonia and other respiratory tract-related ailments as preventive measures to diseases that occur during monsoon every year,” said state health minister KK Shailaja.To make matters worse, the IMD authorities have predicted heavy rains for the third year in a row, which have added to the state government’s woes amid the viral outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-all-set-for-monsoon-but-something-is-amiss/story-7Jjj6gnTB1Du928P7Tl9ON.html
29-05-2020||India||Delhi govt issues home isolation norms as Covid-19 positive cases cross 17,000 in capital||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday suggested a slew of measures for home isolation of coronavirus positive patients in an attempt to curb the rapid spread of the Covid-19 outbreak in the city. The national capital recorded 1,106 fresh coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total tally in Delhi to over 17,000. Emphasising that coronavirus positive patients do recover from the highly infectious disease, Kejriwal said, “More than 80 per cent of coronavirus positive patients either have no symptoms at all or show very mild symptoms and most people recover in about 17 days if they follow proper home isolation guidelines.”The Delhi chief minister urged people not to panic if they test Covid-19 positive and follow all health protocol and isolate themselves completely at home in a separate room with a separate washroom.ALSO READ | In next phase of lockdown, cinemas, schools and colleges to remain shut: Delhi govtKejriwal shared various home isolation guidelines with the people in a televised address on Friday evening. The guidelines dealt with instructions for patients in home isolation as well as instructions for neighbours of Covid-19 positive patients.The 15-minute instructional video presentation explained important information about the precautions and guidelines to follow during home isolation for coronavirus patients.The Delhi government has also appointed a team of health workers who will monitor all those coronavirus patients who are in home isolation. The government has urged people to share valid and correct health updates with the team when they call to check on patients in home isolation. Delhi’s Covid-19 death toll on Friday climbed to 398 with 82 deaths that took place in the last one month being reported today, as the city’s total coronavirus tally jumped to over 17,000, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and Heath Minister Satyendar Jain said in a virtual joint press conference. They also announced that 13 of the 82 deaths had taken place on May 27.“The remaining 69 deaths have taken place over a period of 34 days. These cases are being recorded now due to late reporting by various hospitals or due to incomplete submission of information,” Sisodia said. The 69 deaths include 52 fatalities that had taken place at Safdarjung Hospital, a report for which was submitted by authorities a couple of days ago, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-issues-home-isolation-norms-as-covid-19-positive-cases-cross-17-000-in-capital/story-5sxPFqikqe1S9r8ZVWZSBL.html
29-05-2020||India||PIL seeks sanitary napkins be declared essential commodity, HC asks Centre to respond||The Bombay high court on Friday directed the Central government to respond by next Friday to a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking an order declaring sanitary napkins an essential commodity and their inclusion in the public distribution system.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice KK Tated took up the PIL jointly filed by law graduate Nikita Gore, who works as a research assistant at the Aurangabad bench of the high court, and law student Vaishnavi Gholave.The petition, filed through advocate Vinod Sangvikar, highlighted the plight of thousands of women and adolescent girls travelling with migrant workers amid the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.It said measures have been put in place to meet different needs of the travelling migrant workers, but there is complete neglect on the need for sanitary napkins among menstruating women.Highlighting the need for easy access to sanitary napkins, the petition said hygienic menstrual absorbents help adolescent girls and women to manage menstruation effectively, safely, comfortably and fearlessly.The freedom from the fear of leakage or unpleasant odour increases their ability to be at school or the workplace during menstruation, it added.Woman cannot predict when menstruation will start and there should be easy availability and supply of sanitary pads and clothes at the family level and at schools and workplaces, it further said.The petition added that for hygienic and proper menstruation management, a system should be evolved, consisting of easy access to hygienic absorbents and availability of facilities for cleaning and disposal of used absorbents or waste with privacy and dignity.The petitioners said sanitary napkins are an essential requirement for every woman, and women should have the right to get them at cheaper rates, since, on an average, a woman spends about 3,000 days of her life menstruating. Any lack of cleanliness during this period may lead to infections, they argued.The petitioners also sought proper implementation of national guidelines for menstrual hygiene management issued in 2015 by the Union ministry of drinking water and sanitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-seeks-sanitary-napkins-be-declared-essential-commodity-hc-asks-centre-to-respond/story-PXfGx2EdtXxyC8v8PXyNxL.html
29-05-2020||India||‘Strived to bring a positive change’: PM Narendra Modi pays tribute to Ajit Jogi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered condolences to former Chhattisgarh chief minister Ajit Jogi’s family on his demise on Friday and remembered him as a man with passion towards public service who strived to bring a positive change in the lives of the poor.Ajit Jogi died on Friday afternoon around 3:30 pm at Shree Narayana Hospital in Raipur after doctors failed to revive him after a cardiac arrest a few hours earlier.Ajit Jogi was an IAS officer-turned- politician, who went on to become the first chief minister of Chhattisgarh, when the state was carved out of Madhya Pradesh in 2000. He was admitted to the Raipur hospital for the last 20 days since he suffered a heart attack on May 9.Prime minister Modi said he was saddened by his demise.“Shri Ajit Jogi Ji was passionate about public service. This passion made him work hard as a bureaucrat and as a political leader. He strived to bring a positive change in the lives of the poor, especially tribal communities. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family. RIP,” said the tweet from PM’s account.Chhattisgarh has declared a three-day mourning to show respect to the departed leader, who remained a force in the state politics till his very last day. He was currently representing Marwahi seat as an MLA of Janta Congress Chhattisgarh, a party he formed in 2016 after quitting the Congress. His son now heads the party.His former party president Rahul Gandhi also tweeted his condolences to Jogi’s family.“I’m sorry to hear about the passing of Shri Ajit Jogi, former Parliamentarian & Chhattisgarh’s first CM. My condolences to his family, friends & followers in this time of grief. May he rest in peace,” read Rahul Gandhi’s tweet.Several accounts claim that Jogi was first motivated to join politics by former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi while he served as a bureaucrat in undivided Madhya Pradesh.His political career began in 1986 as a member of the Rajya Sabha to which he was elected twice with the backing of Congress veteran Arjun Singh.Jogi left the Congress on a bitter note in 2016 after he and his son got entangled in a controversy over alleged fixing of the assembly by-election for the Antagarh seat in Kanker district in 2014. Jogi was also said to be miffed with the party brass for attempting to create an alternate leadership in the state.Jogi was admitted to Shree Narayana Hospital on May 9 after he suffered respiratory and cardiac arrests. Doctors later confirmed that a seed of sweet tamarind had got stuck in his windpipe. He slipped into a coma since then and was put on ventilator support. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also expressed his condolences and said, “I am saddened to hear of demise of senior leader and ex-chief minister of Chhattisgarh Ajit Jogi. I express my condolences on demise of the leader.”Former MP chief minister and state Congress president Kamal Nath said, “I heard of demise of Chhattisgarh’s ex-chief minister Ajit Jogi. He was ailing for quite some time. I express my condolences on his demise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strived-to-bring-a-positive-change-pm-narendra-modi-pays-tribute-to-ajit-jogi/story-MdCFGj0weNbrjntHHymgQP.html
29-05-2020||India||Lockdown should be extended beyond May 31: Haryana minister Anil Vij||The nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 should continue beyond the fourth phase which will end on May 31, Haryana’s home minister Anil Vij said of Friday. He said that giving more relaxations can lead to an increase in coronavirus cases, news agency PTI reported. “If you ask my personal opinion, strictness will have to be maintained. Giving more relaxations at this stage can lead to increase in cases. Because the stage at which coronavirus is right now, need of the hour is that lockdown should be extended,” he told reporters in Chandigarh. Giving reason for his suggestion about lockdown extension, the minister said that there already exists relaxations in lockdown norms and more relaxations would result in spike in cases. “Already relaxations have been given like opening of ‘bazaar’ (markets), factories… domestic flights have restarted. I am not in favour of more relaxations because cases are going up,” Vij said, adding he would convey his opinion to the chief minister.Haryana on Thursday registered 123 fresh Covid-19 cases, biggest single-day spike, and one death in Gurugram, its worst-affected district. Sixty-eight of the new cases were detected in Gurugram alone. The state’s case count now stands at 1,504, while the death toll is 19.Vij also justified the strictness at Haryana-Delhi border, citing a sharp increase in coronavirus cases during the past week in Haryana districts bordering the national capital. The minister had ordered sealing the Delhi-Gurugram border on Thursday. Anil Vij, who also has the health portfolio, on Thursday wrote a letter to the additional chief secretary, home department stating that sharp increase in the Covid-19 cases in Haryana was happening due to large scale movement of people between Delhi and the state.“Cases are increasing in the districts adjoining Delhi. The main reason for this is movement of people from Delhi into these adjoining districts of Haryana. Barring the categories exempted by the Delhi High Court and those exempted by the Centre under lockdown 4.0, the state borders for others will remain completely sealed,” the order had said.Following the sealing, hundreds of commuters were stuck on the Delhi-Gurugram on Friday morning. Police said all the 11 points that connect Gurugram and Delhi had been sealed and entry would be allowed on the basis of passes issued by the district administration.Restrictions were also put up at Delhi-Faridabad border. Talking to media, Vij said , that if Haryana allowed free movement of people at its borders with Delhi, then its cases would be at par with the national capital. “I regularly monitor things and keep a close watch on the situation. Here we are trying to save each life, if we do not maintain strictness at the borders and allow free movement of people, then I can say undoubtedly, our cases would be at par with Delhi. I have to stop free movement of people,” Vij asserted.However, he added that if the central government will allow free movement of people after lockdown 4.0 ends on May 31, the state will follow the directions. Gurugram district reported 68 positive cases on Thursday — the highest single-day spike so far — taking the number of cases in the district to 405. The district has the highest number of cases in Haryana.  The death toll due to the disease in Delhi stands at 316 as against 19 people in Haryana, according to the Union health ministry data on Friday evening. With, 16,281 active cases, the national capital has over ten-times more cases than Haryana which has 1,504 Covid-19 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-should-be-extended-beyond-may-31-haryana-minister-anil-vij/story-CynfHwhzQbjAx9tL1Wb1FL.html
29-05-2020||India||ED attaches assets worth Rs 385 cr from AugustaWestland scam accused Rajiv Saxena||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday said it has attached assets totalling Rs 385 crore belonging to AugustaWestland chopper scam accused Rajiv Saxena under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The assets include a villa in Palm Jumeirah (Dubai) worth 20 million Dirhams and money in five Swiss bank accounts totalling US dollars 45.5 million which all adds up to Rs 385 crore.Rajiv Saxena, an accused-turned-approver in the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper case, was deported to India from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in January last year and arrested under the money laundering act. Investigations under the PMLA were initiated by the ED on the basis of separate FIRs registered by the CBI.The probe, says the ED, revealed that accused Rajiv Saxena is a “Hawala operator” and “accommodation entry provider”, who runs accommodation entry business in Dubai through numerous companies. He is alleged to have laundered proceeds of crime in the Agusta chopper scam. “Rajiv Saxena has admitted to laundering the proceeds of crime not only of AgustaWestland deal but also various other defence deals. The proceeds of crime have also been transferred to the personal accounts of Rajiv Saxena and his wife Shivani Saxena (also an accused in Agusta Westland case)”, said the ED.In the case of Agusta Westland Helicopter Scam, Letter of Request to Swiss Confederation was sent to restrain his Swiss bank accounts and ensure that he did not shift/transfer/dispose-of the suspected proceeds of crime, the ED added.“Based on the documentary evidence and statements of various persons recorded under section 50 of PMLA, it has been established that Rajiv Saxena has knowingly assisted and is a party and is actually involved in the activity connected with proceeds of crime including its concealment, possession, acquisition, use and projecting it as untainted and therefore, he has committed the offence of money laundering as defined under section 3 of the Act,” said the ED.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enforcement-directorate-attaches-agustawestland-scam-accused-rajiv-saxena-s-assets-worth-rs-385-cr/story-KQ47Gzy95CrLDjDAl5JIWN.html
29-05-2020||India||DGCA says locust swarms pose threat to aircraft during landing and takeoff phase, issues guidelines||Aviation regulator DGCA on Friday issued guidelines for stakeholders like pilots and engineers on how to deal with locust swarms, saying they pose a threat to aircraft in the critical landing and takeoff phase of a flight.India is battling the worst desert locust invasion in more than 21 years. The crop-destroying swarms first attacked Rajasthan and have now spread to Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.“Generally, locusts are found at lower levels and therefore pose a threat to aircraft in the critical landing and takeoff phase of the flight. Almost all air intake ports of the aircraft will be prone to ingestion in large numbers, if the aircraft flies through a swarm (areas like engine inlet, air-conditioning pack inlet etc.),” the regulator said in its circular.Pitot and static sources can also get partially or fully blocked while flying through locust swarms, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation said.“Blocked pitot and static sources lead to erroneous instrument indications, especially unreliable air speed and altimeter indications,” it said.A pitot tube in airplanes is used to measure the flow speed of the wind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-says-locust-swarms-pose-threat-to-aircraft-during-landing-and-takeoff-phase-issues-guidelines/story-8JaurJk4FqtJIgQKyyHoDJ.html
29-05-2020||India||Arunachal to outsource Covid-19 testing; engage retired healthcare workers on contractual basis||Arunachal Pradesh cabinet on Friday approved a move to outsource coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests in a bid to clear the backlog in the north-east’s largest and the most sparsely populated and remote state.In a meeting held at Itanagar, the cabinet also decided to procure adequate Covid-19 related equipment and engage the services of retired healthcare professionals on a contractual basis.“The cabinet viewed that in order to mitigate the backlog of sample tests, the decision was made to outsource Covid-19 tests,” said a statement issued by chief minister Pema Khandu’s office.Arunachal has two government-run laboratories at the Tomo Riba Institute of Health and Medical Sciences and the Intermediate Reference Laboratory at the directorate of health sciences, which are located at Naharlagun.The state had collected 6,984 swab samples till Thursday and 5,681 results were received. It still has a backlog of 1,303 samples that are yet to be tested.Arunachal has reported three Covid-19 positive cases to date. While one patient has recovered, two are still undergoing treatment.The cabinet decided to procure more personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, test machines, other Covid-19-related equipment and also set up testing facilities at the entry points to the landlocked state, especially for drivers who carry essential goods.“Reiterating the need to increase the number of healthcare professionals, especially doctors and nurses for core medical field duties, the cabinet approved to engage the retired professionals on a contractual basis,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-to-outsource-covid-19-testing-engage-retired-healthcare-workers-on-contractual-basis/story-tipQlf7WlgoaWmz6D4qE4M.html
29-05-2020||India||Vande Bharat Mission: Air India to operate additional repatriation flights to six countries||Air India said it will operate additional repatriation flights to six countries between June 4 and June 6 to bring back stranded Indians under the phase 2 of Vande Bharat Mission. Amid the coronavirus pandemic, the six countries where these flights will operate are the US, New Zealand, the UK, Sweden, Germany and South Korea. On Twitter, the national carrier said it will operate Delhi-Auckland flight on June 4, Delhi-Chicago flight and Delhi-Stockholm flight on June 5. It said it will operate Mumbai-London flight and Mumbai-Newark flight on June 6. It added it will run flights on Delhi-New York route, Delhi-Frankfurt route and Delhi-Seoul route on June 6. The Narendra Modi government started the Vande Bharat Mission on May 7 to bring stranded Indians home on a payment basis amid the coronavirus lockdown. It also permitted foreign nationals and valid visa holders to book seats on these outbound flights. Under phase one of the mission, Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express operated 64 flights to bring 14,800 Indians home from 12 countries between May 7 and May 14. Phase two of the mission began on May 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vande-bharat-mission-air-india-to-operate-additional-repatriation-flights-to-six-countries/story-mURG87UnFCmUNhOsxfn7CI.html
29-05-2020||India||‘Reasons for detention not given till now’: Saifuddin Soz’s wife moves SC for his release||Senior Congress leader Saifuddin Soz’s wife has approached the Supreme Court challenging her husband’s detention for nearly 10 months as unconstitutional and illegal.Mumtazunnisa Soz, in her petition filed through advocate Sunil Fernandes, has alleged the detention to be unconstitutional and illegal. Soz has been detained at his house situated at Shehjar, Humhama Heights, Airport Avenue in Srinagar since August 5, 2019 following the revocation of special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir under Articles 370 and 35A through a presidential order followed by a resolution in both houses of the parliament.The petition claims that till date, the order of detention detailing the reasons has not been supplied to him in a direct violation of the fundamental rights under Article 22(5) as well as Section 18 of the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act, 1978 (PSA).Soz, an octogenarian has represented parliament from Baramullah constituency on numerous occasions since 1983. He served as the Union minister for environment between 1997 and 1999 and as Union minister for water resources from 2006-09.Along with Soz, other senior leaders of J&K, including former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, are also under detention. A petition by her daughter Iltija Mufti challenging her detention is already pending before the Supreme Court. In April this year, she was shifted from a subsidiary jail in Srinagar to her Fairview residence.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesPreviously, the detention of former chief ministers of the erstwhile state of J&K, Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah was challenged before the Supreme Court. Omar’s sister Sara Pilot had approached the apex court against his detention in March this year. Later that month, Centre released Omar even as the petition was pending in the court. Farooq Abdullah’s detention also ended days prior to Omar’s release. In September 2019, Tamil Nadu politician and MDMK leader Vaiko approached the apex court seeking release of Farooq Abdullah but the matter was later dismissed by Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reasons-for-detention-not-given-till-now-saifuddin-soz-s-wife-moves-sc-for-his-release/story-tsUZ8Hi0m7zY1pdYZUZOmL.html
29-05-2020||India||Centre likely to retain limited role and allow states have more say after lockdown 4.0||The Centre is likely to retain a limited role and allow states and union territories to take decisions on whether to tighten or give additional relaxations in the nationwide lockdown in their respective jurisdictions from June 1, officials said on Friday. The central government may, however, advise state authorities to continue with strict curbs in Covid-19 containment zones in the worst-affected 30 municipal areas that account for 80 per cent of the positive cases in the country. These 30 municipal areas are from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Odisha. “There is every possibility that the Centre will have very limited role with regards to imposing restrictions or giving relaxations from June 1. The states and UTs will take decisions on such issues depending on the situation locally,” a senior government official told PTI. The central government may continue with the suspension on operation of international flights and political gatherings as well as closure of malls and cinema halls, besides ordering mandatory wearing of face mask by people in public places and maintenance of social distancing norms everywhere. On reopening of schools or restarting metro train services, the states may be allowed to take a call. “From now onwards, lockdown measures will be reviewed every fortnight where states will have major say in every decision related to their respective jurisdictions,” the official said. The states may also be allowed to take a decision on allowing religious places, which have been shut since March 25, when the lockdown had begun. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had recently said that he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him that Karnataka be allowed to reopen temples, mosques, churches and other religious places. The nationwide lockdown was first announced by the Prime Minister on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. It was first extended till May 3 and then again till May 17. The lockdown has been further extended till May 31. Hectic parleys are still going on in the central government to assess the impact of the lockdown so far and the role to be played by the centre government and the States and Union Territories after the fourth phase of the curb comes to an end on Sunday. The central government is particularly concerned over the COVID-19 situation in 30 cities, including four metros of Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai, where positive cases are spiralling. On Thursday, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba had a meeting with municipal commissioners and District Magistrates of 13 of these 30 cities and took stock of their work to check the virus. The 13 cities are Chennai, Delhi/New Delhi, Ahmedabad, Thane, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata/Howrah, Indore, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur. To take views of the state governments on the future course of action with regards to the lockdown, Union Home Minister Amit Shah has spoken to all Chief Ministers of the country. During his talks with the chief ministers, Shah sought to know the areas of concern of the states and the sectors they want to open up further from June 1, another official said. Interestingly, till now, it was Prime Minister Modi who had interacted with all chief ministers through video conference before extension of each phase of the coronavirus-induced lockdown and sought their views. This was for the first time that the home minister spoke to the chief ministers individually before the end of another phase of the lockdown. Shah was present in all the conferences of chief ministers along with the prime minister. It is understood that majority of the chief ministers wanted the lockdown to continue in some form but also favoured opening up of the economic activities and gradual return of the normal life, the official said. After his talks with Shah, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said he felt the lockdown may be extended for 15 more days. “However, we want some more relaxations like opening of restaurants with social distancing at 50 per cent capacity,” he said. The central government is also taking into account the rapid increase of coronavirus cases in states like Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Assam and Karnataka after arrival of migrant workers and other people from big cities or virus-hit regions. “Some states want curb on travel of people from outside. However, such blanket decisions are not acceptable to everyone,” the official said. The Karnataka government on Thursday decided to suspend air travel from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, saying a large number of people arriving from these states have tested positive for COVID-19. While extending the fourth phase of the lockdown from May 18 till May 31, the central government had announced continuation of prohibition on opening of schools, colleges and malls but allowed opening of shops and markets. The government, however, allowed limited operations of train and domestic flights. The Indian Railways is also running special trains since May 1 for transportation of migrant workers from different parts of the country to their native states. The number of COVID-19 cases in India has climbed to 1,65,799 on Friday, making it the world’s ninth worst-hit country by the coronavirus pandemic. The Health Ministry said the death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,706 in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-likely-to-retain-limited-role-and-allow-states-have-more-say-after-lockdown-4-0/story-WacO3hhMLOuQTpVVceQ48O.html
29-05-2020||India||FAO may declare locust invasion a ‘plague’ if it takes a turn for the worse by end of 2020||The United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) may declare the locust invasion a “plague” if it takes a turn for the worse by end of this year following successful breeding in India, Pakistan, and in west Africa. The locust invasion has been currently categorised as an “upsurge” by FAO.The Union Agriculture Ministry’s Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), headquartered in Jodhpur, has sprayed Malathion 96 and Chlorpyrifos, both organophosphate pesticides, to control the locust invasion across states. Both pesticides are extremely toxic and high exposure may cause nausea, dizziness, and even death in humans. It can also impact soil fertility by altering the ecological balance.“Unfortunately, spraying of chemical insecticides is the only effective method, when desert locusts are in such large numbers. There are biopesticides that are safe ways of controlling them but may not be as effective. FAO doesn’t encourage control of desert locusts by farmers. State or federal teams that are trained in locust invasion management should do it with safety equipment,” said Keith Cressman, senior desert locust forecasting officer at FAO, during a webinar organised by the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) on Friday. One of the options with farmers is to dig trenches around their farms to prevent hoppers from entering. Making noise can scatter locusts but they prevent focused control operations by authorities as the insects move in different directions.Cressman said the current severe locust invasion is linked to climate change-induced aberrations in rainfall. “There was good breeding in India last year, the monsoon was protracted, which allowed a further increase in locust populations. The drying vegetation in southwest Pakistan also led to them reaching India a month in advance,” he said. India was alerted by FAO last year about the possibility of waves of invasions and that LWO authorities are in a position to control these waves. “India is well equipped. It has the oldest national locust programme in the world.”The desert locust was expected to remain limited to its desert habitat, but it scattered to Madhya Pradesh (MP), Uttar Pradesh (UP), and Maharashtra because of the strong north-westerly winds following super cyclone Amphan last week.There are two situations India is currently staring at: with the onset of monsoon rains the locusts, which have now scattered to MP, UP, Maharashtra from Rajasthan, will come back to their summer breeding sites in the desert along the India-Pakistan border. “They will be flying back and forth with the winds till monsoon arrives,” he added.The other forecast that FAO has made is that with the southwest monsoon winds desert locusts that bred in the Horn of Africa will travel to Rajasthan across the Indian Ocean in June.Richard Mark Mbaram, a technical adviser to the ministry of agriculture, Nigeria, said, “spraying of insecticides is compounding environmental problems in the Horn of Africa. We do not have the wherewithal to undertake these measures at the scale required, we need aircraft to spray, expertise to spray. Biotechnological interventions should be considered…locust invasions are an existential challenge if they are allowed to exist in the coming years.”“Except for Malathion 96, the rest of the pesticides are highly poisonous. They are red labelled. They are meant for locust control in desert areas, which are largely uninhabited. But the same pesticides are being sprayed on in areas with habitation and with water bodies. These pesticides will drift and residue will remain. They’ll definitely disturb the ecological balance of the area and kill natural enemies — pests, which can counter other crop pests. We can expect an outbreak of other pests,” said GV Ramanjaneyulu, executive director at the Hyderabad-based Centre for Sustainable Agriculture. “Desert locusts don’t multiply in non-desert areas so there is no point in spraying toxic pesticides in such large quantities in other states. They have a short life cycle and will die in due course. The government must consider biocontrol agents,” he added.“We’ve conducted control operations in 47,000 hectares in Rajasthan, Gujarat, and MP by spraying pesticides,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director, LWO. “A locust swarm is scattered near Jhansi in UP. But there is no clear indication that some of them will fly towards Delhi,” Gurjar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fao-may-declare-locust-invasion-a-plague-if-it-takes-a-turn-for-the-worse-by-end-of-2020/story-bBBKZ3i3eS4xVBeDIpyXFM.html
29-05-2020||India||Ajit Jogi, pivot of tribal and dalit politics, dies at 74||Ajit Pramod Jogi, the maverick politician and the first chief minister of Chhattisgarh, who was the pivot of tribal and dalit politics in the state, died this Friday afternoon. He was 74.The former CM, who breathed his last in a Raipur hospital, was reported to be working on his autobiography.Jogi, through dint of hard work, became a formidable political force in the state. He was a voracious reader, brilliant orator, a jan-neta and extremely popular among schedule tribes, schedule castes and Muslims in the plains of Chhattisgarh.He began his journey from the village pathshala and worked his way through numerous achievements and failures alike.Watch | Chhattisgarh’s first CM Ajit Jogi passes away; President, PM Modi pay tribute Awed by the power and charisma of a Parsi IAS officer who visited his village, kid Jogi decided to become a bureaucrat. His Marathi Brahmin teacher guided him in that direction by prodding him to learn English. Brilliant in studies since childhood, Jogi went to study engineering in Bhopal. As was his habit, he topped his engineering class in 1964.Jogi first got selected into the Indian Police Service (IPS) but while training in Mussoorie, he felt that officers from other services were treated condescendingly by the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers. He sat for the exam again and secured a high rank, which then made him eligible to qualify for the IAS.As per his records, he served as collector for 12 years in different districts before resigning in 1986 and joining the Congress. He was sent to the Rajya Sabha twice by the Congress in 1986-92 and 1992-98.It was during his stint as Raipur collector that Jogi got acquainted with Rajiv Gandhi.“Rajiv ji was a pilot and when he used to come to Raipur, I visited him at the airport. He always treated me as a friend. We used to talk for hours on various issues in the VIP lounge of Raipur airport,” Jogi told this reporter during an interview in 2018.Soon after Rajiv Gandhi became the Prime Minister of the country. The Congress needed a tribal face to represent it in the Rajya Sabha and it was Digvijaya Singh who suggested the name of Ajit Jogi.Within a day, the bureaucrat resigned to become a politician. Ajit Jogi climbed the success ladder swiftly, becoming one of the most celebrated spokespersons of the Congress. He shared an anecdote during an interview that Narendra Modi and he used to commute to the News Studios in the same car.Being the destiny’s child, Ajit Jogi left behind many stalwarts to become the first chief minister of Chhattisgarh. The newly carved state with a majority tribal population got its leader.However, his political fortunes declined because of the infighting within the Congress. After the defeat in the 2003 assembly election, Jogi attracted a host of controversies right till his death.In 2003, the BJP released a purported audio tape alleging he tried to break up the party by bribing its MLAs due to which Jogi was suspended.But after a few months, he was again fielded by the Congress against Vidya Charan Shukla, who was contesting on BJP ticket, in 2004 parliamentary election from Mahasamund constituency. Jogi defeated Shukla.It was during this campaign, Jogi met with a road accident near Rajim and was wheelchair bound since then.Controversy around his tribal status remained inconclusive till the end.Jogi parted ways with the Congress in 2016 after he and his son were found allegedly involved in fixing of the Antahgarh by-election in Kanker district. Thereafter, Jogi formed his own party Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) in June 2016.In the 2018 assembly election, Jogi, in coalition with the BSP, managed to get seven seats. In total 90 seats, the Congress won 68 seats while the BJP was reduced to 15. Jogi himself won from his traditional seat Marwahi.An ardent Madhubala fan, Jogi remained a versatile human being till the end.Chhattisgarh has lost its own son of the soil. Surrounded by books till his last breath, his autobiography, if published would be a lesson on politics and life.He was the quintessential Chhattisgarhiya, who lived in a bungalow situated in the heart of city known as ‘Sagaun Bangla’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-jogi-pivot-of-tribal-and-dalit-politics-dies-at-74/story-OOqV2lp96IywrLbWKj2sIJ.html
29-05-2020||India||Modi govt set to reach out to masses with list of accomplishments to mark its anniversary||If the first anniversary of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government’s first term in the office was marked by global outreach and the promise of becoming one of the world’s fastest-growing economies; the first year of the second term has seen the government tick nearly all of the boxes for key poll promises, some dating back to decades.On Saturday, the NDA government completes a year in office amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The government’s report card has a long list of accomplishments even as it is struggles to revive the economy, save jobs and lives due to the viral outbreak.There was shock and awe when within two months after coming back to power, as the government accomplished what was perceived to be unattainable --- the scrapping of Article 370 from Jammu & Kashmir that stripped the border state of its special status. The BJP-led government had a string of successes within the first six months of its rule such as getting Parliament’s nod for banning triple talaq; allowing citizenship to persecuted minorities from south Asian countries; and receiving a favourable Supreme Court verdict on the Ramjanmabhoomi case, paving the way for the construction of the Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya. However, the achievements were marred by violent clashes that broke out over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the proposed National Register for Citizens (NRC), and the Delhi riots that left at least 53 people dead earlier this year, apart from the economic disruptions.But the government is all set to reach out to the masses with a long list of its accomplishments, where its response to the Covid-19 pandemic, which has claimed over 4,000 lives to date, tops the list.The BJP will reach out to the public with letters from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, focusing on the theme of self-reliance or Atama Nirbharta and the party workers will make use of the virtual world to publicise the success story scripted by the government in its first year of rule in the second successive term. “The BJP has kept its promises. Most of the poll promises were fulfilled within six months of assuming office. Even during the pandemic the government has ensured that there is a fair distribution of resources and prevented unrest, which is a huge achievement,” said Bhupinder Yadav, general secretary, BJP.The pandemic has given the government a chance to prove its mettle, Yadav said, despite casting a pall of gloom over the first anniversary celebrations.“PM Modi’s initiatives, whether it was the timing of the lockdown or the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package, have been appreciated globally. India has played a lead role in galvanising countries to fight the pandemic in a united manner,” Yadav said.While the opposition parties critical of the government’s response to the pandemic cite the hardships faced by the poor and the migrant workers as a major failure and question the timing of anniversary celebrations, Yadav said it is the responsibility of the government to present its report card.Is the government’s response to the economic upheaval a measure of its performance, as the pandemic appeared to have halted the country’s bid to achieve the $5 trillion economy goal by 2024-25?Prof Biswajit Dhar of the Jawaharal Nehru University (JNU) said there is enough room for the government to do more and it is not the time to take credit.“The government has to redouble its efforts. Pre-Covid-19 also the economy was going downhill, as we had registered one of the weakest growth for several quarters for a long time. One thing, which is common between then and now, is that there is a greater role for government involvement and role for fiscal policy to help us weather the storm and we haven’t seen that happen. Even now the government is not willing to use the fiscal space adequately, even the IMF (International Monetary Fund) has spoken about it,” he said.Dhar suggested the government a roadmap, as the markets have collapsed completely. “…You cannot expect the private sector to borrow money or come up with investment; that was not happening even before Covid-19 struck, despite the tax benefits to the corporates. We didn’t see adequate investments coming in because there was a demand deficiency. We expect the government to be more pro-active,” he said.Political analyst Sanjay Kumar of the Centre for Studies of Developing Societies (CSDS) said the government may want to create a buzz around the demand for building of the Ram temple and scrapping of Article 370 being met, but it also has to address the concerns that the lockdown was ill-planned and the migrant workers have been left to fend for themselves. “We have to see how they carry out damage control on that front,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-set-to-reach-out-to-masses-with-list-of-accomplishments-to-mark-its-anniversary/story-dYwcXoYhldtNmqYY7ez9XL.html
29-05-2020||India||‘Railways running Corona Express trains, not Shramik Specials’: CM Mamata||Pinning the blame of rising coronavirus cases in the state on the railways, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused the national carrier of running “Corona Express trains” and not the Shramik Specials.“In the name of Shramik Special trains, the railways is running ‘Corona Express’ trains,” Bengal CM was quoted as saying by news agency PTIThe Shramik Specials are being run by the Centre to help migrants reach home. The CM accused the railways of packing in most migrants in one trains instead of running several of them. “The railways is sending thousands of migrant workers in one train, why is it not allowing more trains for migrants,” PTI quoted the CM as saying. Claiming that the state was able to control the spike in the number of cases for the last two months, Banerjee blamed the influx of people as one of the main reasons behind the increase in the number of cases.“We were successful in controlling the spread of Covid-19 in last two months, but now it is increasing as a lot of people are coming from outside. The Railways is sending migrants in jam-packed compartments...The number of COVID-19 cases is increasing because of this. The Railways has some social obligation, they cannot just operate on the basis of profit and loss,” she said.The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered that states can’t say no to receiving migrants and that they must be allowed free travel by trains and buses to their respective states. It also directed the railways to provide them food during the journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-running-corona-express-trains-not-shramik-specials-cm-mamata/story-Ib6rnVmVjrrxgSVY9EqoaJ.html
29-05-2020||India||India’s farmers told to scare locusts away by beating drums||Farmers are being asked to make as much of a racket as possible, using drums, tin containers, utensils and even hiring mobile disc jockeys, in an attempt to scare away locust swarms that are attacking India.Millions of locusts are invading several Indian states and there are concerns they might reach New Delhi, the capital. Some farmers have been playing loud music through speakers fitted on vehicles in a bid to frighten the insects, said Rahul Srivastava, a superintendent of police in Jhansi district, describing the mobile disc jockey systems normally used at weddings. Citizens have been keeping doors and windows closed to stop locusts entering into their homes.“In the event of a locust attack, farmers are advised to collectively beat loud drums, tin containers, utensils and use loudspeakers to prevent locusts from descending on farms and damaging crops,” Suhas L.Y., district magistrate of Gautam Buddha Nagar district, said on Twitter. The government is planning to spray pesticides during the night when locusts rest on trees, he said.Authorities have cleared locusts from about 50,468 hectares (124,709 acres) in several states, including Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab and Maharashtra, according to the federal agriculture ministry.A massive locust attack on the country’s farms adds another challenge for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration, which is trying to contain the spread of the coronavirus and limit its impact on the economy. It cannot risk food crops getting destroyed by the insects at a time when millions have been pushed into poverty after losing their livelihoods because of the world’s most stringent stay-at-home rules.Some summer pulses, early-sown cotton, vegetables and fruit plantations run the risk of destruction from the winged invaders. The silver lining is that the harvesting of winter crops is over and sowing for the monsoon season is yet to begin.Drones, ChoppersWhile officials in the affected states are working on measures to control locust swarms, the federal government is arranging drones to sprinkle pesticides on trees and inaccessible places to kill the insects. There are plans to deploy helicopters for aerial spraying, according to India’s farm ministry.As many as 15 sprayers will start arriving from the U.K. in the next 15 days, followed by 45 more in one-and-a-half months, the farm ministry said Thursday, adding that affected states will be given financial aid, if required.Swarms of desert locusts occur irregularly in North Africa, the Middle East and South Asia, usually when drought is followed by heavy rain. Normally, with the arrival of the monsoon, locust swarms enter the desert areas of India via Pakistan for breeding in June-July, but this year pink adult swarms were reported as early as April 30 in Rajasthan and Punjab.This is in part because of the uncontrolled swarms in Pakistan that breed continuously, the ministry said earlier. Swarms of pink immature adults fly high and travel long distances with strong winds coming from Pakistan. Most of them settle on trees during the night and mostly fly during the day.Further AttacksThe locust movement was helped by strong westerly winds from Cyclone Amphan that hit eastern India last week, according to the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization. Several successive waves of invasions can be expected until July in Rajasthan. These movements will cease as swarms begin to breed and become less mobile. Swarms are less likely to reach south India, Nepal and Bangladesh, it said on its website.The control work is in full swing in coordination with states and the Border Security Force, the farm ministry said. There was no information regarding the entry of any new locust swarm from India-Pakistan border areas as of Thursday. However, locusts entered from Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan on Wednesday, with control operations going on, it said. There are some active swarms of immature locusts in some parts of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.In January, the biggest locust swarm to hit India’s Gujarat in over a quarter of a century resulted in more than 25,000 hectares of wheat, rapeseed, cumin and potatoes being attacked, with at least a third of the crops damaged in 75% of the affected areas, according to the state’s directorate of agriculture. A massive locust attack in 2019-20 saw about 403,488 hectares treated with pesticides, according to the federal farm ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-farmers-told-to-scare-locusts-away-by-beating-drums/story-d3oZ90MNDoPH4EYCsyRw0H.html
29-05-2020||India||52 lakh passengers, 85 lakh meals: Railway presents enormity of Shramik Specials to answer criticism||The Indian Railways on Friday responded to some of the criticism over the management of Shramik Special service including diversions and the lack of food and water on board with a glimpse of the mammoth exercise and the challenges it had to meet. The Chairman of the Railway board highlighted that only 1.85% of 3,840 Shramik Specials trains operated till May 28 had been diverted due to congestion on route to destinations in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.The explanation by the railways follows several incidents of Shramik special trains-- meant to transport migrant labourers stranded due to the lockdown to their home states-- running late by more than 24 hours and getting diverted through unannounced routes apart from scarcity of food, water and hygiene onboard were reported in the past week.Presenting the Railways defence to criticism on the above issues, the chairman said the national transporter had operated a total of 3,840 Shramik Special trains between May 1 and May 28 to carry close to 52 lakh migrants home and only 71 of those trains were diverted on four days due to congestion on the busiest routes.“During the period of May 20 and May 24, the railways tried to meet every demand for Shramik Specials from the states. On one of these four days, Railways operated 279 Shramik trains and on the other three days, over 250 trains were operated. 90% of these trains were destined for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, resulting in congestion on those routes,” he said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesRailways data shows that 36.5% of all Shramik trains have ended up in Bihar while 42.2% have terminated in Uttar Pradesh, leading to unequal pressure on these routes.“The congestion was also due to our eagerness to meet all the demand for trains made by the states,” he added.The senior railway official added that apart from these four days, not a single Shramik train was diverted. He added that the Shramik trains were now, on an average, running at faster speeds than super fast trains and reaching their destinations on time. A break up of the diversions on these four days shows that out of a total of 71 trains originating from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Rajasthan, 51 were destined to Bihar, 16 to Uttar Pradesh, two to Jharkhand and one each to Manipur and Assam. 23 trains were diverted via Palwal, four via Rewari, 37 via Jharsuguda and seven via Singrauli.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19On the issue of provision of food and water, the general manager said the railways had provided 85 lakh meals and 1.25 crore bottled water to passengers on Shramik specials so far. Explaining the arrangement, he said the state governments were responsible for providing food and water to migrants at the originating stations while the railways served free packaged meals and bottled water on board during the journey.“Railway divisions mobilized local Halwais, Bakeries at various stations to prepare snacks and food for Shramiks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/52-lakh-passengers-85-lakh-meals-railway-presents-enormity-of-shramik-specials-to-answer-criticism/story-TT0qT1m516ETOtQzwP86qK.html
29-05-2020||India||With tourism hit by Covid-19, people in Goa return to farming, fishing to shore up incomes||With the Covid-19 pandemic expected to hit Goa’s tourism-dependent economy harder than initially thought, people across the state have begun to fall back on more traditional occupations such as agriculture and fishing in a bid to tide over the fall in their incomes.The State Agriculture Department has reported more than four-fold increase in demand for seeds, mainly for planting vegetables.“Usually we used to sell between 200-250 kilos of seed during this time of the year. But this year we have already sold 800 kilos of seed,” Nevil Alphonso Director of Agriculture said. “This is one of the clearest indicators that people are going back to agriculture in these times,” he added. “The biggest demand has been for vegetable seed which can be grown multiple times. We are also seeing an increase in the demand for paddy but we will have to wait until the end of June to measure the increase in area under paddy cultivation -- Goa’s staple crop-- increases,” he added. Vegetables offer the farmers a better price and, unlike rice, can be sold locally even in small quantities. There is demand mainly for vegetables like gourds, pumpkins and cucumbers which grow well during this season as well as beans and ladyfingers. “At the end of the day, we have to do something to fill our stomachs. Some will go back to fishing, some will go back to farming,” said Damião Telles who used to once run a stall along the Candolim beach serving tourists.Tourism being Goa’s biggest revenue-earner, a lot of people have left their traditional occupations like farming and fishing and joined the tourism industry, becoming taxi operators, small hotel owners, shack owners, watersports operators and guesthouse owners. But with tourism now at a standstill due to coronavirus pandemic, these people are relying on their savings or going back to these traditional occupations to earn a living. “We have been guiding and encouraging people to plant within their own backyards and kitchens or in whatever area they can find and teaching them techniques on what crops can be grown alongside others to help with the soil fixation,” Miguel Braganza a professor of agriculture said. The arrival of the monsoons marks the sowing season in Goa much as in the rest of the country.The Goa government has set up a task force to recommend an economic revival plan for each village that is being anchored by the Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development and the Directorate of Higher Education. In an initial document the committee has suggested all panchayats identify potential activities within the village which can provide livelihood to the people -- agriculture and allied activities, horticulture, poultry, dairy, fishing and reviving micro and small scale industries besides traditional livelihood options like artisans etc and a plan to process and market the products. However, challenges remain. Some have complained about lack of cooperation from local panchayat authorities and support from the government to help cultivate lands some of which have been fallow for a few decades. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that he expects the slowdown in tourism to be temporary.“Tourism may have dropped for now, but when tourism starts, Goa Tourism is in a better position to quickly rebound in comparison with the rest of the country and will scale new heights. We will bring in new concepts to promote tourism,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-tourism-hit-by-covid-19-people-in-goa-return-to-farming-fishing-to-shore-up-incomes/story-6eTvisGPUrbl2UMG5vtiFP.html
29-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Infection risk half in kids, but they spread coronavirus, shows Study and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Infection risk half in kids, but they spread coronavirus: StudyIn a finding with implications for reopening schools, a new study has established that children and teenagers have half the risk of getting infected by Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, as compared to adults. Read more. Can’t set Covid-19 testing facilities in each district, Bombay HC expresses displeasureThe HC bench, comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and Justice KK Tated, expressed their displeasure about the state government’s “irresponsible statement” to advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni. Read more. ‘No need for third party intervention’: China rejects Trump’s offer to mediate in border row with IndiaChina on Friday rejected the US offer to mediate in the current Sino-India border standoff, reiterating that the two countries have existing communication mechanisms to resolve problems. Read more.MS Dhoni said ‘let’s flip again’: Kumar Sangakkara recalls confusion at toss during 2011 World Cup finalThe 2011 World Cup final between India and Sri lanka is still remembered for the magnificent helicopter shot by Mahendra Singh Dhoni that went for a six and won the trophy for the hosts at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai. Read more. Raktanchal review: Nikiten Dheer’s crime drama is a nod to 80s BollywoodRaktanchal seems to have found its inspiration in Bollywood crime dramas. The MX 4 web series which takes you to the badlands of eastern Uttar Pradesh borrows from Hindi films of 80s and 90s but then a bit of nostalgia in the present scenario may not hurt. Read more.Nokia launches three new smartphones: Check price, specsHMD Global has launched three new Nokia smartphones in the US. Nokia C5 Endi, Nokia C2 Tava and Nokia C2 Tennen all come with dedicated Google Assistant buttons, and run on the Android One platform. Read more.Try these Yoga asanas to ease menstrual problemsThe monthly menstrual cycle varies depending on the physical strength of your body. Having a regular period is an indicator of an ovulating woman, meaning that it a monthly reminder that a woman is capable of having a baby. Read more.Anand Mahindra asks for customised versions of the word webinar. People oblige and how!Anand Mahindra is extremely famous among tweeple for often sharing interesting and amusing tweets. From reaching out to people in need to providing that regular dose of laughter, he has been winning people over, one tweet at a time. Read more.ICAI CA July 2020: Application window to change exam centre to reopen on June 7The Institutes of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) will reopen the online application window for the candidates to seek change in examination centre for the CA exam that is scheduled to be held in July. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-infection-risk-half-in-kids-but-they-spread-coronavirus-shows-study-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YXEjJiCvOQ3u6WFBj21pRJ.html
29-05-2020||India||Not ‘India’, but ‘Bharat’ or ‘Hindustan’: Supreme Court to hear plea on amending Constitution||The Supreme Court will hear on June 2 a plea which has sought a direction to the Centre to amend the Constitution and replace the word India with ‘Bharat’ or ‘Hindustan’, claiming it will “instill a sense of pride in our own nationality.” The plea has sought a direction to the government to take appropriate steps to bring amendment in Article 1 of the Constitution, which deals with name and territory of the Union, to the effect that “the same refers to the country as Bharat/Hindustan, to the exclusion of India”. The petition was listed for hearing on Friday before the apex court but it got deleted from the list as Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde was not available. As per a notice uploaded on the top court website, this matter would be listed for hearing on June 2 before a bench headed by the CJI. The plea, filed by a Delhi-based man, has claimed that such an amendment will “ensure the citizens of this country to get over the colonial past”.  “The removal of the English name though appears symbolic, will instill a sense of pride in our own nationality, especially for the future generations to come. Infact, the word India being replaced with Bharat would justify the hard fought freedom by our ancestors,” the plea claimed. Referring to the 1948 Constituent assembly debate on Article 1 of the then draft constitution, the plea said even at that time there was a “strong wave” in favour of naming the country as ‘Bharat’ or ‘Hindustan’. “However, now the time is ripe to recognize the country by its original and authentic name i.e. Bharat especially when our cities have been renamed to identify with the Indian ethos,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-india-but-bharat-or-hindustan-supreme-court-to-hear-plea-on-amending-constitution/story-vUWbHtV3JKl4C3Vc8w3MML.html
29-05-2020||India||Ice cream worth Rs 15 crore lost due to power cuts in Cyclone Amphan hit Kolkata||Power cuts triggered by Cyclone Amphan have destroyed ice-cream worth around Rs 15 crore in Kolkata and its suburbs in the last one week, according to estimates provided by industry players.“The ice cream manufacturers, dealers and retailers who largely depend on power supply to preserve their stock have suffered massive losses. Our rough estimates suggest that around Rs 15 crore of ice cream has been destroyed because of the power cuts in Kolkata,” said the spokesperson of the Indian Ice Cream Manufacturers Association (IICMA).According to estimates provided by the IICMA, there are around 30,000 outlets, including neighbourhood shops, in the city and another 500 distributors. Each outlet on an average keeps a stock of ice cream worth Rs 5000 while the distributors keep a stock of Rs 40,000 – Rs 50,000 on any given day. This apart there are ice cream carts which would also need ice and in turn dependent on power supply. “This entire stock has been lost. Once the ice cream melts it can’t be refrigerated and frozen again. It won’t retain the same texture, taste and look. Customers won’t like it any more. We are left with no option but to dump it,” said Sujit Pal, a local shop keeper near Anandapur in east Kolkata, where there was no power for nearly three days after the cyclone.Almost the entire city had plunged into darkness after Cyclone Amphan hit Kolkata with a speed of 130 km per hour last Wednesday. Thereafter large parts of the city remained without power for at least five days at a stretch triggering protests and road blocks. The state government had blamed the private corporation which supplies power to the entire city.But even as power has returned in Kolkata, several areas in cyclone-hit districts of south Bengal are still without electricity. The manufacturers are still suffering huge losses as there has been no production but money is being drained to maintain the stock.“Our factory is near Dhulagarh in Howrah and there is still no power. We are spending around Rs 70,000 every day in diesel to run the generators just to maintain the stock and keep the machines running. Every day we used to produce around 50,000 litres of ice cream. But for the past seven days there has been no production,” said Gaurav Khemani, managing director of the company that produces Rollick Ice Cream.According to estimates provided by the state government around 1.5 lakh km of electricity lines, including 30,000 km of high tension wire, have been snapped and 4.5 lakh electric poles have been uprooted in south Bengal districts where the cyclone hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ice-cream-worth-rs-15-crore-lost-due-to-power-cuts-in-cyclone-amphan-hit-kolkata/story-DHI70KP8ERG53vILUgyPYJ.html
29-05-2020||India||Dust storms, light showers and squalls at 60 kmph likely in Delhi-NCR today||Dust storms, thunderstorms accompanied by light rain and squalls at 60 kmph are likely to occur over Delhi and the National Capital Region in the next 2-3 hours, Dr Kuldeep Srivastava, Head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC) said on Friday.The national capital along with northern India has been reeling under a severe heat wave for the past one week with temperatures crossing 47 degrees Celsius for five consecutive days.The IMD earlier in the week had issued an ‘orange’ warning for parts of Delhi for a heat wave. A ‘red’ warning is usually issued for a severe heat wave.ALSO READ | Heatwave continues to scorch Delhi for 5th dayMuch of north, northwestern and central India including Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, parts of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have also been facing severe heat wave conditions.Isolated light showers on Thursday evening in some parts of Delhi and adjoining areas, however, brought down the temperature by a couple of notches.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) too on Thursday predicted that the Delhi-NCR region is likely to witness very light rain and dust storms on Friday till about 8:30 pm.“Very light rain/thunderstorm/dust storms accompanied with gusty winds is the forecast for Delhi NCR till 8.30 pm,” the IMD had said.“The Southwest Monsoon has further advanced into some parts of Maldives-Comorin area, some more parts of south Bay of Bengal, remaining parts of the Andaman Sea and Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of the Southwest Monsoon into some more parts of Maldives-Comorin area during the next 48 hours,” the IMD said in its All India Weather Forecast Bulletin.In addition, the IMD said Tripura and Mizoram are also very likely to witness heavy to very heavy rainfall during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dust-storms-light-showers-and-squalls-at-60-kmph-likely-in-delhi-ncr-today/story-hWy2H6izqk9n9ZzOJYQpkJ.html
29-05-2020||India||Lockdown 5.0: Goa seeks reopening of malls, restaurants||The Goa government has sought the reopening of restaurants, shopping malls, and gymnasiums, as part of the easing of restrictions under lockdown 5.0, which is likely to come into effect from Monday for another 15 days in a bid to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, state chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday. Sawant, who spoke to Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the telephone on Thursday, said that the state would await the final instructions from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) before taking a call on the easing of restrictions in lockdown 5.0.“I spoke to Amit Shahji on Thursday. It appears that the lockdown may continue for 15 more days. We’ve sought relaxation in two or three matters, which includes restaurants be opened with 50% of their capacity while maintaining strict distancing norms. People have also been seeking an exemption to gymnasiums. Let’s wait for the Centre’s guidelines on the basis of which the state will take a call,” Sawant said.The CM said that he was in support of the lockdown being extended by 15 more days because of the growing number of Covid-19 positive cases.“Most economic activities have started in Goa except for the opening of restaurants, hotels, shopping malls, and gymnasiums. We believe that at least restaurants, shopping malls, and gymnasiums can be opened if social distancing norms are adhered to. We’ll inform the MHA authorities after their guidelines are made available to us,” Sawant said. The state government is still claiming that Goa is in the green zone, as the recent spurt in Covid-19 positive cases could be directly attributed to people, who have returned to the state amid the easing of lockdown restrictions and there have been no reports of community transmission. Goa has reported 69 Covid-19 positive cases, including 38 patients who have recovered, to date.While seven Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the first phase of the lockdown between March 25 and April 14, another 62 – most of them asymptomatic --- were recorded after interstate travel restrictions were partially eased.The state authorities are testing all returnees from this week unless they can produce a Covid-19 free certificate issued 48 hours before their entry into Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-5-0-goa-seeks-reopening-of-malls-restaurants/story-xQP6CjsB9Vx0099wOEQ7qO.html
29-05-2020||India||494 domestic flights ferried 38,078 passengers in India on Thursday: Govt||A total of 494 domestic flights, carrying 38,078 passengers, operated on Thursday, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday said.Domestic flight operations resumed in the country on Monday after a gap of two months of suspension due to the coronavirus lockdown. International passenger flights continue to remain suspended.A total of 1,65,605 people have travelled through 1,827 domestic flights that have traversed Indian airspace between Monday and Thursday. On Friday, Puri tweeted, “Figures for domestic flights for 28th May 2020 till 2359 hours: Day 4, Departures 494, 38,078 passengers handled, Arrivals 493, 38,389 passengers handled.” A total of 16 asymptomatic passengers on seven different flights, including 13 who travelled by IndiGo, have tested positive for COVID-19 since the resumption of domestic air services. Two of the other three asymptomatic passengers who tested positive for the infection had travelled by Spicejet while one took a flight of Air India subsidiary Alliance Air.On Monday, a total of 428 domestic flights carrying 30,550 passengers operated while on Tuesday, 445 flights ferried 62,641 people.On Wednesday, 460 planes flew 34,336 passengers.In February, when the lockdown was not imposed, around 4.12 lakh passengers travelled daily through domestic flights in India, according to Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data. During the pre-lockdown period, Indian airports handled around 3,000 daily domestic flights, aviation industry sources said.Airports in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have been allowed to handle a restricted number of daily flights as these states do not want a huge influx of flyers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases.While domestic services resumed in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday, they restarted in West Bengal on Thursday. Though domestic flight operations across the country began on May 25, they could not be restarted in Kolkata and Bagdogra as the West Bengal machinery was involved in relief and restoration work after cyclone Amphan’s devastation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/494-domestic-flights-ferried-38-078-passengers-in-india-on-thursday-govt/story-pamGs9bsoOFl2dPbKnqk3I.html
29-05-2020||India||Jharkhand Covid ward doctor accuses senior colleague of rape attempt, police in a fix||A senior doctor of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Jharkhand’s capital Ranchi has been accused of attempting to rape a junior colleague currently serving in the Covid ward of the hospital, police said on Friday.The police, however, are in a catch-22 situation over the possible arrest of the senior doctor, since he went into quarantine for 14 days the morning after the alleged incident.Officer-in-charge of Bariatu police station, Sapan Mahta said, “The lady doctor in her statement said that they were on duty in Covid ward on Wednesday night. After the duty hours, the senior doctor came to her room and switched off lights and attempted to sexually assault her. The incident took place on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday as per the statement of the lady doctor.”Mahta said the senior doctor has been booked under sections 376 (rape) and 511 (attempt to commit an offence) of the IPC. “We have recorded the statement of the victim. Now, her statement will be recorded before a magistrate,” he said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesMahta, however, said the police was in a fix over taking immediate action against the doctor as he is in quarantine. “The doctor went into quarantine on Thursday morning after the alleged incident on Wednesday night. We are trying to solve this issue technically,” he said.A senior official at RIMS said the doctors who serve in the Covid ward for a week are sent to quarantine for 14 days as preventive measure. The senior doctor in question is right now serving quarantine at a city hotel.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Meanwhile, Junior Doctors’ Association, RIMS, has demanded speedy action into the case. “We want fair inquiry into the case and the victim should get justice at the earliest,” said the association president Dr Ajit Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-covid-ward-doctor-accuses-senior-colleague-of-rape-attempt-police-in-a-fix/story-3Zq60tOJjPbSvRcmMLOsdM.html
29-05-2020||India||IMD tracks low-pressure system in Arabian Sea and its impact on monsoon, says heatwave is gone||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the southwest monsoon has further advanced into some parts of southwest and southeast Arabian Sea. In its weather outlook released on Friday afternoon, the IMD further said that conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of the monsoon.A low-pressure area is likely to form in the Aabia Sea on May 31. “The low-pressure area is very likely to concentrate into a depression over the West-Central Arabian Sea during the next 24 hours and likely to intensify further thereafter,” the IMD said in its outlook.“The low-pressure area is likely to move northwestwards across south Oman and east Yemen coasts during next 48 hours and then move west-southwestwards,” it further said.It also predicted scattered rainfall accompanied with lightening and squall in western Himalayan region and adjoining plains for three days under the influence of a western disturbance and an east-west trough.The IMD said that heatwave has abated from most parts of the country, and relief from extreme heat will be there from May 30 to June 2.The weather department had said earlier on Friday that the monsoon is likely to hit Kerala on June 1.Anand Sharma, Deputy Director-General, India Meteorological Department (IMD), said that due to the prevalence of western disturbance over Himalayan region, the North-Western parts of the country would have temperatures less than 40 degrees Celsius in the coming days.“We have said that monsoon will hit Kerala on 1st June, it’s a good sign. First week is going to be good for west coast especially up to Maharashtra,” he said.The advance of the monsoon over Indian mainland is marked by monsoon onset over Kerala and is an important indicator characterising the transition from hot and dry season to a rainy season. As the monsoon progresses northward, relief from scorching summer temperatures is experienced over the areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-tracks-low-pressure-system-in-arabian-sea-and-its-impact-on-monsoon-says-heatwave-is-gone/story-DWE45N4PdST7Bx6wZ99XkN.html
29-05-2020||India||In next phase of lockdown, cinemas, schools and colleges to remain shut: Delhi govt||Ahead of lockdown 4.0 drawing to a close on May 31, the Delhi government has indicated that places where large gatherings take place, like cinema halls, should remain closed as the country continues to fight the coronavirus pandemic. Schools and colleges too should remain suspended for the time being, according to Delhi government officials.“The Delhi government believes that places where large gatherings take place, like cinema halls, should remain closed. Schools and colleges should also remain shut,” Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain said after consultations with Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19.On Thursday, Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to all chief ministers and sought their views on extension of the ongoing nationwide lockdown beyond May 31. The telephonic conversations of the home minister came just three days before the end of the fourth phase of the lockdown.ALSO READ | Delhi sees highest single-day spike with 1,024 new Covid-19 cases, tally touches 16,281Shah met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday and informed him about the views of all chief ministers on the extension of the ongoing nationwide lockdown beyond May 31.The home minister briefed PM Modi about the feedback he received from the chief ministers during his conversations on Thursday, a government official said.National capital Delhi’s Covid-19 death toll increased by 82 in the last 24 hours, due to inclusion of 69 deaths that were reported late, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday. He said 13 deaths occurred on Friday while the remaining 69 took place in the last 34 days and were reported late.The total deaths due to coronavirus in Delhi have climbed to 398 so far, Health Minister Satyendra Jain said. Delhi’s rate of recovery from the coronavirus infection, however, is around an encouraging 50 per cent.Jain said out of the 69 deaths reported late, 52 took place at the Safdarjung Hospital. Another round of fresh 1,106 coronavirus cases have been reported, taking the total tally in Delhi to over 17,000, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-next-phase-of-lockdown-cinemas-schools-and-colleges-to-remain-shut-delhi-govt/story-PFas76cKCG1tpkd2znILQN.html
29-05-2020||India||Sun Pharma to conduct clinical trial of pancreatitis drug in Covid-19 patients||Drugmaker Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd said on Friday that it received Indian regulatory approval to start clinical trials of pancreatitis drug nafamostat mesilate in COVID-19 patients.“Nafamostat (has been) identified as a potential candidate for COVID-19 patients by scientists at University of Tokyo and Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Germany,” the company said in a statement https://reut.rs/2BdSD4o.The University of Tokyo had announced plans for a trial of nafamostat and camostat mesilate, a related drug, starting as early as April 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sun-pharma-to-conduct-clinical-trial-of-pancreatitis-drug-in-covid-19-patients/story-B6KnqBbdEcyivsxcQnniYP.html
29-05-2020||India||Infection risk half in kids, but they spread coronavirus: Study||In a finding with implications for reopening schools, a new study has established that children and teenagers have half the risk of getting infected by Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, as compared to adults.However, the jury is out on whether children are less likely to spread the infection, according to a large systematic review of at least 6,300 studies, preprints and reports.Children are 56% less likely than adults to get infected by Sars-Cov-2 when they come in contact with an infected person, but how easily they pass on the infection to others remains unclear, according to the study done by researchers at University College London, published in the preprint journal medRxiv.The study hasn’t yet been peer reviewed.“There is preliminary evidence that children and young people have lower susceptibility to Sars-CoV-2, with 56% lower odds of being an infected contact. There is weak evidence that children and young people play a lesser role in transmission of Sars-CoV-2 at a population level. Our study provides no information on the infectivity of children,” said the study, which analysed data from 6,327 studies published till May 16 this year.The role of children and young people in spreading the disease depends on several factors, including their susceptibility to infection, severity of symptoms, viral load, social contact patterns and risk behaviour.Clinical series and testing of symptomatic cases alone give biased estimates of susceptibility in children, who often don’t develop symptoms.“The susceptibility of children to Sars-Cov2 is low, according to most of the information. If they are asymptomatic, as most are, transmission risk will be very low,” said K Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India.Studies on Covid-19 prevalence in children have produced widely varying results, the University College London analysis noted.Large studies from Iceland, the Netherlands and Spain and Italy showed markedly lower Sars-CoV-2 prevalence among children and young people, but studies from Sweden, the UK and some cantons in Switzerland and Germany found no difference in infection prevalence between adults and children.The Swedish Public Health Agency found 4.7% antibody prevalence in children and teenagers, compared to 6.7% in adults aged 20 to 64, and 2.7% in 65 to 70-year-olds, indicating significant spread in schools.“Long-lasting school closures not only leads to a loss of learning but the isolation also harms their mental health and social development, so we have to consider whether the harm outweighs the infection risk for children, who can spread it to their families, school staff and the community,” said Rajesh Sagar, professor in the department of psychiatry at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Most schools across India have been shut since March 21, the weekend before a national lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24.Unlike Sweden, which kept day care centres and schools through ninth grade open without major adjustments to class size, lunch policies or recess rules, schools in India are unlikely to open before July to lower children’s expose to infection.“Most young children find it difficult to follow social distancing norms and given the large number of students in one classroom, and crowded transport and playgrounds, schools can easily turn into infection clusters if children infect teachers or take the infection to their family and neighbourhood, even if they don’t get severe disease themselves,” said Sagar, who specialises in child mental health.Socially and economically disadvantaged children, who depend on schools for mid-day meals, education, nutrition and health because of socioeconomic disadvantages, are among the worst hit by prolonged school closure.A paper on rethinking the role of schools after Covid-19, published in The Lancet, stated: “School provides a structured setting in which children can learn and develop social competencies, such as self-confidence, friendship, empathy, participation, respect, gratitude, compassion, and responsibility. Social and emotional learning is important for young people to become conscious members of a solidarity-based community.”A hybrid model of education with greater dependence on e-learning is being used in many countries that are reopening schools post lockdown, but it has its challenges. “Since all children do not have access to online learning because of uneven access, teaching using radio and television should be considered as that group cannot be ignored,” Sagar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infection-risk-half-in-kids-but-they-spread-coronavirus-study/story-zZhZESbGVI3ohTSNGYYKSP.html
29-05-2020||India||CBI registers preliminary enquiry to probe finances, international linkages of Tablighi Jamaat||In further trouble for the Tablighi Jamaat, the Central Bureau of Investigation has registered a Preliminary Enquiry (PE) to investigate international linkages as well as foreign funding of the religious organisation, two officials familiar with the development said.The CBI probe will primarily focus on whether Tablighi Jamaat violated any norms of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) while receiving donations from individuals or entities abroad, the officials added.The agency sleuths have already collected relevant probe documents from Delhi Police Crime Branch and analyzing the same. It will also take copies of 47 charge sheets filed by the Crime Branch this week against over 900 foreign members of the Jamaat. The charge sheets filed over three days run into over 40,000 pages. “CBI has registered a PE against organisers of Tablighi Jamaat and others on a complaint alleging that the organisers and trustees of Jamaat were indulging into dubious cash transactions by using illegal/unfair means and also in non-disclosure of the receipts of foreign funds to the authorities,” a CBI spokesperson said on Friday.As per CBI Standard Operating Procedure, a Preliminary Enquiry is the first step to verify any irregularities following which a decision is taken on whether or not to file an FIR. The central agency’s involvement in the case is crucial as it has significant experience in international probes, including finding money trails and international links of individuals.“We will look into financial operations of Tablighi Jamaat and the people behind its funding here in India and abroad; antecedents of people associated with it and its sister organisations,” said one of the officers cited above.The agency is likely to summon office bearers of the religious organisation in Delhi and other cities including its chief Maulana Muhammad Saad after studying all the documents. If required, CBI may even take help of foreign agencies at a later stage through proper channels, said the second officer.Tablighi Jamaat’s lawyer Fuzail Ayyubi didn’t respond to calls till filing of this report.Delhi Police Crime Branch had filed a criminal case against Jamaat chief Saad and six other officials of the organisation in March for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital. More than 2,300 people, including foreigners, were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in March-end and lodged in quarantine facilities in Delhi by the authorities.The government had claimed that members of the Tablighi Jamaat were responsible for almost 35% Covid-19 cases in the country till April 7. Over 1,800 foreign Tablighi workers were blacklisted by ministry of home affairs for violating visa conditions. The Enforcement Directorate is already probing the organisation and Saad under the money laundering act. The anti-money laundering probe agency is investigating how the money received by Markaz exchanged hands and if hawala networks were used for the same.It has been noticed in the past that several terrorists belonging to Indian Mujahideen and operatives in India inspired by ISIS had attended Tablighi Jamaat events.However, the Tablighi Jamaat has never been named in any terror cases in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-registers-preliminary-enquiry-to-probe-finances-international-linkages-of-tablighi-jamaat/story-muUJ6GvA42l2N7AmlQcGMM.html
29-05-2020||India||Amphan carries hundreds of oceanic birds into mainland Bengal; frigatebirds dying of exhaustion and hunger||Pelagic birds that spend most of their life in oceans and move towards coasts only to breed have been sighted by the hundreds for the first time in the southern districts of West Bengal after cyclone Amphan battered the region on May 20, bird watchers said.Amphan, which hit the Sunderbans coast at a speed of 155-165 kmph, carried the birds deep into the mainland with its sheer force, experts said. The sightings have been recorded by some scientists from the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) and birders in Kolkata, South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly districts.Among the pelagic birds sighted are different types of frigatebirds such as the greater, lesser and Christmas frigatebird, Wilson’s storm petrel, sooty tern, lesser crested tern, great crested tern, brown noddy and short-tailed shearwater.“While terns of some varieties can be spotted in coastal areas where they even feed on freshwater fish, frigatebirds of so many types are never seen in mainland Bengal. Some may not survive the exhaustion and hunger. They cannot find food,” said G Maheswaran, scientist and ornithologist at ZSI. “Some of my colleagues have photographed these frigatebirds,” he added. “Frigatebirds can survive only in oceans where they dive deep to catch fish. The cyclone surely killed and maimed many of these birds. Had the cyclone hit the coast during the movement of migratory birds from central and south Asia, the devastation would have been severe,” Maheswaran added. A couple of the birds sighted last week were seen in the past but only in small numbers. According to a research paper published in Indian Birds, the short-tailed shearwater, for example, was recorded for the first time in India in 2013 at Namkhana in the South 24 Parganas.“While the terns and shearwaters have moved towards the ocean, the frigatebirds are caught in different districts. There are reports of some found by villagers in critical condition. We are preparing reports by crosschecking information with birders in different districts and consulting experts,” said Sujan Chatterjee, secretary of the West Bengal-based Birdwatchers’ Society. “Restriction on movement during lockdown and disruption in telecommunication have made the job difficult,” he added.A data reviewer for e-Bird in West Bengal, birder Sandip Das said, “For the first time, greater frigatebirds have been spotted at New Town in the eastern fringes of Kolkata. I photographed a few near Bally bridge. Some have been spotted in Hooghly district as well.” Bally bridge connects Kolkata to Howrah.Swarup Saha, an ardent birder at Batanagar in South 24 Parganas district, visited the local river jetty with his camera on the morning of May 21. “There were a few hundred terns of different types. I could not believe my eyes. The flocks were moving towards the coastline. I spotted around 30 roseate terns among 300-odd bridled terns,” said Saha.“There have been many cyclones but Amphan was a different experience. Pelagic birds found at Lakshadweep or around the western coast of India have been seen in Bengal for the first time. A fellow birder spotted a Wilson’s storm petrel right here at the Kolkata riverfront. It was beyond imagination,” said Sandeep Biswas, a birder from Dum Dum in the north-eastern fringes of Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amphan-carries-hundreds-of-oceanic-birds-into-mainland-bengal-frigatebirds-dying-of-exhaustion-and-hunger/story-l0uVf2JnppZT6NcyA6IO5O.html
29-05-2020||India||More than 38,000 doctors volunteer to join fight against Covid-19||More than 38,000 doctors, including those retired from the Armed Forces Medical Services, have volunteered to help the government in its fight against COVID-19 pandemic, a senior official said on Friday. On March 25, the government had made an appeal to doctors, including the retired ones, to come forward and join the efforts to fight the pandemic. “38,162 volunteer doctors, including retired government, Armed Forces Medical Services, public sector undertaking or private doctors have signed up with the government to battle COVID-19 pandemic,” the official told PTI. The official further said Niti Aayog has sent a list of names of these doctors to Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). In a statement posted on Niti Aayog’s website on March 25, the government had said those who wish to contribute to this noble mission may register themselves through a link provided on the Aayog’s website. “The Government of India requests for volunteer doctors who are fit and willing to be available for providing their services in the public health facilities and the training hospitals in the near future. “We appeal to such doctors to come forward at this hour of need. You could also be a retired government, Armed Forces Medical Services, public sector undertaking or a private doctor,” the statement had said. It had noted that in case the outbreak leads to a high number of infected individuals, India’s public health facilities will face tremendous load to take care of a large number of patients. Many countries, including the US, Italy, the UK and Vietnam, had also urged retired health workers to come back to work amid the pandemic. The number of COVID-19 cases in India has climbed to 1,65,799, making it the world’s ninth worst-hit country by the coronavirus pandemic. The Health Ministry on Friday said the death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,706 in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-38-000-doctors-volunteer-to-join-fight-against-covid-19/story-1Au83KsjILKe2013I76odN.html
29-05-2020||India||Bengal JMB leader wanted in Bodh Gaya blast case held in Murshidabad||A terrorist of a West Bengal-based module of Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), allegedly involved in the 2018 Bodh Gaya blast case, was arrested from the state’s Murshidabad district early on Friday, police officials said.Abdul Karim is an Indian national and hails from Murshidabad’s Shamshergunj area. Karim alias Boro Karim was arrested from Kashimnagar village in Suti area by the anti-terrorist squad of the special task force (STF) of Kolkata Police and Murshidabad Police in a joint operation.A district police officer, who did not want to be identified, said while speaking to HT that Karim was hiding in Karnataka and returned to West Bengal recently along with some migrant workers.Aparajita Rai, the deputy commissioner of police (STF), said Karim was among the top three JMB terrorists wanted in India.“Boro Karim was the main leader of the Dhuliyan module and would actively supply logistics and support and shelter top leaders. His name was mentioned as the main operative by JMB terrorists arrested in Bangladesh,” Rai said from Kolkata.“In 2018, we seized a substantial quantity of explosives and jihadi material from his house during a raid but he escaped,” she added.STF received information that Karim offered shelter to JMB’s top leader Salahuddin Salehin when he visited India.Y Raghuvamshi, the superintendent of police of Jangipur police district, said Karim hails from Chandnidaha village in Shamserganj.“Karim has four children. We were looking for him for a long time. We have come to know that Karim was hiding in Karnataka. He recently returned to Murshidabad with some migrant labourers,” a senior district police officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said.A relative of Karim, who did not want to be identified, said he used to drive a tractor at a brick kiln in Kankuria village and went missing around two and a half years ago.“Karim did not contact his family in 29 months. On Thursday evening, he visited the home of his aunt, Safeda Bibi, at Kashimnagar. Police arrested him around midnight,” the relative said.Another JMB terrorist of the same name, who went by the alias Chhoto Karim, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in 2018.A low-intensity bomb had exploded in Bodh Gaya on January 19, 2018, hours after Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama had finished a sermon at the Mahabodhi Temple.The NIA had arrested five people in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-jmb-leader-wanted-in-bodh-gaya-blast-case-held-in-murshidabad/story-6ckStn44Czo6WSiy9teLPI.html
29-05-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: First commercial flight arrives in Tripura after two months||The first aircraft with 166 passengers from Kolkata landed at Maharaja Bir Bikram (MBB) Airport in Tripura on Friday, two months after all air services were banned due to Covid-19 lockdown.The flight operated by IndiGo Airlines landed at 10 am in Agartala.“After March 25, total 166 passengers landed here in the first flight today. In the same flight, 167 passengers left for Kolkata at 11.15 am,” airport director VK Seth told reporters.Besides sanitisation, a foolproof medical screening apparatus was set up at the airport to check all the incoming passengers as well as those at the departure terminal, he added. The domestic air services in Tripura were meant to start from May 25 but the flights connected to Kolkata were cancelled due to Cyclone Amphan. Before lockdown, total six aircraft were in operation at MBB Airport, the lone airport in Tripura.There are 12 airports in the North-East region. They are in Guwahati, Silchar, Dibrugarh, Jorhat, Tezpur (all Assam), Tezu and Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh), Agartala (Tripura), Imphal (Manipur), Shillong (Meghalaya), Dimapur (Nagaland) and Lengpui (Mizoram).Domestic passenger flights were restarted on Monday after a gap of two months. Different North-Eastern states on Sunday issued separate Standard Operating Protocols (SOP) for the passengers.In Tripura, with the latest 10 cases of Covid-19, the total tally rose to 242, including 162 Border Security Force (BSF) troopers, officers, and their family members. However, the state’s active cases are 72 and three cases migrated to other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-first-commercial-flight-arrives-in-tripura-after-two-months/story-HAe9kaGoJQd2k1q7JlfvMK.html
29-05-2020||India||Elgar Parishad case: Activist Sudha Bharadwaj’s plea for interim bail rejected||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday rejected a plea for interim bail by civil rights activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Elghar Parishad case.Bhardwaj, 59, had sought bail on health grounds after a prisoner and a doctor at Mumbai’s Byculla Jail, where she is being held, were infected by the Coronavirus.In her plea, Bharadwaj said she was also suffering from several pre-existing medical conditions, including diabetes, hypertension and high blood pressure. She said there was a high risk of her being infected by the Coronavirus in prison.Her counsel also argued Bhardwaj has a history of pulmonary tuberculosis, which made her particularly susceptible to contracting other respiratory infections.The plea was objected to by special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty on the ground that Bharadwaj was booked under stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), and hence couldn’t be released on interim bail, as mentioned by the high-power committee of the Bombay high court. The prosecution also told the court that prisoners in Byculla Jail have access to all facilities and treatment for any ailments.Bharadwaj, along with several other activists, was arrested under UAPA and provision of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for allegedly having links with Maoist rebels and being involved in the Elgar Parishad gathering on December 31, 2017, which sparked caste-based violence at Koregaon Bhima in Pune the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-activist-sudha-bharadwaj-s-plea-for-interim-bail-rejected/story-TTy1dnOf58DbGEwG5Eh6VJ.html
29-05-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh SEC Ramesh Kumar reinstated by high court||Andhra Pradesh High Court on Friday struck down the ordinance promulgated by the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government last month to remove state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar by reducing his tenure.A high court bench comprising chief justice JK Maheshwari and senior judge Satyanarayana Murthy also revoked the government orders that followed the ordinance and directed that Ramesh Kumar must be reinstated as the state’s election commissioner with immediate effect.Within an hour of the high court’s judgement, Ramesh Kumar announced he had resumed charge as SEC and that he would discharge his duties fairly and impartially as he had done in the past and as mandated.Kumar said on Friday he would like to resume electoral process to the local bodies at the earliest on the return of normalcy in consultation with the principal stakeholders and all political parties.“Individuals are not permanent. But Constitutional institutions and the values they represent alone are permanent in the end. Those who have taken an oath of office to protect Constitution, have a greater responsibility to continue to protect and safeguard these institutions and their integrity,” he said.The ordinance was promulgated by the government on April 10 making an amendment to AP Panchayat Raj Act reducing the tenure of state election commissioner from five to three years and appointing a high court official of judicial officer rank as SEC in place of bureaucrats.Within a day of the issuance of the ordinance, the government appointed Madras High Court’s retired, justice V Kanagaraj, as the state election commissioner and he took charge immediately. The position of Kanagaraj in the wake of the latest high court judgement is not immediately known.The high court delivered the judgement after prolonged hearing of a batch of petitions, including those of Kumar who challenged his removal and that of Telugu Desam Party leader Varla Ramaiah, BJP leader Kamineni Srinivas and former minister Vadde Sobhanadreeshwar Rao.The high court ruled that the state government had no powers to promulgate the ordinance under Article 213 of the Constitution in the given circumstances.The Jagan government chose to remove Kumar through ordinance route, after the official issued a notification on March 15 for the postponement of local body elections scheduled to be held in the last week of that month citing the coronavirus pandemic as the reason.Jagan fumed at Kumar for taking a unilateral decision to postpone the elections without consulting the state chief secretary or even the health department officials. The chief minister accused Kumar of colluding with the Telugu Desam Party since the official belonged to the same caste as TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu.Later, Kumar wrote to the Union ministry of home affairs seeking additional police protection to him and his family as he was getting threatening calls from the YSRC leaders. His letter also became controversial and CID is probing it.Senior advocate Jandhyala Ravi Shankar, who argued for petitioners, said the high court had felt that the government and the governor were wrong in promulgating the ordinance, which is violative of various articles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-sec-ramesh-kumar-reinstated-by-high-court/story-zbaxc5yy8JSbP4kpWc3P9M.html
29-05-2020||India||Kerala Covid-19 death toll rises to 9 after 65-year-old dies||A 65-year-old man, who had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), died on Friday in Kerala’s Kottayam, taking the southern state’s death toll to nine, officials said. The man, who returned from the Middle-East recently, was an acute diabetic and was on ventilator support for the last two days, they added.A man had died in the state capital of Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. He had come from Rajasthan and had to go to Telangana but arrived in Kerala two days ago after he boarded a wrong train.The number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala has gone up after the return of expatriates and people stranded in other parts of the country. Kerala reported 84 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, in the highest spike till now, taking the tally to 1,088. Out of the 1,088 cases, 526 are active.Out of 84 new cases 31 are expatriates, 48 came from other states and five people got the infection from others.Experts have questioned the state’s low testing rate citing statistics. While Kerala has tested only 60,685 samples in four months, its neighbour Karnataka had tested 2,28,914 people till May 27 and Andhra Pradesh 412,714. Both states started reporting Covid-19 cases in the first week of March but in Kerala, the first case was reported in January last. Critics say the state failed to capitalise on its early advantage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-9-after-65-year-old-dies/story-HmbKMmNpSwwbMQBZ5bjSbL.html
29-05-2020||India||Assam opens super-speciality hospital to treat Covid-19 patients||Assam on Friday opened a 236-bed super-speciality hospital in Guwahati and converted it into a facility to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, as the number of positive cases in the north-east’s most populous state is rising towards 1,000.The state has reported 911 Covid-19 positive cases till Friday noon.The new centrally air-conditioned super-speciality hospital has been built at an estimated cost of Rs 150 crore. It has 186 beds in various wards, and another 50 in intensive care units (ICUs). It is also equipped with 14 ultraviolet germicidal irradiation (UVGI) units, which have been recently imported from Canada, to improve indoor air quality and bacteria management.“The opening of the hospital is a milestone in the state’s healthcare facility to provide the best possible care to Covid-19 patients. It’s a one-of-a-kind hospital in the entire north-east region,” state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told media persons on Friday after inaugurating the hospital.“We’ll exclusively use the super-speciality hospital to treat Covid-19 patients till the time the pandemic lasts. We expect the number of symptomatic Covid-19 patients, who need special care, to increase in the coming days. This hospital will cater to those patients,” he added.The state has recorded a spike in Covid-19 positive cases because of the easing of lockdown restrictions from May 4, which led to an influx of thousands of stranded people returning home from various parts of the country, including by air since Monday when domestic flight services resumed after two months.“Some experts have said that the centralised air conditioning system could lead to the spread of SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease. In a bid to get around the use of the centralised air conditioning system during this peak summer, we imported UVGI units from Canada, despite the lockdown restrictions. These units will neutralise the virus by emitting the ultra-violet (UV) rays and prevent its spread,” Sarma said.“There’ll be an exponential rise in Covid-19 positive cases if the viral outbreak reaches the third stage or community transmission. This hospital will cater to those patients in the event of a medical emergency such as community transmission,” he added.The super-speciality hospital has facilities to conduct surgeries on Covid-19 patients, who need surgical interventions for their other medical complications.“There is no need to panic, as the state has the capacity to treat 5,000 Covid-19 patients,” he added.As for lockdown 5:0, which is likely to be imposed in the country from Monday, the minister said that Assam would like to persist with the ongoing night curfew and is ready to comply with the central government’s guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-opens-super-speciality-hospital-to-treat-covid-19-patients/story-J8DQItJnwx5ShLCX2TW7NN.html
29-05-2020||India||Travel when necessary: Indian Railways’ request to ‘vulnerable’ people after deaths on Shramik Specials||The Indian Railways on Friday appealed to people not to travel on Shramik special trains if they are suffering from pre-existing medical conditions amid the rising number of deaths being reported on board.At least nine passengers were reported dead on May 27 within 48 hours on board the special trains for migrant workers.“It has been observed that some people who are availing this service have pre-existing medical conditions which aggravate the risk they face during the Covid-19 pandemic. A few unfortunate cases of deaths related to pre-existing medical conditions while travelling have happened,” the ministry of railways said in a release.“In order to protect the vulnerable persons from Covid-19, in line with the Ministry of Home Affairs… Ministry of Railways makes an appeal that persons with co-morbidities (for example - hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, cancer, immune deficiency conditions), pregnant women, children below the age of 10 years and persons above 65 years of age may avoid travel by rail, except when it is essential,” it added.Piyush Goyal, railways minister, also tweeted the same appeal.“I appeal to people suffering from serious ailments, pregnant women & those above 65 years & below 10 years of age to travel only when necessary in Shramik Trains. Railway Parivaar is committed to ensuring safety of all passengers,” Goyal posted on Twitter.Indian Railways, the ministry’s release said, is working round the clock to ensure services are provided to all the citizens who want to travel. “But the safety of our passengers is our biggest concern. So, we seek the cooperation of all citizens in this matter. In case of any distress or emergency please do not hesitate to reach out to your railway parivaar and we will help you as always (Helpline number - 139 & 138),” it added.The railways has been running the Shramik special trains since May 1 every day across the country and thousands of migrants have travelled back to their homes on them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travel-when-necessary-indian-railways-request-to-vulnerable-people-after-deaths-on-shramik-specials/story-7QB9I5gz5QBhjQkDARMlmM.html
29-05-2020||India||PM Modi, Amit Shah meet over lockdown plan amid rising Covid-19 cases||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah met on Friday to deliberate over the way out of lockdown as its fourth phase draws to a close this week.The escalation in numbers might prove to be a big worry as the country reported 7,467 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours in the highest single-day surge, taking the tally to 165,799, according to the Union health ministry.The meeting comes a day after the home minister spoke to chief ministers to discuss their views on extending the lockdown and future strategy to fight the pandemic.Officials said that the CMs, in meeting with Shah, contended that the lockdown should be extended with considerable relaxation in economic activity. “I feel lockdown may be extended for 15 more days. However, we demand that there should be some relaxations, say, restaurants should be allowed with social distancing at 50 per cent capacity. Many people also want gyms to resume,” Goa CM Pramod Sawant said he made the suggestion to Amit Shah.This was the first time that the home minister was in consultation with the CMs. Earlier, the PM used to chair those meetings. An officer at the Centre said that the PM may not interact with the CMs this time.In this phase of lockdown, the Centre allowed extensive relaxations, leaving it to the states to decide what to open and what not. The Centre also was looking to restart the economy reeling under the effect of lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-amid-shah-in-huddle-over-lockdown-strategy-amid-rising-covid-19-cases/story-XLRl2qTatSnZE8i3ixMcLO.html
29-05-2020||India||HT Media garners record listens on HT Smartcast: Over 1.5 mn listens in May from over 100 podcasts||HT Media, one of India’s oldest and largest media groups, known for the quality, innovation and integrity of its editorial teams of Hindustan Times, livemint and livehindustan, has launched many digital initiatives. One such initiative is HT Smartcast – podcast offerings across genres. As the world becomes busier, the podcast format has become incredibly popular. Audio content allows the listener to multitask. Keeping this in mind, HT Smartcast gives listeners the ability to dive into a pool of topics without having to set aside time to read or watch a video. It offers audio content in small bite-sized chunks, perfect for daily commutes or busy routines. HT Smartcast - the umbrella property encompasses specially curated podcasts across HT Media’s businesses. There are podcasts on current issues in English and Hindi hosted by well-respected journalists from Hindustan Times and Hindustan. Business experts from Mint bring you podcasts on personal finance, policy and industry; while popular RJs from Fever FM, Radio One and Radio Nasha host podcasts on mythology, lifestyle, entertainment and Bollywood. Health Shots brings podcasts from the health and wellness space.Praveen Someshwar, the MD and CEO of HT Media group, says “Our strength lies in content. Audio is just another medium for us and the launch of HT Smartcast ensures our content gets much wider geographical and digital reach.” Seconding him, Ramesh Menon, the Chief Business Officer of HT Media group says, “We generate a lot of great content and the idea of launching podcasts was to ensure we cater to the change in our consumers’ audio consumption habit that is becoming more on-demand, digital, active and on mobile.” While ‘Tension Not’ will calm you down, ‘Gender Question’ will make you look differently at sensitive concepts like gender and sexuality. If you want to know what your favourite stars are up to in quarantine, HT Smartcast has ‘100 Hours 100 Stars’. ‘Jobs Jankari’ will keep you updated on the careers front. On the other hand, there is ‘Crazy for Kishore’ which has stories about Kishore da narrated by his own sons – Amit Kumar and Sumit Kumar. Vinay Kamat, the Chief Editor of the business daily Mint says. “There are some fantastic podcasts from Mint including topics like startups, personal finance and business. I am very proud of my team who is doing such incredible work.” So you can be a news junkie or a nerd, a Twitter activist or a smart homemaker, a Bollywood buff or a fashion aficionado, or you can simply be a curious soul…rest assured that HT Smartcast has something to feed every appetite. “Podcasts are non-intrusive in the sense that they give people good company while they do other things. HT Smartcast is known for its innovation, creativity and top notch production quality content. We have garnered over 5 million listens across our 100+ shows and over 1.5 million listens in May alone, which is really incredible in such a short time and testimony to the quality of content and that podcasts are not just emerging, they are here!,” adds Menon emphasizing that religious, mythological and entertainment stories do best on the HT Smartcast website, which was launched few months ago. While the audience for podcasts is the highest in metros such as Mumbai, Delhi, and Pune, a significant number of listeners also hail from tier-2 cities such as Patna, Lucknow, and Bhopal. HT Smartcast’s podcasts are available on over 30 platforms and podcast apps too including Apple, Google, Spotify, JioSaavn, Gaana and HT Smartcast’s website www.htsmartcast.com HT Smartcast is also present across social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and LinkedIn. Do visit the website and social media pages to explore the exciting world of podcasts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-media-garners-record-listens-on-ht-smartcast-over-1-5-million-listens-in-may-from-over-100-podcasts-across-25-genres-and-30-platforms/story-jeKXQe6RAiEiZ3MvJEAmJK.html
29-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: MSMEs to get Rs 3 lakh crore credit guarantee facility under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.MSMEs to get Rs 3 lakh crore credit guarantee facility under Aatmanirbhar Bharat AbhiyanUnion Minister for Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal has said that the Rs 3 lakh crore credit guarantee facility extended to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Initiative) would also include traders. Read morePulwama-like plot: Car belongs to active Hizbul Mujahideen militant, say policeJammu & Kashmir (J&K) Police authorities have said an active Hizbul Mujahideen militant operating in south Kashmir is the owner of the vehicle, which security forces intercepted on Thursday while foiling a car bombing plot similar to the 2019 Pulwama attack. Read moreSpeak up: Domestic violence sees surge as people forced to stay home amid coronavirus pandemicAmid the Covid-19 pandemic, there’s been a surge in domestic violence incidents reported globally since stay-at-home orders were put into effect. So far, many countries have reported an increase in domestic violence. Read moreOpening schools, commercial activity: What states want nextHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, what states want after lockdown 4.0, how wearing masks at home can limit spread and more. WatchOver 10,000 vacancies in various govt departments of Jammu Kashmir to be filled in first phase: Principal SecretaryJammu and Kashmir Principal Secretary Rohit Kansal on Thursday said that over 10,000 vacancies at all the levels have been identified for recruitment in various departments in the first phase. Read more‘Someone said you’ll get out for 15 runs’: Shikhar Dhawan recalls 2015 World Cup game against PakistanIndia batsman Shikhar Dhawan is known for performing his best at ICC tournaments. The left-handed batsman was the leading run scorer for India in the 2015 ODI World Cup with 412 runs in 8 matches with two centuries. Read moreIf you’re feeling low, watch these wholesome videosWe all need little pick-me-ups once in a while. These smile-inducing gestures can come in many forms. A hug, a few kind words, or even sweet treats are likely to do the trick. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-msmes-to-get-rs-3-lakh-crore-credit-guarantee-facility-under-aatmanirbhar-bharat-abhiyan-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VwmEvnOgZlb5Q5VEtO61JN.html
29-05-2020||India||BJD leader, 2 others killed in fire accident at home in Odisha||A ruling BJD leader and two others died of suspected asphyxiation after a fire broke out in his house in Odisha’s Ganjam district late on Thursday night, police said.BJD’s Alekh Choudhury, working as president of Berhampur Central Co-operative Bank, was sleeping in his home in Gosaninuagaon area of Berhampur town of Ganjam district with his brother-in-law Bhagaban Patra (84)and caretaker Sunil behera (19) when an electrical short circuit in the air conditioner sparked fire, said Berhampur SP Pinak Mishra.Sources said Choudhury alerted the firemen. Assistant fire officer Sanatan Mohapatra said when the firemen entered the house it was engulfed in flames and Choudhury and the other two were unconscious. The three were shifted to Maharaja Krushna Chandra Gajapati Medical College and Hospital where they were declared brought dead by doctors.A pall of gloom descended over Berhampur town and MKCG hospital as his well-wishers reached the hospital.Choudhury was also a former president of the Ganjam district Congress committee. He had contested the state assembly elections from Berhampur and Aska thrice but lost. He had joined BJD before the 2014 elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjd-leader-2-others-killed-in-fire-accident-at-leader-s-home-in-odisha/story-F2lO6Vqe2vYE21Phosx72K.html
29-05-2020||India||‘Duty-bound to tell the truth’: Court orders perjury proceedings against cop||In a rare instance, the Bombay High Court ordered perjury proceedings against a police head constable who, as an eyewitness, failed to identify the men who murdered builder Swapnil Shirke. The 30-year-old was killed inside the premises of the sessions court in Nagpur in June 2002.Deepak Trivedi, who was the lone policeman escorting Shirke to the court and was injured and hospitalised in the attack, had failed to identify the accused before a local court claiming that the trial in the case had started after 10 years.Shirke, who was being produced in the court as an accused in an alleged murder case, was chased in the sessions court premises before being stabbed multiple times by 10 men. A division bench of the Supreme court had dismissed an appeal by the accused and upheld the life sentence awarded to Congress corporator Vijay Krishnarao Mate and six others including Raju Bhadre, Kiran Umrao Kaithe, Dinesh Gaiki, Umesh Dahake, Ritesh Gawande, and Kamlesh Nimbarte in 2017. Four others arrested in the case were acquitted for want of evidence.In 2015, the Bombay high court, while sentencing the accused to life imprisonment, had initiated perjury proceedings against head constable Trivedi for failing to identify the accused in the case and issued showcause notice asking him why he should not be prosecuted.The high court’s notice was taken into consideration by the division bench of Justice NW Sambre and Justice NB Suryawanshi while ordering the prosecution of Trivedi for perjury. “High court cannot be a silent spectator where stinking facts warrants interference in order to serve the interests of justice,” noted the bench and added, “If this court remains oblivious to the patent facts on record, it would tantamount to failure in performing its obligation under the law.”Trivedi in his response to the high court notice had stated that he committed the mistake of not identifying some of accused because a period of 10 years had lapsed when he testified before the trial court. He had sought pardon on the ground that he had put in 22 years unblemished service and had been compulsorily retired.The high court, however, refused to accept the explanation. “We are not convinced that because of lapse of 10 years, some mistake has taken place while identifying some of the accused and that the said mistake was not deliberate or intentional.”The bench said being a responsible policeman on duty and since the deceased was in his custody in the court premises when he was brutally murdered, being the eyewitness, Trivedi was duty-bound to tell the truth before the trial court. “However, he has resorted to falsehood and hence, we are unable to accept the explanation offered by him.”The bench also rejected the arguments advanced on his behalf that the high court had no authority to order prosecution for perjury. “This court not only has the authority to exercise such jurisdiction but also has an obligation to exercise such power in appropriate cases,” said the bench. “Looking to the facts of the present case, in our considered opinion, this is a fit case to exercise such jurisdiction, so as to maintain the majesty of judicial process and the purity of legal system,” noted the bench, while ordering for his prosecution.Shirke, an engineering graduate, wanted to start his own business and had ventured into real estate and with uncle Ranjit had decided to develop 21 acres of land at Sakkardara. He had formed a cooperative society under the name Bhagyashri Cooperative Society in 2001 to develop the land which came as succession from the erstwhile royal family of Raje Raghuji Bhosle.Then sitting Congress corporator Vijay Mate had allegedly encroached upon 7,000 square feet of the land in the property that belonged to Shirke, and when he tried to settle the dispute amicably, Mate asked Shirke to stay away from developing the land which set off an ugly war between them.On July 18, 2001, Mate was allegedly shot at and his confidante Sanjay Gaikwad was killed. Shirke was arrested as the main accused in the case. It was in this case that he was being produced when Mate reportedly engineered an attack on him in broad daylight and killed him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/duty-bound-to-tell-the-truth-court-orders-perjury-proceedings-against-cop/story-NVbhZ4ksNXyAvx9VzaB2XK.html
29-05-2020||India||‘Govt silence fuelling speculation’: Rahul Gandhi on border row with China||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has said that the government must come clean on the border face-off between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“The Government’s silence about the border situation with China is fueling massive speculation and uncertainty at a time of crisis. GOI must come clean and tell India exactly what’s happening,” Gandhi tweeted on Friday. The Government’s silence about the border situation with China is fueling massive speculation and uncertainty at a time of crisis. GOI must come clean and tell India exactly what’s happening. #ChinaIndiaFaceoffThe stand-off started in the Ladakh region after China took an aggressive stand and deployed around 6,000 troops of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Sources in the government say that China wants India to stop the infrastructure projects in the border area.India is building roads and bridges in the Ladakh region which will make it easier for soldiers posted in the area to get supplies and weaponry. A bridge being built near Daulat Beg Oldie, the last border post near the Karakoram Pass, has irked China the most.India too has deployed it soldiers deft in managing things on high altitude, matching China’s numbers and resources. Security experts and government sources say that India should not back down, and keep its soldiers there.The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5. The two sides have since then been engaged in a series of meetings.In its first comments on the ongoing stand-off, the Chinese defence ministry said on Thursday that the situation on the India-China border is “stable and controllable”.“China’s position on the China-India border is clear. The Chinese border troops are committed to maintaining peace and tranquility in the border areas,” defence ministry spokesperson, Senior Colonel Ren Guoqiang said at the monthly ministry briefing.The ministry said both countries have the wherewithal to resolve the situation through established communication mechanisms.It is possibly a sign that the Chinese government is not willing to allow the situation to worsen through a war of words with New Delhi.To be sure, India has rejected China’s assertion that its troops had carried out illegal constructions across the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-must-come-clean-rahul-gandhi-on-lac-tension/story-nAmNk6r2PzbcAqo0FKhqWJ.html
29-05-2020||India||Maharashtra: Lockdown relaxation could be behind rise in Covid-19 tally||Maharashtra has inched closer to the 60,000-mark for Covid-19 cases as 2,598 new infections took the state’s tally to 59,546, with health officials saying the easing of the lockdown played a key role in the increase.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the movement of people from “red zone” areas to other districts led to an increase in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. The numbers are expected to surge over the next few days, he said, but expressed confidence in the machinery and measures adopted to keep the spread under control.“It is expected the cases would increase, primarily due to the movement of people. How long can we keep things under lockdown? With people from Mumbai going to other districts, the number of cases has gone up,” Tope said on Thursday.“For instance, Jalna had a handful of cases. Today, it has increased to 110. Therefore, in all districts, the testing of people has gone up. We have already strengthened the health infrastructure and other things in these areas. We will have to increase the containment zones in these districts. We are confident that it will be brought under control.”The Maharashtra government expects the surge in Covid-19 cases to continue for the next 10 to 15 days, in conjunction with the movement of people within the state as well as people coming into the state from other parts of the country. According to an estimation by the state health department, the numbers will peak by mid-June.Mumbai on Thursday reported 1,438 coronavirus cases and 38 deaths. The total cases in the city now stand at 35,485, with 1,135 deaths.Against the backdrop of the increase in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, almost all intensive care unit (ICU) beds available are occupied. As of May 28, of the 645 Covid Care ICU beds, 99% were occupied.About 65% of the 4,292 beds with oxygen support were occupied, while 72% of 373 ventilators were in use, data from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) showed.While it is blaming the easing of the lockdown for the surge in Coronavirus cases, the state government, on the other hand, has started a review and planning for further relaxations on curbs from June 1.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had on Wednesday hinted restrictions will be eased on a “trial” basis.The state government has requested the Centre to start Mumbai suburban train services to ferry staffer of essential services in the civic body. If approved by the Centre, access points of train stations will be manned and only essential services staff will be allowed on local trains that will run in the morning and evening.The Maharashtra government is also contemplating reopening schools in a month. As of now, state officials say they will wait for the Centre’s position on the next phase of relaxations and make a decision accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-lockdown-relaxation-could-be-behind-rise-in-covid-19-tally/story-5OqzDZOfyvwBfjwSsz4kcI.html
29-05-2020||India||Delhi-Gurugram border jammed after Haryana bans entry from capital over Covid-19||Hundreds of commuters were stuck on the Delhi-Gurugram border after it was sealed around 9.40am on Friday, a day after Haryana home minister Anil Vij issued fresh orders to restrict the entry of people due to a sudden rise in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state.Police said all the 11 points that connect Gurugram and Delhi have been sealed and entry will be allowed on the basis of passes issued by the district administration. Muhammad Akil, Gurugram’s police commissioner, said that except for the categories exempted by Delhi High Court and the Centre, the inter-state borders for others would remain completely sealed.Akil said they received fresh orders on Friday morning after which barricades were placed at the border again and checking was initiated.Watch: Chaos on the roads as Haryana seals border with Delhi againThe borders had been completely sealed on May 1 but the police had stopped checking for passes at the border last week after traffic congestion was witnessed during the peak rush hours.After reports of fresh orders to seal, hundreds of commuters started crossing the border early morning on Friday leading to congestion on the expressway. On Friday, commuters who had resumed work last week and were easily crossing borders were suddenly sent back from the border.Dinesh Kapoor, the vice president of a private company in Cybercity, said he packed his bag on Thursday night after news regarding the sealing of borders started surfacing on social media. Kapoor added that he crossed before the border was sealed. Nikita Mehra, a senior executive of a private company in Udyog Vihar, said the situation has become tough for people who are commuting from Delhi to Gurugram.“I will not be allowed to return to Delhi if I have to work here. It’s difficult to make arrangements to stay in Gurugram. Our jobs are at stake,” she said. Private offices were allowed to open with 50% staff after the fourth phase of the lockdown began on May 18.However, a steep rise in the number of Sars-Cov-2 infections, which causes Covid-19 disease, prompted the Haryana government to increase curbs at the border now.Anil Vij, who also has the health portfolio, on Thursday wrote a letter to the additional chief secretary, home department stating that sharp increase in the Covid-19 cases in Haryana was happening due to large scale movement of people between Delhi and the state.“Most of the cases reported in Gurugram are linked to Delhi and it is not safe to allow free movement which can lead to more cases,” Vij said on Friday morning.Gurugram reported 68 positive cases on Thursday — the highest single-day spike so far — taking the number of cases in the district to 405. Gurugram has the highest number of cases in Haryana, which has recorded 1504 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/commuters-complain-after-gurugram-delhi-borders-sealed-again/story-1QQhjyQDm0CuKCdX05IuPL.html
29-05-2020||India||India records highest single-day spike in Covid-19 deaths, surpasses China toll||India on Friday surpassed the Covid-19 death toll of China, where the outbreak was first reported in December last year. India recorded 175 deaths from coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours (between Thursday and Friday).According to Union health ministry update at 8 am on Friday, the coronavirus disease has killed 4,706 people in India. This is more than China, where the toll is 4,634, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO).While China was the first country to report disease last December and recorded over 84,000 total cases so far, India that reported its first case in January end, now has 1,65,799 cases that is more than Turkey’s (1,60,979).The only good news for India is that the health ministry has said that the country’s recovery rate is 42.88 per cent. More than 70,000 people (71,105 to be exact) of the patients have been cured and sent back home, as per the health ministry.Maharashtra contributed a lion’s share to Friday’s tally with over 2,500 fresh Covid-19 cases between Thursday and Friday. The overall tally of Maharashtra, the worst-hit state in the country, reached 59,546 on Friday.Delhi and Tamil Nadu showed jump of around 1,000 cases. Tamil Nadu now has 19,372 and Delhi 16,281 cases.Gujarat reported 15,562 cases, Rajasthan 8,067, Madhya Pradesh 7,453 and Uttar Pradesh 7,170.Other States and union territories have also reported steady increase and West Bengal now has 4,536 cases, Telangana (2,256), Punjab (2,158), Jammu and Kashmir (2,036), Bihar (3,296) and Andhra Pradesh(3,251).India is currently in the fourth phase of lockdown which is till May 31. Cases spiked at record rate during the lockdown 4.0 that allowed much relaxation.China, meanwhile, reported no new confirmed coronavirus cases in the mainland on May 28, down from two a day earlier, the country’s health authority said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-deaths-surpasses-china-toll/story-ZPD8f0nCAxFHTV775obKZI.html
29-05-2020||India||Traders are also eligible for credit benefits under Aatmanirbhar package: Goyal||Union Minister for Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal has said that the Rs 3 lakh crore credit guarantee facility extended to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India Initiative), a Rs 20 lakh crore relief package recently announced by the government to ease the economic distress caused by the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, would also include traders.The minister said that a majority of shops – irrespective of supplying essential or non-essential goods -- across the country have been allowed to open amid concerns over hardships faced by retail traders, despite the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions.“The decision to open the remaining shops in the malls will be taken soon after taking into account the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare,” an official statement said on Friday, quoting Goyal’s meeting with the representatives of traders’ associations via a video-conference facility the previous evening.Goyal said traders are eligible to access easy loans under the stimulus package. “The changes made in the definition of the MSME sector will also help them,” an official statement said on Friday.HT had reported on Tuesday that export units, trading firms, and hospitality ventures could also tap the Rs 3 lakh crore credit facility offered to MSMEs under the stimulus package even if they are not registered as MSMEs, but meet the eligibility criteria.The minister said that several indicators show that the economic recovery is on the anvil. “The power consumption in May is almost at par with the corresponding period last year,” he said.Exports, which declined by almost 60% in April, have started showing an upward trend, and the preliminary figures indicate that the decline in May would be lesser, he said.The services exports had gone up in April as well. He indicated that more than the fall in merchandise exports, the imports showed a sharper decline in April, lowering the trade deficit.Goyal said during the lockdown period, the nation geared itself to fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and ramped up its capacities. “The domestic manufacturing of the personal protective equipment such as face masks, hand sanitisers, hand gloves got a boost, health infrastructure was scaled up, and awareness was generated among the people,” the statement said quoting the minister.Aarogya Setu application was developed during the period, which acts as a shield, friend and messenger during such a crisis, the minister said.“Timely and correct decisions have been taken by the Prime Minister, and adhered to by the people, have helped the country, as we’re in a better position compared to many other nations of the world, with more resources and lesser population,” he added.Goyal told traders not to feel threatened by the e-commerce juggernaut, as the common person has now realised the importance of neighbourhood kirana stores in this hour of crisis.He said the government is working on a mechanism to facilitate B-2-B (business to business) for retail traders so that they can expand their ambit of operations. He also assured the traders to look into pending issues such as term loans and the matter would be taken up with the finance ministry to find a solution.Goyal called upon the traders to use, promote, and support indigenous goods, which is germane to the government’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msmes-to-get-rs-3-lakh-crore-credit-guarantee-facility-under-aatmanirbhar-bharat-abhiyan/story-lyTcbrJnBP1xTzAwS6kZWO.html
29-05-2020||India||Another Covid-19 case involving Parliament staff, office floor sealed||An officer posted at the secretariat of the Upper House of Parliament or Rajya Sabha tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19, officials said on Friday. The wife and children of the officer have also contracted the disease, they said.The floor where his office is located has been sealed and is being sanitised. Those who came in contact with the official have been asked to monitor their health.This comes nearly a week after a senior officer of Parliament working in the editorial and translation (E&T) services tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive.The officer had attended office till May 12, which is located on the fifth floor of the Parliament annex building that houses most of the parliamentary officials and chambers for House panel meetings.This was the second Covid-19 positive case involving a Parliament staff after a senior housekeeper had contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, in April, making it the first case among the 3,000-odd staff working in the Lok Sabha secretariat.The annex building is located about 100 metres away from the main Parliament building and is connected with a dedicated road, which was earlier a part of the Talkatora Road.Parliament opened with one-third staff after the lockdown 2.0 expired on May 3.The housekeeping staff, who tested Covid-19 positive in April, was not working in the Parliament complex but in one of the establishments of the Lok Sabha secretariat at 36 Gurudwara Rakab Gunj Road.The special Housekeeper, according to three officials, was at home since the budget session of Parliament was adjourned on March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-secretariat-officer-posted-at-parliament-tests-positive-for-covid-19-say-officials/story-f8s4eRF3a8ZqtdI1pzD1hI.html
29-05-2020||India||Pulwama-like plot: Car belongs to active Hizbul Mujahideen militant, say police||Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) Police authorities have said an active Hizbul Mujahideen militant operating in south Kashmir is the owner of the vehicle, which security forces intercepted on Thursday while foiling a car bombing plot similar to the 2019 Pulwama attack. The vehicle, a white Santro, was fitted with at least 40 kilograms of explosives and was found lying abandoned in a village near Rajpora in Pulwama district, where a similar attack on February 14, 2019, had left 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers dead and brought nuclear-armed India and Pakistan on the brink of war.The car was not registered in the Kashmir valley, but in the Jammu division of the J&K union territory, the police said.Also Watch | Car with 60 kg explosives intercepted in Pulwama, major attack avertedA police officer, privy to the investigations, said that the Hizbul militant, who is active in south Kashmir over the last two years and the owner of the car, is still at large, but efforts are on to nab him.Vijay Kumar, the inspector general of police, (IGP), Kashmir zone, had said on Thursday that security forces received both human and technical intelligence inputs last week that Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), which had claimed responsibility for the 2019 Pulwama attack, and Hizbul Mujahideen were planning a major fidayeen (suicide) attack using a car bomb.“On Wednesday, [Jammu & Kashmir] police, Army and the CRPF established multiple nakas [barricades] after the leads about the attack emerged. In the evening, a naka party directed a car to stop, but it sped away. At another naka, warning shots were fired on the vehicle. The car’s driver left the vehicle behind and fled towards a forest under the darkness of the night,’’ Kumar had said.The area was cordoned off after security forces noticed suspicious objects in the car from a distance. “The car was searched and a large number of explosives was found concealed in the vehicle,” he added.The police are also seeking an expert opinion on the nature of explosives, which were destroyed through a controlled explosion on Thursday morning, that was fitted with the car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pulwama-like-plot-car-used-belongs-to-active-hizbul-mujahideen-militant-says-police/story-hgtZPa3F6bYJorykKE7vzL.html
29-05-2020||India||Veteran socialist and newspaper doyen MP Veerendra Kumar dies at 84||Newspaper doyen and veteran Janata Dal leader, MP Veerendra Kumar, died on Thursday at a private hospital in Kozhikode in north Kerala, his family said. He was 84.A socialist leader and former Union minister, Kumar was a Rajya Sabha member as well.Kumar is survived by his wife, three daughters and son MV Shreyams Kumar, who is the joint managing director of Mathrubhumi group of publications, the second-largest media group in Kerala. His body will be taken to Wayanad, his native place, for last rites on Friday, his family said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Kerala Governor Arif Mohamad Khan, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, former defence minister AK Antony and many others condoled his death.“Anguished by the passing away of Rajya Sabha MP Shri M.P. Veerendra Kumar Ji. He distinguished himself as an effective legislator and Parliamentarian. He believed in giving voice to the poor and underprivileged. Condolences to his family and well wishers. Om Shanti,” PM Modi tweeted.A writer, orator, green activist, Kumar remained in the political arena like a colossus for more than six decades. A disciple of socialist legend Jayaprakash Narayan, he played a key role in floating the Janata Party in the 1970s and later remained with the Janata Dal (Socialist) till his death. He was jailed during the Emergency.Born in Wayanad district’s Kalpetta in 1936 in a known plantation family, Kumar finished his early education in his hometown and Kozhikode before taking his masters from Vivekananda College in Madras (now Chennai) and an MBA from Cincinnati University in the United States. After his return, he spent some time in the family business before entering the political arena.Veerendra Kumar took a membership of the then Socialist Party from Jayaprakash Narayan in 1965 and later became the all-India treasurer of the Samyukta Socialist Party between 1968 and 1970. During the Emergency, he was jailed for more than a year and his properties confiscated. Later, he played a key role in the formation of the Janata Party.He became a minister in EK Nayanar’s cabinet in 1987 but he had to resign within 48 hours after his order on a blanket ban on cutting trees in fringe areas of forests whipped up a big controversy. In 1996, he was elected to the Lok Sabha from Kozhikode and became a minister in the HD Deva Gowda and later IK Gujral governments. He was elected to the Lok Sabha again in 2004.He was in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) camp for many years but left it in 2009 after he was denied a Parliament seat. In 2015, he again crossed over to the LDF camp and became a member of the Rajya Sabha in 2016. Though his party suffered many splits and he changed his political affiliations quite often he held on to his socialist ideals till his last.A writer and orator, Kumar authored many books. His book Hymavatha Boovil (Himalayan Odyssey) won the Sahitya Akademi award. It was later translated into many languages, including English.He became a director of Mathrubhumi in the late 1970s and the chairperson of the group. He was closely associated with the Indian Newspaper Society and Press Trust of India. A die-hard opponent of neoliberal and capitalist policies, Kumar fought valiantly for environmental protection till his end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-socialist-and-newspaper-doyen-mp-veerendra-kumar-dies-at-84/story-RWAVA6lQhC6MJBMJHIW0NM.html
29-05-2020||India||13 cities worst-hit by Covid-19; four in Tamil Nadu, none in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar||There are 13 worst-affected cities by Covid-19 in India, the Centre has said. But none of these cities are in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba held a meeting with Chief Ministers and administrators of union terriroties on Thursday. Municipal authorities of these 13 cities were also present in the meeting.These 13 cities are: Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Thane, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Indore, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur.The meeting holds significance because it comes days before the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown is scheduled to end. The lockdown will end on May 31.These 13 cities will continue to see the restrictions similar to those clamped in containment zones, Hindustan Times’ Hindu language publication Hindustan reported. These 13 cities constitute about 70 per cent of Covid-19 positive cases in the country.District magistrates or collectors of the 13 cities also joined the meeting, the official said. The measures taken by the officials and the staff of the municipal corporations for the management of Covid-19 cases were reviewed in the meeting chaired by Gauba.The central government has already issued guidelines on management of Covid-19 in urban settlements.Highlights of this strategy include work on high-risk factors, indices such as confirmation rate, fatality rate, doubling rate, tests per million people etc, news agency PTI reported.The strategy defined the factors to be considered while mapping the containment and buffer zones, the activities mandated in containment zones like perimetre control, active search for cases through house-to- house surveillance, contact tracing, testing protocol, clinical management of the active cases.The nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to combat the coronavirus pandemic. It was first extended till May 3 and again till May 17. The lockdown has now been extended till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-cities-worst-hit-by-covid-19-four-in-tamil-nadu-none-in-uttar-pradesh-and-bihar/story-rUXzlM8ZWBdOhNI9U4sw5M.html
29-05-2020||India||With 165,799 Covid-19 cases, India now world’s ninth worst-hit country||India now has the world’s ninth worst coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case count as the number of those infected in the country rose to 165,799 and its death toll crossed China’s official count, data has shown.At least 213 countries and territories across the globe have reported more than 5.8 million cases of Covid-19, which originated from China’s Wuhan, and a death toll of 360,332.The United States is the worst hit with more than 17 lakh cases followed by Brazil, Russia, the United Kingdom, Spain, Italy, France and Germany. While Turkey is now ranked 10th, China is at 14th place and below Iran, Peru and Canada.India has also become the most affected country by the coronavirus disease in Asia, according to websites that tracks the number of cases across the world. According to data from the government and the US’ Johns Hopkins University dashboard, India has reported nearly double the number of Covid-19 cases in China at 84,106.The US also has the highest number of deaths with more than 1 lakh fatalities, followed by the UK, Italy, France, Spain, Brazil, Belgium, Mexico, Germany and Iran in the top 10. India is ranked 13th now after Canada and Netherlands at the 11th and 12th places, respectively, in terms of fatalities. India also surpassed China with as many as 4,706 deaths, compared to 4,638, the data showed.India on Friday reported 7,467 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours in the highest single-day surge and 175 deaths, according to the Union health ministry.This is the first time India has reported more than 7,000 cases in a single day and the surge in the Covid-19 numbers comes just days ahead of the fourth phase of the lockdown is scheduled to end on May 31.According to the health ministry’s dashboard in the morning, there are 89,987 active cases of the coronavirus disease.The recovery rate has gone up to 42.88% as 71,105 people, up from 67,691 patients on Thursday, have warded off the respiratory disease, health ministry data showed on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-165-799-covid-19-cases-india-now-world-s-ninth-worst-hit-country/story-rkl0Icz5nvbFWfpMtmL3gO.html
29-05-2020||India||Committed to peace, says Chinese defence ministry in 1st remark on Ladakh standoff||The situation on the India-China border is “stable and controllable”, the Chinese defence ministry has said in its first comments on the ongoing standoff between border troops of the two countries in eastern Ladakh and Sikkim.The ministry said both countries have the wherewithal to resolve the situation through established communication mechanisms without directly commenting on US President Donald Trump’s offer to mediate between Beijing and New Delhi on the boundary problem.The ministry’s first statement comes in the backdrop of the standoff in eastern Ladakh between the militaries of India and China this month. Also Watch | China’s muscle flexing explained and how India can tame the dragon l In Focus“China’s position on the China-India border is clear. The Chinese border troops are committed to maintaining peace and tranquility in the border areas,” defence ministry spokesperson, Senior Colonel Ren Guoqiang said at the monthly ministry briefing on Thursday.Also Read: PM Modi had no conversation with Trump over border stand-off with China: Officials“At present, the situation in the China-India border areas is stable and controllable on the whole,” Ren said at the briefing, which was held online in Mandarin.“The two sides have the ability to communicate and solve relevant issues through the established border-related mechanisms and diplomatic channels,” Ren added.The defence ministry’s response to a question on the India-China border situation on Thursday was almost word-to-word the same as the Chinese foreign ministry’s statement on Wednesday – “stable and controllable” being one of the specific phrases that was repeated.Also Read: No end to tense Ladakh standoff in sight as India, China hold groundIt is possibly a sign that the Chinese government is not willing to allow the situation to worsen through a war of words with New Delhi.To be sure, India has rejected China’s assertion that its troops had carried out illegal constructions across the LAC.“India is committed to the objective of maintenance of peace and tranquility in the border areas with China and our armed forces scrupulously follow the consensus reached by our leaders and the guidance provided. At the same time, we remain firm in our resolve to ensure India’s sovereignty and national security,” Anurag Srivastav, external affairs ministry spokesperson said earlier this week.While the Chinese government is yet to officially comment on Trump’s offer to mediate, state-controlled media here has dismissed the US President’s proposal, which he had tweeted.“The latest dispute can be solved bilaterally by China and India. The two countries should keep alert on the US, which exploits every chance to create waves that jeopardize regional peace and order,” the nationalistic tabloid Global Times said in a comment piece.Titled “China, India don’t need US help on their frictions”, it said: “It seems Trump finally knows that China and India, the two largest Asian powers, share borders. Early this year, A Very Stable Genius, a book written by two Washington Post journalists, revealed that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi was shocked and concerned when Trump told him India and China did not share a border.” “Last year, India turned down Trump’s offer to ‘help’ and ‘mediate’ between India and Pakistan over Kashmir, an issue India stressed can only be discussed bilaterally. India perhaps has been aware of the US’ bad history of mediation in which the US made troubles rather than solved problems, and which turned bilateral disputes into multilateral ones,” it said.New Delhi has subtly rejected Trump’s offer.“As I’ve told you, we are engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve this issue,” Srivastava said when asked about Trump’s tweet on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/committed-to-peace-says-chinese-defence-ministry-in-1st-remark-on-ladakh-standoff/story-Z7LvY2Ng2XreIAaIyuF13I.html
29-05-2020||India||Govt lifts curbs on the export of paracetamol||The central government on Thursday lifted restrictions on the export of paracetamol, a common medicine used to treat fever and body pain. The directorate general of foreign trade, under ministry of commerce and industry, reviewed its March 3 order that restricted the export of the drug and active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) in the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country.“…government hereby makes following amendment…of the ITCHS export policy amending the notification dated 03.03.2020 related to export policy of paracetamol API. From present policy of restricted use it has been moved to free category under the revised policy,” read the directorate notification, which Hindustan Times has seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-lifts-curbs-on-the-export-of-paracetamol/story-BSQi9tUab83m3eHaxLKG9L.html
29-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally tops 1.65 lakh with highest single-day spike of 7,466 cases||India on Friday reported 7,467 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours in the highest single-day surge, taking the tally to 165,799, according to the Union health ministry.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThis is the first time India has reported more than 7,000 cases in a single day and the surge in the Covid-19 numbers comes just days ahead of the fourth phase of the lockdown is scheduled to end on May 31.According to the health ministry’s dashboard in the morning, there are 89,987 active cases of the coronavirus disease in the country and 4,706 people have succumbed to the deadly infection.The recovery rate has gone up to 42.88% as 71,105 people, up from 67,691 patients on Thursday, have warded off the respiratory disease, data showed on Friday.Most of India’s Covid-19 cases were reported in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat. Maharashtra has witnessed 59,546 Covid-19 cases and 1,982 people have died in the western state so far. In Tamil Nadu, 19,372 people have contracted the disease and 145 people have died, while Delhi reported 16,281 cases and 316 fatalities till date. Also read: Amid Covid-19 lockdown, Assam sends pumpkins via cargo flight to DubaiThe number of deaths in Gujarat, the fourth worst-hit state, was higher than Tamil Nadu and Delhi at 316 but the cases stand at 7,495 so far.There will be a continued focus on 13 cities and five states worst hit by Covid-19 and the situation in seven states, which have seen many of their residents who were working outside come back, will be monitored as India exits the ongoing lockdown.These cities are Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Thane, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata/Howrah, Indore, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Changalpattu and Thiruvallur, which constitute about 70% of the positive cases in the country.The Centre has said that the focus will continue on two categories of states—those which have seen a large number of Covid-19 cases in last two and half months and those which are receiving a large number of migrant labourers.While Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi and Tamil Nadu fall in the previous category, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand fall in the second. Madhya Pradesh, whose most important commercial city Indore was an early hotspot of the coronavirus disease is also a borderline candidate to be included in the first category.While the former group of large states have seen a large number of cases, shorter doubling period, and higher confirmation rates in tests, the second category is seeing a late rise due to the movement of migrants.State governments are considering the imposition of restrictions only in the containment zones and allowing a range of activities elsewhere if central guidelines allow. They have also sought to demarcate the zones based on the severity of cases and frame their own rules for activities.They would include opening more markets, enabling more inter-state transport facilities, allowing more commercial activity, and possibly even religious places with social distancing norms, multiple state governments officials have said.They are also planning the eventual opening of schools in a month.The Centre gave authority to the states in the ongoing fourth phase of the lockdown to demarcate zones based on the severity of cases, and within a set of broad guidelines, allowed states to frame their own rules on the extent of activity allowed. Several states allowed the resumption of private transport; limited public transport; shops (except in malls and shopping complexes) and industrial activities. The Centre, in this period, also resumed the operation of domestic flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-over-7-400-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-1-65-lakh/story-JKaYYPWZCw31tHvxLu5RxL.html
29-05-2020||India||India doubles down on rejection of Trump’s offer to mediate on standoff with China||The Indian government on Friday doubled down on its rejection of US President Donald Trump’s offer to mediate on the border standoff with China, with people familiar with developments dismissing the American leader’s contention he had discussed the face-off with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the most recent conversation between Modi and Trump had been on April 4, when the US request for supply of hydroxychloroquine to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic was the subject of the discussions.The clarification came hours after Trump reiterated his offer to mediate between India and China to resolve a standoff between the border troops of the two countries during a briefing at the White House early on Friday (Indian time).The external affairs ministry had on Thursday tacitly rejected Trump’s initial offer to mediate, made through a tweet on Wednesday, by saying India is directly engaged with China to peacefully resolve the standoff.“There has been no recent contact between Prime Minister Modi and President Trump. The last conversation between them was on April 4 on the subject of hydroxychloroquine,” said one of the people cited above.“Yesterday [Thursday], the external affairs ministry had made it clear that we are directly in touch with the Chinese through established mechanisms and diplomatic contacts,” the person added.This is the second time that New Delhi has called out such a claim by Trump regarding mediation between India and another country. In July 2019, India had dismissed Trump’s remarks, at a joint news briefing along with Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, that Modi had asked him to help resolve the Kashmir issue.Also read: India China standoff explained- Bridge over troubled watersAt that time to, Trump contended he had spoken directly with Modi about Kashmir. “And he actually said, ‘Would you like to be a mediator, or arbitrator? I said ‘Where?’, and he said ‘Kashmir, because this has been going on for many many years’,” Trump had said at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-doubles-down-on-rejection-of-trump-s-offer-to-mediate-on-standoff-with-china/story-BCm5j0Nly8mo9oimko4JEL.html
29-05-2020||India||In India’s record single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra biggest contributor: State tally||The number of new coronavirus disease cases in a 24-hour span has been steadily rising in India. The country saw 7,467 new cases in 24 hours (between Thursday and Friday), which took the country’ overall tally to 1,65,799. The number of coronavirus disease fatalities in the country stands 4,706 while over 71,105 people have successfully recovered from the disease.Delhi, meanwhile, saw 1,024 new infections on Thursday, the first time national capital’s tally crossed the 1,000-mark in a single day. The data suggested that the national capital has breached a key threshold that officials identified back in March as the trigger for healthcare preparations to be bolstered further.Here’s a look at Covid-19 state-wise tally.The Big 4MaharashtraCovid-19 cases in Maharashtra reached 59,546 on Thursday. The state has recorded 1,982 deaths so far, highest in the country, while 18,616 have recovered from Covid-19.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with 19,372 coronavirus disease cases so far. While 10,548 people have recovered from the disease here, 145 patients have died.GujaratIn Gujarat, the third worst-hit state by the coronavirus pandemic, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 15,562 on Friday. Gujarat has seen 8,003 people recover from coronavirus while 960 people have died.DelhiThe national capital reported 1,004 new Covid19 cases between Thursday and Friday, according to the Union health ministry. The fresh cases took Delhi’s infection tally to 16,281. While 7,495 people have recovered, 316 died due to the disease.States with more than 6,000 casesRajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan reached 8,067 on Friday. The state has reported 180 fatalities while 4,817 patients have recovered from the infection in the state.Madhya PradeshAs many as 7,453 people have been infected from Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh till date. Three hundred and twenty-one people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 4,050 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 7,170 in Uttar Pradesh. While 4,215 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 197 have died from the infection here.Situation in other statesIn West Bengal, coronavirus cases have crossed the 4,000-mark and are rapidly rising. The number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 4,536 on Thursday. There have been 295 deaths and 1,668 recoveries in the state. Domestic flight services resumed in the state on Thursday.States with under 3,000 coronavirus cases include Telangana, Odisha, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka and Haryana. Bihar saw a spike in the number of cases and its tally now stands at 3,296.Kerala crossed the 1,000-mark in the number of Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, the state’s tally stood at 1,088.Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura have reported 500 Covid-19 cases or less while Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya and Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli has reported two cases of Covid-19.All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Mizoram have recovered. Arunachal Pradesh has three Covid-19 patients and one of them has recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-india-s-record-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-biggest-contributor-state-tally/story-FzoZGuLTOKFGduJPyNgRPJ.html
29-05-2020||India||High alert from Delhi to Karnataka over probable locust attack||Millions of locusts have affected around 100 districts in five states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra and can reach another 12 in the next few weeks, officials have warned.They said another swarm from Pakistan is expected to enter India around mid-June, which would provide fuel to locust activity in the region.The desert locust is a species of swarming short-horned grasshopper, and are known to devour everything in their path, posing an unprecedented threat to food supply and livelihoods of millions of people. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization’s Desert Locust Information Service bulletin, locusts can fly up to 150 km a day and a one-square-kilometre swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people in one day.Authorities in Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Telangana and Karnataka sounded alerts on Thursday to the possibility of locusts entering their territories even as the United Nation’s Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) has warned that the crop-destroying insects could reach Bihar and Odisha in the east in the coming weeks.The Delhi government has issued an advisory to officials across various districts to prepare for a potential locust attack after the Centre issued a warning that there was a high chance of the crop-munching insects moving from parts of Madhya Pradesh towards the capital.The Locust Warning Organisation under the Union agriculture ministry warned that Delhi may be targeted by the swarm which hit Jaipur and Uttar Pradesh on May 25, and parts of Madhya Pradesh last week.“There is a chance that the swarm in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhatarpur and neighbouring Jhansi area may move towards Delhi. They will settle in the evening and control operations will take place tomorrow morning. But it’s good that Delhi government is on alert just in case a small number reach Delhi from Madhya Pradesh,” KL Gurjar, deputy director of the nodal organisation dealing with a possible locust attack, said.Similarly, a high alert has been issued in Kangra, Una, Bilaspur and Solan districts after massive swarms of desert locust destroyed crops in adjoining states and that may spread to Himachal Pradesh.Dr RK Koundal, director of agriculture, said on Thursday that field functionaries have been alerted to keep the continuous and constant vigilance on locust activity and get ready to control any emergency situation, according to an official release.Farmers have been asked to report any activity of locusts to nearby agriculture officers.“Desert locusts usually fly with the wind at a speed of about 16-19 km per hour depending on the wind. When swarm settles down in a particular area it should be quickly treated chemically, mechanically beaten and buried by digging trenches,” Koundal said.“At present, the primary method of controlling desert locust swarms and hopper bands is mainly with organophosphate chemical applied in small concentrated doses (referred to as ultra-low volume (ULV) formulation) by vehicle-mounted and aerial sprayers and to a lesser extent by a knapsack and hand-operated sprayers. Small patches of locust should be immediately sprayed by ULV,” he said.Koundal further said that all the field officers have been directed to create awareness among the farmers regarding the locust attack.“Directions have also been given to check its gregarious and solitary forms immediately by spraying contact insecticides,” he added.Bio-Control Laboratory, Kangra and Mandi have been directed to prepare Metarhizium and Beauveria bio-insecticides at their full capacities.Haryana has also issued a high alert in seven districts after locust swarms attacked crops in neighbouring Rajasthan and a few other states, officials said on Thursday.They added that there was enough insecticide in stock to tackle the pest menace.Tractors mounted with chemical sprayers have also been deployed in Sirsa, Fatehabad, Hisar, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendragarh and Rewari districts, which are on high alert.Farmers maintained vigil hundreds of kilometres away in Karnataka’s Bidar as locusts were expected from western Maharashtra, where they reached on Tuesday. The Karnataka government claimed on Thursday that the chances of a massive locust swarm reaching the state are remote due to change in the wind direction.“...good thing is that the wind is not blowing towards Karnataka..according to the MET department report wind is expected to be towards a different direction,99.99 per cent it (locust) will not come to Karnataka, so farmers need not worry,” BC Patil, the state’s agriculture minister, said while speaking to reporters. A committee, comprising agriculture and horticulture directors and senior officials has been constituted and the officials have been directed to visit Kalaburagi, Bidar, Koppal and Yadgir districts.An official release mentioning the change in the wind direction said the locusts are about 450km away from Bidar district border, and may not reach Karnataka.Minister Patil stating that according to experts locusts have appeared in large numbers due to good rains last year in Rajasthan and have started moving in an eastward direction now.“They travel along the wind direction and not against it,” he said.The minister also said they have stocked pesticide chlorpyrifos and it can be sprayed in case the locusts come.In Telangana, a five-member committee has been appointed to keep a tab on the movement of the locusts and to monitor measures to prevent the swarms from entering the state. Fire engines, jetting machines and pesticides were being sent to the entry point areas on the state’s borders with Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Reports said officials and police in Bhadradri Kothagudem, Mulugu, Jayashankar Bhoopalpally, Mancherial, Asifabad, Adilabad and Pedapalli districts have been put on alert.The Uttarakhand government has set up district control rooms to coordinate locust control operations. Officials said that drones have also been procured to spray chemicals and fire tenders and trackers with chemicals were on standby for pest control operations.Favourable breeding weather caused by a large number of cyclones in East Africa is being attributed to the surge in locust attacks since last year. India, China and Pakistan face the most risk in Asia, according to the UN. Pakistan has already declared an agricultural emergency.Locust attacks are known to cause a considerable drop in agricultural output. A moderate infestation chomped through winter crops in an estimated 300,000 hectares in Rajasthan and Gujarat in January. The crucial summer-sown season begins next month.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-alert-from-delhi-to-karnataka-over-probable-locust-attack/story-AhZiUhglwRmnjt0iPVLWuL.html
29-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre may focus on states with more Covid-19 cases, migrants and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre may focus on states with more Covid-19 cases, migrantsInternal discussions between home and health ministries and the Indian Council of Medical Research have started on the contours of the next phase of the exit from the lockdown. Read more300 Indian nationals stuck in Pakistan due to Covid-19 to return home on SaturdayAs many as 300 Indian nationals, stuck in Pakistan due to the coronavirus pandemic, are going to come back home. The Indian government has given permission for them to return, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. Read more‘When he thinks it’s time, everyone will know,’ Childhood coach weighs in on MS Dhoni’s futureOne of the people responsible for giving MS Dhoni to Indian cricket, Keshav Banerjee, his childhood coach is confident that the rumours of the former India captain’s retirement are untrue and that when Dhoni thinks the time is right for him to walk away, he will make sure everyone knows about it. Read moreOn Pankaj Kapur’s birthday, how he re-entered son Shahid Kapoor’s life years after divorcing wife Neelima AzeemActor Shahid Kapoor shares a strong bond with his father, Pankaj Kapur, now. But that wasn’t always the case. On Pankaj’s 66th birthday, revisit the story of their evolving relationship, in their own words. Read moreMobiKwik gets pulled off Google Play Store for Aarogya Setu Link, restored nowGoogle removed MobiKwik, the digital wallet app, off the Google Play Store temporarily on Thursday. MobiKwik was penalised for showing the Aarogya Setu app link on their app. Google, earlier in the month, had asked MobiKwik to remove the Aarogya Setu app link. Read more‘Crawl towards your goals’: How Rebel Wilson aims to slim down to 75 kg for her ‘Year of Health’Hollywood’s Rebel Wilson, comedian and actor seems to be making the most of the coronavirus lockdown and her time in self-isolation by trying to get healthier, and is all set to bring her weight down to 75kgs by the end of this year according to her latest Instagram post. Read moreSpaceX historic launch: What Donald Trump said for ‘friend’ Elon MuskSpaceX is likely to go ahead with its historic space mission on May 30. On May 28, SpaceX had to call off the launch due to bad weather. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-may-focus-on-states-with-more-covid-19-cases-migrants-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ghBicRLHaKjvNtueaRzMJK.html
29-05-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 lockdown, Assam sends pumpkins via cargo flight to Dubai||Amid the ongoing lockdown to control spread of Covid-19, Assam government on Thursday sent a consignment of pumpkins produced in the state on a cargo flight to Dubai.Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal flagged off the flight at the cargo terminal of Guwahati’s Lokapriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport in the presence of agriculture minister Atul Bora and transport minister Chandra Mohan Patowary.“The Covid-19 challenge has given us huge opportunities to explore our strengths. The efforts of Assam’s farmers and government agencies are opening up new avenues for us in the post-COVID world,” tweeted Sonowal. It is heartening to see our farmers giving a new lease of life to the agri sector & economy.The #COVID19 challenge has given us huge opportunities to explore our strengths. The efforts of Assam's farmers & Govt agencies are opening up new avenues for us in the post-covid world. pic.twitter.com/aX2fiqybQSAddressing mediapersons at the airport, the chief minister mentioned that though the state’s farmers had exported 182 metric tons of fruits and vegetable to various countries before the Covid-19 outbreak, this is the first time a consignment has been sent abroad after lockdown started on March 25.“We have been able to construct a cargo terminal at the airport along with a warehouse that can store 50 metric tons of goods. This would play a pivotal role in exporting goods produced by our farmers,” Sonowal said.Government officials failed to give details on the exact quantity of the consignment and its value.“We have sent a small consignment of pumpkins to Dubai today despite the lockdown restrictions. This is just a beginning and it will boost morale of our farmers,” agriculture minister Atul Bora said.“During the lockdown, our farmers have been able to sell fruits, vegetables and spices worth Rs 357 crore within the state and other parts of the country. The figure is almost double than the corresponding amount for the previous year,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-lockdown-assam-sends-pumpkins-via-cargo-flight-to-dubai/story-J9c5wFZ0eYzcITpIsGfsIP.html
29-05-2020||India||300 Indian nationals stuck in Pakistan due to Covid-19 to return home on Saturday||As many as 300 Indian nationals, stuck in Pakistan due to the coronavirus pandemic, are going to come back home. The Indian government has given permission for them to return, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported.According to reports in the Pakistan media, quoted by Hindustan, these people will cross into India through the Attari-Wagah border crossing on Saturday, media reports further said.Among this group of people are 80 students from Jammu and Kashmir who have been studying in Lahore. The group also includes 10 Indian nationals in Islamabad and 12 in Nankana Sahib who went to meet their relatives and got stuck there due to global travel restrictions in the wake of Covid-19. About 200 Indian nationals are living in Karachi and other parts of Pakistan’s Sindh province, Hindustan reported.They were asked to sign an affidavit after which they got the permission to return. Pakistan has made all the arrangements to take the group to Wagah border - they will be brought there by Friday night and handed over to Indian authorities on Saturday.One hundred seventy six Pakistani nationals stuck in India due to the lockdown returned to Pakistan on Wednesday through the Attari-Wagah border crossing. They were stranded in India for the last two months. Most of these people came to India on pilgrimage.The Pakistani Rangers received them from the Border Security Force (BSF).“Upon their arrival, the Pakistani citizens including women and children were screened and transferred to quarantine centres in Lahore where they will stay for 72 hours,” Mohammad Younis of Edhi Foundation told news agency PTI.They were stuck in Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Delhi due to the extended lockdown and the closure of the Attari-Wagah border following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.So far, 400 Pakistani nationals have returned to their home country from India since March 20, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/300-indian-nationals-stuck-in-pakistan-due-to-covid-19-to-return-home-on-saturday/story-Po8zIK7wX73D2dZtjMyehJ.html
29-05-2020||India||India most infected by Covid-19 among Asian countries, leaves Turkey behind||India has now become the most affected country by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among its Asian peers, according to a website that tracks the number of cases across the world. India has overtaken Turkey after nearly 7,000 cases of Covid-19 were reported in the country on Thursday, Worldometer said. According to the Worldometer website, India and 165,386 cases in India till Thursday, which is more than any Asian country.Turkey ranks second on the list of Asian countries with 160,979 cases, followed by Iran with 143,849 cases, China with 82,995 and Saudi Arabia with 80,185 cases.Covid-19: What you need to know todayHowever, according to the Union health ministry, the number of infected people has increased to 158,333, while the death toll has risen to 4,531.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage India has also overtaken France in terms of number of patients. In France, there are 87,733 active cases of the coronavirus disease and in India, the number is 88,923. However, India is better than France in term of the number of recoveries with 70,920 people sent home. France has 67,191 people who have recovered from the respiratory disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-most-infected-by-covid-19-among-asian-countries-leaves-turkey-behind/story-Jjd0AqIsuL3yjMWg29uJ3I.html
29-05-2020||India||Amarnath Yatra to be held only for 15 days this year: Officials||The annual Amarnath Yatra, which was earlier curtailed because of the coronavirus pandemic, will be held only for 15 days this year, sources said on Friday. The pilgrimage to the 3,880-metre-high holy cave shrine of Amarnath in south Kashmir Himalayas will now be conducted from the shorter Baltal route only, they added.The decision was taken during a meeting held by Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor GC Murmu on Thursday night. It was attended by chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam, principal secretary to LG Bipul Pathak and director general of police Dilbagh Singh, according to sources.The deputy commissioner of Ganderbal has been instructed to clear the track from Baltal, they said.The government had decided in February this year to hold a 42-day long annual pilgrimage to the holy cave shrine. The Amarnath Yatra was scheduled to begin from the twin tracks of Pahalgam in Anantnag district and Baltal in Ganderbal district on June 23. The pilgrimage was to end on August 3 on the day of Shravan Purnima (Raksha Bandhan).Last year, the Amarnath Yatra was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and in 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days.However, the Amarnath Yatra was shelved in April only to be revived a short while later by the Jammu and Kashmir administration, saying the cancelling order stands withdrawn.After the flip flop on the pilgrimage, Murmu said that appropriate decision on organising Amarnath Yatra and Budda Amarnath Yatra can only be taken after periodic reviews of the situation in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.Thousands of pilgrims either trek the traditional and longer 45km-long Pahalgam route or the shorter 14km-long Baltal route to one of the Hinduism’s holiest shrines every year. The pilgrimage usually spans nearly a month and a half and takes place during July and August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarnath-yatra-to-be-held-only-for-15-days-this-year-report/story-dhtxXvFm28okRNSobyzzcI.html
29-05-2020||India||Kashmir’s Pulwama part of national survey to ascertain extent of Covid-19 community infection||The Government Medical College (GMC) in Srinagar is conducting a survey on behalf of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district to ascertain the extent of Covid-19 infection in the community as part of a national survey.ICMR, the nation’s premium medical research organisation, is conducting the National sero-surveillance to monitor the trend of Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease, infection transmission in India.The community-based surveillance is being conducted across 60 districts and 10 hotspots among all the states and Union territories of the country wherein it is collecting app-based data and blood samples to assess immunoglobulin-Gamma (Ig-G) against Sars-Cov-2, which will determine infection in the recent past and the body’s immune response to the infection.“In our Union territory, they have chosen Pulwama. Although ICMR is conducting the study through its regional centres, however here they asked Government Medical College, Srinagar to conduct the study in Pulwama district on its behalf,” said Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, head of community Medicine at GMC Srinagar and nodal person for the survey in Pulwama.Pulwama was chosen as it was a low-risk district depending on the number of cases per million population.So far, Jammu and Kashmir has recorded 2,036 cases with 52 Covid-19 patients in Pulwama. No death has been recorded in the district of the 27 fatalities in the Union territory.A team of faculty, resident doctors and medical interns from the department of community medicine at GMC were deputed to conduct the survey. The survey is done by collecting blood samples of volunteers after acquiring their consent on a form.“We collected 400 samples from 10 clusters in the district,” Dr Khan said.“The samples will determine how much infection is in the community and whether there are antibodies in the blood of the people which will determine the level of infectivity,” he said.Each selected site collects data and blood samples of 400 participants of adult population which cumulates to 24,000 samples, which shall be tested to give the inference of cumulative response to the Sars-Cov-2 infection among the general population in the country, the official said.After the survey is completed on Friday, the blood samples will be sent to the ICMR lab in Tamil Nadu’s Chennai.“The trend of seropositivity will also be looked at to monitor the community-level transmission. Pooled seroprevalence from the group of districts for each of the four strata will be used to estimate the prevalence of Covid-19 infection in the country,” the official quoted the protocols.The baseline survey would determine the sero-prevalence of Sars-Cov-2 infection in the community and in high-burden cities as well, while the subsequent rounds would help to monitor the trends of infection in the community. The findings of the survey will also guide the strategy for making decisions related to lockdown options at the district level, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-s-pulwama-part-of-national-survey-to-ascertain-extent-of-covid-19-community-infection/story-1vG1X5xfDAyDppNKd61d8I.html
29-05-2020||India||Amit Shah seeks CMs’ views on extension||Three days before the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown comes to an end, union home minister Amit Shah spoke to all the chief ministers to discuss the current situation, their views on extending the lockdown and future strategy to fight the pandemic.Officials familiar with Shah’s meeting with the CMs said many states have reiterated that the lockdown should be extended with considerable relaxation in economic activity. He took note of suggestions, which will be taken into consideration.According to officials of two state chief ministers’ offices, who didn’t wish to named, Shah asked about various activities pertaining to the lockdown, economic activity as well as the status of migrant workers, the number of people still stranded etc. during his 5-6 minute-long conversation with the CMs.Earlier, this virtual meeting used to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. An officer at the Centre said that he may not interact with the CMs this time.It is also for the first time that Amit Shah personally called all the CMs to get their views on the lockdown. Many CMs have stated that they want the lockdown to continue but also want a gradual return to normal life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-seeks-cms-views-on-extension/story-F0yN8SnJIncM3fOYOwZPgJ.html
29-05-2020||India||How last-minute intel thwarted joint mission by terror outfits||Hizbul Mujahideen’s ambition of carrying out an attack on the lines of the February 2019 suicide car bombing in Pulwama may have been fulfilled on Thursday had security agencies not received last-minute intelligence about the movement of a car packed with a powerful bomb in the area, two counter-terrorism officers said.Troops of Jammu and Kashmir’s Special Operations Group (SOG), Rashtriya Rifles, and the 182nd and 183rd battalions of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) secured all the routes to Pulwama and set up checkpoints on Wednesday night after receiving information that a Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist was driving a white Santro car laden with explosives, the officers said on condition of anonymity.Thy were told that the terrorist may be targeting a convoy of troops or planning to ram the explosive-laden car into a security forces camp. Also Watch | Car with 60 kg explosives intercepted in Pulwama, major attack avertedThe car, fitted with a powerful bomb made of around 40-45 kg of ammonium nitrate and nitroglycerin, was spotted at Ayangund, Rajpora in Pulwama around 2.30 am on Thursday. The terrorist – identified as Adil – managed to flee through the jungles, but security agencies averted a repeat of the February 14, 2019 Pulwama suicide bombing in which 40 CRPF troopers were killed. The attack carried out by the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terror group prompted the Indian Air Force to bomb a JeM terror camp in Pakistan’s Balakot and brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war. The two counter-terrorism officials cited above said three camps – two of the CRPF’s 183rd battalion and one of the Rashtriya Rrifles -- were located within 3 km and 5 km of Ayangund where the car was intercepted. The area was evacuated by dawn and the bomb-laden vehicle was allowed to explode by bomb disposal squads because defusing it manually was deemed too risky, one of the officers said.J&K director general of police Dilbagh Singh said the attack was suspected to have been planned by JeM and the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). “This is a Jaish and Lashkar joint operation. But the (terror) factory is located in Pakistan, whether it produces terrorists of Hizbul, Jaish or the TRF (The Resistance Front),” he said.J&K Police Inspector General Vijay Kumar said It was not the first time terror groups in Kashmir had worked together. JeM, LeT and HM have regularly used each other’s resources and network of “overground workers” to carry out attacks on security forces or civilians, he said.At least five Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists disclosed to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), after a failed car bombing on a CRPF convoy in Banihal on March 30, 2019, that the HM leadership aspired to carry out a Pulwama-like attack. The NIA will take over the probe of Thursday’s planned attack as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-last-minute-intel-thwarted-joint-mission-by-terror-outfits/story-gdPeipa8ofHhBuceygA5ON.html
29-05-2020||India||Delhi violence: L-G, govt slugfest over prosecutors||Delhi lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal and the elected Delhi government led by Arvind Kejriwal are again locked in confrontation -- this time over the appointment of special public prosecutors (SPPs) to argue cases related to the February communal riots in northeast Delhi.The face-off is so intense that the L-G on Thursday decided to refer the matter to President Ram Nath Kovind, citing persistent “difference of opinion,” officials in the L-G’s office familiar with the subject said.Documents seen by HT suggest the confrontation, brewing since April, is over whose panel of public prosecutors should represent the state in the trials pertaining to the northeast Delhi riots, which claimed 53 lives and left over 400 injured. So far, the police have registered 752 FIRs and arrested 1,300 people in connection with the Hindu-Muslim violence The L-G, in a string of written communication between him and the Kejriwal government, has stated that the panel proposed by the Delhi Police should be notified and allowed to fight the cases because the riots “disturbed public order” in the capital and “effective prosecution” was needed “to restore faith of the general public and in the Delhi government”. HT has reviewed the correspondence. The Kejriwal government wants its own panel of “independent and technically qualified” special public prosecutors to be appointed to represent the state.On Thursday, the Kejriwal government approved a panel of prosecutors in a Cabinet meeting. Hours later, senior officials in L-G office said that Baijal was referring the matter to the President for his intervention.A Delhi government spokesperson said: “Invoking the provision of difference of opinion this time, the L-G has not bothered to make it clear as to how ‘good governance’, a reason cited by him in his previous such orders, is being served by blatantly subverting the process of appointment of public prosecutors. This clearly appears to be a question of Delhi government’s panel versus Delhi police’s panel because the L-G has not pointed out any deficiencies in our panel, nor has given reasons why Delhi Police’s panel should be preferred. Delhi Police being the investigative agency should have no role in deciding the prosecuting lawyers to maintain the independence of investigation and prosecution. ”The tussle began in the first week of April when Delhi police proposed a set of special public prosecutors to argue the riots cases and the L-G endorsed the move. When the file came to the Delhi government for perusal by the home minister Satyendar Jain, he shot down the police’s proposal, formed a fresh panel of lawyers and issued orders on April 16 that they be notified as the special public prosecutors.“The proposal of the Delhi Police suffered from both technical irregularities and {was} malafide. It was malafide because certain names in the panel were found to be directly related to senior police officers...,” read Jain’s noting on the file, seen by HT. Documents showed that the Delhi police subsequently withdrew its panel and submitted a second list of special public prosecutors on April 24. But it was again shot down by the Delhi government with Jain reiterating his order of notifying panel. Jain met the L-G on May 21, but the differences persisted. The L-G wrote to the government on May 23 and later invoked Article 239AA(4) of the Constitution (difference of opinion with the council of ministers) to refer the matter to the President.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-violence-l-g-govt-slugfest-over-prosecutors/story-BRAbPjvxrpIRKW40YCg7rM.html
29-05-2020||India||M P Veerendra Kumar dies at 84||M P Veerendra Kumar, the Managing Director of leading Malayalam daily Mathrubhumi and a member of PTI’s Board of Directors, died Thursday at a private hospital following cardiac arrest, family sources said. Veerendra Kumar, a Rajya Sabha MP from Kerala and a former union minister, was 84. “He was admitted to the hospital here due to some health complications. But unfortunately he passed away a little before 11 PM,” the sources told PTI. He is survived by his wife, three daughters and a son, M V Shreyams Kumar, who is the Joint Managing Director of Mathrubhumi. Veerendra Kumar was elected to the Kerala Legislative Assembly in 1987 and to the Lok Sabha twice. Veerendra Kumar, the Left Democratic Front-backed Independent candidate, was elected to the Rajya Sabha in the elections held for the lone seat from Kerala in March 2018. His last rites will be held at Wayanad tomorrow. Veerendra Kumar had served thrice as the Chairman of Press Trust of India, and at the time of his death was one of the directors in the news agency’s board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/m-p-veerendra-kumar-dies-at-84/story-b6gmo7Co2ybH9yO80RoSQN.html
29-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||How many migrants have moved back home during the lockdown? The Solicitor General of India says 9.1 million across India; Uttar Pradesh says it has seen the return of 1.8 million; and Bihar says 1 million. There are more waiting to return home – jobless, in some cases, after the units where they were working shut down during the lockdown imposed to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease, and homeless, in some others, after being turned out by landlords.There have been sporadic news reports of how the return of migrants has caused a spike in cases in some states. In Bihar for instance, around 1,900 of the roughly 3,010 cases (all case numbers are as of Wednesday night) in the state involve migrant workers who returned to the state since May 1. And in Assam, around 700 of the roughly 800 cases are of migrants who returned to the state since May 4. This was always going to be a problem, but how big a one is it?The correct answer to that would be: currently, not very big.Here’s why: Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh are the Big Six of India’s Covid-19 charts. The numbers in some have waxed and then waned (or made to wane). Others continue to see a lot of cases. Between May 1 and May 27, the proportion of cases in all other states (states other than the Big Six) has actually dipped – from 25.2% to 23.4%. It touched a low of 20.7% on May 22 and has since inched up. Its peak during this period was 25.5% on May 3.The trend is similar for deaths.In the same period, the proportion of deaths in states outside the Big Six has changed from 17.3% to 15.7%. It peaked at 17.4% on May 10.Also read: In Lockdown 5.0, states ask for curbs only in containment zonesThe numbers are skewed, of course – by Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi, when it comes to the number of cases, and Maharashtra and Gujarat when it comes to the number of deaths – but current evidence would indicate that the great Indian hinterland is still relatively safe.I say relatively because the number of cases in absolute terms in states that have received migrants has increased. For instance, the number of cases in Bihar rose from 932 on May 13 to 1607 on May 20 to 3036 on May 27. The corresponding numbers for Assam were 80, 186, and 781. And Uttar Pradesh, 3758, 5175, and 6991. But cases in the rest of the country also increased in this period. Thus, the contribution of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal, and Assam – all states which send a lot of migrant workers out to other parts of India – to the total number of cases in the country has barely changed between May 1 and May 27. It was 10.5% on May 1, and 10.8% on May 27.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Deaths present a slightly different picture. The contribution of these six states to total deaths rose from 7.4% on May 1 to 9.6% on May 27 (it touched 10% in between). That is still not a significant enough jump, though.It’s possible that a similar analysis done three weeks from now will throw up very different results. Hindustan Times will continue to track these numbers, including details provided by state health departments on the number of returning migrant workers testing positive – all the numbers I have used here are from the database maintained by the HT newsroom’s Covid-19 numbers guy Jamie Mullick – and revisit them in mid-June.For now, the numbers clearly show that the focus of containment and mitigation efforts have to remain the Big Six, and within them, cities and districts that are hot spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-NrOBlt7SpRxKP2aD423cxM.html
29-05-2020||India||With 31 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, Uttarakhand touches 500-mark||With 31 fresh Covid-19 positive cases reported on Thursday, Uttarakhand reached the 500-mark in coronavirus positive cases. In the past one week, over 350 cases have been reported from the Himalayan state. The bulletin released by the health department on Thursday evening reported seven new cases in addition to 24 cases detected earlier during the day. The health department informed that Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Dehradun (3), Almora (3) and one from Nainital district. Earlier on Thursday, 24 fresh cases were reported by the state health department including cases from districts like Dehradun (6), Haridwar (8) and Tehri (10).Most of these patients had travel history from Maharashtra. Three patients reported from Dehradun district were vendors from Niranjanpur Mandi, one of the biggest vegetable markets in Uttarakhand.The doubling rate stands at 3.99 days in Uttarakhand for the last seven days, while the rate of infection stands at 2.49%.Uttarakhand has so far tested over 25,380 samples, of which over 19,702 have tested negative and results of over 4,000 samples are awaited. Meanwhile, a 32-year-old cancer patient who was under home quarantine in Ramnagar in Nainital district died on Thursday morning, and tested positive for Covid-19 hours after his death.After his death, health officials said that the person died of cancer and not coronavirus. The patient had returned from Delhi on May 20, where he was undergoing treatment for cancer since the past four months at a hospital in the national capital.Dr. Bharti Rana, chief medical officer of Nainital said that the cancer patient had returned from Delhi recently but the health department was not aware of his return.“He was being treated at a private hospital for quite some time, where the doctors had taken his samples and sent them for testing. Meanwhile, the patient was sent home where he died on Thursday. As of now, we will isolate all his family members and take their samples for testing. Personal protection kits have also been given to the family members for protection while completing the rituals,” said Dr. Rana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-31-fresh-covid-19-positive-cases-uttarakhand-touches-500-mark/story-JozdcjZXNojwrx0QwkuKNO.html
29-05-2020||India||Pak condemns Ram Temple construction, gets a stinging comeback from India||India on Thursday responded sharply to the Imran Khan government condemning resumption of construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya earlier this month, describing a one-page statement put out by Pakistan’s foreign office as “absurd”.The external affairs ministry also underscored that the Indian constitution, unlike the one that Islamabad had, guarantees equal rights to all faiths. “Pakistan’s Foreign Office may take time out and read their own constitution to realize the difference,” the external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.Srivastava also took a swipe at the treatment of religious minorities by Pakistan and a decline in their numbers over the years. “Given its record, Pakistan should be embarrassed to even mention minorities. After all, numbers don’t lie even if they do,” he said.The Pakistan foreign office had on Wednesday condemned the start of work on the Ram Mandir, describing it as part of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) efforts to advance a “Hindutva agenda”. It also claimed that the Indian Supreme Court’s ruling last year had “failed to uphold the demands of justice” and its verdict had shredded the “veneer of so-called secularism” in India..The foreign office statement is part of the continuing effort by Prime Minister Imran Khan to build a narrative, specially aimed at Gulf countries, that minorities in India weren’t safe. Over the last few months, Indian security agencies have identified thousands of handles based in Pakistan that had been trying to push this line on social media. One report submitted to the government last month had sent across a list of 7,000 such handles.These handles, like the government in Pakistan and PM Imran Khan, had exaggerated isolated instances of harassment of minorities during the Covid-19 pandemic to launch a shrill campaign that was aimed at influencing India’s relations with the Gulf countries.Islamabad’s condemnation attempt to attack the Supreme Court’s 9 November verdict that led to setting up of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, the external affairs spokesperson suggested that Islamabad clearly was not familiar with a credible judiciary.Also Read: After proxy war in Kashmir, Pak launches cyber war against India and PM Modi“As for the judiciary, Pakistan must realize that theirs is thankfully not the norm. There are others elsewhere with credibility and integrity that Pakistan understandably finds difficult to recognise,” Srivastava said.Construction work for the Ram temple began at the Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya from May 11 after the Centre permitted the construction industry to resume work on projects. Since then, engineers have carried out testing of the soil around the sanctum-sanctorum of the Ram Janmabhoomi.On Monday, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the trust set up on the Supreme Court’s orders by the home ministry had visited the Ram Janmabhoomi after around 28 years and paid obeisance to Ram Lalla, the presiding deity of Ram Janmabhoomi. He had visited the place the last time on December 6, 1992.The high-profile visit was interpreted by some people to signify the resumption of the construction work. Das told reporters that the artefacts recovered recently at Ram Janmabhoomi corroborated that Ram temple always existed at the Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya and that it was remodelled into Babri mosque by making some changes in the temple’s structure. A trust official had said a five-foot long rare Shivling besides a large number of statues of god and goddesses had been recovered from the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-condemns-ram-temple-construction-gets-a-stinging-comeback-from-india/story-LSKrew8GRl48cXYQB9SXyN.html
29-05-2020||India||Thane prison guard reports for duty, found Covid-19 positive on testing||A 22-year-old jail guard who reported for duty at the Thane Central Prison on May 22, but did not enter the prison premises, has tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.“The guard was asymptomatic and has been shifted to a quarantine centre,” said Inspector General of Prisons, Deepak Pandey.According to jail authorities, prison guards have been working in a shift of 21 days, and in accordance to the schedule, the 22-year-old guard had reported for duty. As per protocol, he was not allowed inside the prison premises and was questioned about his health and other details.“The guard reported that he was healthy, but told us that two people from his building at Lower Parel in Mumbai had reported positive for Covid-19. We then asked him to get himself tested. On May 24, the test results showed that he was positive,” a jail official said.At Arthur Road Prison in Mumbai, 120 inmates of the 158 who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19, tested negative for the virus. Also, all the 26 jail officials, who were earlier infected with coronavirus, have tested negative, Pandey said.“We too are concerned about the health of everyone who is inside the prisons including the inmates and the staff. We have already submitted documents of 1100 inmates to the courts for them to be released on bail,” the IG Prisons said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thane-prison-guard-reports-for-duty-found-covid-19-positive-on-testing/story-HlW9xYbrvD6rGUgmnw3kGM.html
29-05-2020||India||Delhi logs 1,024 fresh Covid-19 cases, count crosses 16k||The number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in Delhi crossed the 1,000 mark for the first time, government data showed on Thursday, suggesting the national capital has breached a key threshold that officials identified back in March as the trigger for health care preparations to be bolstered further.The Delhi government’s health bulletin showed the Capital has now recorded a total of 16,281 infections – up 1,024 from Wednesday – with 316 fatalities in all. Thursday’s figures were released later than usual as authorities rechecked the data since the jump was significantly higher than recent trends, according to officials who asked not to be named.The number for new cases has shown wide fluctuations in the last five days: it was 412 on Tuesday, down from 635 the day before. On Wednesday, the number was 792. Of the 16,281 infections, 7,495 have recovered.In late March, a five-member panel of doctors headed by SK Sarin, the director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, drew up a mitigation strategy to activate new hospitals and add or divert hundreds of hospital beds to treat Covid-19 patients in case of a surge in infections. The strategy identified three thresholds based on new single-day cases – 100, 500 and 1,000 -- which would determine how many beds are added or carved out from existing capacity. “The government is now looking at revising the admission criteria to lessen the burden on hospitals,” said a senior doctor involved in the planning, asking not to be named. The move comes at a time when close to a third of the active Covid-19 cases in Delhi are hospitalised, a much higher admission rate than the national average of 6.39%. Designated Covid-19 hospitals – both private and public – are at around 75% of their capacity, according to government data, which has triggered concerns over whether the city will be able to meet a demand surge. Over the weekend, the government directed 117 private hospitals in the city to reserve 20% of their beds for Covid-19 patients. It also designated 1,500 beds with oxygen support at Guru Teg Bahadur hospital for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The first cases in the city were reported on March 2 in a 45-year-old man from Mayur Vihar who had returned from Italy. It took Delhi 40 days to record the first thousand cases of the viral infection on April 11. It took another 24 days for the city hit the 5,000 case-mark on May 5. The next 5,000 cases were recorded in 13 days, with the city hitting the 10,000 cases mark on May 18.Another 5,000 cases were recorded in the next nine days, with Delhi recording 15,257 cases on Wednesday. “The numbers are only going to go up now that the lockdown norms have been relaxed. What we need to look at is mortality. There is a need for early detection of cases and timely treatment so that people do not succumb to the viral infection,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.“And, if private hospitals are involved, the government also has to ensure that the cost of treatment is reasonable by capping prices,” he added. Delhi’s case fatality rate, the proportion of deaths from confirmed cases, is now at 1.94%. This could, however, be skewed to a lower end at present since there is usually a lag of three-four weeks between when a patient succumbs from when they tested positive.Among the city’s infections are frontline medical staff treating Covid-19 patients. At the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, at least 195 hospital staff have tested positive for the infection till Wednesday. “In the last two days, at least 50 health care workers have tested positive, including three resident doctors,” said Srinivas Rajkumar T, general secretary of AIIMS resident doctors’ association. “So far, 195 hospital staff – regular and contractual – have tested positive for the infection, many of them have recovered and resumed work. Among the total, there are two faculty members and five resident doctors who have tested positive,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capital-logs-1-024-fresh-cases-count-crosses-16k/story-VSJLCVYuKsnSktezmVxGbM.html
29-05-2020||India||Migrants can’t be made to pay for travel, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court finally intervened to protect the interests of stranded migrant workers on Thursday, issuing a seven-point interim order that said it was the job of the state to provide them food and transport and that they cannot be charged for their travel, and asking the Union government, represented by solicitor general Tushar Mehta, a volley of questions on the logistics of ferrying workers back home on trains and buses, including the time they have to wait for transport. The court also remarked that no state can refuse to take back migrant workers. The apex court’s intervention came two days after it took suo motu (on its own) cognisance of the travails of migrant workers, around two months after it seemed to buy Mehta’s contention that there wasn’t a single migrant worker on the roads walking back home, and 12 days after it said it couldn’t prevent migrants from taking to the roads to walk back home or monitor their movements. “No fare either by train or by bus shall be charged from any migrant workers. The railway fare shall be shared by the States as per their arrangement as submitted by the learned Solicitor General and in no case any fare should be asked or charged from any migrant workers by the States and the Railways,” the interim order said.A three-judge bench of the court headed by justice Ashok Bhushan heard the case through video conference and also backed a uniform policy in order to do away with any kind of confusion in dealing with the migrant crisis. In a two-and-a-half -hour hearing, it posed a series of questions to Mehta on various aspects. Migrant workers, many left jobless and homeless after their workplaces or work sites shut during the ongoing lockdown imposed on March 25 to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease, have struggled to get home. In the absence of any public transport, many started walking or cycling back home in March. Some were turned away at state borders and housed in migrant worker camps; others managed to slip through borders. It was only in late April that the home ministry came up with a protocol to transport them by buses. Soon after, on May 1, the rail ministry announced Shramik Special trains for them. Since then, and till May 27, Mehta told the court, around 3,700 such trains have run, transporting five million people back home. But many are still awaiting trains. Some do not have the documentation to register for them. There has also been confusion over who pays for the tickets (some migrants HT’s reporters have spoken to have paid out of their pocket). And the Centre and the states have scrapped over the trains. The return migration has been peppered with tragic incidents — migrants have died on road accidents; 16 were run over by a goods train; and according to news reports on Thursday, at least nine people died on Shramik Special trains in the past 48 hours. In the court, Mehta suggested those walking had been misguided into doing so by some people.Interestingly, between the time the Supreme Court said it couldn’t do anything to migrants taking to the roads and its Tuesday decision to take up the matter, several high courts, including the Madras and the Andhra high courts, criticised the way the Centre and the states have handled the crisis. A group of 21 lawyers from Delhi and Mumbai wrote to the Supreme Court on Monday, criticising its approach. “We address this letter because we believe that the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s failure to protect the rights of the hapless millions of migrant workers in March and its failure to scrutinise carefully the executive’s actions, which resulted in them (migrant labourers) being compelled to stay in cramped unhygienic accommodation without employment and wages and often without proper food and with a much higher risk of Covid infection,” the letter said. HT reported details of the letter on May 27. On Thursday, the three-judge bench that also included justices SK Kaul and MR Shah, asked Indian Railways and states where special trains for migrants are originating to provide food and water to the workers, and directed the authorities to take people found walking to shelter homes. The court asked originating states and railways to provide food and water to migrants during train journeys, as is the current practice. The bench also ordered that states should simplify the process of registration of migrant workers.“The State shall try to endeavour that after registration the workers should be asked to board the train or bus at the earliest...,” the order said. The receiving states should provide transport, health screening and other facilities free of cost, the court added.The court said replies by states and the Centre in the case will have to filed within a week. The case will be heard next on June 5. Various private parties have sought intervention in the case, including NGOs and Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala.“We are of the view that in the responses which are to be filed by the Central Government and the State Governments, all necessary details regarding the number of migrant workers, the plan to transport them to their destination, the mechanism of registration and other details should be brought on the record. The learned Solicitor General has also submitted that an estimated time period and the plan for transportation of all stranded workers shall also be intimated in the reply,” the court said.Mehta, asked about who pays for migrants’ journeys back home, said it was either the states receiving them or those sending them. “In some cases, the money is reimbursed by the receiving state,” he said. The bench noted that such a policy creates confusion and underscored the need for a uniform policy. The issue of train tickets has triggered a controversy in the past, with opposition parties accusing the Centre of making migrants pay. The Centre has maintained that the journey is subsidised. Mehta said since May 1, altogether 9.1 million migrant workers have been ferried to their hometowns by trains and buses till Wednesday. The court asked whether the people being transported were asked “to shell out any money at any stage”. The court also said no state should have the right to reject workers coming back. “There is no question...They are all citizens of India,” Mehta replied.Mehta also complained to the court about “prophets of doom” who keep spreading what he called misinformation. “The Centre is doing a lot to prevent Covid-19, but there are prophets of doom in our country who only spread negativity, negativity, negativity,” Mehta said.He objected to the arguments of senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who was representing NGO Delhi Shramik Sangathan. “It’s a humanitarian crisis. Nothing to do with politics. Don’t make it personal,” Sibal said. In his arguments, Sibal said the Centre failed to prescribe the minimum standards for shelter, food, drinking water, medical cover and sanitation under the Disaster Management Act. “There has to be coordination between national, state and district plans,” he said. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for Sujrewala, who has filed an application on the issue, said: “A large number of points of departure or arrival do not have relief camps. There are groups of people standing at the bus stations and railway stations. There is no supporting camp. No state or nationwide plan.”Senior advocate Santosh Paul told HT an early judicial intervention could have avoided a tragedy at a large scale. “This judicial intervention is welcome, but it has come after two months of tragic consequences of the lockdown, hunger and inevitable migration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-migrants-can-t-be-made-to-pay-for-travel/story-MfBORYNv95Jz6RC63ipOyM.html
29-05-2020||India||Copters, new gear to fight locust invasion amid warning in 16 states||Swarms of desert locusts, which according to a UN alert pose a “severe” risk to the country’s agriculture this year, have reached new locations, chomping through vegetation and crops across farmlands in Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, leading the Centre to issue a locust warning to 16 states. Locusts can fly up to 150 km a day and a one-square-kilometre swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people in a single day, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization’s Desert Locust Information Service bulletin.The government has readied a fleet of air force helicopters for spraying pesticides, set up 11 new monitoring stations, and is importing new equipment to fight the invasion. Also Read: As locusts invade Maharashtra, Centre assures Mumbai not in their pathLocust swarms have damaged orange, mango orchards and paddy fields in Bhandara, Gondia, Nagpur and Amravati districts of Maharashtra’s Vidarbha region. Maharashtra’s joint director (agriculture) Ravi Bhonsale said a team was rushed to Bhandara on Thursday to spray pesticides in the affected areas. “Timely action averted any major loss to crops,” he said.A locust swarm entered Ghorawal in Uttar Pradesh’s Sonbhadra from Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday afternoon and damaged crops across several villages in the district , which borders Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh. “The damage was not much as most of the vegetables and other crops have been harvested,” said district agriculture officer Piyush Rai.Also Read: About 90,000 hectares hit by locust in 20 Rajasthan districtsFarmers in Agra heaved a sigh of relief on Thursday as locusts from Dausa in Rajasthan moved towards Bhangarh in Rajasthan. “Three locust swarms have moved away from Agra and the one nearest moved towards Madhya Pradesh due to the wind flow,” said district plant protection officer Ram Pravesh Verma. He added the threat continued from the locust swarm traced to Dausa, around 140 km away. Verma said on Thursday a swarm was within 30 km of Agra but due to sudden change in wind directionm it got diverted towards Gwalior. “We are keeping a constant watch,” Verma said.Plant protection division joint director Suwa Lal Jat said the locust threat has been controlled in an area spread over 73,000 hectares in Rajasthan. He added 95,000 hectares was earlier affected across 24 districts in the state. “... Barmer, Jodhpur, Ganganagar, Dausa, Bikaner and Hanumangarh are badly affected,” he said. Jat said a swarm was present between Jaipur and Dausa and may either settle in Alwar or Dausa. Alwar is 100 km from Delhi.Officials have increased the vigil to counter a possible locust attack in Punjab, Haryana and Uttarakhand. Punjab is highly vulnerable as swarms of locusts were seen in Rajasthan’s Hanumanagrh district for a third day on Thursday. Punjab agriculture secretary KS Pannu said authorities in Fazilka, Bathinda and Muktsar districts that border Rajasthan have been equipped with ample stock of pesticides to deal with the locust attack.“Farmers are not being able to sow new crops. We have not seen such an invasion before,” said Raminder Uppal, a locust control official in Punjab’s Fazilka.Haryana and Uttarakhand governments have set up district control rooms to coordinate locust control operations. Officials in these states said that drones have also been procured to spray chemicals and fire tenders and trackers with chemicals were on standby for pest control operations.Farmers maintained vigil hundreds of kilometers away in Karnataka’s Bidar as locusts were expected from western Maharashtra, where they reached on Tuesday. State agriculture minister B C Patil said the wind direction suggested the locust swarm was unlikely to reach Karnataka. “There is a 99.99% chance that it [the swarm] will not come to Karnataka. So, farmers need not worry,” he saidIn Delhi, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar reviewed the mitigation measures on Thursday. In a statement, Tomar’s office said the government was taking the invasion “very seriously” as it could afflict damages in the crucial rice-planting Kharif season beginning next month. India is in the process of importing new equipment to deal fight the infestation. Currently, locust control offices have 21 “Micronair” and 26 “Ulvamast” sprayers to kill the pests. They are specialised sprayers that use malathion and other agents to contain the pests. The agriculture minister has approved the import of 60 sprayers from the Micron Group of the UK, which is a manufacturer of specialist spraying equipment. The ministry also floated bids for drones for aerial spraying of insecticides for effective control over tall trees and inaccessible areas. Helicopters are being readied for deployment, an official said. These pests have to be controlled before farmers begin sowing summer-sown, or kharif, crops during the June-to-September monsoon season. The ministry of civil aviation has approved “conditional exemption to government entity” for use of remotely piloted aircraft systems for anti-locust operations. The equipment being imported from the UK will begin arriving in the next 15 days, another official said. “Usually, locust swarms enter the Scheduled Desert Areas of India through Pakistan for summer breeding in the month of June and July with the advent of monsoon. This year, however, the incursions of locust hoppers and pink swarms have been reported much earlier because of the presence of a residual population of locust in Pakistan which they couldn’t control last season,” an agriculture ministry statement said. A surge in locust attacks since last year is being attributed to favourable breeding weather caused by a large number of cyclones in East Africa. India, China and Pakistan face the most risk in Asia, according to the UN. Pakistan has already declared an agricultural emergency.Locust attacks are known to cause a considerable drop in agricultural output. A moderate infestation chomped through winter crops in an estimated 300,000 hectares in Rajasthan and Gujarat in January. The crucial summer-sown season begins next month. (With inputs from Varanasi,Nagpur and Bathinda)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/copters-new-gear-to-fight-locust-invasion/story-lldhbP9xCxY2oMqveEGFUI.html
29-05-2020||India||55-year-old Odia man in home quarantine found dead||A 55-year-old tribal man died late Wednesday night at his home in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district where he was under quarantine after returning from Surat, officials said.Paresh Chandra Mahanta was found dead at his home in Bhalubasa village of Nahandashola panchayat of Mayurbhanj. While his cause of death is yet to be ascertained, fear has gripped the village with residents suspecting that he might have died of coronavirus given his travel history to one of the hotspots in the country. The local police said that the postmortem report will help reach a conclusion.Mahanta’s widow Sombari said her husband worked as a cook in Surat and had returned 10 days ago. He spent seven days at a quarantine centre set up at Adarsha Vidyalay in Garudabasa village before being allowed to go home for another round of quarantine. “Villagers had stopped coming to my house over fears that my husband was infected with Covid-19. No one turned up after his death,” said Sombari.On Wednesday, a two-month-old girl was found dead in a quarantine centre of Bargarh district a day after she arrived with her migrant worker parents and other family members from Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh. Meanwhile, the family of a person from Khurda district, who died in a Covid-19 hospital, has accused the administration of intentionally delaying the issuance of his death certificate.The wife of the deceased alleged that the hospital is yet to declare the death of her husband as the authority concerned has not yet issued the death certificate of her husband.The person had returned to Odisha from Surat in an ambulance on May 15. However, he was denied entry to his village, Balugaon, as he was sick. He was then admitted to AIIMS Bhubaneswar and later shifted to SUM Covid hospital on May 16, where he died on May 26. “He was declared Covid-19 positive in AIIMS. We were even not allowed to meet him because of his infection. We are yet to get any documents related to his death,” said a relative of the deceased.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party lashed out at the Odisha government and warned of massive protests if it does not start swab testing at quarantine centres.State BJP general secretary Prithviraj Harichandan said that the State government is not following the standard operating procedure (SOP) for Covid-19 testing at the quarantine centres.“Though there is a provision to conduct the test of quarantined people within five days but it is not happening in Odisha, Not conducting Covid-19 test of people seems like a conspiracy of the government to spread the virus in the rural areas,” alleged Harichandan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/55-year-old-odia-man-in-home-quarantine-found-head/story-HRoVS0A2GFRwfdAyrjChaP.html
29-05-2020||India||Doordarshan News staff member dies of Covid-19||A 53-year-old staff member of Doordarshan News who worked as a lighting assistant succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi on Wednesday, following which the public broadcaster asked some of its employees to go into isolation.According to a senior government official, the incident took place on Wednesday but the test report of the deceased came out on Thursday. It wasn’t immediately clear how he was infected. Following the incident, the public broadcaster asked several of its employees to go into isolation while the building itself will be sanitized.“He complained of uneasiness after which he was taken to a hospital in Shalimar Bagh area. We learnt that he died of a cardiac arrest. However, we got to know on Thursday after his test report came out that he was Covid-19 positive. We are shifting Doordarshan operations to another building and all necessary protocols are being followed,” said a senior government official who asked not to be named.Two Doordarshan officials, when contacted, confirmed the incident.According to a DD staffer who did not wish to be identified, the lighting assistant had participated in interviews of at least two senior officials, one from the railways and another from the central ministry. He had also visited the AIIMS area around 12 days ago.“Standard contact tracing protocols are being followed,” said an official, when asked about the interviews that the deceased had participated in.Following the incident, Prasar Bharati , the holding corporation of both Doordarshan and All India Radio, has decided to shift the transmission of DD News for two days to its office in Khelgaon .“In view of the situation, the public broadcaster had kept a plan B in mind. So the operations have been shifted. The deceased had complained of breathlessness so he had been taken to a hospital where he breathed his last. This is a very sad moment for all of us. Other staffers have undertaken tests following the incident,” said a second official who asked not to be named.Officials said that live bulletins would continue from 7am onwards on Friday.Several media persons, especially those working in field positions have been affected by the Covid-19.Earlier there were reports that over 50 mediapersons had contracted Covid-19 in Mumbai. A Noida-based Hindi channel also was in the news when several of its employees were infected by the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doordarshan-news-staff-member-dies-of-covid-19/story-LSWlgmFut6PlIVKP6Gq5OI.html
29-05-2020||India||Centre may focus on states with more Covid-19 cases, migrants||Continued focus on 13 cities and five states worst hit by Covid-19, the monitoring of the situation in seven states that are seeing a return of many of their residents who were working outside, and stringent enforcement of containment zones, which could be smaller zones within municipalities and corporations could be the broad approach of India’s next phase of exit from the ongoing lockdown. All three issues were discussed at the meeting between union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and the states on Thursday, according to people familiar with the proceedings who asked not to be named. The meeting was attended by the chief secretaries of the states and union territories, and district magistrates and commissioners of the 13 worst-hit cities. Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayInternal discussions between home and health ministries and the Indian Council of Medical Research have started on the contours of the next phase of the exit from the lockdown. At the meeting, the Centre said that the focus remains on two categories of states, the people added: those which have seen large number of Covid cases in last two and half months and those which are receiving large number of migrant labourers. Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakWhile Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi and Tamil Nadu fall in the previous category, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand fall in the second. Madhya Pradesh, whose most important commercial city Indore was an early hotspot of the coronavirus disease is also a borderline candidate to be included in the first category. While the former group of large states have seen large number of cases, shorter doubling period, and higher confirmation rates in tests, the second category is seeing a late rise due to the movement of migrants. The current phase of the lockdown, the fourth, is set to end on May 31. However, since May 3, when the second phase ended, there have been considerable relaxation in restrictions. Also Read: In Lockdown 5.0, states ask for curbs only in containment zonesAs India inches towards the next phase of exiting the lockdown, the Centre has told the states they can mark smaller areas within the municipalities as containment zones. The states have also been told to “appropriately demarcate” such zones and ensure strict enforcement.At the meeting it was decided that municipal corporations can demarcate “residential colony, mohallas, municipal wards or police-station area, municipal zones, towns can be designated as containment zones, as appropriate,” according to the people cited in the first instance.The meeting assumes significance as the centre has received reports about laxity in controlling the containment zones . Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicDistrict Magistrates of 13 COVID-19 hit cities, chief secretaries of all states, UTs attended The meeting. These 13 cities are considered to be the worst Coronavirus affected locations and constitute about 70% of the positive cases in the country.Municipal commissioners of Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi/New Delhi, Ahmadabad, Thane, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata/Howrah, Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Jaipur, Jodhpur, Chengalpattu (Tamil Nadu) and Thiruvallur (Tamil Nadu) attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-focus-on-states-with-more-cases-migrants/story-jOmBkuMDYFdE9esa30qVtJ.html
29-05-2020||India||In lockdown 5.0, states ask for curbs only in containment zones||With lockdown 4.0 drawing to an end on May 31, state governments are considering, if central guidelines allow, the imposition of restrictions only in the containment zones and allowing a range of activities elsewhere, including opening more markets, enabling more inter-state transport facilities, allowing more commercial activity, and possibly even religious places with social distancing norms, said officials of a range of state governments.They are also planning the eventual opening of schools in a month. In the ongoing phase of the lockdown, the Centre gave authority to the states to demarcate zones based on the severity of cases, and within a set of broad guidelines, allowed states to frame their own rules on the extent of activity allowed. Several states allowed the resumption of private transport; limited public transport; shops (except in malls and shopping complexes) and industrial activities. The Centre, in this period, also resumed the operation of domestic flights. But the focus now shifts to the next phase. Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe Chhattisgarh government has decided that shops will be allowed to open six days a week with physical distancing from Thursday onwards. “Resumption of commercial-economic activities will also help in reviving economy and providing employment in the state. The idea of restarting maximum number of industries in the state was also discussed,” said a senior official of Chhattisgarh government. In Jammu and Kashmir, a government official said that except shopping malls, multiplexes, restaurants, schools, colleges and gymnasiums, everything else will be allowed. “Quarantine rules by and large shall also remain the same, that is, 100 percent testing of returnees followed by 14 day administrative quarantine or paid quarantine. Following test reports, people are being dealt accordingly. Positive cases are being hospitalized and negative cases are being sent to home quarantine for 14 days,” he said.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said he got representations from many religious leaders to open shrines, churches and mosques but they will have to wait for some more time. Similarly, television and film production units have also sought the government’s permission to resume, saying the two-month-long lockdown has virtually crippled the industry. Also read| Pandemic poses serious threat to global financial system: FSDCUnlike the past, when Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was the first to announce extension of the lockdown, on Wednesday, Rao announced that he will wait for Centre’s regulation on the next phase of relaxations. Officials said all shops except those in malls and around the clock movement plying of the state run buses and taxis will, in all likelihood, be allowed. Shooting of films and television products will be allowed from June 1, said minister for cinematography T Srinivasa Yadav. No permission would be given for cinema theatres, function halls, places of worship and other areas of public gathering.In Rajasthan, the lockdown will be reduced to only two categories “curfew and non-curfew zone”. “In non-curfew zone, almost all activities will be allowed,” an official familiar with the decision, but who was not willing to be named, said. Also, the hours for public movement would be increased by two hours — 6am to 8 pm, which currently is 7am to 7pm. This, however, Gujarat government will continue with lockdown 4.0 restrictions in containment areas. In Odisha, which has seen a spurt in Covid cases in the past fortnight with the return of migrant workers, lockdown 4.0 norms are likely to continue. “For us, the scope for allowing any new activities is limited as we want to see and stabilise the situation for at least a fortnight more,” said a state government official, who was not willing to be named. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Officials in some states such as Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat said they are yet to decide on lockdown 5.0. Punjab’s additional chief secretary, home, Satish Chandra said nothing can be said at this moment as there is some time left. “The state has already allowed all activities except those prohibited by the Union home ministry throughout the country. Let’s see which of these activities are allowed by the centre after May 31,” Chandra said.To be sure, all these measures are contingent on central guidelines. One other area of attention among state governments is schools to ensure that the academic calendar is not disrupted and students can get back. To be sure, the summer break is on in many parts of the country and there is a window of a month, but states believe it is important to plan the opening up. Also read: In Delhi, traders seek curfew extension, end to odd-even system from June 1On Thursday, Chattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said announced all schools will open in the state from July 1. Earlier this week, the Uttarakhand government issued directions that schools should not be used as quarantine centres after June 15. Karnataka has also sought Centre’s permission to re-open the schools from July 1.Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal on Thursday said they will seek Centre’s permission to open the schools. Jharkhand and Maharashtra have also said that the government was planning to allow limited activities in schools from July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-lockdown-5-0-states-ask-for-curbs-only-in-containment-zones/story-5rbxlsJvmzMFTs4VDVvUKJ.html
29-05-2020||India||‘Unassigned’ Covid-19 cases increase as interstate migration picks up||The number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that are yet to be assigned to any state by the Union government have increased by almost 19 times in the past two weeks, highlighting increasing issues in allotment of cases due to inter-state migration.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, a total of 4,332 cases are “being reassigned to states” as on Thursday. For context on the relative size of this number, only the eight worst-hit states in the country have reported more cases. On May 16, this number was only 230 and nearly 2,000 cases have been added to this category in just the last four days.Also read: Centre may focus on states with more Covid-19 cases, migrantsSenior government officials said that this category had to be created as several cases cannot be assigned to states immediately as they need additional verification and reconciliation. With increasing interstate movement in the past few days, this number has started rapidly increasing.Officials at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Union ministry of health and family welfare and integrated disease surveillance programme network compile case numbers after collectively confirming a case or a death due to Covid-19. The cases are classified to states or UTs after looking at the person’s the address in their government-issued identification documents such as voter ID cards, driving licenses and Aadhaar cards.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“It is an exhaustive process that requires 100% confirmation of the identity of the person by looking at government documents and other relevant details primarily to avoid duplication and any errors. Sometimes if a person, belonging to for example Delhi, develops symptoms in say Bhopal and gets tested there, then in spite of being a resident of Delhi the case will be counted of Madhya Pradesh because that’s where the test happened. So it has to be clearly documented that it’s a Delhi resident but an MP case. These things take time because several cases fall under this category,” said a government official, requesting anonymity.“We suspect that among the reasons could be that travel is being gradually opened up and people are able to move from one state to another for work or other reasons. These things do play a role,” added the official.Delays can also happen due to verification needed after samples are sent to laboratories, officials said. This happens when markings on the vial don’t have the necessary information printed to establish the identity or case history of a person.“Sometimes the surname is not mentioned on the chit or the spellings are wrong ; then local district surveillance officers are contacted to verify the identity of the person and furnish extra details that are required. Sometimes there is also confusion regarding whether the sample that has come is for diagnostic purposes or of a follow up case. Before final documentation is done all this information has to be clear, so it may take longer than usual with the number of cases going up. That’s what reconciliation and verification means,” said Dr Lokesh Sharma, ICMR official.Unlike all states and union territories that issue number of deaths and recoveries, this heading in the health ministry website does not contain additional details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unassigned-cases-increase-as-interstate-migration-picks-up/story-thzCTEA7Ub39VE8pmRyrFO.html
29-05-2020||India||Wearing masks at home can limit spread: Study||Wearing face masks at home before symptoms develop helps prevent the spread of Covid-19 among people living in the same house, irrespective of the family’s size or crowding, according to a new study that suggests masks be worn all the time in areas with high community transmission.A face mask worn before symptoms started was 79% effective at stopping the virus from infecting others, but masks offered no protection if used after symptoms had appeared, according to a peer-reviewed observational study of Chinese families in Beijing, accepted for publication in BMJ Global Health, an online journal. Disinfection was 77% effective in preventing transmission, the study found.Close daily contact, such as eating meals at a table or watching TV together raised chances of others getting infected 18-fold while diarrhoea as a symptom in patient zero quadrupled infection risk, showed the review of behavioural and hygiene factors in the home environment.“Airborne infection is the main source of infection, the best way to stop the spread of infection is for the sick person to wear a mask. But with around 80% people being asymptomatic or having mild disease, wearing a mask in areas where Covid-19 prevalence is high can help prevent transmission of infection,” said Dr GC Khilnani, chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical Care and a member of the Delhi chief minister’s advisory committee on Covid-19 preparedness.According to the US Centers of Disease Control’s latest update, Covid-19 primarily spreads between people in close contact through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs, sneezes, or talks are inhaled. “Infection can also spread if an infected person contaminates a surface or object, which is then touched by others who then touch their own mouth, nose, or eyes, but this is not the main source of infection,” said Dr Khilnani.Studies from China show that most of the person-to-person transmission of Sars-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes Covid-19, happens within families. To understand how effective face masks are in preventing infection, the researchers questioned 460 people from 124 families with at least one Covid-19 patient in Beijing about their household hygiene and behaviour during the pandemic. The average family size was four, but ranged from two to nine, and comprised three generations in most homes.The study tracked infections from the incubation period of 14 days from the start of patient zero’s symptoms and found secondary infections in 41 families, where 77 adults and children were infected. Infection occurred in 36% (13 out of 36) children, compared to 69.5% (64 out of 92) adults. Twelve children had mild symptoms, one had none. Most (83%) adults had mild symptoms, with symptoms being severe in around one in 10 people. One adult became critically ill.Daily use of disinfectants, opening widows for ventilation and keeping at least one metre apart were associated with a lower risk of spreading infection even in crowded homes, while daily contact raised risk, the study found.The findings back universal face mask use, not just in public spaces, but also at home, especially for families living with someone in quarantine, and for the families of health workers who have high risk of infection. “Masks also serve the purpose of reminding others to continue practicing physical distancing,” said Dr Khilnani.“Household transmission is a major driver of epidemic growth...This study confirms the highest risk of household transmission being prior to symptom onset, but that precautionary [non-pharmaceutical interventions], such as mask use, disinfection and social distancing in households can prevent COVID-19 transmission during the pandemic, independent of household size or crowding,” concluded the study.How coronavirus spreadsSars-CoV2 spreads very easily and sustainably between people. Spreads more efficiently than influenza but not as efficiently as measles.It spreads between people in close contact (within 2 metres).People get infected by inhaling respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs, sneezes, or talks.People without symptoms also infect others.Covid-19 can also spread by people touching a surface or object contaminated with the virus and then touching their own mouth, nose, or eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads. Source: US Centers for Disease Control & Prevention||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wearing-masks-at-home-can-limit-spread-study/story-dDSRC5MRYIusJae1DIjQlK.html
29-05-2020||India||Local instigation led to exodus of labourers, SG tells top court||Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said on Thursday migrant labourers are taking to the roads on foot because of anxiety due to “local level instigation” and stressed that “stray incidents” should not impact the hearing in the case in the Supreme Court.“They are told ‘walk now, trains won’t run. Lockdown extended’,” Mehta said.He also maintained that some “high courts are running parallel governments”, in an apparent reference to courts in Gujarat, Chennai, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh that passed directions to states and the Centre on the issue.Mehta also said a section of people active on social media, who are writing article and giving interviews, have failed to acknowledge the government’s efforts. “All these armchair intellectuals and so-called public-spirited people have done nothing to contribute,”he said.He went on to draw a comparison between such people and South African photojournalist Kevin Carter, who was awarded the Pulitzer for capturing the photo of a vulture standing behind a starving child in famine-struck south Sudan in 1993. The child, it was reported, was attempting to reach a United Nations feeding centre. Carter left the place after driving away the vulture, but did not help the child reach the feeding centre.“All these people wanting to intervene need to apply the vulture and child story. What have they contributed?” Mehta said.The apex court passed a seven-point order to mitigate the plight of migrants. It also sought detailed reports from the central and state governments.The top court’s first opportunity to intervene in the matter came two months ago when a public interest litigation, Alakh Alok Srivastava v. Union of India, came up before it. The Centre told the court on March 31 that all workers walking on the roads had been taken to shelters and were being provided food. The court expressed satisfaction at the steps taken by the government.“Courts are many times taking statements made by government at face value without really cross-checking...,” advocate Rebecca John told HT.Srivastava filed a fresh plea in May seeking directions for free transport to take migrants home. But the top court once again declined to interfere and left it to the states to deal with the problem, maintaining that it cannot pass orders based on media reports.Another plea for payment of minimum wages to migrant workers during the lockdown was also disposed of by the apex court on April 21 without any concrete directions being passed.Lawyers and former judges criticised the court for its stance. Twenty-one senior counsels wrote to the Chief Justice on May 25, urging the court to intervene. The court eventually took up the matter suo motu (on its own) on May 26.“It really did not require a petition...this kind of prodding. The Supreme Court could have taken suo motu notice much before this,” John said.Senior counsel Sanjay Hegde said: “Hindsight can be 20:20 vision. Intervention may be delayed but is welcome.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-instigation-led-to-exodus-of-labourers-sg-tells-top-court/story-J7vrmOZZD6eQ2HxulZ3hMI.html
29-05-2020||India||Coders flag host of issues, offer tips to improve Aarogya Setu||In less than 48 hours since the Android code of the Aarogya Setu mobile application was thrown open for review, at least 165 issues of various levels of severity was flagged by the software developer community to help the government identify and plug holes -- from the way it uses Bluetooth for contact tracing to typos in the text.The number and nature of suggestions that poured in could make Aarogya Setu, now being used by over 100 million Indians, one of the first big government projects to be improved through public inputs, experts said. Also read: Protection or threat? Experts say Aarogya Setu poses national security risk“People have flagged raised a lot of issues and while among these, many may be minor, what it really shows is participatory governance in the making,” said Srinivas Kodali, an independent researcher working on technology, data and governance. “But it needs to be extended to other governance applications and IT systems – it cannot be one-off,” he added.The code of Aarogya Setu for Android phones was shared at 12am on Wednesday on code-sharing website GitHub. A review of issues posted by people varied from concerns over the way the app deployed Bluetooth, typos in the text displayed by the application and suggestions for improvements. “All suggestions are under review by the technical team,” said Abhishek Singh, CEO of MyGov. An IT ministry official, who asked not to be named, added that the technical team has been instructed to notify MyGov in case of a serious issue . Other issues, as mentioned in the timeline by the government, will be reviewed in three days by the team.So far, no “significant” development has been flagged, added the official. However, some posts said that the version available for users to download through the Google Play store is not the version for which the code was made public.One of the more serious concerns, flagged by Sydney-based developer Jim Mussared, concerned the way contact-tracing applications use Bluetooth to determine whether people have been in close contact with another person. The vulnerability, which has at least been identified in Australia’s COVIDSafe application, allows for long-term tracking of users and possibly enables other Bluetooth-based attack vectors, the global vulnerability listing of the problem showed.“We have not confirmed that the issue exists in the Aarogya Setu app, we just wanted to reach out to the team so they could clarify for sure. Given that it affects other apps it seemed important to check with them, but we haven’t been able to get a reply by email yet,” said Mussared in an email to HT. The researcher added that there have been several issues in contact-tracing apps from multiple countries, and that many of these are due to using Bluetooth in this manner. The details of this particular vulnerability will be made public on June 19 at the end of a 45-day embargo that is meant to give developers time to address it.Bluetooth is short-distance radio technology. Its short range is one of the reasons why contact-tracing tools have preferred to use it to determine close contacts, but the technology itself has been vulnerable to hacking. Several of the other posts on the Aarogya Setu GitHub page also suggested how the Bluetooth deployment could be made safer. The government has announced a bug bounty, offering ₹1-3 lakh for researchers who expose serious vulnerabilities. More suggestions are likely to pour in as comprehensive code reviews can take several days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coders-flag-host-of-issues-offer-tips-to-improve-aarogya-setu/story-P1WeZXnmzdeOrvPIllbrqM.html
29-05-2020||India||Public transit use likely to fall sharply after lockdown: Study||Fewer residents of the National Capital Region will use public transport over the next six months for fear of contracting Covid-19, and many will use personal vehicles according to a study by research and advocacy organisation Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).The ongoing study shows that before the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease , as much as 37% of Delhi’s commuters used the Metro, 28%, personal vehicles and 7%, public buses. CSE researchers say these choices are likely to shift after the lockdown comes to a close and public transport services resume completely.In the next six months, the proportion of commuters using the metro is expected to fall to 16%, and buses, just 1%. The dependence on private vehicles, on the other hand, will increase significantly, from 28% to as much as 38%. Delhi government data shows that the Capital has a little over 11 million registered vehicles, of which 3.3 million are cars.The study is based only on the commuting patterns and preferences of middle and upper middle-class commuters. Researchers said that over 400 residents from Delhi-NCR have already been surveyed and more will be surveyed in the coming days to assess commuting patterns after the lockdown ends. CSE officials said upper middle-class and middle-class households are being targeted in the current because people from this strata have the option to switch from public transport to private vehicles and may have the disposable income to afford a second vehicle. The CSE is also conducting another study with a focus on commuters from lower income groups in the city.The findings also show that low contact modes of travel, such as walking and cycling are likely to emerge as preferred modes among residents to cover shorter distances. Before the lockdown 4% commuters walked or cycled , a figure which is expected to grow to 12% in the coming months, the CSE report said.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), CSE, said this shift in commuting preferences can be attributed to peoples’ health concerns. She said that with the present state of the public transport system in the national capital, people are not confident that social distancing can be maintained while travelling on buses or the Metro. “The future and the ‘new normal’ that we will be faced with post-lockdown will demand steps to rebuild confidence in mass transit systems while also improving them. Apart from this, steps will also be taken by the governments to improve infrastructure for contact-free modes such as walking and cycling, and come up with measures to cut unnecessary travel to reduce pressure on already-stressed transport systems,” Roychowdhury said.As Delhi government relaxed movement restrictions in the fourth phase of the lockdown starting May 18, nearly 2,000 DTC and cluster buses were allowed to operate in the city to ferry commuters with an occupancy limit of 20 passengers in each bus. However, despite the government allowing private companies to resume work with complete staff strength, several establishments are still encouraging employees to work from home, which has hit bus ridership. Data compiled by the transport department shows that since operations resumed, the daily ridership in buses has remained nearly 100,000 passengers a day, as against the daily ridership of four million before the lockdown. The Delhi Metro is yet to begin operations.  “If looked at from the service capacity perspective, to regain the original service capacity level pre-lockdown, the city needs an additional fleet of 13,243 buses,” CSE said. Or their efficiency needs to be increased. “Only if protected bus lanes are introduced immediately, the same fleet can provide more kilometres of service and reduce the additional requirement,” CSE’s report added.Delhi currently has 6,847 buses.Experts said that a similar shift towards private vehicles is also being witnessed in cities across the world. Sewa Ram, professor at School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), said that it has been observed that in cities that have opened up after lockdowns and movement restrictions, the preferred mode of transportation has been private vehicles. But he cautioned that the switch to private vehicles would not only increase traffic but also contribute to increased pollution levels.“Public transportation is likely to be used only by those who cannot afford personal vehicles. The policy work that was being done to control the use of private vehicles for all these years will surely be impacted. The fear around this disease is likely to change commuter preferences. Governments will have to bounce back from its impact,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/public-transit-use-likely-to-fall-sharply-after-lockdown-study/story-GED7MKVY5pBM63VmBMH2dM.html
29-05-2020||India||Pulwama-style attack averted in J&K: Police||A car carrying around 45 kg concealed explosives was seized from Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district, the Union Territory police said on Thursday and added the recovery prevented an attack similar to the one that left 40 paramilitary troopers dead in February 2019 and brought India and Pakistan on the brink of war.Vijay Kumar, the inspector general of police (Kashmir), said they had human and technical intelligence inputs over the last week, indicating that Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), which claimed responsibility for the 2019 attack, and Hizbul Mujahideen were planning a big suicide attack using a car bomb. “On Wednesday, [Jammu & Kashmir] police, Army and the CRPF [Central Reserve Police Force] established multiple nakas [barricades] after the leads about the attack. In the evening, a naka party directed a car to stop, but it sped away. At another naka, warning shots were fired on the vehicle. The car’s driver left the vehicle behind and fled towards a forest under the darkness of the night,’’ Kumar said. He added the entire area was cordoned off after security forces noticed suspicious objects in the car from a distance. “The car was searched and a large quantity of explosives was found concealed in the car.”Kumar said the modus operandi used was the same as in the 2019 car bomb attack in Pulwama, which prompted an airstrike on a terror training camp in Pakistan. Pakistan retaliated a day later on February 27, 2019, and triggered a dogfight between Indian and Pakistani aircraft. It was the first such clash since the 1971 war and an Indian pilot was captured and later released after his plane was downed.Kumar said they suspect Adil of Hizbul Mujahideen, who also works with JeM, and Fauji bhai, a Pakistani JeM commander in Pulwama, were involved in the planning of the failed attack.“The improvised explosive device was diffused in a technical way... The Pulwama police, with the help of security forces, have averted a major tragedy and I congratulate all of the forces.”Investigators said the car carrying the explosives had a fake number plate, which is a strong indication that the militants were planning to carry out a car bomb attack. The car was intercepted at Aynegund in Rajpora area of Pulwama. The Jammu & Kashmir had strengthened security along the Srinagar-Jammu national highway and other sensitive spots earlier this month amid multiple inputs about a possible car bomb attack. Pulwama is located along the highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pulwama-style-attack-averted-in-j-k-police/story-jKGqiNpIJWAHJoY5LZoiKL.html
29-05-2020||India||‘I blame Congress, MVA for playing politics’: Fadnavis||Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has denied accusations that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wants to topple Maharashtra’s Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. In a telephone interview with Smriti Kak Ramachandran, Fadnavis spoke about the issue. Edited excerpts:How would you react to a perception that the BJP is indulging in politics in the middle of a pandemic?The BJP is not playing politics. [Congress leader] Rahul Gandhi gives statements everyday blaming the Centre government to hide the failures of his own government [in Maharashtra]... this is called politics. We are trying to help the government. The central government is also trying to help. It has given them Rs 28,000 crore... I blame the Congress and MVA government for playing politics because they have no control over the spread of the coronavirus and therefore, they want to set different narratives.They do not want the focus on coronavirus because 37% of the positive cases are from Maharashtra and 41% of the deaths occurred here... There are no beds in hospitals, no ambulances, people are dying on the roads. Does the BJP want the President’s rule?...we have not demanded the President’s rule. The BJP does not want to form the government; this is not the right time. It is more important to fight the pandemic. We want to focus on helping the poor, farmers and use all our energy to help people. I do not think this is the time when we should think of changing the government...Could you elaborate on your statement that the government will fall because of its internal contradictions?...three parties coming together is in itself a contradiction. The ideological view of the Shiva Sena has been diametrically opposite to that of Congress and the NCP [Nationalist Congress Party]. Sharad Pawar [NCP chief] had many times manufactured factions in the Sena. Just for the sake of forming a government, they have come together. But the ideological and cultural differences will not allow them to cope with each other. Has the BJP, with 105 MLAs in the assembly reached out to the state government to offer any suggestions? Or is there a complete breakdown in talks?We have been insisting that the chief minister should call an all party meeting. Even the Prime Minister has held two so far. For two months there was no meeting. Finally,one meeting, where the CM joined through video conferencing was called and we gave constructive suggestions on how to plan the exit strategy from the lockdown, on how to revive the economy, and how to create more health infrastructure. We also talked about the plight of the farmers during the lockdown and how their Kharif crop should be procured. The CM had assured us, but did nothing. I spoke to him on the phone and regularly write letters, but I don’t see any response. However, I will keep on writing and giving suggestions. It is the duty of the ruling party to take everyone along, but in Maharashtra they are not able to even taken along their partners much less the opposition.You said the MVA government is not decisive and is scared of taking decisions. Is this a comment against the CM or the entire MVA?During such times you require a very assertive political leadership that needs to lead from the front. You have to take bold decisions, there will be times when your decisions will be criticised, but if you feel those are in the interest of the state then you should not be afraid of taking bold decisions. In Maharashtra you can see that entire state is run by bureaucracy. Everybody is acting on their own. In such a situation, it is only the political leadership that can bring cohesiveness in the government so that it can function in the right way. Ultimately it is the entire government, but the primary responsibility is of the chief minister. Last week you said the Maharashtra government does not even have a plan for reviving economic activity. What are the other areas where you think the government has failed?A I had suggested to the CM that if we want to restart the economy-- and it is the right time to do so-- we form a team of stakeholders in every sector and also include people from the health sector to form protocols to restart businesses and industry. Let them come to a conclusion on how much can be restarted. Although lockdown is necessary, it cannot be a permanent policy of the government; it is a measure to control the pandemic, the policy of the government should be an exit policy. Wherever possible we have to save and create jobs because it will have a bigger toll on our economy and Maharashtra being an economically progressive state, will be more affected.Looking back do think the power sharing negotiations with the Sena could have been handled better?That is now in the past. There is no value of ifs and buts in politics. We have to now face the reality that we are the opposition and we want to play the role of a constructive opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-blame-cong-mva-for-playing-politics-fadnavis/story-hx8XsNBzcGecZyZpAZQULM.html
29-05-2020||India||Rajasthan officer performs infant’s last rites as villagers shy away over Covid-19||A sub-divisional officer (SDO) in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara district performed the last rites of a four-month-old girl on Thursday because villagers refused to carry out her funeral suspecting that she may have died of Covid-19 after her father had tested positive for the disease.The baby died on Wednesday evening due to dehydration following acute diarrhoea.Mahipal Singh, SDO of Kareda said the girl’s family had returned from Mumbai on May 13 to their village Chhavandi. The family was first put in a quarantine centre and their samples were taken for Covid-19 test. Suresh Kumawat, the baby’s father tested positive on May 23 and was admitted to MG Hospital in Bhilwara. The others were later sent to home quarantine after a brief institutional quarantine.“The girl had diarrhoea but the family did not inform the officer in charge of home quarantine. On Wednesday, when her condition deteriorated, our team took her to hospital where she was declared dead on arrival,” said Singh.He said because the family returned from Mumbai, a Covid-19 hotspot, and one member had tested positive, villagers suspected the baby also had the infection.“Till Thursday afternoon, the body lay in the house and no one was willing to touch it for fear of getting infected,” the SDO said.He said he went to the deceased girl’s house and tried to convince the family that she was negative. But the family and villagers weren’t convinced. Then the officer lifted the body himself and brought it out.“When people saw me lifting the body, some others came forward. We took the body to a cremation ground where we buried it,” Singh said.Apart from the SDO, police and administration officials were present during the funeral. Two members of the family and some villagers also joined in, said the SDO.Neha Kumawat, a neighbour of the family and who was part of the 12-member group that returned from Mumbai on May 13, said the villagers did not help when the baby was ill and were not convinced that she was not infected.“The family showed them the test reports but they thought the girl had Covid-19,” said the 20-year-old who also tested positive along with the girl’s father and is in a Bhilwara hospital.She said three families started from Mumbai in a hired vehicle early May 13 morning and reached Kareda at night. “We were initially quarantined in a house in the village. Samples of one person from each of three families were taken for testing. We were then shifted to an institutional quarantine. Our samples were taken again and three of us tested positive on May 24,” she said.The other nine among the dozen people were later sent to home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-officer-performs-infant-s-last-rites-as-villagers-shy-away-over-covid-19/story-d0iIs2bEZJGy9M7JGXpJPJ.html
29-05-2020||India||Highest single-day spike of 344 cases takes Bengal Covid-19 tally to 4,536||West Bengal on Thursday recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 344 cases to take the state’s tally to 4,536, the health department said.The previous highest was 208 cases reported on Sunday. According to a senior official of the state health department, the majority of these cases are from rural areas in different districts where migrant workers recently returned from other states.“More than 250 of these 344 new cases are migrant workers who recently returned from the states of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat, Delhi and Tamil Nadu,” said a health department official. “Over the past one week, the number of migrant workers testing positive for Covid-19 has crossed 600.”The districts of Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum, Hooghly, Howrah and Uttar Dinajpur have been the worst affected as most of the state’s migrant workers hail from these districts. Out of Bengal’s 23 districts, only two in north Bengal presently remain unaffected by Covid-19.Malda, Uttar Dinajpur, Birbhum and Bankura had been among the districts unaffected by Covid-19 till two weeks ago. However, over the past one week, Malda has recorded 79 new cases, Uttar Dinajpur 77 new cases and Murshidabad 60 new cases, while Hooghly and Howrah have recorded 87 and 153 cases, respectively, from the rural areas of these districts.While Bankura has recorded 19 cases, and Nadia 34 cases, East Burdwan has recorded 37 new cases.“Most of those who tested positive for Covid-19 in the past week, except for those in Kolkata, were migrant workers. We anticipate the numbers to go up as more results are awaited,” said a senior state government official who did not want to be identified.On Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee blamed the Centre for forcing the state to accept more migrant workers than its intake capacity, given the precautions needed to be maintained.“Centre’s unplanned transport of migrant workers is turning rural Bengal red. It will also turn rural India red,” Banerjee said.The state government has decided to requisition more schools to turn them into institutional quarantine centres for returning migrant workers. Those returning from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi will be sent to institutional quarantine centres, the administration has decided.Banerjee’s statement, however, has created a political controversy. Congress’ Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “It is utterly insensitive for the chief minister to blame migrant workers for the spread of Covid-19. Migrant workers have been one of the biggest victims of this lockdown. We should sympathize with them and create proper infrastructure and management,” Chowdhury said.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state unit president Dilip Ghosh also attacked Banerjee. “The CM is treating the migrant workers unfairly. It is because of the state’s inability to create jobs that they went to other states in search of jobs. It’s the state’s responsibility to look after their wellbeing,” said Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-single-day-spike-of-344-cases-takes-bengal-covid-19-tally-to-4-536/story-d2BD0B0BglNdJtOIsGWYVP.html
29-05-2020||India||Hydroxychroloquine should be used as per guidelines, its benefits outweighs risks: Niti Aayog member||As per the current available data, benefits of anti-malarial drug Hydroxychroloquine (HCQ) “outweighs” the risks, if any, Niti Aayog member V K Paul said on Thursday, asserting it should be used as per guidelines and recommendations made by the scientific community. The drug has been recommended by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) as prophylaxis for COVID-19 among healthcare and frontline workers, and also for clinical management of patients, he said.Responding to a question over the government’s stand on the use of HCQ in COVID-19 cases after the WHO temporarily suspended its use in the clinical trials citing safety concerns, Paul said it can be used as per the guidelines issued by the ICMR, taking all precautions as mentioned by the apex health research body.“According to current available data and knowledge, the benefits of Hydroxychroloquine outweighs risks if any. We want it to be used as per guidelines and recommendations made by the scientific community,” Paul, who is also the chairman of Empowered Group-1, said.He said that the World Health Organisation (WHO) was not the only platform where the drug was being tried. The medicine was being tried and looked at in several other countries as a potential treatment for COVID-19, Paul said. He said Hydroxychloroquine is a familiar drug and is widely used for malaria and in other auto-immune disease like rheumatoid arthritis. It is produced in large quantities in the country, is inexpensive and has strong plausibility, he said, adding that research will reveal new things.“And, we will get to know more about its effectiveness against the coronavirus as it a new virus. At this stage, whatever guidelines have been provided by the scientific community, we consider it appropriate and it should be used by healthcare workers and frontline workers as a preventive medication against the coronavirus infection as per the prescribed guidelines,” Paul said.“The drug is also being used in clinical management of COVID-19 as per clinical protocol. As per the emerging relevant data we will keep advising further accordingly. Have faith, we are using it responsibly based on current available knowledge,” he said. Paul said several other drugs favipiravir, itolizumab, phytopharmaceutical (a plant-based drug), convalescent plasma, remdesivir and the BCG vaccine are being looked at and are in advance stages of trials.“Eight vaccine candidates in the world, of which four are in relatively advanced stages,” he said In response to a question on whether the novel coronavirus has mutated over the last few months, Principal Scientific Adviser K Vijay Raghavan said, “We have not seen any change in the fundamental properties of the virus till now.” Highlighting the importance of the RT-PCR test in detection of COVID-19, Raghavan said it tests for the presence of the virus’ genetic material. “It is agnostic to whether you have symptoms or not. Even you are asymptomatic, if the virus is there in the body, the RT-PCR will pick it up with great likelihood,” he said. On Tuesday, DG ICMR Dr Balram Bhargava had said that no major side-effects of the anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) have been found in studies in India and its use can be continued as prophylaxis for COVID-19 under strict medical supervision.He said it has been “clearly advised that HCQ should be taken with food, not on empty stomach”.“We also emphasized that one ECG should be done during the treatment. We expanded use of HCQ from healthcare workers to front-line workers also, considering the potential benefits,” he added. The ICMR in its revised advisory on May 22 recommended use of the drug as a preventive medication for COVID-19 for asymptomatic healthcare workers working in non-COVID hospitals and frontline staff on surveillance duty in containment zones and paramilitary/police personnel involved in coronavirus infection related activities.The drug is also recommended for all asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in containment and treatment of COVID-19 and household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases.The Union health ministry on March 31 in its ‘‘Clinical Management of COVID - 19’ had also recommended use of the drug Hydroxychloroquine in combination with Azithromycin on COVID-19 affected patients suffering with severe disease and requiring ICU management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hydroxychroloquine-should-be-used-as-per-guidelines-its-benefits-outweighs-risks-niti-aayog-member/story-ts2SSGpgTny8Ag3OljD8sL.html
29-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand to boost testing in hilly areas as Covid-19 cases soar||With over 60 cases being reported from the hilly district of Tehri Garhwal in a week, Uttarakhand is now changing the focus of testing to its mountainous regions.Amit Singh Negi, Uttarakhand’s health secretary on Thursday asked officials to increase testing in the hilly districts, especially for those returning from red zones.“Testing should be increased in the hill districts as much as possible. Booth facilities can also be developed for this and cooperation of private hospitals should be sought for this,” said Negi.He asked officials to hire outsourced personnel to increase manpower in the health department and ensure that all possible facilities are provided to those being quarantined.At a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the state, the health secretary said that there is no shortage of funds in the state and all necessary facilities and arrangements should be ensured in the quarantine facilities.According to the health department’s bulletin, there are 19,939 people in quarantine centres in the state.“The people at the quarantine facilities should be made to feel comfortable. Cleanliness should also be taken care of. Covid-19 Care Centers are very important and officials should try to have more space available there,” Negi said.The health department reported 24 cases on Thursday. Six of the cases were from Dehradun, eight from Haridwar and 10 from Tehri. The new cases have taken Uttarakhand’s tally to 493.Most of these patients had a travel history from Maharashtra. Three of those reported from Dehradun district were vendors from Niranjanpur Mandi, one of the biggest vegetable markets in Uttarakhand.The rate of doubling stands at 3.99 days in Uttarakhand for the last seven days, while the rate of infection stands at 2.49%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-boost-testing-in-hilly-areas-as-covid-19-cases-soar/story-r7W8Dd9q3DhbViLtmetfeJ.html
29-05-2020||India||Offices needn’t be shut after a few cases: Govt||The Union health ministry on Monday issued guidelines on preventive measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at workplace, recommending distancing norms and rules on reporting of infections and sanitisation among other things.The government said the entire office building need not be closed if one or two cases of Covid-19 are reported and work can resume after it is disinfected as per protocol. However, if there is a larger outbreak, the entire building will have to be closed for 48 hours. All staff will work from home till the building is adequately disinfected and is declared fit for re-occupation, the guidelines said.“Offices and other workplaces are relatively close setting, with shared spaces like (corridors, elevators, stairs, parking places, cafeteria, meeting rooms and conference halls etc.) and thus Covid-19 infection can spread relatively fast among officials, staffs and visitors. There is a need to prevent importation of infection in workplace settings and to respond in a timely and effective manner in case suspect case of COVID-19 is detected in these settings, so as to limit the spread of infection,” the government said.The guidelines focus on some key aspects: basic preventive measures to be followed at all times; office-specific measures; measures to be taken on occurrence of a case; and disinfection of the office premises. Here are details from the guideline:Basic preventionThe measures that are to be followed at all times include maintaining a physical distance of at least one metre between colleagues; use of face covers or masks; frequent hand-washing; following respiratory etiquette such as covering mouth and nose while coughing, sneezing with a tissue, handkerchief, flexed elbow, and disposing of used tissues properly. It is important to self-monitor one’s health, and reporting any illness at the earliest.Office-specific measuresThere should be thermal scanners installed at the entry of the office building, along with mandatory placing of hand sanitisers. As far as possible, the entry of visitors in the office complex should be discouraged. Meetings, as far as feasible, should be done through video-conferencing, and exchange of files and other documents should only be done on mail. Gyms, recreation centres or creches located within the building should be closed. The office should be cleaned and frequently sanitised, particularly frequently touched surfaces.“Any staff reportedly suffering from flu-like illness should not attend office and seek medical advice from local health authorities, … if diagnosed… should immediately inform the office authorities,” the guidelines said.On reporting of a positive caseThe guidelines said the people who are ill should be placed in a room or an area where they are isolated from others at the workplace. They should be provided a mask or a face cover till they are examined by a doctor. They should then by reported to local health authorities, or on a phone call to helpline 1075. “A risk assessment will be undertaken by the designated public health authority and accordingly further advice shall be made regarding management of case, their contacts and need for disinfection.”Management of contactsThe high-risk exposure contacts will have to be quarantined for 14 days, and low-risk exposure contacts can continue to work and should closely monitor their health over the next two weeks.Closure of workplaceIf there are one or two cases reported, the disinfection procedure will be limited to places or areas visited by the patient in past 48 hours. “There is no need to close the entire office building or halt work in other areas of the office and work can be resumed after disinfection as per laid down protocol.”If there is a larger outbreak, however, the entire building will have to be closed for 48 hours after disinfection. “All the staff will work from home, till the building is adequately disinfected and is declared fit for re-occupation.”Experts said there was no need to seal entire buildings in the case of low numbers of infections. “If the structure is where there are multiple flats or different floors, then there is no need to seal the entire building as per the infection control guidelines. However, all the flats or floor have to remain under observation, and people should watch out for symptoms,” said Dr T Jacob John, senior virologist, former head of department, Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/offices-needn-t-be-shut-after-a-few-cases-govt/story-tWt2yUpF1gIlwdAyzqGKpN.html
29-05-2020||India||Does coronavirus affect children differently?||Clinicians are investigating the possible link of a potentially-lethal inflammatory syndrome characterised by high fever and swollen blood vessels and guts in young children that appears to be linked with coronavirus disease (Covid-19).So far, Covid-19 was believed to have largely spared young children, with most hospitalisations and deaths being reported in older adults and those with chronic conditions. But over the few weeks, around 100 cases of young children being admitted to intensive care units with toxic shock and symptoms similar to Kawasaki disease in the US, UK, France, Italy, Spain and Switzerland, which has led the World Health Organisation (WHO) to begin investigating the possibility of its link with coronavirus disease.Kawasaki syndrome is an illness of unknown cause that affects the blood vessel, heart and other organs. The symptoms include high fever, low blood pressure, rash and difficulty breathing and it usually affects children under five years, though a third of the cases in India are in older children. After rheumatic fever, it is the most common cause for acquired heart disease in children.“We are aware of this newly described syndrome from a number of countries in Europe and potentially a small number of cases in North America,” Dr Adam Finn, chair of the WHO’s European Technical Advisory Group, said at a news briefing. “We are urgently conducting a surveillance study in the United Kingdom to establish what is going on,” he added.The incidence rate of Kawasaki syndrome is 150 per 100,000 children below 5 years, but it remains largely undiagnosed in India, according to a study published in Global Cardiology Science and Practice. Boys are at a slightly higher risk, with the male to female ratio being around 1.5:1 in India.Many of the children being treated for the new syndrome in Europe and the US have tested positive for coronavirus, but some have not. That could mean that the syndrome is not related to coronavirus, that the children had cleared the virus before they were tested, or that the test missed the infection. There have been no coronavirus-linked Kawasaki syndrome cases reported from India,Experts say what Covid-19 and Kawasaki syndrome have in common is the acute immune response, or cytokine storm, that they trigger, which makes in the body go into shock.“These children have had a severe and prolonged inflammatory response to Covid-19 infection and they have not had severe lung disease, unlike the majority of cases in adults,” Dr Nazima Pathan, a consultant in paediatric intensive care in Cambridge, told The Guardian.“Whilst this is an evolving situation, it is clear that these symptoms are reported in only handfuls of cases. The important message is that if parents are worried about their children’s health, they should seek medical advice,” said Dr Pathan.Whilst children are not invulnerable to Covid-19 infection, most of them get mild disease. Initial data from China showed children were largely spared, but cases detected though contact tracing showed 13% of confirmed cases had no symptoms, and when confirmed and suspected cases were combined, almost a third of children ages 6 to 10 years were asymptomatic. Considering both confirmed and suspected cases, 32% of children aged 6-10 years were asymptomatic, shows data from China Centers of Disease Control.“Children may not even develop severe symptoms, but they are potential carriers of the virus and can spread it to others, so it is important to minimise their contact with people at risk, such as grandparents and people with existing diseases like severe asthma, diabetes, hypertension, kidney disease, among others,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, head of critical care, Medanta-The Medicity, Gurugram, which was the first private hospital to begin treating Covid-19 patients in India.A new study from Germany has found that children are as infectious as adults. Researchers at Charite, one of Europe’s largest university hospital in Berlin, found the virus in the respiratory tract, which is the main route of virus transmission, is not significantly different across age groups.chidlren account for less than 1% (0.6%) of people hospitalised with severe illness. According to US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention data, infants appear most likely to be hospitalised, but death remains extremely rare.Signs of trouble in young childrenLooking paleAbnormally cold to the touchPaused or irregular breathing (apnoea), grunting soundsDifficulty in breathingBlue lipsFit/seizuresCrying inconsolablyLethargy, unresponsivenessRash that does not disappear with pressure (Glass test)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/does-coronavirus-affect-children-differently/story-uDL9ru1GFQFsvWSznYOROM.html
