30-05-2020||India||Odisha mining revenue shrinks amid lockdown by two-thirds in 2 months||Odisha’s mining revenue has gone down by two-thirds in the last two months compared to what it was during the same period a year ago, underscoring the economic slowdown that the state is likely to face in 2020-21 fiscal.Officials in the mining department said between April 1 and May 30, Odisha’s earning from mining was just about Rs 667 crore, about one-third than the same period of 2019-20 fiscal. Director of mining department, Deepak Mohanty said the decline in production and dispatch during lockdown has led to the decrease in mining revenue in the last 2 months.“As the fear of coronavirus still persists in the minds of workers, mining companies could not deploy workers even though mining is among the sectors that got relaxation during lockdown. The end user industries like steel companies and sponge iron industries too slowed down manufacturing in this period. The transporters of the minerals too could not get enough trucks and labourers that contributed to decline in the entire mining operations,” Mohanty said.A large portion of the Rs 667 crore revenue that the state earned during the last 2 months was from royalty on ores.Though relaxations have been given to the mining sector in successive lockdowns, Odisha’s hopes of earning more revenue from the 21 mines that were auctioned 3 months ago, would have to wait at least a month before any operation can start. The 21 iron ore, chromite and manganese ore mines that were auctioned with over 105 per cent premium during the bidding, need to get a vesting order from the state mines department before starting operation.“As the steel and mines department was not operative for a large part of the lockdown period, the new leaseholders had to wait for necessary approvals. Now that we have opened, we hope to give the leaseholders the necessary vesting orders within a month,” Mohanty said.Early this year, there were record bids to 21 merchant blocks offered for online auctions. While JSW Steel won four iron ore mines, ArcelorMittal won the Thakurani mine, with a premium of 107 per cent. Jindal Steel & Power Ltd bagged the Guali mine after committing a premium of 144 per cent.But the Odisha government’s hopes of earning higher revenues from mining than what it got in 2019-20 may not happen as many merchant miners may not go for full-fledged mining due to lack of demands. In 2019-20, Odisha earned mining revenue of Rs 10,943 crore, which constituted a bulk of its non-tax revenue. Despite the slowdown in economy, Odisha hoped to grow in the range of 7 per cent to 7.5 per cent during 2020-21. However, it is likely to be drastically revised as the mining sector would not grow as much despite the auction of 21 mines.“Many of the merchant miners are sitting on huge inventory of ore and they don’t have any idea how to dispose of the stockpile. As the demand for steel would be down in a recessionary economy, there is little likelihood of increased production of ores. So that would bring down the royalty earning for the government,” said Rajiv Lochan Mohanty, vice-president of the Eastern Zonal Mining Association.The lack of demand from end-users is also likely to affect employment in the mining sector. “The new merchant miners will use more automation in their operations affecting employment. The existing staff in mining companies may see salary cuts so that the companies stay afloat in a recession-hit market,” said a mining department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-mining-revenue-shrinks-amid-lockdown-by-two-thirds-in-2-months/story-xxKUifhmO5kC03XHOcnJyJ.html
30-05-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh’s recovery rate climbs to 59%, 4,462 Covid-19 patients cured till date||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday reported an encouraging recovery rate of 59% among its coronavirus positive patients, arguably one of the highest recovery rates in the country, Uttar Pradesh Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said.A total of 4,462 Covid-19 positive patients have recovered in the state till date, according to health department data. Earlier this month, Uttar Pradesh had recorded a recovery rate of 51.9% when the number of coronavirus cases reported had dipped for a few days. Despite fresh Covid-19 cases being reported on a daily basis in the state, the recovery rate of coronavirus positive patients has steadily climbed to 59% by the end of the month.The country’s recovery rate of patients suffering from the coronavirus disease too has improved and crossed the 40% mark for the first time, earlier this week, according to Union health ministry data.ALSO READ | 13 cities worst-hit by Covid-19; four in Tamil Nadu, none in Uttar Pradesh and BiharThe death toll in Uttar Pradesh currently stands at 204 in the state. On Friday, four people succumbed to the infectious viral disease pushing up the death toll to 204. The four deaths were reported from Gautam Buddh Nagar, Mathura, Ambedkar Nagar and Unnao.At least 275 fresh Covid-19 cases also pushed up the total number of coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh to 7,445, health department officials said. “The total number of cases reported so far is 7,445 including 4,462 patients who have been treated and discharged while there are 2,834 active cases,” an official statement read.The number of active cases also includes 2,012 migrant workers who recently returned to the state by several Shramik Special trains.India’s death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 4,971 and the number of coronavirus cases climbed to 1,73,763 in the country registering a record single-day spike of 265 deaths and 7,964 cases till Saturday.India is the ninth worst-hit nation in the world affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-s-recovery-rate-climbs-to-59-4-462-covid-19-patients-cured-till-date/story-JhGnrw6ap0lF7r4Id9xLXM.html
30-05-2020||India||Covid latest: Maharashtra records 2,940 new cases, 99 deaths; 51% fatalities in a fortnight||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 2,940 new Covid-19 cases, the second highest single-day spike, to cross a grim landmark of 65,000 cases with the tally reaching 65,168, including 34,881 active cases representing 53.52% of all the infections registered in the state.The state also reported 99 new deaths, the third-highest for a single day due to the disease, driving the casualty figure up to 2,197.More than half of Maharashtra’s new cases reported on Saturday were from Mumbai --1,510 new cases. The metro city has now recorded 38,442 Covid cases, of which 20,845 are active. Mumbai’s highest single-day spike was registered on May 22, with 1,751 cases.On Friday, the state had recorded 116 fatalities, highest so far. However, the government had clarified that 70 of them had died over the last 13 days but their test reports confirming the infection were only released on Friday. Of the 99 new fatalities, 54 are in Mumbai, seven each in Vasai Virar and Panvel, six each in Thane, Pune and Solapur, three each in Raigad and Jalgaon, two each in Navi Mumbai and Kalyan Dombivli and one in Nagpur. Also, two patients, one each from Bihar and Rajasthan, died in Mumbai and Panvel respectively. 48 of the deceased were above 60 years of age, while 49 were aged between 40 and 59 years and the remaining two were below the age of 40 years. 66 dying patients also had high-risk co-morbidities, including diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments, as per the health officials.With the rise in fresh cases, the number of deaths has also risen by 1,129 in the last 15 days, more than 51% of total fatalities--2197-- in the state. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAs on May 29, the state’s mortality rate had increased slightly to 3.37% from 3.27% on May 26 compared to the current national mortality rate of 2.86%. However, the mortality rate has shown a significant decline from the last month. On April 13, Maharashtra’s mortality rate was 7.41%.A senior official who did not wish to be named claimed that the state had found 11 mutants of the coronavirus, which was behaving differently in different patients.“Actually, we know nothing about the coronavirus. All we know is that it is extremely infectious and spreads very fast. The virus is behaving differently and is also mutating. We have found 11 mutants of the virus recently,” the official said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19State health minister Rajesh Tope said that 83% of the total coronavirus patients were asymptomatic and only 15-16% patients have mild or moderate symptoms and only 1.5% patients are on ventilator. Overall the situation is under control and there is nothing to worry about, he said.However, the rapidly rising graph of Maharashtra cases pose a challenge; data shows that 84.14% of the state’s total 65,168 cases, which in number translates to 54,836 cases, were reported in the last 30 days—an average of 1,827 cases daily. Since the last 13 days, the state has recorded over 2000 cases every day except on May 24, when it shot up to 3041, which was the highest single-day spike at the time. In comparison, only 10,201 cases were registered in the state in the month of April. To put the steep hike in further perspective, one should consider that the state’s first coronavirus case was reported on March 9 and it took 30 days for the figure to cross the 1,000 mark.The health minister said the availability of beds in Mumbai was a bit of an issue which will be resolved in the coming days with the addition of 12,000 beds at 53 major private hospitals taken over by the state.“In addition, 7,000 beds will be available after new field hospitals at Goregaon, Mahalaxmi race course, Mulund, Dahisar and Richardson and Cruddas Company at Byculla become functional in the next few days,” he added.Despite the steep hike seen recently, Tope said the state’s doubling rate of the cases had increased to 17.5 days from 11.5 days till last week.The number of recoveries in the state has also jumped to 28,081 with the recovery of 1,084 patients on Saturday. In percentage terms, it stands at 43.07%, said a health official.The health department said it had so far conducted 4,47,772 tests for Covid-19 at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra.State currently has 3,169 active containment zones and a total of 17,917 survey teams that have screened more than 68.51 lakh people. So far, 35,420 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 5,51,660 people have been put under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-latest-maharashtra-records-2-940-new-cases-99-deaths-51-fatalities-in-a-fortnight/story-Z2aRRhVnoxvDwnNWtzPwUM.html
30-05-2020||India||Back in home state, but still a long wait for home||PATNA:On a scorching hot May day, four-year-old Bittu is sitting on his mother’s lap while his siblings – seven-year-old Anchal and 10-year-old Uday, play some distance away, unperturbed about where they are or what circumstances landed them there.On the other side of the room, the children’s father, Santosh Kumar Prasad, joins two other friends from his village, Karan Kumar and Santosh Kumar Ram, to plead with a group of government officials to let them leave the building and go home to their village, 15km away. But their request is turned down.They are all part of a group of 10 people from Agra who arrived in Patna on May 13 by a Shramik special train and were quarantined at the Radiant School on Danapur-Khagaul road in Patna. Their two-week Covid quarantine finished on May 27, and they are eager to get back to their village of Patlapur.They worked in carpet factories in Agra but say they hope to never go back. “Life was a struggle during lockdown when everything closed down. After the special trains started, we managed to reach here, but only to land up at the quarantine centre,” said Prasad.Located on the outskirts of Patna, the quarantine centre is in much better shape than those in rural areas because the possibility of inspections or sudden visits by top officials or politicians is higher. Residents of the centre say the proximity to the seat of power helps in getting their demands of food and basic amenities heard..But the confinement is getting to them. “Corona will not kill us. We have seen enough of struggle all our life. Our sweat will drain it out, but there was so much talk about it that we also got concerned about our family,” said Ram.The centre is housed in a two-storey building inside a sprawling school campus. Nine big rooms on both floors are used for the migrant workers with makeshift partitions for separate families. There are cots available, as are mosquito nets. Open areas such as verandahs contain fans, chairs and benches.A government official, who did want to be identified, said the quarantine centre was one of the best -managed ones. “Being a private school building cut off from the main road, it has enough space. We had around 150 persons, but now 90 remain. Others were allowed to go after completing their 14-day quarantine. More will be let go,” he said.There have been some complaints of poor-quality food and lack of supplies, but the official dismisses them. “With everyone having a mobile phone, even one burnt chapatti out of 500 can get us in trouble if it goes viral,” said another official on condition of anonymity.No outsider is allowed to enter the premises. Security personnel man the front gate in shifts, and have separate places to stay and eat inside the building. There is an earmarked corridor for migrants to talk to the authorities about any health concerns, from a distance.Three meals are arranged every day, and though the government has fixed a menu, supply constraints force officials to make changes. The workers are given chapati, puri, rice, pulse, tea and biscuits. Officials said they also provided milk to the children.2Usually, every block has two or three quarantine centres. When workers come, their names are registered with their identity documents and mobile phone number. At better-equipped quarantine centres, there is a general health checkup. Elsewhere in rural areas, doctors visit if those having health issues, while serious cases are referred to hospitals. The government has announced health screening of all those staying at quarantine centres. When they leave after the mandatory quarantine period, they have to sign out to receive ₹1,500 per person as travel assistance in their bank accounts, by the Bihar government to accounts linked with Aadhaar numbers.On average, the government spends Rs 2,400 per worker to provide a lungi, dhoti, saree, mat, sheets, mosquito net, bucket, jug, sanitary napkins, soap, toothbrush, comb, shampoo, hair oil, a small mirror and food at the centre, said the first official.Since the lockdown began on March 25, Bihar has received 2.5 million migrant workers – 1.5 million by trains and one million by road -- and built 13,000 quarantine centres to house them. Unlike the Radiant School centre, many of these facilities face flak for allegedly poor arrangements made for the workers.On May 27, violent protests broke out in Nalanda after poor-quality food was allegedly served to the migrants. On May 14, 88 workers at a quarantine centre in Banka district protested against the food provided to them.On May 21, workers blocked the road in Khagaria over a lack of basic toilet facilities at the local quarantine centre.Bihar disaster management principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said that the massive migrant evacuation exercise was the biggest Bihar had ever witnessed.“At present around 13,600 block quarantine centres are running. Of nearly 14 lakh people staying there, more than half have completed their quarantine period and returned. Things have been constantly improved, as chief minister Nitish Kumar has clearly said that after all the ordeal the migrants faced, they needed to be taken care of in all possible ways to keep them as well as others safe,” he added.3Back at the Patna centre, the workers say their primary worry is not the quality of facilities but the date on which they would be allowed to go home. Some say they will welcome a temperature screening or Covid swab test if it means going home quicker.“We have got a lot, but the biggest thing is that we have returned to our state. The government has provided us things we need. Yet, it cannot be home. There has been no medical screening or test. We don’t have any problem. Had tests been done, we would have been able to reach home,” said Sanchit Kumar, who came from Punjab.The 33-year-old worker spent Rs 4,000 – out of his monthly salary of Rs 18,000 -- to hire a private vehicle with seven other men. He says he is worried about his wife and six children who are in the village, and, for their sake, wouldn’t go back to Punjab.He is not alone. Jaiveer Kumar and Pankaj Kumar, who both worked in Punjab, say they are determined to stay in their village even if the pay is lower than jobs in other states would pay.“There is no point going outside. We have seen it all. We will do something - big or small – here only. If we can work outside, why cannot we work here? We hope the government does something concrete for us,” said Pankaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/back-in-home-state-but-still-a-long-wait-for-home/story-BLPEtuzNshRLMU8BUsW8PI.html
30-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand seeks Central funds for mid-day meals during summer vacations||The Uttarakhand government has sought additional funds of Rs 1,298 lakh from the Centre to supply mid-day meals during the summer vacations after exhausting funds given by the Union government in giving food security allowance to students during the lockdown.R Meenakshi Sundaram, secretary for school education in the state on May 5, had written to the joint secretary of department of elementary education and literacy, in the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD); requesting “central assistance to supply mid-day meal during summer vacations of year 2020.”The letter states that as per the orders of MHRD of April 29, 2020 regarding necessary actions to provide hot cooked meals or food security allowance to the eligible children during summer vacations 2020-21, “it is therefore, requested that food grains, cooking cost and transport assistance may please be released to the state…”The state government demanded 2494.953 metric tonnes of food grains, Rs 1239.56 lakh as cooking cost and Rs 58.6 lakh as transport assistance. Uttarakhand gives mid-day meal to total 6,89,437 students of which 4,05,009 students are in primary section and 2,84,428 students are in upper primary section. The state government has made the demands for 30 working days that fall under the summer vacation time period of May 27-June 30.So far, every student was being given the per student cooking cost and food grains as schools have been closed in the state since March 13, owing to lockdown due to stop the spread of Covid-19. The cooking cost per student amounts to around Rs 4 for primary section and Rs 7 for upper primary section. Along with this, students from primary section are given 100 grams of rice and 150 grams of rice for middle school.In the month of March, all students were given food security allowance by the state government. However, in April and May, 5,51,550 or approximately 80% students (of who are eligible for mid-day meal) were given the food security allowance.When quizzed about the rest of the 20% students, Mukul Kumar Sati, additional state project director for Samagra Siksha Abhiyan said that the state usually receives funds for only 80% students for mid-day meal.“We usually get 80% of the total funds under the mid-day meal scheme as it is assumed that 20% students will not turn up at the schools. The funds for mid-day meal are shared in a ratio of 9:1 by Centre and state government. Now, whatever money was given to us by the Central government has already been distributed to among the students,” said Sati.He added that the state government is awaiting response from the Centre on the excess funds that it has demanded.He further said that the number of students who have received food security allowance in the month of April and May are lesser than March as enrolment has not increased in the new session.“New students are enrolled in the month of April every year, which did not happen this year given the nationwide lockdown. Due to this there are no students enrolled with the education department for class 1 and class 6 (the standards which witness new admissions),” added Sati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-seeks-central-funds-for-mid-day-meals-during-summer-vacations/story-IhNfTaphU12FVpMl0CZ67O.html
30-05-2020||India||With 17 new Covid-19 positive cases, Tripura’s coronavirus tally climbs to 269||The total number of Tripura’s Covid-19 positive cases increased to 269 within 24 hours after 17 fresh coronavirus positive cases were recorded on Saturday.Of the 17 new Covid-19 cases, 15 people have returned from Maharashtra and two from Bangladesh.“A total of 798 people were tested today for Covid-19 out of which 17 people were found positive. Among them, 15 are returnees from Maharashtra and 2 are Bangladesh returnees,” Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb posted on Twitter. A total of 10 Covid-19 positive cases were found on Friday of whom eight were Bangladesh returnees, one had returned from Gurugram and another person tested positive for the disease in the 86th Battalion of BSF. According to the latest health department report, around 171 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the state so far. Tests on people returning to Tripura from different parts of the country and abroad are being done in a 1:5 ratio. Currently, the state is conducting tests on 6,355 people per million, considered to be one of the highest testing rates throughout the country, state law minister Ratan Lal Nath had said recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-17-new-covid-19-positive-cases-tripura-s-coronavirus-tally-climbs-to-269/story-9BzAn1qfM2q6lIx1z339KI.html
30-05-2020||India||17 new Covid-19 cases in Tripura, tally rises to 271||Seventeen more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Tripura on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 271, Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb said.Of the 17 new patients, two had returned from Bangladesh and 15 from Maharashtra, he said.In a tweet, Deb said, “798 people tested for Covid-19 today out of which 17 people found positive. Among them, 15 returnees from Maharashtra and two Bangladesh returnees.” Among the total 271 Covid-19 cases, 171 have been cured of the disease and discharged from hospital.A total of 106 people had returned to Agartala on Thursday from Bangladesh of which eight tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and two on Saturday.Officials said those who have returned from Bangladesh are in institutional quarantine and would be released after repeated swab tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-new-covid-19-cases-in-tripura-tally-rises-to-271/story-VQeiuy9ZKL3fp0Obw8B4ML.html
30-05-2020||India||Punjab extends lockdown till June 30||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced the extension of the coronavirus lockdown till June 30.Though experts have advised against opening of hospitality services and shopping malls in the state, the chief minister said his government will take into account the Centre’s guidelines for lockdown 5.0.  The Centre on Saturday issued fresh guidelines relaxing the nationwide lockdown, the fourth phase of which ends on May 31.The countrywide lockdown in containment zones has been extended till June 30, while hospitality services, hotels and shopping malls will be allowed to open from June 8, the Union home ministry said. Singh announced his decision after an on-ground assessment of the Covid situation through a video conference with health experts and cabinet ministers Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Tript Singh Bajwa, according to a government release.During his weekly Facebook live session, the chief minister said the threat of Covid-19 was not over yet and if necessary, he would continue to take tough measures to save the lives of people. Underlining the need to exercise extreme caution, he lauded citizens for following all health norms to help the state government in containing the spread of the disease to a great extent. He directed Bharat Bhushan Ashu to ensure distribution of face masks along with ration kits among the needy and poor.Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said wearing masks was being strictly enforced across districts and so far more than Rs 1 crore fine has been collected from offenders. During the meeting, the chief minister sought an update on the state government’s plan for deployment of Covid-19 foot soldiers to track and trace infections. Asha workers are being hired to undertake door to door surveillance across districts and they will be paid Rs 2 per head for every household surveyed, he said. The state government will also launch a mobile application to trace symptomatic cases who are not self-reporting to health authorities.In his Facebook session, the chief minister said people not reporting to health authorities was a big challenge as it complicated their contact tracing and endangered lives of others. Though there is an overall decline in the number of cases being reported daily, the fresh cases in the last few days are a matter of concern, he added. Singh said 36,820 people have been fined for not wearing masks and 4,032 persons for spitting in public from May 17 to May 28. Regarding rapid testing kits, Singh said those received by the state from China and South Korea had to be returned as they were defective. On the crackdown on units manufacturing spurious liquor during the lockdown, the chief minister said 97 illegal ‘bhattas’ had been sealed, with 1,729 FIRs registered and 1,360 persons arrested. The government was also taking stern action against those trying to smuggle liquor into Punjab, he added. On the locust threat, he said all arrangements had been put in place in seven districts bordering Rajasthan and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-extends-lockdown-till-june-30/story-VCRTClYE9lrUYdJZ959fhL.html
30-05-2020||India||Stranded for 2 months amid lockdown, 437 Indians cross Nepal border||Over 400 Indians, who were stranded in Nepal due to coronavirus outbreak, have entered bordering Champawat district, officials said on Saturday. The Indians crossed the international border on Friday and Saturday from Sharda Barrage at border town of Banbasa in Champawat, they said.Champawat district magistrate SN Pandey said 437 Indians were stuck in western Nepal due to the coronavirus outbreak that prompted both the countries to seal their borders.“They were not able to return due to sealing of borders amid the pandemic. They were finally able to return on Friday and Saturday. The returnees include both tourists as well as labourers from Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand,” said Pandey.“The labourers work in construction sites, brick kilns and sugar factories in Nepal. They were stuck there after the lockdown was announced,” the district magistrate said.He also said Nepal has fixed a period of four hours from 6 am to 10 am daily for opening of the border to enable Indians and Nepalese people to return to their countries.“Nepalese stranded in India were allowed to cross the border from time to time during the lockdown but Indians stuck in Nepal were allowed for the first time on Friday to enter Indian side after high-level talks were held between officials of both the nations,” said Pandey.So far, 6,534 Nepalese people had returned to their country, he said. Ashok Bhardwaj, a tourist from Himachal Pradesh, said, “I was distressed and missing my family while I was stuck there. Now after returning, I am very happy that I will be able to see my family.”Like Bhardwaj, Rameshwar Kashyap, a labourer and a resident of UP, expressed happiness after returning to the country. “I worked in Nepal in a tile company but was stuck there due to the lckodown. I wanted to return and help my family in the harvest season but couldn’t do so. Now after almost two months I will be seeing my family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stranded-for-2-months-amid-lockdown-437-indians-cross-nepal-border/story-C2DkNlRhIm1PlCCGNcZFtJ.html
30-05-2020||India||In Bengal, malls, eateries and offices to reopen outside ‘affected area’ from June 1||The West Bengal government on Saturday decided to extend the lockdown till June 15 only in the “affected areas” within containment zones, allowing greater relaxation in all other areas, hours after the Union Home Ministry extended the nationwide lockdown till June 30 and issued guidelines for this duration.Among the relaxations are allowing shopping malls and restaurants to open and allowing the entertainment industry to start shooting from June 1. All offices and industrial activities can take place with 100% workforce beyond the “containment areas”. The Mamata Banerjee-led government had earlier divided the containment zones in three areas – A is the affected area, B is the buffer zone and C is the clean area. From June 1, the lockdown will be enforced only in containment zone ‘A’, while containment zones ‘B’ and ‘C’ will have similar relaxations. The basis of such area division within containment zones has been polling booths in order to reduce the size of the area under lockdown.“It is necessary to continue to implement the lockdown in the affected areas (containment zones) to contain the spread of Covid-19 and simultaneously open up activities in other areas for socio economic revival,” the government notification issued by the chief secretary on May 30 said.The order said that strict lockdown will be imposed in the ‘affected area’ with no relaxations. Relaxations will be allowed in containment zones B and C from June 1, 2020 with 100% capacity in tea gardens, jute mills, micro, small, medium and large industries, and construction work.Intra-state movement of government and private buses has been allowed with passengers not more than the seating capacity of the bus. No passengers will be allowed to travel standing and all passengers must wear masks and gloves.While the union ministry of home affairs has allowed opening of religious places from June 8, Bengal has allowed it from June 1 with not more than 10 people gathering at a time.Indoor and outdoor activities related to TV and cinema production, except for reality shows, including those for web-portal and OTT platforms, have been allowed with not more than 35 people per unit at a time from June 1. Restaurants and shopping malls will be allowed to open from June 1. Government offices will function with 70% of the workforce on rotational basis. While the government said it encouraged private offices to adopt work from home, the number of staff in offices will be decided by the companies themselves.“Norms of social distancing and health hygiene protocol must be strictly followed. Management committees, trustee boards, governing bodies, and owners and private institutions, organisations and establishments shall be responsible for compliance of the states norms and guidelines,” the notification said.The notification also said that any violation in compliance of norms of social distancing, health protocol and wearing of masks may lead to withdrawal of relaxation provided and may also attract penal action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-malls-eateries-and-offices-to-reopen-outside-affected-area-from-june-1/story-D2aZOSXeia0Ekqn4zS8tCL.html
30-05-2020||India||Bihar Covid-19 tally reaches 3,509 with 150 new cases, three patients die||Three more Covid-19 patients died in Bihar on Saturday taking the death toll to 21 in the state even as the total number of coronavirus positive cases reached 3,509 with the addition of 150 new cases, according to the state health department.A 41-year-old man from Bhagalpur who had died on Thursday was declared positive posthumously on Friday after his sample test report was received. Brajbhusan Mandal, the medical officer at Jagdishpur primary health centre in the city said the deceased had arrived from Mumbai before Eid along with some other persons by road.“The man was under home quarantine and the trail of people he came in contact with is being identified,” he said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesState health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said a total of 73,929 tests have been conducted till now and 235 new cases were detected in the last 24 hours along with 102 recoveries, taking the total number of cured patients to 1,311.Meanwhile, a senior Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) officer, his driver and bodyguard were found Covid-19 positive, a health department officer at Kaimur said.The officer posted in a south Bihar district bordering Uttar Pradesh was managing intrastate transportation of migrants arriving at Bihar’s borders.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Of the Covid-19 positives cases reported on Saturday, 19 were from Jehanabad, 17 from Darbhanga, 15 in Shiekhpura, 14 in Bhojpur, 10 from Madhepura, nine from Araria, eight each from Muzaffapur and Siwan, six each in Jehanabad and Munger, five each in Gaya and Kishanganj, three each from Patna, Nalanda, Kaimur, Saharsa and Rohtas, two each from Bhagalpur and Sheohar, and one each in Vaishali, Saran, Banka, Buxar, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Khagaria, Samastipur and Jamui.As reported earlier, most --2,433-- of Bihar’s infected are from amongst the migrant population, while 613 of them had returned from Maharashtra, 534 had returned from Delhi and 342 from Gujarat.Information and Public Relations Department (IRDP) secretary Anupam Kumar said chief minister Nitish Kumar held a high-level meeting and asked the officials to increase the state’s testing capacity and to prepare a strategy for situation post lockdown 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-covid-19-tally-reaches-3-509-with-150-new-cases-three-patients-die/story-dCZaBE8AfmPs6XiQydkyzN.html
30-05-2020||India||Aid pours in for family of man who committed suicide in UP blaming lockdown||Aid and assistance has poured in for the aggrieved family of a 50-year-old man a day after he allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a train here as he was out of a job during the ongoing lockdown and faced a cash crunch. In his suicide note recovered from the spot near Maigalganj railway station where the body was lying, the deceased Bhanu Prakash Gupta had blamed the lockdown conditions for the extreme step. Before the lockdown, Gupta had worked at a restaurant in neighbouring Shahjahanpur district. On Saturday, BJP leader and former Rajya Sabha member Jugul Kishore assured the family of bearing the marriage expenses of his two daughters. Mitauli Sub-divisional Magistrate Digvijay Singh and Maigalganj police station officer consoled the family and extended cash relief to them. SDM Singh also assured the widow of the deceased of providing her the widow’s pension as per government rules. Lakhimpur Kheri District Magistrate Shailendra Kumar Singh had said that the deceased Gupta and his mother were covered under the Antyodaya scheme and the family was getting adequate foodgrains. The DM said Gupta’s death due to depression was unfortunate and all possible help and assistance would be provided to the aggrieved family. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also highlighted the incident in a tweet. “In an unfortunate incident, Bhanu Gupta of UP committed suicide by coming under a train. His work had stopped. He had to get himself and his mother treated. He got only ration from the government. But his letter states that other items too have to be bought. There are other needs too. This letter may not reach you like the letter that celebrates one year. But please read this,” she tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aid-pours-in-for-family-of-man-who-committed-suicide-in-up-blaming-lockdown/story-BSepzaz186K5GxtXAum0eK.html
30-05-2020||India||Punjab extends lockdown till June 30 with ‘certain relaxations’||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced extension of Covid-19 lockdown in the state till June 30 with certain relaxations subject to the guidelines issued by the Centre. The announcement came following the Centre extending the lockdown in containment zones till June 30, releasing fresh guidelines for resumption of economic activities outside these zones. The fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown, necessitated by the coronavirus outbreak, was scheduled to end on May 31. Announcing the decision during his weekly Facebook live session, the Punjab chief minister said that Covid-19 wasn’t ending any time soon and if necessary, he would take tough measures to save the lives of people, news agency PTI reports. The decision to extend the lockdown by another four weeks was taken after an on-ground assessment of the Covid-19 situtation through a video conference with health experts and cabinet ministers Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Tript Singh Bajwa, PTI reported quoting a Punjab government release. Capt Amarinder Singh also urged people to inculcate the habit of washing hands, wearing masks and observing social distancing during the FB session. With 36 new Covid-19 cases, the total number of cases in Punjab rose to 2,233 on Saturday, according to the state’s health bulletin. Two deaths were also reported on Saturday, taking the toll to 44. Punjab has now become the third state in the country to extend the lockdown. Earlier in the evening, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced extending the lockdown till June 15. West Bengal has also extended lockdown till June 15 but as with Punjab, there will be certain relaxations as well as conditions, according to a state government order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-extends-lockdown-till-june-30-with-certain-relaxations/story-Uh2VnGsWuU2FROXEI9rw1I.html
30-05-2020||India||1,400-bedded Covid Care Centre operationalised in Chennai||A 1,400-bedded Covid Care Centre for treating coronavirus patients with mild symptoms sans co-morbidities was operationalised here on Saturday, a senior official said.The CCC, a new addition to a string of such amenities here to treat coronavirus patients has all requisite facilities, Health Minister C Vijayabaskar said after inspecting the the premises at Pulianthope in North Chennai along with senior state officials. “The facility is for coronavirus positive people with mild symptoms. They should be healthy persons without co- morbidities and this new facility is intended to provide a homely feel for the occupants,” he told reporters.The new CCC has a CCTV camera surveillance network, nurses stations and doctors rooms in every floor and there are separate storage facilities for oxygen, protective gear besides a data centre, he said.Also, there are facilities for carrying out x-ray procedures and ambulances are available in the premises.Each of the four government medical college hospitals in the city has been assigned a separate block in the building complex to refer suitable patients, Vijayabaskar said.“Patients are already being admitted and the centre has been operationalised,” an official said.The CCCs here include the sprawling Trade Centre at Nandambakkam, educational institutions like Loyola College and a hostel block on the IIT-Madras campus.Cumulatively all such facilities have a “ready for use,” bed capacity of about 14,000 as on date and approximately 1,500 people were being treated in such centres, the official told P T I.The care centre, operationalised today is a new, multi-storied housing complex developed by the Tamil Nadu government’s Slum Clearance Board.Chennai continues to top the list of virus infected people in the state with 13,980 positive cases of which 7,321 were discharged following recovery and 6,539 are active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-400-bedded-covid-care-centre-operationalised-in-chennai/story-dyPLi8I25fCDhmmCTSTIkL.html
30-05-2020||India||Bihar cancels leaves of agriculture dept employees to combat locust threat||With reports of swarms of desert locusts damaging plants and standing crops in the bordering Sonbhadra district of Uttar Pradesh, the agriculture department of Bihar has suspended leaves of the plant management division staff to help farmers foil the pest attack.A centralised control room, headed by a joint director rank officer, has been set up in the agriculture directorate to ensure quick movement of locust response teams in the affected areas with pesticides and other tech support to control the damages.Agriculture minister Prem Kumar on Saturday said that all agriculture department staff in the districts bordering UP had been put on alert, while a general advisory has been issued to all the districts in view of the locust invasion. “Surveillance has been heightened in the districts bordering UP,” Kumar said.The minister said that weekly leave or other leave of staff and officials of the plant management division had been suspended until further orders owing to the possibility of locust invasion. “The control room is keeping a close watch over the presence of locusts in the state with the help of district level offices and KVKs,” said the minister.In an advisory issued to all the district magistrates, district agriculture officers and scientists of Krishi Vigyan Kendras, the state agriculture director has directed the officials to sensitise the farmers about ways to keep the locust at bay. “Beating of drums, steel plates or anything that makes loud noise is quite useful to prevent locusts from settling down in the field,” read the advisory.The farmers have been told to keep tractors ready with mounted sprayers filled up with solutions of Chlorpyrifos, Fipronil, etc, in the event of attack. The agriculture department officials have also been directed to use fire engines for large-scale spraying of the pesticides.Agricultural scientists believe an adult desert locust can consume roughly its own weight, about 2 gram food every day. A one square km swarm of 40 million locusts could eat the same amount of food in one day as about 35,000 people. This is based on a person eating an average of 2.3 kg of food per day.Deputy director, agriculture, Anil Kumar Jha said that standing crops of moong, maize and vegetable could suffer extensive damages, if swarms of locusts entered Bihar. “Locusts settle down in a particular area in the evening and fly away in the morning. Such areas shall be identified for spraying of pesticides,” said Jha, adding that a toll-free number has also been operationalised to keep the officials in touch with farmers in case of the emergency.Locust attacks have been reported from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra besides Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cancels-leaves-of-agriculture-dept-employees-to-combat-locust-threat/story-bLYZ4bFi5syiu6JoeZ6aGO.html
30-05-2020||India||Modi govt accelerated country’s development: Rajasthan BJP chief||The BJP’s Rajasthan unit president Satish Poonia on Saturday said that Modi government accelerated development in the country after it came to power in 2014. He said the Modi government did extraordinary work for people during its rule. Poonia said the Modi government was given mandate by people and it worked to end 70 years of stigma in the country. He said it abolished Article 370, amended the Citizenship Act and took several other decisions. The state BJP president said india under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has effectively worked to control the spread of coronavirus. PTI SDA RAX RAX||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-accelerated-country-s-development-rajasthan-bjp-chief/story-1MkGOdc0D6PozV5kTCTwqM.html
30-05-2020||India||390 domestic flights carried over 35,000 passengers on Saturday till 5 pm: Hardeep Puri||A total of 390 domestic flights carrying 35,293 passengers operated in India till 5 PM on Saturday, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri.Domestic services were suspended in India due to a coronavirus lockdown and resumed after a gap of two months on Monday. Indian carriers operated a total of 1,827 flights till Thursday -- 428 on Monday, 445 on Tuesday, 460 on Wednesday and 494 on Thursday. Puri said 513 domestic flights carrying 39,969 passengers operated on Friday.He also mentioned on Twitter that a number of people holding valid residence permits in the UAE have been approaching the Indian government to go back to the country.“It is up to the local authorities there to take a call on this. Currently there are restrictions on entry of foreign citizens in UAE and few other countries,” he said.We have no problems with people having valid documents flying out of India to countries which are allowing foreigners to enter, he noted.“Due to this restriction our evacuation flights to UAE are going empty from India. People can fly as soon as local authorities lift restrictions,” he said.During the pre-lockdown period, Indian airports handled around 3,000 daily domestic flights, aviation industry sources said.In February, when the lockdown was not imposed, around 4.12 lakh passengers travelled daily through domestic flights in India, according to Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data.Airports in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have been allowed to handle a restricted number of daily flights as these states do not want a huge influx of flyers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases.While domestic services resumed in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday, they restarted in West Bengal on Thursday.Though domestic flight operations across the country began on May 25, they could not be restarted in Kolkata and Bagdogra as the West Bengal machinery was involved in relief and restoration work after cyclone Amphan’s devastation.A total of 16 asymptomatic passengers on seven different flights, including 13 who travelled by IndiGo, have tested positive for COVID-19 since the resumption of domestic air services.On Saturday, Puri said on Twitter: “On 30th May 2020 (Day 6) till 1700 hrs. Departures 390. 35,293 passengers handled.” In another tweet, he said: “Day 5. 29th May till 2359 hrs. Departures 513. 39,969 passengers handled. Arrivals 512. 39,972 passengers handled.” A departure is counted as a flight during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/390-domestic-flights-carried-over-35-000-passengers-on-saturday-till-5-pm-hardeep-puri/story-9ezAnse4bP07hw3uEAaufK.html
30-05-2020||India||1 killed as tractor-trolley hits motorcycle in Muzaffarnagar||A man was killed and his son sustained serious injuries after their motorcycle was hit by a tractor-trolley in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar district, police said on Saturday.While Vijaypal died in the accident, his son Kunwerpal was taken to hospital in a serious condition, they said.The accident took place on Friday night near Bopada village in Mansurpur area, police said.A case was registered and a search for the driver of the tractor-trolley is underway, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-killed-as-tractor-trolley-hits-motorcycle-in-muzaffarnagar/story-pekyxgfPfectZVwRRPFQeI.html
30-05-2020||India||5 deaths in UP’s Kannauj district due to lightning, thunderstorm||At least five people have died due to thunderstorm and lightning in various parts of Kannauj district, officials said on Saturday.Additional District Magistrate Gajendra Kumar said a 45-year-old driver of a pick-up vehicle died when the roof of a gas service godown collapsed in Chhatarpur village around 3 pm on Saturday.Dinesh Pal (30) of Sursa village died in a wall collapse following rains and thunderstorm while an 80-year-old a resident of Bhiknipurwa died at the courtyard of his house due to a sudden hailstorm, the ADM said.The fourth death was reported from Tijlapur village, when a trolley fell on an eight-year-old boy owing to high-speed wind, the officer said, adding the fifth death was that of a youth in Ramaipur when a tree feel on him.Meanwhile, in a statement issued in Lucknow on Saturday, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over loss of lives due to lightning and thunderstorm in Mainpuri, Agra, Lakhimpur Khiri and Muzaffarnagar districts.Officials have been directed to provide Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased and adequate medical treatment for the injured, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-deaths-in-up-s-kannauj-district-due-to-lightning-thunderstorm/story-TDom04PnipHxRN6eO5TTzO.html
30-05-2020||India||ICMR asks states to do sero-survey in high-risk populations to assess exposure to Covid-19||The apex health research body, ICMR, has advised states to conduct sero-survey to assess the proportion of population including asymptomatic individuals exposed to coronavirus infection. A sero-survey involves testing of blood serum of a group of individuals for the presence of antibodies against that infection to know who has been infected in the past and has now recovered. Depending upon the level of sero-prevalence of infection, appropriate public health interventions can be planned and implemented for prevention and control of the disease, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said. The health research body has suggested that the blood serum samples of high risk or vulnerable populations like health care workers, frontline workers, immune-compromised individuals, individuals in containment zones, police personnel among others should be tested for COVID-19 antibodies. The ICMR is simultaneously is conducting a sero-survey to estimate the prevalence of community transmission of the infection among the Indian population. People from 70 districts will be tested for COVID-19 at random to check whether they have developed antibodies against the infection even though they remained asymptomatic, an ICMR official said. “The findings could be released by next week end,” he said. In its advice to the states, the ICMR said periodic sero-surveys are useful to guide the policy makers and stressed that IgG ELISA test should be used for carrying out such surveys. Antibodies generally start appearing after two weeks of onset of infection, once the individual has recovered, and last for several months. “Therefore, the IgG test is not useful for detecting acute infection but indicates episode of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the past. “The RT-PCR test is considered gold standard frontline test for clinical diagnosis of COVID19. The test is useful only when performed in the acute stage of infection (< 7 days). For several viral infections, antibody tests are useful for disease detection after 5–7 days of illness,” the body said in statement. In an attempt to decide the future course of action against the pandemic, ICMR has communicated a detailed plan to all the states to measure coronavirus exposure in general population as well as in high-risk populations. “Such sero-survey will guide appropriate public health intervention,” it said. The ICMR listed immuno-compromised patients like people living with HIV, patients on immuno-suppressive treatment, SARI, patients on dialysis among others and individuals in containment zones and buffer zones and healthcare workers be considered for testing. Security personnel, police personnel and volunteers involved in duties facing a large number of individuals or those coming in contact with potentially infected individuals, fomites or places should be tested for the presence of antibodies against the coronavirus infection. Besides, the ICMR has also suggested testing press reporters, migrant workers who have travelled back from urban and peri-urban areas to rural, tribal, hard to reach areas in the country as well as natives after coming in contact with returned migrants, industrial workers or labour force, farmers, vendors visiting large markets, municipal staff working in areas like sanitation, water supply, electricity, etc. where interactions with citizens is expected. Drivers of hospital ambulances, hearse, buses, auto, taxies, etc. who have been on work facing a large number of individuals, bus conductors, cleaners and helping staff also should be included, it said. People working in banks, couriers, telecom offices, shop, air travel related staff, all members of overseas operations and people staying or working in slums with very high population density with poorly ventilated buildings, those staying in institutional settings like old age homes, orphanage, asylums, shelters for homeless, hostels and prisons should be considered for testing. The sero-survey would be conducted using an IgG ELISA kit. Scientists at ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune have developed and validated an indigenous IgG ELISA test for antibody detection for SARS-CoV-2. The test has undergone intense validation in three stages and has been found to have high sensitivity and specificity, the ICMR said. To fast track production and increase availability of the IgG ELISA test, ICMR has transferred this technology to many pharma companies like Zydus Cadila, J Mitra and Company, Meril Diagnostics, Voxtur Bio, Trivitron Healthcare, Karwah Enterprises, Avecon Healthcare, etc. The technology has been transferred to various entities without exclusivity clause and therefore can be further shared with others as per demand and capability, the health research body said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-asks-states-to-do-sero-survey-in-high-risk-populations-to-assess-exposure-to-covid-19/story-xovsuJBdfrP4MUJ4d06L8O.html
30-05-2020||India||Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta empanelled to hold DG post at Centre||Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta has been empanelled to hold director general-level posts in the central government, an order by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet said on Saturday.Dinkar Gupta is the only Indian Police Service officer from seven north Indian states to be named in the ACC order. In all, 11 IPS officers of the 1987 have been empanelled.The only other Punjab cadre IPS officer empaneled to hold DGP level posts at the Centre is Samant Goel, the Research and Analysis Wing chief.Gupta was hand picked to lead Punjab Police in February 2019 in view of his impressive track record as director general of police (intelligence) and his career profile. As the DG intelligence, Dinkar directly oversaw the working of the state police’s intelligence wing, anti-terrorist squad and the organised crime control unit.The soft-spoken officer had played a key role in solving high-profile targeted killing cases and busting more than 50 pro-Khalistan modules.Dinkar Gupta had started his career in the IPS when terrorism in Punjab was at its peak and was part of the group of police officers who had fronted the battle. He was the district police chief of Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur districts for over seven years during this phase before getting promoted as a DIG. In this role too, he had had field postings and served as DIG of Jalandhar and Ludhiana ranges before becoming part of Punjab’s counter-terror and intelligence teams for a decade or so, a police spokesperson said.Gupta joined the Intelligence Bureau in 2004, spending the next eight years on central deputation to handle sensitive assignments that also included leading the Dignitary Protection Division of the Intelligence Bureau.In between his career, the IPS officer who has been twice decorated for gallantry, was also a visiting professor at George Washington University and American University, Washington DC, in 2000-01 where he taught a course on fighting terror. He has also delivered several lectures at leading American think tanks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-police-chief-dinkar-gupta-empanelled-to-hold-dg-post-at-centre/story-KCZrMfaOF68BKyoGAPaPeP.html
30-05-2020||India||Mizoram to extend lockdown for two weeks: Minister||In view of the surge in coronavirus cases in neighbouring states and the return of stranded people, the Mizoram government will extend the ongoing lockdown for another two weeks to curtail the spread of the pandemic, state Health Minister R Lalthangliana said on Saturday.The government is however yet to issue the order and the guidelines for the new phase of lockdown, he told PTI.Mizoram as of now is Covid-19 free state after its lone patient, who tested positive on March 24, have recovered and was discharged from hospital on May 9.“We will go on lockdown for another two weeks”, as stated by Chief Minister Zoramthanga to prevent the spread of coronavirus as cases keep increasing in neighbouring states and stranded migrants are still returning to Mizoram, he said.Mizoram might have to be put under lockdown continuously for some more times till all the stranded residents have returned to the state, the minister said.The fourth phase of the country-wide lockdown is slated to end tomorrow.A meeting of ministers, high level officials and doctors was held on Saturday to review the situation arising out of the Covid-19 spread.The health minister urged the people to strictly adhere to social distancing norms and respect other containment rules framed by the government so that the state does not detect new case. An official of the state home department told PTI that about 155 stranded people from Mumbai and Kolkata have returned to Mizoram by two special flights on Saturday.An official of the task group on quarantine facilities said the government and churches have so far set up 680 facilities, including 186 halls offered by various local for restriction, churches with total capacity of 16,576 till Saturday.The government requires facilities to accommodate at least 20,000 people if all stranded residents returned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-to-extend-lockdown-for-two-weeks-minister/story-dAqDB6FIHfZpUGcgkIjr1O.html
30-05-2020||India||Orissa High Court asks state to ensure Covid-19 patients identities are protected||The Orissa High Court has directed the state government to ensure that the identities and other details of Covid-19 patients are not revealed to general public and inter-department communications.Acting on a PIL demanding a high-level inquiry into the disclosure of identities of 13 persons infected by Covid-19 in Kendrapara district, the division bench of Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice BR Sarangi directed the state government not to reveal the names of such patients.As of now, 1,819 people in 29 districts of the state have tested positive for Covid-19, of those, 1,050 recovered and seven died. Two others who had tested positive for Covid-19 this month, were said to have died of other diseases, the health department said.For Coronavirus Live Updates“The State authorities are directed to ensure that the identity of any person, who is admitted to Covid centres - any Government or private hospital or quarantine centre in the State - found infected with coronavirus is not disclosed/publicised either in any intra-departmental communication or in any media platform including social media,” the division bench said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The interim order of the court came after one Ananga Kumar Otta filed a petition seeking action against officials and other persons whose negligence led to the revelation of identities of 13 persons in Kendrapara district.Incidentally, the state government on April 5 had made an exception by intentionally announcing the name of a 60-year-old man from Bhubaneswar after they could not detect the source of his Covid-19 infection. The man also suffered from other diseases like diabetes and hypertension. He was discharged from hospital early this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-high-court-asks-state-to-ensure-covid-19-patients-identities-are-protected/story-Z8Lu60JGwrYVJIwGhuRrvN.html
30-05-2020||India||Covid-19 positive woman delivers baby at AIIMS Rishikesh||A Covid-19 positive woman had a safe delivery at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here on Saturday.The 30-year-old woman, who has no symptoms of the disease, had tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday morning.All arrangements were made hurriedly to ensure she had a safe delivery, head of the institute’s maternity ward Latika Uniyal said.Both the mother and child are doing fine, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-woman-delivers-baby-at-aiims-rishikesh/story-l2rzdjswa5DxxiVpJBao9J.html
30-05-2020||India||284 new coronavirus cases in Ahmedabad, 24 deaths||The total number of coronavirus cases in Ahmedabad district rose to 11,881 and death toll rose to 822, as 284 new Covid-19 patients and 24 fatalities were reported on Saturday, the state health department said.Out of 27 coronavirus deaths in Gujarat during the day, 24 took place in Ahmedabad.On the other hand, 518 out of 621 Covid-19 patients who were discharged from hospitals in the state on Saturday were from Ahmedabad.The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Saturday launched a 104-ambulance service to take patients to the nearest hospital for treatment if they are unable to go on their own.Any person suffering from a health condition can dial 104 toll-free number to call the well-equipped ambulance, the civic body said.The service is in addition to the mobile clinic service -- Dhanvantari Arogya Rath -- launched over a week ago, through which health check-up of around one lakh persons has been conducted, the AMC said.The municipal corporation has also disbursed Rs 11.30 lakh to 73 `coronavirus warriors’ -- doctors, lab technicians and other medical staff who contracted virus while doing their duty.This includes 45 staff of the city health department, and 28 contractual staff, the AMC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/284-new-coronavirus-cases-in-ahmedabad-24-deaths/story-r5f1BbRkZLIbB6s5W9NEdM.html
30-05-2020||India||JK transporters demand fare hike, relief package, threaten agitation||Transporters in Jammu and Kashmir served a three day ultimatum to the government on Saturday to respond to their demands for a relief package for the sector, resumption of commercial transportation and a 50% fare hike failing which they would launch an agitation across the union territory.The All J&K Transport Welfare Association said that passenger vehicles would be able to carry 50% of the total capacity to maintain social distancing any further delay on a fare hike may sound a death knell of the transport industry.The Association’s chairman TS Wazir told reporters that all commercial vehicles had stopped operating on March 15 and have remained off the road since then in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.“The government has announced relief package for all the sectors but we have been left high and dry. Transporters have suffered huge losses due to the lockdown. While rail and air traffic have been resumed and liquor vends have been opened, we are not allowed to run our vehicles in Jammu and Kashmir,” he said and referred to Delhi, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan where fares have been hiked by 20 to 30 percent and the vehicles have started plying while following the SOPs.Wazir also urged the government to announce a waiver of interests on loans and insurance to transporters for the past six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-transporters-demand-fare-hike-relief-package-threaten-agitation/story-pkDu8eFcrvty62hiT7tg7K.html
30-05-2020||India||Highest single day spike of 177 takes J&K tally past 2300||Jammu and Kashmir recorded the highest single day increase of 177 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the overall tally of coronavirus cases in the Union Territory to 2,341.Since the first case was detected on March 9, this is for the fourth day in a row that the union territory recorded more than 100 cases. On Friday, 128 new Covid-19 cases were recorded, Thursday saw 115 new cases and on Wednesday, the region had recorded 162 cases.So far, 28 corona positive persons have died in the UT including 25 from Kashmir division and three from the Jammu division.Of the 177 new cases, 125 were reported in Kashmir while 52 were reported from Jammu division, a government statement said.Fresh cases were reported from all the 10 districts of Kashmir valley, taking the total tally in the division to 1,853.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe highest jump was in Baramulla that registered 40 new cases including four people with travel histories, while Srinagar recorded 26 new cases including 13 people with travel histories, followed by Anantnag , Shopian and Budgam that registered 19, 16 and 10 cases respectively. There were single digit jumps in other districts in the Valley.48 out of the 671 swab samples tested at CD Hospital were found to be positive, said nodal officer Covid-19, Dr Salim Khan.“Among the positive cases, 10 are pregnant women, five each from Anantnag and Baramulla districts and one positive case is from district police lines Baramulla ,” he said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19In the Jammu division, the fresh cases were recorded in Jammu, Kathua, Udhampur, Sambha, Doda and Rajouri districts, taking the division’s tally to 488.On the front of recoveries, 33 patients were discharged on Saturday– 16 from Jammu division and 17 from Kashmir. So far, 905 out of the total 2,341 cases have recovered, 791 of those are from Kashmir and 117 are from the Jammu division.At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 1,037 and 368 in Jammu.Till date, 1.65 lakh people who came in contact with positive or suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 36,538 of these are in home quarantine, 56 are in institutional quarantine and 43,514 are under home surveillance. Besides these, 83,684 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.A 70-year old man from south Kashmir‘s Shopian, who died at a hospital in Srinagar on Thursday, was confirmed positive for the virus on Friday. He was the 28the registered victim of the contagion in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-single-day-spike-of-177-takes-j-k-tally-past-2300/story-dKHDraRLqlMv90nAjvYRsO.html
30-05-2020||India||In Unlock 1, re-opening of economic activities except in containment zones||The Centre on Sunday issued guidelines for re-opening all the activities in a phased manner from June 1 with a view to return to normalcy, more than two months after first nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection.The containment zones, however, will continue to be under strict lockdown with only essential services allowed there and movement of people restricted.Key activities to resume from the second week of June include hotels, shopping malls and dine-in facilities in restaurants, which were closed since March 24. However, international flights, metro rail, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places as well as any kind of social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, academic or religious function with large congregations will continue to be banned for the time being. A decision on these activities will be taken at a later stage.The new guidelines for phased re-opening of areas outside the containment zones – termed “Unlock-1” by the ministry of home affairs – have been issued after extensive consultations with states and union territories. Home minister Amit Shah fronted the discussions with chief ministers on Thursday. He then met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, informing him about the inputs from various CMs. The lockdown 4.0, which was announced on May 17, ends on Sunday.With an “economic focus”, the MHA order said, “all activities that were prohibited earlier will be opened up in areas outside Containment Zones in a phased manner”.However, the Centre has left the decision on the states to prohibit certain activities outside the containment zones if they want, based on their assessment.The Centre has claimed that there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. Also, no separate permission or approval or any e-permit will be required for such movements. The offices – government and private – have been told to encourage work from home (WFH) as far as possible.To stop inter-state movement, states will have to give ‘wide publicity’ in advance so that people are not stuck at borders. The regular passenger trains, Shramik Specials and movement of Indians stranded abroad will continue, according to existing guidelines issued earlier this month.Timing of night curfew – has been revised from earlier 7 pm to 7 am, to 9 pm to 5 am now, to ensure people have more flexibility in going to their workplaces or carrying out any other economic activity.The activities allowed in phase one are religious places and places of worship, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services as well as shopping malls, which can reopen from June 8. The health ministry will soon issue SOPs (standard operating protocols) for the same. Similarly, a decision will be taken in July to re-open schools, colleges and other educational institutions after consultations with states and union territories as part of phase two. The states governments have been asked to hold consultations at the institution level with parents and other stakeholders in this regard.The phase three will, based on ground assessment, decide whether international flights, metro rail, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places as well as any kind of social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, academic or religious function with large congregations will be allowed.For containment zones, the MHA order said that “lockdown will continue to remain in force till June 30 and that there should be strict perimeter control there to ensure there is no movement of people in and out, except for medical emergencies and for maintaining supply of essential goods and services”. State governments have been given freedom to identify ‘Buffer Zones’, areas outside the containment zones where new infection cases are more likely to occur.People above age 65 years, children below 10 years and those with co-morbidities and pregnant women have been asked to stay indoors.The government has advised the download of Aarogya Setu, terming it a powerful tool to facilitate quick identification of persons infected with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-lockdown-5-re-opening-of-economic-activities-except-in-containment-zones/story-N0OUKVE56S3Bw5rEv2bGhL.html
30-05-2020||India||India records highest number of cured Covid-19 patients in 24 hrs, recovery rate improves||As many as 11,264 Covid-19 patients in the country have recovered in the past 24 hours, leading to an improvement in India’s recovery rate, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.The tally of cured patients is the highest number of recovered patients recorded in a day, according to a statement released by the ministry, resulting in a recovery rate of 47.40%, an increase of 4.51% from the previous day’s recovery rate.The total number of cured Covid-19 patients in the country now stand at 82,369. “Owing to the high number of recovered patients, the number of active patients has also declined from 89,987 patients on 29th May to 86,422 active cases presently. All the active cases are under active medical supervision,” the ministry said. Click here for complete coverage of coronavirusGiving details of the doubling time of Covid-19, the ministry said that from 13.3 in the past 14 day, it has improved to 15.4 in the last three days. The fatality rate due to Covid-19 is 2.86%. It is among the lowest in the world, according to the health ministry. According to the ministry data, as of 29th May 2020, there are 2.55% active Covid-19 patients in ICU, 0.48% on ventilators and 1.96% on oxygen support. The ministry said that the testing capacity has increased in the country through 462 Government laboratories and 200 private laboratories. In all, 36,12,242 tests have been done so far for COVID-19, whereas, 1,26,842 samples were tested till Friday. Meanwhile, the government on Saturday evening extended lockdown in containment zones till June 30 and said all economic activities can resume in a phased manner outside these zones. The new guidelines, issued by the ministry of home affairs, will come into effect from June 1 and allows resumption of some activities that had had been prohibited since March 25 when the nationwide lockdown was first imposed. The government, however, has made it clear that the reopening will be done in phases and has also left enough room for states to tweak these relaxations as per the conditions prevailing in their jurisdictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-highest-number-of-cured-covid-19-patients-in-24-hrs-recovery-rate-improves/story-ojUUWMv6C0AKw69vmsTDfM.html
30-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: Night curfew to remain from 9 pm to 5 am and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Night curfew outside containment zones to remain, but for lesser durationNight curfew in areas outside containment zones to combat Covid-19 will remain but with a lesser number of hours under restriction. The Union home ministry’s new guidelines on Saturday for phased re-opening of areas outside containment zones makes a concession for night curfew by reducing the hours of restriction to eight from 12.Read more. Karnataka adds 141 new Covid-19 cases, state count close to 3000-markKarnataka on Saturday reported 141 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s total coronavirus count to 2,922, according to the state health department. At least 49 coronavirus positive patients have so far succumbed to the deadly pathogen in Karnataka. Currently, there are 1,874 active Covid-19 positive cases in the state, according to health department data. A total of 894 people have recovered and been discharged so far.Read more. Lockdown extended till June 30; malls to open, no to cinema halls, metro trainsThe Centre on Saturday extended the lockdown in containment zones till June 30 and said all economic activities can restart in a phased manner outside those zones. The fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown, necessitated by the coronavirus outbreak, was scheduled to end tomorrow. The order said there will be strict enforcement of lockdown in containment zones.Read more.As govt relaxes lockdown, decision to reopen schools, colleges in JulySchools and colleges which have been shut for over two months now will be opened after consultations with States and Union Territories in the second phase of the exit from the lockdown in July.The schools, colleges and educational centres in India have been shut since March 25 after the nationwide lockdown was imposed to combat the spread of coronavirus.Read more. Lockdown 5.0: Mall, restaurants, hotels, religious places can reopen from June 8The government has allowed the reopening of shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services along with the places of religious worship to people from June 8, however, these facilities will not be able to resume operations inside containment zones designated by authorities in states and additionally, the resumption of these activities is conditional to the standard operating procedures to be released by the ministry of health and welfare, said a government notification.Read more. Lockdown 5.0: Guidelines for using Aarogya Setu appThe Ministry of Home Affairs today issued new guidelines for the fifth phase of lockdown. Starting June 1, lockdown will continue in containment zones till June 30 whereas other areas will prepare for phased re-opening. The government also mentioned the use of the Aarogya Setu app in its guidelines.Read more. BCCI nominates Rohit Sharma for Khel Ratna honourThe BCCI on Saturday nominated Rohit Sharma as its candidate for the prestigious Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award for an outstanding 2019, while the likes of Ishant Sharma, Shikhar Dhawan and Deepti Yadav have been shortlisted for the Arjuna Award.Read more. Sara Ali Khan shows how she became ‘Sara Ka Adha’ in funny transformation video. WatchSara Ali Khan worked hard for her weight loss transformation and she loves to show it off. In her latest IGTV video, Sara has shared her journey from ‘Sara ka sara’ to ‘Sara ka aadha’.Read more. Lockdown art: A mother-daughter duo recreate famous paintings in quarantineIt all started with the excitement to do something creative in the lockdown. A teacher by profession, Shreya Sharma read about an American photographer, and a project she took up with her daughter. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-night-curfew-to-remain-from-9-pm-to-5-am-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jc11O15BFIqIOmvvFnGRZP.html
30-05-2020||India||58 new virus cases take Kerala’s Covid-19 tally past 1,200||A 38-year-old man from Alappuzha who returned from Abu Dhabi last week, died on Saturday taking Kerala’s Covid-19 death toll 10 while 58 fresh cases were reported during the day, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.The deceased who was suffering from liver ailments collapsed in an institutional quarantine on Friday and later died at the Alappuzha medical college hospital. His swab samples later tested positive for coronavirus, the CM said. Among the 58 new cases, 17 had returned from abroad, 31 came from other states and 10 were infected through local transmission. Seven Air India crew members and two medical workers are among the infected.Air India has carried out a number of flights to evacuate stranded Indians from many foreign countries since the first week of May first week. Nine of its employees have tested positive. Similarly many medical workers were also infected as Covid-19 cases rose after the return of expatriates and people stranded in other parts of the country. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.At least 1.27 lakh people have returned to Kerala by air, rail and road, Vijayan said.Kerala’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 1,208 out of which 624 are active cases. A total of 1,28,953 people are under observation. At least 10 people recovered on Saturday taking the total number of recovered to 572. The state government is yet to announce its relaxation of restrictions when the current lockdown ends on Sunday. The CM said the state will announce its measures after hearing the Centre’s directive. Since Covid-19 cases have continued to rise, it is unlikely that the government will announce major concessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/58-new-virus-cases-take-kerala-s-covid-19-tally-past-1-200/story-B4jKJBGeddk0CRxuNXUS7M.html
30-05-2020||India||Bihar police books Tejashwi for violating lockdown, he says protests will continue||The police have lodged two separate cases against Bihar’s leader of opposition (LoP) Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, former chief minister Rabri Devi, RJD’s state unit president Jagdanand Singh and over 150 party leaders and workers for violating lockdown norms after they were denied permission to visit Gopalganj to meet kin of victims in the triple murder case, in which a JD(U) MLA is accused.On Friday morning, scores of supporters, including RJD MLAs, had gathered outside Rabri Devi’s residence ahead of the proposed march, which was not allowed by the police.The first FIR, lodged with Sachivalaya police station in Patna, was against 92 persons, 32 of them identified, including former minister Tej Pratap Yadav, Abdul Bari Siddiqui and others. It said they did not follow social distancing norms and violated the Covid-19 lockdown norms.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesCity SP (Central) Vinay Tiwari confirmed that the case was lodged under section 269 of the Indian Penal Code, which relates to “negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life”.In Gopalganj, the Hathua police lodged FIR against RJD MLA from Barauli, Mohammad Nemtullah, CPI (ML) MLA from Darauli, Satyadeo Ram, and RJD’s Gopalganj district president Rajesh Singh Kushwaha.Gopalganj DM Arshad Aziz said 13 persons have been named in the FIR while 60 others were unidentified. All the accused were booked for staging protest at Rupanchak village under Hathua police station without the permission of an authority.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19RJD and CPI leaders were demanding action against JD (U) MLA Amrendra Kumar Pandey alias Pappu Pandey for his alleged involvement in the firing in which three people were killed and an RJD activist sustained injuries at Rupanchak village.Following the FIR, Tejashwi on Saturday tweeted that he was not afraid of “false cases” and that protests would continue till the arrest of absconding JD(U) MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-police-books-tejashwi-for-violating-lockdown-he-says-protests-will-continue/story-VK1p5pDdkvgEFL0SabLpqM.html
30-05-2020||India||10 big takeaways from Centre’s Unlock 1 relaxations||The home ministry on Saturday evening extended the lockdown till June 30, but only for containment zones. It also allowed the states to decide those zones and permitted restarting of economic activities outside those zones in a phased manner. It called this new phase as “Unlock 1”. Here are the 10 big takeaways:* In phase one, all religious places and places of worship, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services, shopping malls will be permitted to open from June 8.* In the second phase, schools, colleges, educational/ training/ coaching institutions etc., will be opened after consultations with States and UTs. * International air travel, operation of Metro trains, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums will remain shut. Sporting activities, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations too will not be allowed. The dates for their opening will be decided based on assessment of the situation in phase three. * There shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. * No separate passes will be required for inter state travels. * Night Curfew will continue to remain in force, on the movement of individuals, for all non-essential activities. However, the revised timings of the curfew will be from 9 pm to 5 am.* National directives for Covid-19 management shall continue to be followed throughout the country, with a view to ensure social distancing. * States, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain activities outside the Containment zones, or impose such restrictions.* People above 65 years of age, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home.* Authorities are advised to encourage the use of Aarogya Setu application for quick identification of persons infected by Covid-19, or at risk of being infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-10-big-takeaways-from-centre-s-unlock-1-relaxations/story-1kKjg8DNRlgxQThxUifOnI.html
30-05-2020||India||Night curfew outside containment zones to remain, but for lesser duration||Night curfew in areas outside containment zones to combat Covid-19 will remain but with a lesser number of hours under restriction under Unlock 1.The Union home ministry’s new guidelines on Saturday for phased re-opening of areas outside containment zones makes a concession for night curfew by reducing the hours of restriction to eight from 12.“Night curfew shall continue to remain in force, on the movement of individuals, for all non-essential activities. However, the revised timings of the curfew will be from 9 pm to 5 am,” the home ministry said in the Unlock 1 announcement. Only essential and emergency services are allowed during the curfew hours.Night curfew had been introduced in the fourth phase of the lockdown earlier this month to restrict movement of people to contain the spread of Covid-19. The curfew hours were 7 pm to 7 am. But in the northeast, the Assam government had enforced the curfew from 6 pm to 6 am.The home ministry’s new guidelines are part of the government’s graded lockdown exit plan.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah had met Friday to discuss the latest situation. Shah had also spoken to chief ministers on Thursday to know their views on lifting the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-outside-containment-zones-to-remain-but-for-lesser-duration/story-f9qwvIRRxKjbCzanywIT5L.html
30-05-2020||India||People with mental health disorders at risk of infections during outbreaks, experts say||In epidemic situations such as the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, people with mental health disorders are susceptible to infection that can be attributed to cognitive impairment, low-risk awareness and decreased personal protection efforts among patients, along with constraints in accessing regular healthcare, experts say.According to the Global Burden of Disease study, one in seven Indians, or 197 million, are affected by mental disorders, and their contribution to the overall disease burden has doubled from 2.5% to 4.7% over the last two decades.High susceptibility to stress worsens the existing mental health condition.“As a result of prolonged lockdown restrictions, in the latter half of this year, we can see several outbreaks of secondary epidemics such as stress-related disorder. In the current situation, the world is desperately trying to build enough beds to treat Covid-19 patients. Sadly, not much is being done in creating any sort of protection tents of psychological and social welfare to avert the crisis,” said Prafulla Shriyan, research fellow, Indian Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru.In General populationDespite knowledge of human coronaviruses, the new Covid-19 strain has created panic among the general public because of its widespread transmission across the globe. Various alarming video clippings of Covid-19 are accessible to all individuals in developing countries via their smartphones and computers.The use of physical control measures such as physical distancing, home quarantine, closure of schools, and workplaces are leading to disruption of social support networks. Sudden change in social circumstances and increased stress induce recurrence of already cured mental health problems in patients.Phobia related to isolation/quarantinePeople in quarantine are likely to develop psychological symptoms, emotional disturbance, depression, stress, irritability, and insomnia. These impacts will be higher when parents are quarantined along with their children.There are several reasons for stress, including fear of becoming sick, separation from the loved ones, loss of the loved ones, and financial hardship. Healthcare workers, children, and older people are at higher risk for long-term mental health problems.The deaths that occurred due to the pandemic are associated with severe psychological implications. Covid-19 is characterised by fear, anxiety, and grief. The reported suicidal cases show the number of suicidal deaths is high among older adults, as they are sensitive to isolation and are more dependent on social support.“In India, over 90 people fled from Covid-19 isolation wards, and more than 10 suicidal deaths were reported across states because of the social stigma attached to the disease and the fear of isolation. This creates panic about the disease and helps to spread it even further. People don’t want them to be labelled as infected and are fleeing from healthcare facilities wherever they are isolated or quarantined. Panic may also paralyse them with fear and these internal emotions progress to hopelessness and desperation,” said Dr. Giridhara R Babu, professor, Indian Institute of Public Health.Infected peopleInfected people experience high levels of stress, due to fear, uncertainty, financial anxiety, and limited interactions. “Symptomatic patients are more likely to experience anger, confusion, hopelessness, anxiety, depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder. Isolating independent persons in a single room with limited movement and contact precautions can induce severe stress,” said Dr. Babu.An asymptomatic individual can also report distress, frustration, and fear due to long quarantine, perception of risk, and inadequate information.In childrenClosed schools due to prevailing lockdown restrictions have resulted in different kinds of mental health issues in children.“Disruption of daily routine causes children with special needs to feel frustrated and short-tempered. Nationwide school closures also increase the risk of exploitation, violence, and abuse due to interrupted social services and movement restrictions,” said Shriyan.Caregivers in most of countries subject children to homicidal practices. What if those kids couldn’t leave home, stay away from teachers, friends, or supportive services? Who will protect them? Millions of children have been addicted to digital technology. Now, how do we keep them safe from the risks and hazardous consequences of the internet?HealthcareHealthcare workers’ safety and psychological resilience are essential components of sustaining critical healthcare services throughout the epidemic. They are facing a greater risk of exposure, extreme workload, and a rapidly changing working environment due to the pandemic. It forces healthcare professionals in a challenging situation, attempting them to make tough decisions and work under immense pressure.Most people, especially the vulnerable are susceptible to mental healthcare issues due to the pandemic. “Along with Covid-19, there might be a surge in mental health issues due to the economic crisis, unemployment, poverty, and homelessness. Mental health services need to be prioritised by strengthening the existing healthcare system. Screening of people at high risk such as those with an earlier history of mental health and senior citizens along with an effective intervention to minimise adversities should be the top priority,” Shriyan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-with-mental-health-disorders-at-risk-of-infections-during-outbreaks-experts-say/story-Nn0lBv74MuLHFiHORVv7FO.html
30-05-2020||India||Highest spike of 1,163 fresh Covid cases in Delhi takes total to over 18,000||A record single-day spike of 1,163 fresh cases took the COVID-19 tally in Delhi to over 18,000 on Saturday and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 416, authorities said.The previous daily high in fresh cases -- 1,106 -- was recorded on May 29.This is the second consecutive day in Delhi when over 1,100 COVID-19 cases have been reported.In a bulletin issued on Saturday, the Delhi health department said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 416, and the total number of cases mounted to 18,549.It added the cumulative death figures refers to fatalities where primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals.On Friday, the total number of cases stood at 17,386 including 398 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-spike-of-1-163-fresh-covid-cases-in-delhi-takes-total-to-over-18-000/story-B4dFyWuOgrVY9kuDpmSA0I.html
30-05-2020||India||Lockdown 5.0 guidelines: Here’s a list of activities allowed||The government has extended the nationwide lockdown to June 30 through an order released on Saturday evening by the ministry of home affairs, however, it has also allowed resumption of some activities that had remained shut till now since the lockdown was first imposed on March 25. The government, however, has made it clear that the reopening will be done in phases and has also left enough room for states to tweak these relaxations as per the conditions prevailing in their jurisdictions.List of activities allowed from June 11. Interstate movement of people and vehicles without the requirement of e-permit2. Intrastate movement of people and vehicles3. Movement of any type of goods and cargo for cross land-border trade4. Night Curfew timing relaxed, it will now be observed between 9 pm and 5 amCondition- A state or UT can still restrict the movement of people based on reasons of public health provided it gives wide publicity in advance regarding the restrictions and the procedures to be followed.List of activities allowed from June 8- Unlock 11. Religious places of worship like Temples, Mosques, Gurdwaras and Churches2. Shopping Malls3. Hotels and Restaurants4. Remaining hospitality sectorCondition - The reopening of above places will be governed by social distancing norms and other regulatory measures that will soon be released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Also Read: Lockdown 5.0: Mall, restaurants, hotels, religious places can reopen from June 8List of activities that may be allowed in July- Unlock 21. School and Colleges2. Educational institutions3. Training institutions4. Coaching institutionsCondition- A decision on the reopening of educational institutions mentioned above will be taken in July after states and UTs consult stakeholders. List of activities to be opened in Unlock 31. Regular international air travel2. Metro rail services3. Cinema Halls4. Gymnasiums5. Swimming pools6. Entertainment parks7. Theatres8. Bars9. Auditoriums10. Assembly HallsCondition- The government has not set a date for reopening the above activities mentioned under phase-3/ unlock-3 and the home ministry order says that a date for their reopening will be decided after “assessment of the situation.”Activities allowed in containment zones from June 1Only essential services like grocery, bakery, medicine, vegetables||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-5-0-metros-cinemas-gyms-to-remain-shut-here-s-a-list-of-allowed-activities/story-Hb5LCuXnTKk9XDHltOP4CM.html
30-05-2020||India||In lockdown 5.0, international air travel, metro services to remain suspended||The Centre on Saturday announced that the nationwide lockdown will be extended till June 30 in containment zones and added that essential economic activities would be permitted in a staggered manner outside those zones. International air travel and operation of Metro Rail in various states, however, will not be permitted till further notice.In Phase III, according to the government order, dates for their opening will be decided based on an assessment of the Covid-19 situation in the country.International air travel which has been suspended in India from the last week of March to curb the spread of the coronavirus will still not be allowed, according to the latest guidelines till a new date is announced.ALSO READ| Lockdown extended till June 30; malls to open, no to cinema halls, metro trainsAccording to the guidelines issued by the government, Metro services will remain closed for commuters until further notice, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in a statement. Metro services will also remain suspended in other states which have the public transport facility. The latest guidelines will come into effect from June 1 and will be effective till June 30, 2020. The current phase of re-opening, Unlock 1, will focus on resumption of economic activities.As far as the movement of people is concerned, there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. No separate permissions or approval or any kind of e-permit will be required for such movement from one state to the other.ALSO READ | PM Narendra Modi expected to give glimpses of ‘Lockdown 5.0’ on SundayBut, if a state or Union Territory, based on reasons of public health and its assessment of the situation, proposes to regulate movement of people, it has to give wide publicity in advance regarding the restrictions to be placed on such travel and also related protocol that needs to be followed. The fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown, imposed to curb the coronavirus outbreak, was scheduled to end tomorrow on May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-lockdown-5-0-international-air-travel-metro-services-to-remain-suspended/story-Z1uyQih8i6mEUk4EC6SxIP.html
30-05-2020||India||As govt relaxes lockdown, decision to reopen schools, colleges in July||Schools and colleges which have been shut for over two months now will be opened after consultations with States and Union Territories in the second phase of the exit from the lockdown in July under the Union home ministry’s Unlock 1 announcement on Saturday.The schools, colleges and educational centres in India have been shut since March 25 after the nationwide lockdown was imposed to combat the spread of coronavirus.“In Phase II, schools, colleges, educational/ training/ coaching institutions etc., will be opened after consultations with States and UTs. State Governments/ UT administrations are being advised to hold consultations at the institution level with parents and other stakeholders. Based on the feedback, a decision on the re-opening of these institutions will be taken in the month of July, 2020. MoHFW will prepare SOP for these institutions,” the ministry of home affairs order said. In north India, schools normally remain closed for summer holidays from mid May to the end of June.Also read | Lockdown extended till June 30; malls to open, no to cinema halls, metro trainsReligious places and places of worship, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services and shopping malls which have been shut since the lockdown began on March 25 will be permitted to open from June 8, according to the Union home ministry’s new guidelines on Saturday for phased re-opening of areas outside containment zones.The guidelines came a day before the fourth phase of the lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 ends on Sunday.“In Phase I, religious places and places of worship for public; hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services; and shopping malls; will be permitted to open from June 8, 2020. Health Ministry will issue SOPs for the above activities, in consultation with the Central Ministries/ Departments concerned and other stakeholders, for ensuring social distancing and to contain the spread of Covid-19,” the home ministry order said.There have been demands for opening religious places from various quarters. Uttarakhand had recently asked that it be allowed to resume its pilgrim tourism. The lockdown also meant that there was no Eid namaz anywhere in the country earlier this month. Also read | In lockdown 5.0, international air travel, metro services to remain suspended||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-govt-relaxes-lockdown-decision-to-reopen-schools-in-july/story-fpMKxorsOl2PvDxf0XjffM.html
30-05-2020||India||Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee may have guided CM Mamata’s move to directly transfer money to Amphan-affected: Experts||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s decision to directly transfer money to the bank accounts of around five lakh super cyclone Amphan-affected people might have been influenced and guided by Nobel laureate Dr. Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, who heads the global advisory body set up by her to battle the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, according to experts.On Friday, Banerjee had announced that Rs 20,000 would be transferred to the bank accounts of each of the five lakh families affected by the cyclone and even assured an additional Rs 28,000 to each family under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Generation Scheme (MNREGS). “Dr. Banerjee has been saying this for quite some time now. He had even suggested this to the Union government. The CM took his advice and implemented it. The Centre and other states will have to follow it, as this is the only way out,” said Tapas Roy, senior Trinamool Congress leader and minister of state for parliamentary affairs.The Indian-American economist, who won the 2019 Nobel Prize in Economics, along with Esther Duflo and Michael Kremer, had suggested that the Narendra Modi-led government should look at providing cash transfer to the bottom 60% of India’s population to help revive the economy, which has been battered by Covid-19.“Spending is the easiest way to revive the economy. It will have stimulus effect,” Dr. Banerjee had said during his recent conversation with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi amid the pandemic.The global advisory body, which Mamata Banerjee has set up to advise her government on how to fight the crisis triggered by the viral outbreak, has Dr. Banerjee as its head. Swarup Sarkar, former regional director of WHO (World Health Organisation); Tom Frieden, ex-CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of the US); Jishnu Das, economist, World Bank; and JVR Prasad Rao, a former union health secretary, are among the other experts.“This is a very good initiative by the West Bengal government. People, who have been the hardest hit, will need cash in hand. Some economists, including Nobel laureate Dr. Banerjee, have been saying this. It seems the government may have taken Dr. Banerjee’s advice, as he is heading the global advisory body to battle the pandemic,” said Mousumi Dutta, head of the economics department at Presidency University in Kolkata.The opposition, however, has slammed the Bengal government over the initiative, claiming it had been cheating people and making false promises.“The Bengal government has made such promises in the past too such as giving dearness allowances to government employees. It was never given. Now, she knows that her government has failed in all aspects. She wants to give some money in a bid to win them over before the next year’s assembly polls. What will people do with the money if they die of Covid-19?” asked Rahul Sinha, national secretary, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Dr. Banerjee had said the government should issue temporary ration cards for three to six months for every person who needs foodgrains. “Use those ration cards for transferring money, wheat, and rice to them,” he had said.The Bengal government announced a few days ago that those who have outdated paper ration cards are also eligible for ration items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobel-laureate-abhijit-banerjee-may-have-guided-cm-mamata-s-move-to-directly-transfer-money-to-amphan-affected-experts/story-tlLTwfPvxXeMIPTjaCluoN.html
30-05-2020||India||Covid-19 doubling time improves to 15.4 days: Health Ministry||The doubling time of coronavirus cases in India has improved to 15.4 days from 13.3 days, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday, as the country’s COVID-19 death toll climbed to 4,971 and the total cases rose to 1,73,763.The doubling time improved during the past three days, it said.As many as 11,264 COVID-19 patients have been cured in the last 24 hours till Saturday 8 am, the highest number of recoveries recorded in one day, pushing India’s recovery rate to 47.40 per cent, it said.However, the country registered a record single-day spike of 265 deaths and 7,964 cases till Saturday 8 am, according to the ministry.India is the now the ninth worst-hit nation by the pandemic.While the number of active COVID-19 cases stood to 86,422, a total of 82,369 coronavirus infected patients have recovered so far.“During the last 24 hours, a total of 11,264 COVID-19 patients have been cured. This is the highest number of recoveries recorded in a day.   “This has resulted in a recovery rate of 47.40 pc amongst COVID-19 patients, an increase of 4.51 per cent, from the previous day’s recovery rate of 42.89 per cent,” the health ministry said.Owing to the high number of recovered patients, the number of active patients has also declined from 89,987 patients on May 29 to 86,422 active cases presently, the ministry said in a statement adding all the patients are under active medical supervision.“As on May 30, the doubling time in the past 14 days was 13.3, it has improved to 15.4 days in the last three days. The fatality rate stands at 2.86 per cent,” the statement said.As on May 29, 2.55 per cent of the active COVID-19 patients are in the ICU, 0.48 per cent on ventilators and 1.96 per cent are on oxygen support.The testing capacity has increased in the country through 462 government laboratories and 200 private laboratories.Cumulatively, 36,12,242 tests have been done so far for COVID-19, whereas, 1,26,842 samples were tested yesterday, the ministry said.As far as the health infrastructure in the country for management of COVID-19 is concerned, 942 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,58,908 isolation beds, 20,608 ICU beds and 69,384 oxygen supported beds are available as of now.  Also, 2,380 dedicated COVID Health Centres with 1,33,678 Isolation beds; 10,916 ICU beds and 45,750 oxygen supported beds have been operationalised.  Besides,10,541 quarantine centres and 7,304 COVID Care Centres with 6,64,330 beds are presently available to combat COVID-19 in the country.  The Centre has also provided 119.88 lakh N95 masks and 96.14 lakh Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to the states, UTs and central Institutions.The ministry reiterated that all precautions must be taken while “living with the new normal” of COVID-19.  It is imperative that all guidelines on physical distancing are followed at public places and workplaces, hand hygiene including frequent hand washing and respiratory hygiene is maintained, mask or face covers are used in public places and coughing/respiratory etiquettes are followed, it said.“It is highlighted that the management of COVID-19 is only possible when all the due care is taken by everyone without being complacent about the situation and by not taking the relaxations during the lockdown situation for granted,” the ministry underlined. PTI PLB ABH ABH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-doubling-time-improves-to-15-4-days-health-ministry/story-HD5xGANkBfbwoaX6H2B32N.html
30-05-2020||India||Lockdown 5.0: Mall, restaurants, hotels, religious places can reopen from June 8||The government has allowed the reopening of shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services along with the places of religious worship to people from June 8, however, these facilities will not be able to resume operations inside containment zones designated by authorities in states and additionally, the resumption of these activities is conditional to the standard operating procedures to be released by the ministry of health and welfare, said a government notification.“Ministry of health and family welfare will issue Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the above activities in consultation with the Central ministries/Departments concerned and other stakeholders, for ensuring social distancing and to contain the spread of Covid-19,” said the government order released by the ministry of home affairs.Also read | Lockdown in India extended till June 30According to the ministry the reopening of the various activities that had not been allowed till the end of the fourth phase of lockdown will be done in phases and the resumption of the above activities are part of Unlock 1.Unlock 2 or phase-2 will see the resumption of educational institutions, training and coaching centres from July in consultation with the governments in states and union territories. The fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown is ending tomorrow and it seems the Centre has given time till June 8 for the new relaxations to come into effect while extending the overarching lockdown to June 30. The central notification adds that all activities will be permitted outside the containment zones which are now being decided individually by states and union territories based on the local factors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-5-0-mall-restaurants-hotels-religious-places-can-reopen-from-june-8/story-tizVlpwkXkbVDfgfdyFOpO.html
30-05-2020||India||Unlock 1: Malls, religious places to reopen from June 8; no to cinema halls, metro trains||The Centre on Saturday extended the lockdown in containment zones till June 30 and said all economic activities can restart in a phased manner outside those zones. The fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown, necessitated by the coronavirus outbreak, was scheduled to end tomorrow.The order said there will be strict enforcement of lockdown in containment zones.New guidelines, the MHA said, have been issued after extensive consultations with states and union territories. Home minister Amit Shah fronted the discussions with chief ministers on Thursday. He then met Prime Minister Modi, informing him about the inputs from various CMs. On Saturday, the home ministry extended the lockdown. In Phase I, the order said, religious places and places of worship for public, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services and shopping malls will be permitted to open from June 8. The health ministry will issue SOPs for the above activities, in consultation with the Central Ministries and departments concerned and other stakeholders, for ensuring social distancing and to contain the spread of Covid-19.In Phase II, schools, colleges, etc will be opened. The state governments have been advised to hold consultations at the institution level with parents and other stakeholders. Based on the feedback, a decision on the re-opening of these institutions will be taken in the month of July, 2020. The ministry will then prepare SOP for these institutions. Only a limited number of activities will remain prohibited throughout the country. These are: International air travel of passengers, operation of Metro Rail, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places. Also, social, political, sporting activities, cultural, and religious functions and other large congregations will remain out of bounds. In Phase III, dates for their opening will be decided based on assessment of the situation. The containment zones will be demarcated by the states after taking into consideration the guidelines issued by the Health Ministry. Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control shall be maintained and only essential activities allowed. There shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. Also, no separate permission or approval or any e-permit will be required for such movements.On the question of night curfew, the order said, it will remain in force for all non-essential activities. However, the revised timings of the curfew will be from 9 pm to 5 am. People above 65 years of age, with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-extended-in-containment-zones-till-june-30-mha/story-pMh9RU24norxZbdgaZrH4I.html
30-05-2020||India||Priest found dead in a temple in Haridwar, police rule out foul-play||A 53-year-old priest was found dead under mysterious circumstances in his temple accomodation in a Haridwar village on Friday, said Uttarakhand police. Following the incident, a large number of locals and seers gathered at the site suspecting he was murdered. However, in the initial probe no foul-play was found which could suggest it to be a case of murder, said police. Swapna Kishor, superintendent of police, Haridwar (rural) said the deceased priest was identified as one Amanand who served the temple for the last six years.“He was a priest in a local Shani temple in village Trilokpuri of Roorkee area in the district. He was not seen in the temple by locals for the last two days. On Friday, when one of them tried to enquire about him, he was found lying dead in his accommodation attached to the temple,” said Kishor. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Kishore added that one of the locals informed the police which soon reached the spot and initiated a probe.“The locals had suspected a murder but in the initial investigation it was found that there was no foul-play which could lead to a murder. Also, there were no signs of any external injuries or resistance which usually exist in a murder,” the police officer said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe SP said that the police also found out that the deceased was suffering from an allergy.“As it is a sensitive matter, we have sent the body for post-mortem examination which will ascertain the exact cause of his death. A probe is on in the matter,” said Kishor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priest-found-dead-in-a-temple-in-haridwar-police-rule-out-foul-play/story-fJY4VC1TDfavemmfF2edxH.html
30-05-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh CM Chouhan says lockdown till June 15 to fight Covid-19||Madhya Pradesh has became the first state in the country to extend lockdown till June 15, even as the fourth phase of nationwide shutdown officially ends tomorrow.“We will be extending the lockdown till June 15 to fight Covid-19,”CM Chouhan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He also said that schools in the state would open after June 13 while speaking to students from 10 districts through video conference on Saturday. “Schools would reopen after June 13. But the final decision on this would be taken after some days because we are going to extend lockdown till June 15,” Chouhan said, reports PTI. With 246 new Covid-19 positive cases reported on Saturday, the central state tally has gone up to 7,891, according to the state health departement, reports ANI. The state also reported nine deaths , taking the death toll to 343 while 4,444 patients have been cured and discharged. The chief minister also told the students that his government has transferred a total of Rs 145.92 crore into the accounts of 66.27 lakh students.According to PTI, the money is in lieu of mid-day meals for students which at present cannot be served due to lockdown and closure of schools.Madhya Pradesh’s Indore is among the worst-hit 13 cities in the country which will see new, comparatively stricter guidelines in the fifth phase of the lockdown beginning June 1. Soon after Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s announcement , the Centre, too, extended the lockdown in containment zones till June 30, saying all economic activities can restart in a phased manner outside those zones.The fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown, necessitated by the coronavirus outbreak, was scheduled to end tomorrow.The order said there will be strict enforcement of lockdown in containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-extends-lockdown-till-june-15-cm-shivraj-chouhan/story-XBygWWWTa8kNiRZZfPqc9J.html
30-05-2020||India||Rs 15 lakh from ‘Bharat Ke Veer’ fund to kin of CAPF coronavirus casualty||An amount of Rs 15 lakh will be provided from the ‘Bharat Ke Veer’ fund to the family of those central paramilitary forces personnel who succumb to COVID-19 while on duty, officials said on Saturday.They said the Union home ministry has recently approved the decision and the amount will be “in addition” to the ex gratia of about Rs 1 crore provided by the respective Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) to troops who lay down their lives in the line of duty.  Till now, eight CAPFs personnel have succumbed to the disease. The maximum of four fatalities were reported in the CISF and two each in the CRPF and BSF.The CAPFs or central paramilitary forces -- the Central Reserve Police Force, the Border Security Force, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the Central Industrial Security Force and the Sashastra Seema Bal -- have a combined strength of about 10 lakh personnel deployed for rendering a variety of internal security duties and border guarding.The Union home ministry, under whose command the paramilitary forces function, launched the ‘Bharat Ke Veer’ (BKV) fund in April 2017.It was created with an aim that common people who wish to pay tributes and make monetary contributions for CAPF men and women can do so in a streamlined manner.“A decision has been made by the home ministry that the family of a CAPF corona warrior who dies due to COVID-19 in the line of duty will be provided an amount of Rs 15 lakh in addition to the regular ex-gratia service amount.” “Their personal details and bank account links are being uploaded on the BKV website and the mobile app,” a senior official said.Contributions to the fund can be made through the BKV mobile app or through its official website www.bharatkeveer.gov.in.All contributions to this fund are exempt from income tax as per government rules.Earlier this month, PTI had reported that the CRPF had proposed to the government that a special grant of Rs 50 lakh could be provided to central paramilitary personnel who die due to COVID-19 while on duty.According to latest official data, these forces have reported over 1,340 coronavirus cases till date and now 430 personnel are under treatment.The counter-terrorist force National Security Guard (NSG) had detected one patient, who has now recovered.Two cases of the infection have been reported in the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the federal contingency force said, adding that the patients are under treatment at the CAPFs referral hospital in Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-15-lakh-from-bharat-ke-veer-fund-to-kin-of-capf-coronavirus-casualty/story-JWqr5Q6uKGqf9U0viItDkM.html
30-05-2020||India||Taj Mahal’s marble railings damaged as thunderstorm lashes Agra||A thunderstorm that swept through Agra Friday night killing at least three people also damaged the marble railings of the city’s most famous monument – the Taj Mahal.The storm also damaged the main wooden main gate of the monument.The wind speed was assessed at 124 kilometers per hour and brought down trees and walls. Many cars were damaged as walls and trees fell on them. About 20 houses were damaged and a six year old girl died under the debris.A telecom tower fell in the Albatia area of the city and Agra–Bayana train track was blocked when trees fell on Malpura rail line.“There has been damage to the Taj Mahal’s premises due to rains and thunderstorm. Part of the marble railing at the back of the main mausoleum towards river Yamuna fell. A red sandstone railing fell on the floor. About ten trees on Taj Mahal premises also toppled,” said Ankit Namdev, the Archaeology Survey of India’s Conservation Assistant at the Taj Mahal.“The wooden main gate has tilted because of the thrust of high speed winds which uprooted the false ceiling outside the monument and damaged a turnstile gate at Taj Mahal. Repair work is to be undertaken after assessment of losses,” Namdev said.It is not the first time that Taj has faced damages due to thunderstorms. On April 11 and May 2, 2018, there were similar damages because of thunderstorms.A six year old girl died in Nagla Karan Singh of Agra in Friday’s storm after the house collapsed, trapping her in the debris. A villager identified as Kailashi from village Marhi in Doki area of Agra district and Ram Shankar Kanhiyya from Fatehabad town also lost their lives.The wind uprooted trees, poles and tin roofs all over city and rural areas. The power supply was disrupted which could be partially restored late at night. The thunderstorm also damaged crops. In rural areas it was a hailstorm which caused damages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-suffers-damages-as-thunderstorm-lashes-agra/story-hYHEN2bG0teAWMxVcpvPMI.html
30-05-2020||India||‘Making daughter-in-law do house work not unusual’: Kerala High Court||Pushing a daughter-in-law to do household chores is “not something unusual”, the Kerala High Court observed last week, allowing a plea for divorce filed by a man against his wife. The woman had refused to live with the man citing ill-treatment by the mother-in-law and exhorted him to move out with her, which the man presented in court as “cruelty”. “We do not find any other justifiable reason for her to get the petitioner’s mother excluded from the family or to be desirous of having a separate residence to the exclusion of her. The persistence of the respondent (wife) was unbearable for the petitioner,” the judgment authored by justice Mary Joseph noted.The woman, in turn, had submitted that her mother-in-law used to ill treat her physically and mentally to the extent that she made her do all domestic work even during the convalescent period after a surgical operation.“No family is totally devoid of clashes among members constituting it. It is common for elders to scold and sometimes abuse youngsters. Making a daughter-in-law do the household/domestic work is also not something unusual”, the bench, which also comprised justice AM Shaffique, noted in response to the wife’s argument.Also Watch: Man kills wife by letting loose a cobra while she slept, arrested The plea for divorce was set up by the husband in the family court in 2011 on the grounds of cruelty. The couple had married in 2003 and were parents to a girl child. The husband alleged that the wife had found pleasure in quarrelling with him and his mother. It was also submitted that she threatened to commit suicide after creating cogent materials to trap the husband and his mother.“She used to call the petitioner ‘dog’ and ‘shameless creature. She used to undermine his person stating that he is not a fit person to be her husband and insult him by beating him in front of his relatives. She also denied the petitioner sex,” it was alleged.The woman moved out of the house in February 2011.She, however, opposed the plea for divorce, raising counter allegations of cruelty at the hands of her mother-in-law. It was alleged that on the advice of the mother-in-law, the husband started ill treating her.The family court ruled in favour of the woman in January 2014 and denied the husband’s petition for divorce which led to the appeal in the high court.The high court took note of the submissions made by the wife as per which she expressed willingness to live with the husband only if her mother-in-law does not live in the same house.“The respondent was very particular to have a more comfortable and happy life to the exclusion of the petitioner’s mother, who according to her was the root cause for problems to originate in her matrimonial life,” the court said.The court also noted that the husband was not a drunkard during the initial days of marriage, but he turned to alcohol after the relationship with the wife hit the rough patch.“In the case on hand the petitioner’s turning to be a drunkard can only be taken as the natural outcome of the pressure exerted on him by the respondent to have a separate residence to the exclusion of the petitioner’s mother,” the bench stated.The court, therefore, allowed the husband’s plea and set aside the judgment of family court.“Evidence indicates that the respondent and the petitioner’s mother were not cordial and clashes were frequent. Therefore, it is natural for the petitioner to be a scapegoat of the indifferences. The torture suffered by him amidst the respondent and his mother was of much gravity and something unbearable for him,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/making-daughter-in-law-do-house-work-not-unusual-kerala-high-court/story-TZlPUyuGXlvLf93XXidw0M.html
30-05-2020||India||Now paying: Covid-19 protection fee for salon services?||Gurugrammers couldn’t be happier when salons got a green signal in the millennium city. But, now there has come a shocker for those visiting the salons. Shikha Sheth, a Gurugram-based corporate, recently posted on social media about her experience at a salon where she went to avail the much-awaited hair and beauty care, and in return was handed over a bill that charged her a ‘Covid Protection Fee’; this charge was beyond the cost of services she had availed at the salon.Sharing the incident on Facebook, Sheth wrote: “I asked for the bill to be seen as I thought it seemed bloated. When I looked at the line items, there was a charge of INR 240 for Covid protection - I asked what this is and I was told that its all the covid gear that they are using (sic).”Read More: Stylists in PPE kit, service by appointment: Parlours, salons open amid Covid-19 pandemicWhen contacted, Sheth, who works with a global executive search firm, says the problem was “non-disclosure”, and adds, “I asked them to show me the bill and the guy at the counter hesitated. He wasn’t giving a print out and said ‘You come here and see on the screen’. I saw the ‘Covid Protection Fee’ and I pointed out ‘What is this?’ To which he said ‘All the kits and stuff like that’... I remember when I had entered the salon, they were not wearing shoe covers, there was a sanitiser but no face shields. PPE kits that they claim they’re supposed to be wearing were like an apron. When I’m paying a bill of ₹1,700, and in addition giving a tip of ₹100, why would I have a problem paying another ₹247? My problem is, why didn’t they didn’t tell me at the time of booking of the appointment. If it’s a new addition, the necessity to pay this service charge is neither displayed at the reception nor at the entry door. The lady (at the front desk) said ‘If you’re not going to pay, we’ll inflate your bill by 10%’. To me, this is a clear case of duping the customers.” Read More: Gyms, salon owners seek govt nod to open shops from June 1When contacted, director of the salon in question, Manisha Yadav, told us that she’s investigating the matter, but also emphasised that their expenses have shot through the roof. “This is the charge we are taking for the disposables we are using. We have been open for many days and nobody has really said anything, but maybe she was not told prior. Otherwise, we don’t take the customer only. There is an extra charge because we are using additional things [like] extra set of disposables. The moment you walk in the salon, you are given shoe cover, and even the fabric is sanitised. We are not cutting corners, but saying that protection is the most important thing not just for my customers, but even for my staff. We are not going to take any chance as health is most important. People are not realising that more than them, my staff is at risk! We don’t earn that much money, and the amount of money that is spent on disposables right now [is quite something] because the customers walking in, are very less,” says Yadav, adding, “We have taken this feedback. There’s a talk going on with all salon owners. We will try and see the best possible way, so that nobody feels the pinch.”Unlike Sheth, other denizens feel such a charge is completely uncalled for! Smriti Chhabra, who is the founder of a community of Gurugrammers, says, “Some doctors are also charging extra for PPE gear, which they are asking the patients to wear during check up. We understand that it’s an additional cost for salons, to add to their consumables to run their operations. But why are the customers being charged for it? And if they are charging it, then there should be a capping on the amount as it shouldn’t pinch the customers visiting them.” Some of the salon owners/management also question this new charge that has become the bone of contention in the current scenario considering some disposables were part of the services earlier as well. “I’m not sure in what capacity is this being charged” says, Sonali Bhambri, director, Toni & Guy (North India), adding, “In our gear, disposable sheets, strips and face napkins, were already there. In hair, we have shifted from regular towels to disposable towels, which is an added cost, but as of now we are not charging extra for that bit.” Divya Parchani, marketing manager - India, Geetanjali Salon, informs that they have made a Covid-19 test mandatory for their employees, and alongside provided PPE kits and introduced disposable towels etc. “If I sell a particular service for ₹400, it accounts for the employee fee, different expenses plus a profit margin. Now, the expense per service has gone up. It’s subjective for every brand if they are unable to pay it from their pocket, and totally depends on what is the profit margin that the brand has. Presently, we are not charging any such fee, and as a brand we feel we shouldn’t be charging such a fee right now,” says Parchani.Some who frequent salons say that they don’t mind paying extra, but demand prior clarity. “You can increase the price of the services your giving by 10-15%, but a mandatory Covid-19 charge is unacceptable,” opines Aparna Tandon, a Delhi-based entrepreneur, whereas Gurugram resident Nidhi Wahi Gaura, adds, “Whatever addition is made in the billing, it must be informed to the customer prior to being served. If the customer agrees to pay it, only then should the salon proceed with the service.”Author tweets @nainaarora8Follow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/now-paying-covid-19-protection-fee-for-salon-services/story-SyVIfCG5X4X2sny4eYpmZO.html
30-05-2020||India||Coming soon: Indian National Supermodel to predict the future of coronavirus spread||The Indian government’s department of science and technology (DST) has begun work on the creation of a Covid -19 Indian National Supermodel which will forecast the coronavirus spread and also monitor the future transmission of infection with the aim to assist governments in decisions involving readiness of the national health systems and other mitigation measures.An official statement from the ministry of science and technology on Saturday said that there was a need for a robust forecasting model for predicting the spread of the disease and for enhancing disease surveillance measures.It added that while the government was monitoring and taking measures to control infectivity and mortality related to Sars-Cov-2, it was imperative to bring together the analytics harvested by the numerous mathematical models being developed for Covid-19 forecasting and surveillance with funding by DST-SERB (Science and Engineering Research Board) and other agencies.“Inspired by India’s history of using mathematical models for disaster management planning of metrological events, DST has initiated this exercise to pool in expertise in the field and create one model for the entire country that will be subjected to rigorous tests required for evidence-based forecasting, routinely practiced in weather forecasting communities,” the statement says.The announcement comes as India gallops towards another grim milestone of recording 200,000 positive cases of the disease with a tall of 173,763 cases on Saturday, and a new record being created on each of the past few days for the sharpest single-day spike in cases. Also Read: With highest single-day spike of 7,964 cases, India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 1.73 lakhAs per the statement the model in the works will rely only on the data that is relevant to Covid-19, and will also have a built-in component to adapt and learn from the newer data trends.“It will aggregate successful evidence-based mathematical and statistical forecasting models and include the best predictive analytics for robust forecasting of infectious disease spread,” the statement adds.The government of India has in the past used projections from some of these mathematical models to try and gauge the efficacy of several restrictive and containment measures taken by the government such as the lockdown and the testing strategy.The statement says that the new supermodel could be useful not only for policymakers in India but also around the world for the purpose of overcoming difficulties in predicting the rate of spread of infection and the likely burden it will put on the healthcare sector, which in turn will help governments curb the epidemic.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The ministry says that Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) and IISc, Bangalore have been tasked to co-ordinate and work with all Covid-19 modeling projects and programs in the country.“This will help develop a set of benchmarks to assess various models and to finally deliver the Covid-19 India National Supermodel. The Coordination team will consult and work with the research groups active in modeling, various software developers, and reputed companies to ensure delivery of a suitable user interface and software,” the statement added.JNCASR and IISc will also work in close coordination with a consultative committee that will receive critical inputs on technical aggregation, guidance, and final delivery of a robust supermodel, the statement claims.“Mathematical modeling and simulations for the spread of Covid-19 virus and its impact are not mere academic exercises but are critical needs for rational decision making, planning, and resource management. It is thus of vital importance that a robust National Model which is vetted by a large cross-section of the scientific community working in the area is developed,” said Prof Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, DST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coming-soon-indian-national-supermodel-to-predict-the-future-of-coronavirus-spread/story-3zF3pa6uhidneYhVJrZrgJ.html
30-05-2020||India||Vaccine to prevent Covid-19 will take long time to be ready: Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw||A safe Vaccine to prevent COVID-19 could take a very long time to be ready, so there is a need to deal with the pandemic for next few years and invest more in healthcare, Biocon Executive Chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw said on Saturday.She was speaking in a webinar on ‘Pharma and Healthcare’s New Normal: Engaging With Customers in Uncertain Times; Business Model Post-COVID-19’, organised by CorpGini.“...We believe that it will take a very long time before you can actually have a safe vaccine that can be accessible to the entire country. We must understand that vaccine development is a very complex process. Shortest time taken for any vaccine is not less than 4 years,” Mazumdar-Shaw said.Trying to develop vaccine in less than a year is a very daunting and almost impossible task. Vaccine development involves a large number of processes to establish the safety, efficacy and endurance of the vaccine, she added.“We need to deal with this pandemic for the next few years before we really get a reliable vaccine... We need to invest much more in healthcare. If this pandemic has exposed one ugly truth about every country, not just India, it is about the appalling state of public and primary healthcare, appalling state of under investing in healthcare,” Mazumdar-Shaw said.Healthcare is a capital intensive sector, it is a skill intensive sector, it is a employment generation sector, she added.“There needs to be a very systematic data led approach to see how can we deal with the infection and keep people safe,” Mazumdar-Shaw said.This is one opportunity for us to invest in healthcare infrastructure, because this what will save India and the world, she added.In similar vein, Apollo Hospitals MD Suneeta Reddy said: “This pandemic has clearly shown us the need for medical infrastructure. There needs to be an investment in healthcare, not only in infrastructure but also in skilling”.Impetus given to the IT sector needs to be given to the healthcare sector to create additional infrastructure, she added.We hope the government considers healthcare as next IT sector, Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-to-prevent-covid-19-will-take-long-time-to-be-ready-kiran-mazumdar-shaw/story-5ygzOl14ntOOs1Do4cuo9M.html
30-05-2020||India||Jailed poet Vara Vara Rao’s wife moves Mumbai court, demands to know his health status||Family members of popular revolutionary poet P Vara Vara Rao on Saturday demanded that the Maharashtra government should reveal the actual status of his health, in the wake of reports that he had been admitted to JJ Hospital in Mumbai following deterioration of his condition.Rao, 81, who had been arrested from his Hyderabad residence in November 2018 in connection with his alleged involvement in the Elgar Parishad case, had been kept in Taloja Jail.Rao’s wife Hemalatha on Saturday moved a special court in Mumbai seeking his actual medical reports. She also pleaded that a video conference be arranged with him immediately so that the family could understand his condition, a close relative of Rao told Hindustan Times.ALSO READ | Elgar Parishad case: Court asks JJ Hospital to submit report on P Vara Vara Rao’s health“The court ordered the authorities of JJ Hospital to submit a report on the health condition of Rao and posted the case for further hearing on June 2,” he said.Hemalatha told reporters on Saturday morning that she had come to know from the local police in Chikkadpalli in Hyderabad at around 8.30 pm that Rao’s health condition was precarious and he had been moved to JJ Hospital, Mumbai from Taloja Jail.“The police told us that they got just one sentence information from Pune police and that there were no further details. After a lot of anxiety and enquiries for over three hours, we came to know that my husband had fallen unconscious on Thursday evening in jail and had been moved to the hospital and by Friday evening all vital parameters recorded were normal,” she said.Hemalatha added that there were also reports that he had been first admitted to Taloja hospital jail three days ago and only after his health worsened, he had been shifted to JJ Hospital. “We do not know how much truth is there in these conflicting reports,” she said.The family members were also worried over the statement by Telangana police officials that they would make arrangements for the family to visit Mumbai. “Right now, I am not in a position to travel to Mumbai as I am 72-years-old and am not in good health. I have been under severe stress for the last 18 months and particularly in the last 12-14 hours,” she said.She said if the court granted permission, her family members would go to Mumbai to visit him in hospital. “It is enough if the government gives permissions needed in the context of Covid-19 and we take care of our travel arrangements,” Hemalatha said.She demanded that her husband be released immediately on bail, as he had already undergone 18 months of incarceration on fabricated charges and without any trial.Stating that Rao already had pre-existing health issues like piles, prostate enlargement, coronary artery disease, oedema, hypertension, acidity, sinus and migraine, Hemalatha requested that a comprehensive medical examination should be initiated to find out the reason for his illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jailed-poet-vara-vara-rao-s-wife-moves-mumbai-court-demands-to-know-his-health-status/story-XPFIXE7vOFMMEsr79kHNsJ.html
30-05-2020||India||PM Modi wishes Kashmiri Pandits on Jyeshtha Ashtami||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday extended wishes to the Kashmiri Pandit community on the occasion of Jyeshtha Ashtami.“Best wishes, especially to the Kashmiri Pandit community, on the very special occasion Jyeshtha Ashtami,” he said in a tweet.“With the divine blessings of Mata Kheer Bhawani, may everyone be happy, healthy and prosperous,” Modi said.In Jammu and Kashmir, Jyestha Ashtami is celebrated at the shrine of Khir Bhawani in Tullamula in honour of their patron goddess Ragnya Devi.‘Kheer’ (rice boiled in milk) is prepared on this day as a food offering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-kashmiri-pandits-on-jyeshtha-ashtami/story-9k4Du5XdJq5KVHtgDswCsN.html
30-05-2020||India||Relatives violate Covid-19 funeral protocol in Ulhasnagar, 18 test positive||Eighteen people who were part of a large gathering of over 70 people at the funeral of a Covid-19 patient in Ulhasnagar in Maharashtra’s Thane district also tested positive for the disease on Friday, officials said.The large gathering at the last rites of a 40-year-old woman was in violation of the Union home ministry’s orders limiting the number of people at funerals to 20. Many people at the funeral are also said to have flouted medical advice on how to handle the body.This is the second such incident in the city in a month where relatives and friends of a deceased violated the protocol for handling the body during cremation. According to the health department of the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation the woman who was under treatment at the Central hospital died on May 25, and tested positive after her death.“While handling the body we had explained to the relatives the protocol which needs to be followed during the last rites. We had specially mentioned no one should touch the body’s cover while performing the rites,” an officer from the health department said.The UMC said the body was kept in a hall at Hira Ghat area where over 70 people including relatives and friends of the deceased showed up.“What we have learned is they opened the cover and also poured water on the body as a part of rituals which is not allowed,” said the officer.When the deceased’s report came positive and the civic body also learned about the violation at the funeral, they immediately quarantined around 50 people and collected their swabs for tests. Eighteen of them tested positive.Suhas Manholkar, chief health officer of UMC said, “We will register a case against the relatives for the violations. Meanwhile our team is also checking on more people from the area if they have any symptoms they will be tested.”Earlier on May 5, nine relatives of a 50-year-old man who also violated the protocol for cremation tested positive for Covid-19. The man had tested positive after his death.Former UMC commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh had lodged a complaint against three relatives for violation with Central police station. Later, 11 more relatives of the deceased tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relatives-violate-covid-19-funeral-protocol-in-ulhasnagar-18-test-positive/story-LHk4jGX6QAlnC5woyZr1gM.html
30-05-2020||India||After Kashmiri Pandits heartwarming wishes on Eid, Muslims reciprocate on Kheer Bhawani||Hindu-Muslim bonhomie has gone viral on social media following Eid greetings of Kashmiri Pandits to Kashmiri Muslims, who reciprocated on Saturday on the occasion of Mela Kheer Bhawani, one of the biggest religious functions of the Kashmiri Pandits.The newfound bonding between the two communities, bound by a shared culture and separated only by religion, is reminiscent of the pre-militancy days in the Kashmir Valley before 1989.“I vividly remember when the situation was peaceful. I live in a lane at Chanapora (in Srinagar), where almost every house belonged to the Pandits and only a few to Muslims. There was so much love and brotherhood in those days. We used to live like a family; Pupa, Kaki, Buel (a person with blue eyes), Rajae, Sundur, Beti, all these were our neighbours,” says Javeed Shah, a Srinagar resident, in chaste Kashmiri in an endearing video.The annual Mela Kheer Bhawani is the biggest Hindu festival in Jammu & Kashmir after the Amarnath Yatra. But this year, the celebrations are muted because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Eid, too, couldn’t be celebrated because of strict compliance of social distancing norms due to the pandemic. Thousands of Kashmiri Pandits from J&K and outside visit every year to pray at the temple of Kheer Bhawani that houses Hindu goddess Ragnya Devi at Tulmulla village in Ganderbal, about 27 kilometres away from Srinagar.“Mubarak to you on the big occasion of Tulmulla (the place where Kheer Bhawani temple is located). May you always smile and be happy,” greets Dr. Ommid in a video.Many Pandits were overwhelmed by the gesture.“Thanks for wonderful gesture. May Mata Rani blesses all of us with good health, prosperity, and peace,” says Roop Krishan Raina in a social media post.The video was uploaded by Amit Wanchoo, a doctor and social activist, who had earlier uploaded a video of Kashmiri Pandits greeting Kashmiri Muslims with Eid Mubarak.“May almighty bless everybody with happiness, peace, and health,” says Suneel Wattal in the video.Another video wishing the Kashmir Pandits Mubarak on Mela Kheer Bhawani was shared by The Mashq Talks on social media.“Mela Kheer Bhawani Mubarak to all our Pandit brothers. Be happy and thriving,” says Farhana Bhat, an artist.Local Kashmiri Muslims took care of the Kheer Bhawani shrine after the exodus of a majority of Kashmiri Pandits from the Valley during the first wave of militancy in 1990.The temple has attracted more devotees since 2008, as the militancy waned. There was no congregation at the temple this year, Farooq Ahmad, tehsildar, Tullmulla, said.“A few devotees have been praying since Friday evening as per the custom, which will end on Saturday evening. No mela could be held this year because of the pandemic,” he said.“One of the best things about religions is festivals & the best thing about festivals is culture. Sadly, the Kheer Bhawani festival couldn’t happen this year. Jyestha Ashthami Greetings,” said Shahid Choudhary, deputy commissioner, Srinagar, in a social media post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-kashmiri-pandits-heartwarming-wishes-on-eid-muslims-reciprocate-on-kheer-bhawani/story-GWgd085kLVXHYS4hrSFdSJ.html
30-05-2020||India||China’s first home-built aircraft carrier begins sea trials to test weapons||China’s first domestically built aircraft carrier has begun sea trials to test weapons and equipment capabilities and sharpen training for its crew, the Chinese defence ministry has said.The aircraft carrier, Shandong, named after a coastal province in eastern China, left its docking port Dalian in Liaoning province on Monday to start the first trials since being commissioned in December, 2019, the ministry said.The trials come amid rising tension with the US over weapon sales to Taiwan and a strong assertion by a Chinese PLA general on Friday that reunifying Taiwan by force is an option for Beijing.Announcing the trials, ministry spokesperson, Ren Guoqiang said training exercises were being carried out according to plan unaffected by the coronavirus outbreak.“According to our yearly testing schedule, the navy is organising sea tests for the CNS Shandong and will conduct relevant training exercises,” Ren was quoted as saying by the Chinese state media.“The purpose of this training is to test weapons and equipment efficiency, improve the aircraft carrier’s training capability and further elevate its ability to carry out future missions,” he said.The sea trials for the carrier, which was commissioned by President Xi Jinping, underscores China’s rapid rise as a naval power.Construction of the carrier began in late 2013 and the vessel was first lowered into the water in April 2017.Its first sea trial was carried out in May 2018, state-controlled China Daily reported Saturday.The deployment of the second carrier will boost the PLA Navy’s (PLAN) rapidly expanding naval power as its warships sail further in international waters.China’s first aircraft carrier Liaoning, made in the Soviet Union before its dissolution, was launched in 2012.According to earlier state media reports, Shandong can carry at least 36 domestically developed J-15 fighter jets, some 50 percent more than the country’s first.China’s first aircraft carrier the Liaoning can carry 24 J-15 fighter jets.According to the Washington DC-based Centre for Strategic and International Studies, the carrier displaces roughly 66,000-70,000 tons, a few thousand more tons than the Liaoning.“It features the advanced Type 346 S-band AESA radar system,” a CSIS note on the vessel said.“Prior to being commissioned, the Shandong underwent nine sea trials over the course of 18 months. By comparison, the Liaoning, completed 10 sea trials in 13 months before being commissioned in September 2012. During construction and sea trials, the Shandong was known as the Type 001A; however, the December 2019 commissioning ceremony indicated that it is officially designated the Type 002,” the CSIS note added.“The Shandong sends a message not only to those regional powers attempting to check China’s plans to exercise hegemony inside the nine-dash line disputed area of the South China Sea, but also to the bigger global powers,” military expert James Maclaren wrote for the Diplomat website earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-first-home-built-aircraft-carrier-begins-sea-trials-to-test-weapons/story-is8tC6hZzg1g5k5ozGkO5I.html
30-05-2020||India||Mann ki Baat: PM Narendra Modi expected to give glimpses of ‘Lockdown 5.0’ on Sunday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his ‘Mann ki Baat’ on Sunday, May 30 while the country prepares to transition from lockdown 4.0 to a new phase of lockdown. Lockdown 5.0 will need to address the dual challenges of giving impetus to the economy, which is flagging, by further boosting industrial activity and commerce and also strategically use restrictions to contain the rapid rise in coronavirus infections in India before it becomes a major challenge to the healthcare apparatus in the country.In the last Mann ki Baat address on April 26, the prime minister had said that the new habits inculcated to fight coronavirus, like wearing masks and public hygiene, will have to become part of our new reality and cautioned against complacency against the disease, which he said will impact everyone in the country sooner or later.Also Read: Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ highlights: Wearing masks will become symbol of civilised society, says PMMore than a month has passed since the last Mann ki Baat address and the country has seen a gradual easing of restrictions in three subsequent lockdowns since the first announced on March 25 and the prime minister himself listed the resumption of economic activities as a co-priority along with saving lives from the global pandemic. In the interim, his government also announced the major chunk of over Rs 20,000 crore economic package to usher in reforms in most sectors including the agriculture, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), Defence, Non Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) etc under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat initiative.Tomorrow’s Mann ki Baat will also be the second message from the Prime Minister in two days after the release of a letter and an audio recording coinciding with the anniversary of his government’s second term on Saturday, which listed out government’s achievements and attributed some of the marquee decisions to PM’s bold leadership.Also Read: ‘A year of historic firsts for Indians’: PM Modi in letter to citizensHe said that instead of becoming a global liability with poor management of the pandemic, India’s handling of the crisis engendered by Covid-19 had set an example for the rest of the world since the country had not allowed the situation to spiral out of control as was evidenced in some developed countries in the west.He also acknowledged the impact, the disease and the resultant lockdown clamped to contain it, had on the most vulnerable sections of the society including labourers, migrant workers, hawkers and others daily wagers and said that care was needed to ensure that the inconveniences faced do not turn into disasters.“Hence, it is very important for every Indian to follow all rules and guidelines. We have displayed patience so far and we should continue to do so. This is one of the important reasons for India being safer and in a better state than many other countries,” he said in his letter.The prime minister’s Mann ki Baat message tomorrow will also come amidst a raging boundary row with China that has seen the Indian government express its commitment to defending the country’s sovereignty and integrity in the face of what it considers to be China’s attempts to dissuade New Delhi from creating infrastructure on its side of the long disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-narendra-modi-expected-to-give-glimpses-of-lockdown-5-0-on-sunday/story-hikgzhfSlky7xtJZrernhM.html
30-05-2020||India||Nobel laureate Peter Doherty concerned about lockdown relaxations in India||Nobel laureate Peter Charles Doherty has expressed concern about India and other densely-populated countries relaxing lockdown norms to limit the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. At the same time, he has also described a complete shutdown as “an economic and social impossibility”. Doherty, who is with the Department of Microbiology and Immunology at the Doherty Institute, University of Melbourne, won the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1996 for his discovery of how the body’s immune system distinguishes virus-infected cells from normal ones.In an exclusive email interview with news agency PTI, he said that the number of coronavirus cases will rise. “If it was purely a matter of hard science, everywhere should stay locked down. But that’s pretty much an economic and social impossibility,” Doherty said.The expectation, he said, is the numbers will rise and limiting spread will depend on people acting responsibly and the capacity for rapid response and extensive contact testing. “And in a densely populated country like India I think that it will be very difficult,” the nobel laureate said. The number of Covid-19 cases in India has been rising rapidly and now stands at 173,763 including 4,971 deaths, according to the Union health ministry data on Saturday morning. A nationwide lockdown, imposed on March 25 to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease, has been extended thrice, with the fourth phase due to end on Sunday, May 31. However, the government has been gradually easing restrictions to re-start the economy. Doherty said there is no alternative to a lockdown, not “till we have effective vaccines.” “There is no other option other than closing borders. South Korea, for example, conducted massive, intensive testing and contact tracing in a wealthy country with a very disciplined population. Otherwise, not till we have effective vaccines.” However, he added that he personally doesn’t see the point of closing borders for people coming in if there’s already a high incidence of disease in the community, “unless it’s to avoid the need to care for them and use scarce hospital beds”. With no cure for the disease in sight yet, scientists and governments around the world are doubling down to develop a drug or a vaccine for Covid-19. Most, however, acknowledge that a vaccine may not be available before at least a year.Doherty, too, says that the earliest time frame for an effective vaccine “going into large numbers of people” is nine to 12 months.“If all goes well with testing, we could know if some of the candidate vaccines are both safe and effective as early as September/October. Then, rolling a vaccine out will depend on the type of product and how quickly it can be made, put in vials and so forth,” Doherty told PTI in an email interview from Melbourne. However, a front-running Covid-19 vaccine candidate being developed in China is expected to be available as soon as the end of this year, according to a report published in the official Wechat account of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission. The vaccine, jointly developed by the Beijing Institute of Biological Products and China National Biotec Group Co., has completed phase II testing and may be ready for the market at the end of this year or early next year, said the report.Doherty also warned against the use of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to treat Covid-19, and said current and planned trials of the anti-malaria drug should be stopped.“My understanding is that the use of the drug in severe disease is definitely contra-indicated, but it’s not yet clear whether, if taken under medical supervision, it could have some useful effect if taken early on, or as a preventive. Those trials just haven’t been done properly,” Doherty noted. However, earlier this week the Indian Council of Medical Research has said that no major side-effects of HCQ in studies done in India and its use can be continued in preventive treatment for Covid-19 under strict medical supervision. The ICMR’s statement had come against the backdrop of the World Health Organization (WHO) temporarily suspending the testing of the drug as a potential treatment for Covid-19 over safety concerns.US President Trump, too, has said that he took a two-week dose of hydroxychloroquine as a preventive drug after possible exposure to the coronavirus following two White House staffers testing positive. He also got India to lift the ban on the export of the drug some weeks ago. Another cure being tried out for Covid-19 is the plasma therapy. Asked whether plasma therapy can be an effective treatment for Covid-19, Doherty told PTI, “We lack good properly controlled trials but, especially if the plasma has been tested for antibody levels and there’s evidence of good activity, it could be helpful. If I had the disease and was offered plasma therapy I would certainly accept, but I would not take hydroxychloroquine.” Doherty is also very optimistic about herd immunity developing against the SARS-CoV-2 infection.“We think that (herd immunity) will cut in and have an obvious effect when, say, 60 per cent of people have been infected. Best hope is to boost herd immunity with a vaccine,” he stated.Herd immunity is a form of indirect protection from infectious disease that occurs when a large percentage of a population has become immune to an infection, whether through vaccination or previous infections.EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobel-laureate-peter-doherty-concerned-about-lockdown-relaxations-in-india/story-Ksyx8O2ppDeuwTpv0B2oYL.html
30-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm| Elgar Parishad case: Court asks JJ Hospital to submit report on P Varavara Rao’s health and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Elgar Parishad case: Court asks JJ Hospital to submit report on P Varavara Rao’s healthA special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday asked a hospital in Mumbai to submit a report on P Varavara Rao’s health by June 2, when it is scheduled to hear the bail plea of the 81-year-old Telugu poet arrested in connection with the Elgar Parishad case. Read moreWallet power not bullet power: Sonam Wangchuk appeals for action against ChinaSonam Wangchuk, the man who inspired Aamir Khan’s 3 Idiots character, has asked Indians to boycott all things Chinese in response to the border standoff between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Read moreTwo Indian-origin men jailed for £2.4 million money launderingTwo Indian-origin men have been jailed for a total of 12 years and nine months following an international £2.4 million money-laundering operation and attempt to launder a further £1.6 million, Scotland Yard said on Saturday. Read moreWorld No-Tobacco Day 2020: Here’s how fitness enthusiast Milind Soman ‘kicked the butt’Milind Soman, the 53-year-old man behind Pinkathon - India’s biggest women-only marathon - never shies away from spreading awareness about health and fitness. Read moreIrrfan Khan’s friend says actor helped raise funds for Covid relief: ‘His clause was nobody should know that he has helped’It has been a month since the death of actor Irrfan Khan. The actor had been battling neuroendocrine tumour for almost two years. He was admitted at a Mumbai hospital with colon infection and died on April 29, leaving the entire country in shock and mourning. Read moreSony to unveil the first PS5 games on June 5Sony has so far revealed the specs for its next-gen console, and showed off its controller as well. Sony has now announced an event on June 5 where it will display new games coming to PS5. Read moreCall this pet parent a Disney Princess because a birdie is helping her out with household choresMany of us may have grown up watching fairytales produced by Disney. These storylines usually have a female lead with a song-bird like voice and a sidekick from the animal kingdom. Read more‘Rahul Dravid asked ‘why aren’t you bowling’?’: Ishant Sharma recalls hilarious story from his debut ODI series in IrelandIndia fast bowler Ishant Sharma recalled a hilarious encounter with batting legend Rahul Dravid during his debut ODI series in Ireland. Read moreSafar writer and singer Deb on the plight of migrants, beauty of compassionSinger and writer Deb has come up with an “immigrant anthem” song that has caught the attention of online users. Titled Safar, the video is a touching tribute to migrants and daily wage workers who have been walking thousands of miles back home amid the lockdown in wake of coronavirus. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-elgar-parishad-case-court-asks-jj-hospital-to-submit-report-on-p-varavara-rao-s-health-and-all-the-latest-news/story-31wOYxcAfRscInd75vEf2H.html
30-05-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi has ‘limited’ understanding about Covid-19: BJP chief JP Nadda||Slamming Rahul Gandhi for his criticism of the Modi government’s handling of the COVID-19 situation, BJP president J P Nadda said on Saturday that the Congress leader’s understanding of these issues is limited and that his statements are not aimed at addressing the crisis but are all about politics.Addressing a press conference on the first anniversary of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government’s second term, Nadda said the last one year will be known for many bold decisions and its timely actions to deal with coronavirus have ensured that the situation remains in control in India when many big and powerful countries have found themselves “helpless”.The first year of the Modi government’s second term has been full of accomplishments and unimaginable challenges with the prime minister leading from the front and taking “bold and timely” decisions to combat COVID-19 crisis.Asked about Gandhi’s remark that the nation-wide lockdown has failed in its purpose, Nadda said, “Rahul Gandhi doesn’t understand these issues deeply. His understanding and study of issues is limited. That is why he makes confusing remarks by sometimes questioning the lockdown and sometimes demanding why it was not being extended.” His statements are for political ends and all about politics, and they have got nothing to do with addressing coronavirus issues, the BJP president said.He blamed the Congress for politicising the issue, and claimed that the BJP worked towards serving people during the crisis.Answering a question, Nadda asserted the government’s pitch for a self-reliant India is about encouraging Indian industrialists, and is not about going back or the subject of license quota, a reference to protectionist and control economy India practiced before the 1991 reforms.“Our ethos will be progressive, not regressive,” he said.He noted that the coronavirus testing in India has reached 1.6 lakh per day from 10,000 earlier, and the country is manufacturing over 4.5 lakh personal protective equipment (PPE) kits daily as well.The BJP president cited the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, annulment of Article 370, strengthening of anti-terror laws and those against crimes against children and bank mergers among the government’s key successes.He said Union Home Minister Amit Shah played a key role in many of these decisions.Nadda said the Congress worked for long to delay a decision on the Ayodhya case and added that a grand Ram temple would now be built following a Supreme Court verdict.Modi since taking over as prime minister in 2014 changed the “political culture” of governance and infused it with momentum, he said.The coronavirus situation will have an impact on political campaigns during elections, he said, adding that his party has been using technological tools to organise its activities.The first major election in the coming months is the Bihar Assembly polls, slated for October-November.He announced that the party will hold over 2,000 digital rallies across the country to mark the first anniversary of ‘Modi govt 2.0’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-has-limited-understanding-about-covid-19-bjp-chief-jp-nadda/story-X7RvZYari08q0sALhOuGYN.html
30-05-2020||India||Unelected people think they can impose will on govt through courts: Harish Salve||Noted jurist Harish Salve Friday said a lot of people who are not elected representatives feel that they can impose their will on the government through the courts.He made the observation while asserting that one can criticise a judgment and even a judge, but attributing motives to them is wrong.The senior advocate also said violation of privacy is a serious issue and that private data is a valuable property but Indians are not serious about it. Salve, while speaking during a webinar on the issue of ‘Insulting the Judiciary from Social Media Diatribes’, said, “To say judgement is to favour a political party or judge has acted in favour of political party is wrong. Supreme Court is not a dartboard. You can criticise a judgment saying the judge has taken a conservative line.” Salve said some people have got used to pushing the Supreme Court for relief.“When they do not get relief from Supreme Court, they say judges are not doing this because of this reason... Some people are pushing the boundaries by saying Supreme Court deserves ‘F’ grade for its handling of migrants. I have been reading these articles. They are wrong,” Salve said.“A lot of people who are not elected feel that they can impose their will on the government through courts. One can criticise that court saying that (in migrants’ case) either the court should have intervened or not.. but to say that the court is scared of the government is wrong,” he said.He further added, “If I argue a case and I lose, I should think that I tried my best but I lost. But if I get a feeling that the judge did not not give a judgment in my favour because of ... what newspapers might write, then I am worried,” he said.“’If a judge does not agree with me, he is dishonest’ - This tendency must be curtailed. We owe it to the system. We have let our systems down,” Salve said.The senior advocate also said that one may disagree with the court’s judgment on whether 4G has to be allowed or not (in the context of Jammu and Kashmir), but to say that the Supreme Court has not stood with the people of the region is wrong.Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul showed the way in the Supreme Court in the hearing, Salve said. ”He said, if you have no faith in us, you do what you want,” Salve noted. He further said that comments made by judges should not be reported. “‘Supreme Court slams so and so’ is a headline you hear a lot. We need a code of conduct for Court reporters. Media only should write these regulations,” he said.Regarding the controversy on Justice Muralidhar’s transfer from the Delhi High Court to Punjab & Haryana High Court, Salve said he was not in favour of judges overseeing transfer of other judges.“You want the reasons of transfer of judges in public domain? I don’t think so. I therefore wanted a National Judicial Commission, which is independent of the government and not reporting to the court,” he said.  While talking about privacy, Salve said that the Nira Radia tapes were available with the Tax Department was a serious infraction of rules.“Violation of Privacy is a serious issue. Illegally obtained evidence is allowed in India unlike the US. But the person who has obtained it illegally, should be tried. Indians are not serious about privacy. When push comes to shove, we have not stood up for privacy. We have to do that. My private data is a very valuable property. If you treat that data with less importance, then it should be tried with breach of trust,” he said.  While talking about legal reporting, Salve said “we have a complete travesty” in criminal law reporting.“Your investigating agencies are completely off the hook. It’s trial by media. Angry people need instant justice. The way arrest is being covered, it is made to look like he has been sent to the gallows. We have completely lost the soul of law of bail. Public trial is one thing, but a running debate with five panelists commenting is wrong,” he said.He also said India must have tribunals for private defamations.“I have suggested to the government, you must have tribunals for private defamations. Otherwise these hearings go on and on. In the UK, private defamation cases are completed in six months,” he said.He further said the judiciary has a unique position.  “A lot of frustration of the citizens on poor governance can be addressed by the courts is a perception citizens have. Supreme Court is no lesser than the Parliament or no higher than the Parliament,” he said.Salve said if the country’s GDP has gone down by one per cent today, then the Supreme Court has to take some credit for that.  “By closing down mines and a host of judgments… and these judgments are wrong in law,” he said.“Reading the 2G judgment, Coal Scam, I am unconvinced on the law of what Supreme Court has done,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unelected-people-think-they-can-impose-will-on-govt-through-courts-harish-salve/story-FEmDiNNTGFTMfQuFvz9vCL.html
30-05-2020||India||Home guard shot dead in Bihar’s Begusarai||A home guard was shot dead in Bihar’s Begusarai district when he asked three men on a bike to stop, police said on Saturday.The incident happened in the Panhas village in Lohianagar police outpost area on Friday night, they said.The home guard, identified as Rajbardhan Ranjan (40), who was with a patrolling vehicle asked the bike to stop, following which they opened fire, police said.He died on the spot as he shot on the head, Sadar Deputy Superintendent of Police Rajan Sinha.The criminals soon fled from the spot, he added.Ranjan, a resident of Bichkhanna Manjhaul village, was posted at Lohianagar police outpost.He was given a guard of honour at the police lines, Sinha said.Three persons have been detained for interrogation, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-guard-shot-dead-in-bihar-s-begusarai/story-pMnaikR2klM8tnvAINI8wO.html
30-05-2020||India||Skymet announces arrival of monsoon over Kerala, IMD differs||The southwest monsoon has arrived in Kerala before its onset schedule, private agency Skymet Weather announced on Saturday, but India’s official forecaster IMD said conditions are not yet ripe for the declaration. Skymet Weather CEO Jatin Singh said all conditions such as rainfall, Outwave Longwave Radiation (OLR) value and wind speed have been met to declare the arrival of the southwest monsoon over Kerala.“#JUSTIN Southwest #Monsoon2020 finally arrived on the mainland of India, #Monsoon arrived on Kerala before the actual onset date. All the onset conditions including rainfall, OLR value, wind speed, are met. Finally, the 4-month long festival begins for Indian. #HappyMonsoon (sic),” the private forecaster tweeted. The onset of monsoon over Kerala marks the commencement of four-month rainy season in the country. The country receives 75 per cent of the rainfall from June to September.   Skymet had predicted that monsoon will hit Kerala on May 28 with an error margin of plus or minus 2 days. Whereas, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said the monsoon will make an onset over Kerala on June 5, four days after its normal onset date. However, earlier this week, it said a cyclonic circulation in the Bay of Bengal will help in advancement of the monsoon and it could reach Kerala on June 1, its normal onset date.   IMD director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra said conditions are still not right to declare onset of monsoon over Kerala. According to the IMD, there are three major conditions to declare the onset of monsoon. The first is if, after May 10, 60 per cent of the 14 weather stations -- Minicoy, Amini, Thiruvananthapuram, Punalur, Kollam, Allapuzha, Kottayam, Kochi, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Thalassery, Kannur, Kudulu and Mangalore -- report rainfall of 2.5 millimetres or more for two consecutive days, the onset over Kerala will be declared on the second day. The second is the depth of westerlies should be maintained up to 600 hectopascals (hPa) and the third is the Outwave Longwave Radiation should be below 200 watt per square metre (wm-2).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skymet-announces-arrival-of-monsoon-over-kerala-imd-differs/story-5u4SxkgFLZNnviMV1mjUIL.html
30-05-2020||India||Arthur Road Jail superintendent transferred to Ratnagiri Central Prison on health grounds||Superintendent of Police for Arthur Road Jail, NB Vyachal, has been transferred and will take charge as the Superintendent of Ratnagiri Central Jail on Saturday. Vyachal has been replaced by JS Naik who till now was the principal of Taloja Training Centre.Vyachal was originally posted to Ratnagiri Central Prison but as per the government order he was given charge of Arthur Road Prison. On May 29, Vyachal was asked to resume duty at Arthur Road Prison but due to existing health issues, and as per suggestions from a medical officer he was not able to resume duty following which the transfer orders were issued, read the order from Inspector General of Police (Prisons) Deepak Pandey.The order goes on to specify that Arthur Road Prison is one of the sensitive and crowded jails in south Maharashtra, and the post of the superintendent could not be kept vacant. The jail also has been affected by Covid-19 since the first week of May with 158 inmates and 26 jail staff testing positive. The situation has normalised since then with 120 inmates and all 26 jail officials testing negative, read the order.“Vyachal handled Arthur Road Jail to the best of his abilities. He is not being transferred or punished. His original posting was at Ratnagiri which has been given to him. He had been advised home quarantine for 14 days after which he resumed duty and was working from home. But at present he has medical issues related to high blood pressure and according to doctors he cannot resume duty. We cannot keep the post vacant in a jail like Arthur Road where day to day handling and management is needed, hence a new superintendent has been appointed,” Pandey said.Vyachal will resume his duties at Ratnagiri Central Prison once he is medically fit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arthur-road-jail-superintendent-transferred-to-ratnagiri-central-prison-on-health-grounds/story-VVH819ebBNcUWDb4Pap4hI.html
30-05-2020||India||Tamil Nadu announces further easing of curbs for shooting TV serials||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced further relaxation in curbs for shooting of TV serials, allowing more professionals to be employed on the sets.Chief Minister K Palaniswami recalled he had earlier allowed filming of TV serials on May 21 with a maximum of 20 actors and technicians but said the industry had pleaded to enhance the number.Two industry bodies had informed the government that it was not possible to shoot serials with the said cap of 20 professionals, he said in a statement.“Heeding their request, a maximum of 60 actors and technicians can be employed for the shoots from May 31,” he said.A one-time approval should be obtained from Chennai Corporation Commissioner or District Collector, based upon the jurisdiction, before commencement of the shooting, he said.Those involved in the making of the serials should follow all “restrictions” imposed by the Central and state governments “without fail” and the producers should ensure that, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/tamil-nadu-announces-further-easing-of-curbs-for-shooting-tv-serials/story-7nGPR3hQuX1pQC0ggcz25N.html
30-05-2020||India||Two test positive for coronavirus at Ministry of External Affairs, staff goes into self-quarantine||At least two persons working at the headquarters of the Union Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in the national capital have tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Saturday, people familiar with developments said, as proactive measures are being taken to handle all such cases.A consultant working for the ministry’s Central Europe division and an officer of the law division have tested Covid-19 positive, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Other staff of the Central Europe division were directed on May 27 to go into self-quarantine for a fortnight and work from home. People, who were in contact with the legal officer, too, were asked to observe self-quarantine from Friday, the people said.Also read: Chinese Covid-19 vaccine expected to begin mass output this year“The external affairs ministry has been proactive in handling any Covid-19 positive cases among its employees or consultants in accordance with the health protocol laid down by the government,” said one of the people cited above.In keeping with the official protocol, the rooms of Central Europe and legal divisions and some others nearby are being sanitised, they said.These are the first reported Covid-19 cases in the MEA. Several cases have also been reported from other central ministries and departments that have their offices in the same part of New Delhi as the MEAThe country has reported nearly 166,000 Covid-19 positive cases and over 4,700 deaths till Friday.The MEA, which is playing a leading role in the country’s response to the pandemic and repatriation of Indian nationals stranded around the world, has moved much of its work and interactions online.Also read: Roche, Gilead to test drug cocktail against severe Covid-19Several foreign envoys recently presented their credentials to President Ram Nath Kovind during a virtual ceremony and external affairs minister S Jaishankar has been holding virtual interactions and meetings with his counterparts across the globe. The ministry’s weekly media briefings are conducted online and the prime ministers of India and Australia are set to hold a virtual bilateral meeting on June 4 – the first such meeting since the outbreak of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-test-positive-for-coronavirus-at-ministry-of-external-affairs/story-CWzCGW1EvAoogsRHviOV4J.html
30-05-2020||India||Bus with migrant workers plunges into ditch in Odisha, 3 seriously injured||Three people including a driver were critically injured when a bus carrying 38 migrant workers from Kerala to West Bengal veered off just ahead of a bridge and plunged into a ditch on National Highway16 in Odisha’s Balasore district Saturday morning, police said.“The bus overturned at Mangalpur-Nuagaon area of Balasore district when the driver lost control over the vehicle. Other than the three who were seriously injured, the rest of the passengers escaped with minor injuries. All the injured were rushed to Balasore district headquarters hospital,” a police official said.This is the 13th road accident in Odisha involving migrant workers returning home since May 1 when lockdown conditions were eased for inter-state travel. So far five persons have been killed in these road mishaps. Though migrants have started arriving by Shramik Special trains, many are still arriving by trucks and buses because they are unable to get seats in the trains.Two migrant workers returning from Surat were the first casualties when they were flung off a bus in Kandhamal on May 2.On May 5, one person was killed and 10 others were injured when a bus carrying 40 Odia migrants crashed on National Highway 16 near Khurda.On May 20, two migrant workers died and over 20 were injured in four separate road accidents in Odisha while on May 14, 12 migrant workers were injured, two of them seriously when the minibus carrying them from Andhra Pradesh crashed into a tree. A bus carrying 47 migrant labourers from Bhubaneswar to Ganjam collided head-on with a truck in Baliguda area Kandhamal leading to injury to the drivers of both the vehicles and a passenger on May 26.The 47 migrants had come from Goa by a Shramik Special train and were being sent to Ganjam. On the same day, a bus carrying 21 Odia migrants was involved in an accident at Laxman Nath toll gate on Bengal-Odisha border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bus-with-migrant-workers-plunges-into-ditch-in-odisha-3-seriously-injured/story-xc18vV0ldFdvHzxQhHm0bK.html
30-05-2020||India||28% of Covid-19 cases in India till April 30 are asymptomatic: Study||At least 28 per cent of 40,184 people who had tested positive for Covid-19 between January 22 and April 30 in India were asymptomatic, a study found, raising concerns about the novel coronavirus being spread by those who show mild or no symptoms. A large proportion of both those tested and those positive were asymptomatic contacts, according to the study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) scientists along with other collaborators. Healthcare workers constituted about 5.2 per cent of the total infections, said the study published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR). According to the study, of the 28.1 per cent asymptomatic patients, 25.3 per cent were direct and high-risk contacts of the cases, while 2.8 per cent were healthcare workers in contact with confirmed the case without adequate protection. “However, the proportion of the asymptomatic infected people could be much more than the 28.1 per cent and this is a cause of concern for us,” Manoj Murhekar, director of the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology and one of the authors of the study, said. The findings stated that the proportion of confirmed cases was highest among asymptomatic contacts, two-three-fold higher than among those with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), those with an international travel history or healthcare workers, Murhekar said. Between January 22 and April 30, a total of 10,21,518 people were tested for severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2). Testing increased from about 250 individuals per day in the beginning of March to 50,000 by the end of April. Overall, 40,184 (3.9 per cent) tested positive for the novel coronavirus. In this study, an analysis of the laboratory surveillance data was done to describe the testing performance and descriptive epidemiology of COVID-19 cases by time, place and person. The attack rate (per million) by age was highest among those aged 50-69 years (63.3) and was lowest among those under 10 years (6.1). The attack rate was higher among men as 41.6 of them tested positive, while 24.3 of the women contracted the infection. Coronavirus cases were reported from 523 of the 736 (71.1 per cent) districts in the country. States with the highest proportion of districts reporting positive cases included Delhi, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. States/UTs with the highest test positivity are Maharashtra (10.6%), Delhi (7.8%), Gujarat (6.3%), Madhya Pradesh (6.1%) and West Bengal (5.8%). Among the 12,810 cases with reported symptoms at the time of specimen collection, cough and fever were the most commonly-reported symptoms, while around one-third of cases reported sore throat and breathlessness. Gastrointestinal symptoms such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea were reported by less than five per cent of cases, the study stated. With implementation of the ICMR’s laboratory-based surveillance for the coronavirus, testing was available and accessible, and thus contributed to improved case detection throughout the country, the study underlined. The network of COVID-19 testing laboratories and testing capacity continues to expand. “While the cumulative number of cases continues to increase, the growth rate of reported cases has slowed,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-of-covid-19-cases-in-india-till-april-30-are-asymptomatic-study/story-BAf00nsJmmHXouoRwTypfJ.html
30-05-2020||India||Maharashtra schools warned of action if they sack teachers or hold salaries||With reports of several schools in Maharashtra removing teachers or not paying them during the Covid-19 crisis doing the rounds, the state education department has now come up with a circular stating that action would be taken against schools which resort to such practices.“It has come to light that some schools run by private managements are not paying their employees including teachers and non teaching staff citing school closure as a reason. This is not acceptable as the government has already made it clear that paying its staff is the school’s responsibility,” the state education department stated. On May 22, HT reported about a school chain in the city asking nearly 150 of its employees to go on leave without pay until further notice. “A lot of schools are now telling teachers that they cannot pay them salaries citing balance payments from parents. Despite majority parents paying, teachers are being made to wait for their salaries,” said a teacher from a suburban school which has paid only 30% of the total salary to its staff.All educational institutions across the country were ordered to close due to the coronavirus outbreak since the nationwide lockdown was clamped first on March 25. Maharashtra government on March 30 directed schools in the state not to demand fees during the lockdown.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Some schools said that they were finding it tough to manage their expenses. “Big chains still have a lot of funds but budget private schools like ours get their funds only from fees. Most of our parents have said that they cannot pay full fees while some have not even paid a single installment. We cannot pressurise parents and hence our staff is getting only 50% salary,” said the management member of a school in Malad on the condition of anonymity.Also Read: Air educational programmes on TV, radio: Maharashtra minister writes to CentreSchools that do not pay salaries to staff would have to give an explanation for not doing so and the education department can take action against such schools as per the circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-schools-warned-of-action-if-they-sack-teachers-or-hold-salaries/story-pGouv0yc7bmTzUmnBflZfI.html
30-05-2020||India||513 domestic flights carrying 39,969 passengers flew in India on Friday: Hardeep Puri||A total of 513 domestic flights carrying 39,969 passengers were operated in India on Friday, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Saturday. Domestic services resumed in India after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus lockdown. Indian carriers have operated a total of 1,827 flights till Thursday -- 428 on Monday, 445 on Tuesday, 460 on Wednesday and 494 on Thursday. Puri said on Twitter on Saturday: “Day 5. 29th May till 2359 hrs. Departures 513. 39,969 passengers handled. Arrivals 512. 39,972 passengers handled.” A departure is counted as a flight during the day. During the pre-lockdown period, Indian airports handled around 3,000 daily domestic flights, aviation industry sources said. In February, when the lockdown was not imposed, around 4.12 lakh passengers travelled daily through domestic flights in India, according to Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data. Airports in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have been allowed to handle a restricted number of daily flights as these states do not want a huge influx of flyers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases. While domestic services resumed in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday, they restarted in West Bengal on Thursday. Though domestic flight operations across the country began on May 25, they could not be restarted in Kolkata and Bagdogra as the West Bengal machinery was involved in relief and restoration work after cyclone Amphan’s devastation. A total of 16 asymptomatic passengers on seven different flights, including 13 who travelled by IndiGo, have tested positive for COVID-19 since the resumption of domestic air services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/513-domestic-flights-carrying-39-969-passengers-flew-in-india-on-friday-hardeep-puri/story-bhlY9A2vAjFsqe4NmIpneO.html
30-05-2020||India||Handkerchiefs, towels can be used as masks in Indore: Official||The administration in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore district has lifted the ban on the use of “rumaal” (handkerchief) and “gamchha” (cotton towel) as masks as a precaution against COVID-19, following objections from citizens and leaders, an official said.Indore, which is the one of worst-hit districts in the country amid the COVID-19 pandemic, has been given limited relaxations during the lockdown with the resumption of few economic activities.As per an order issued by district collector Manish Singh on Friday night, it was obligatory for people to wear surgical masks when they step out of their homes within the limits of the district, the official said.The use of handkerchief, towels etc will be prohibited and not be included in the category of masks, the order had stated.According to officials, this order was issued under the Pandemic Diseases Act 1897 and National Disaster Management Act 2005 in a bid to protect common people from COVID-19. However, BJP MP from Indore Shankar Lalwani told PTI that after learning about the order, he had approached the district administration and requested them to change it in public interest.“Gamchhas are convenient for most people and can be used as a precautionary measure against contracting the infection. Many are already using it to protect themselves from the sun,” he said.Several people took to social media to raise objections about the order, claiming that even Prime Minister Narendra Modi was using “gamchha” to protect himself from COVID-19.Following these objections, the district collector changed the order, lifting the ban on the use of “gamchhas” and handkerchiefs as masks. According to the revised order, people will now be able to use different types of masks, including towels and two-layered handkerchiefs when they step out of their homes. The district collector also stated that a spot fine of Rs 100 will be imposed on people who don’t wear protective gear on their faces. Fines ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 10,000 will be collected on the spot from heads of commercial institutions, offices etc, if employee dont wear masks at workplaces, the order stated. According to official information, Indore has so far reported 3,431 COVID-19 cases and 129 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/handkerchiefs-towels-can-be-used-as-masks-in-indore-official/story-fvRdaUhn4tgHFYNCKqkM8I.html
30-05-2020||India||CAF personnel opens fire, kills 2 colleagues in Chhattisgarh’s Narayanpur||An assistant platoon commander of the Chhattisgarh Armed Force (CAF) allegedly opened fire at his colleagues in Narayanpur district of the state, killing two of them and injuring another, police said on Saturday.Mohit Garg, Narayanpur’s superintendent of police, said the incident took place on Friday night in CAF’s 9th battalion’s camp at Aamdai Ghati under Chhotedongar police station, around 350km from the state capital of Raipur.The senior police official said assistant platoon commander Ghanshyam Kumeti has been arrested and is being questioned.“The primary investigation suggests that assistant platoon commander Ghanshyam Kumeti opened fire from his AK-47 rifle, killing two personnel and injuring another over some dispute,” Garg said.“Platoon commander Bindeshwar Sahani and head constable Rameshwar Sahu died while platoon commander Lachhuram Premi sustained injuries,” he said.Premi, who sustained two bullet injuries, is stable and has been shifted to Raipur, the SP said.Garg added that the reason behind the firing is not known yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caf-personnel-opens-fire-kills-2-colleagues-in-chhattisgarh-s-narayanpur/story-fD7lmK6VnLcdAYXoU2pfHL.html
30-05-2020||India||Influx of migrant workers, over 2,000 test positive: Top 10 Covid-19 updates from Bihar||Coronavirus cases in the country are on a rapid rise and see no sign of abating. On Saturday, the national Covid-19 tally stood at 173,763 total infections. Coronavirus death toll in the country is at 4,971 while 82,369 people across India have recovered from the deadly contagion.In Bihar, more than 3,500 people have been infected from Covid-19 while 15 people have lost their lives. Over 1,200 patients have recovered from the infection in the state.With an influx of migrant labourers, the state administration has reported fresh cases of coronavirus arising from the incoming migrant workers.Here’s the top Covid-19 developments from Bihar: 1. With 150 fresh cases, the Covid-19 tally in Bihar on Saturday zoomed to 3,509 total cases.2. Keeping in mind the large number of migrant labourers returning to the state, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday called for containing the infection by segregating recent arrivals from those staying at quarantine centres. 3. According to data released by the health department, till date, 2,310 migrant labourers have tested positive in Bihar.#CoronaVirusUpdates#बिहारराज्य में #कोरोना_पॉज़िटिव के 150 नए मामलेकुल संख्या बढ़कर 3509 हुए । pic.twitter.com/VxrmjuvB5a4. Over 15 lakh migrant labourers have returned to Bihar so far.5. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar Kumar said a task force, headed by the state’s development commissioner, has been set up for the economic rehabilitation of migrants.Also read: These states have over 20,000 Covid-19 cases6. “District magistrates should conduct skill mapping of the migrant workers in their respective areas of jurisdiction and help them get gainfully employed once they are deemed fit,” Kumar said on Friday.7. Patna district, the worst-affected in the state with 234 cases till Thursday night, added four fresh cases to its tally. Other districts with high numbers of coronavirus cases in Bihar are Rohtas (201), Madhubani (183), Begusarai (180) and Munger (149).8. All 38 districts in the state have reported Covid-19 cases. With just seven cases, Sheohar is the only district with a single-digit tally, news agency PTI reported. 9. Bihar government has distributed 87 lakh masks, covering 25 lakh households in the last 15 days.10. Ahiyapur of Muzaffarpur has been declared as a Covid-19 containment zone after eight positive cases were found in a single day. Earlier five more Covid-19 patients were found in the same area.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-witnesses-influx-of-migrant-labourers-over-2-000-test-positive-top-10-covid-19-updates-from-bihar/story-9pLiJ4xi2dJRvKIytlnuYP.html
30-05-2020||India||Wallet power not bullet power: Sonam Wangchuk appeals for action against China||Sonam Wangchuk, the man who inspired Aamir Khan’s 3 Idiots character, has asked Indians to boycott all things Chinese in response to the border standoff between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The engineer-turned-education reformer has said India can win the war against China through the Indian Army as well as people’s boycott of Chinese companies.“Use your wallet power. #BoycottMadeInChina #SoftwareInAWeekHardwareInAYear to stop Chinese bullying in Ladakh and eventually to liberate the 1.4 billion bonded labourers in China, as also the 10 million Uighur Muslims and 6 million Tibetan Buddhists,” Wangchuk said in a tweet accompanying the video. #BoycottMadeInChina #SoftwareInAWeekHardwareInAYearFor decades India's tolerance with Chinese intrusions in Ladakh was like...Woh bedardi se sar kaate mera or mai kahun unseHuzoor aahista aahista, janaab ahista ahista...But nowSena degi bullet se jawaab,Hum dengey wallet seIn the video, Wangchuk can be seen sitting against the picturesque Himalayas and River Sindhu as he how beyond the ice-topped mountains, thousands of soldiers are trying to protect the country.Wangchuk’s video has been widely shared on Twitter and WhatsApp.He says, this time, India’s reply to China shouldn’t just be from the soldiers but should include action from the citizens as well. Wangchuk adds that China’s recent moves have been not just at the Indian border but also in the South China Sea, Vietnam, Taiwan and now Hong Kong as well.China, he says, is using these moves as a distraction tool for Chinese people due to failures of the administration amid the closure of factories and exports and loss of jobs.He points out that the war with India in 1962 was also one of the tactics by the Chinese government to shift Chinese citizens’ attention away from its failures.“I think wallet power will work more than bullet power this time. The money people spend buying Chinese goods. Just think, you and I, we buy things from idols to clothes worth Rs 5 lakh crore from China. And, this money is used to buy ammunition to kill our soldiers on the border,” he says in the nearly nine-minute video.If all Indians in India and abroad can start a boycott made in China movement, then others across the world may start doing the same. It would, in turn, hit the Chinese economy and its people may turn against the government.“On one hand, our soldiers are fighting them and on the other hand, we would be buying Chinese goods—from mobiles to computers to toys and clothes—and sending money to the Chinese army. It was about hardware. Our youth uses software and apps like TikTok, and give them business worth crores,” Wangchuk said.“So, it is very important that we give them a reply from the citizens and make it a global movement,” he says.Wangchuk also rooted for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s push for self-reliance under the Atamanirbhar Bharat mission.“As I finish my message, I am going to tell you what I am going to do. I will be getting rid of all the Chinese apps on my phone, which is made in China, within a week as well as the phone. And in one year, I will throw out of my life everything that is made in China,” he says.He says, he doesn’t have any problem with China and the Chinese people but the Chinese government and its attitude. He urged people to hold events for everyone to take an oath to boycott Chinese goods until China changes.Sonam Wangchuk had inspired the character of Phunsukh Wangdu, which was played by Aamir Khan in the Bollywood blockbuster 3 Idiots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wallet-power-not-bullet-power-sonam-wangchuk-appeals-for-action-against-china/story-OAlQ1KjgNzlXbX67mniW8J.html
30-05-2020||India||‘At war with people’: Congress on Modi govt anniversary||The Congress on Friday described the first year of the Modi government as a “year of disappointment, disastrous management and diabolical pain”.Congress leader K C Venugopal said the six years of the Modi dispensation have seen fraying of bonds of empathy, fraternity and brotherhood with increase in acts of communal and sectarian violence.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that at the end of six years, it appears the Modi government is at war with its people and is inflicting wounds on them, instead of healing them.“It is inflicting wounds on Mother India,” he said.“This government is trying to fill the coffers of the select rich and is inflicting pain on the poor,” Surjewala said.On the BJP’s charge of the Congress playing politics over the Covid-19 crisis, Venugopal said the opposition party did not indulge in any politics and gave suggestions instead.“Being a responsible opposition, it is our duty to raise the problems faced by the common people. As opposition, we highlighted the failures of the government,” he said.Venugopal said the government “is totally insensitive” to the plight of migrant labourers and farmers. Surjewala also demanded that a virtual session of Parliament be convened immediately to discuss pressing issues and the due process be set in motion for holding of meetings of various parliamentary committees.Modi and his cabinet had taken oath on this day last year for a second term in office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-war-with-people-congress-on-modi-govt-anniversary/story-zDqj086WAQTwjFdoKcp6mN.html
30-05-2020||India||Air India’s Moscow-bound plane called back as team finds pilot is Covid-19 +ve||An Air India’s Delhi-Moscow Airbus A-320 Neo (VT-EXR) flight was forced to return midway after ground team realised that the pilot was coronavirus positive.Officials said there was an error in the pre-flight test report, which was read as negative initially. The pilot reportedly took ill during the flight and was called back. “When the A320 plane, which did not have any passengers as it was heading to Moscow to bring back stranded Indians under Vande Bharat Mission, had reached Uzbekistan’s airspace, our team on ground realised that one of the pilots had tested Covid-19 positive,” a senior Air India official was quoted as saying by Press Trust of India.“The flight was immediately asked to return. It came back to Delhi at around 12.30 pm on Saturday,” the official added.The crew has been quarantined. Another plane would be sent to Moscow to bring back the stranded Indians, according to the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-s-delhi-moscow-flight-returns-midway-as-team-realises-pilot-is-covid-19-positive-report/story-m436NV0AkR1rijRxRLjnoI.html
30-05-2020||India||Bombay High Court asks state to file detailed reply on migrant workers||The Bombay High Court has asked the state to file a detailed report by June 2 over a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) concerning the state of migrant labourers. The PIL sought relief for migrant workers who are opting to take Shramik special trains or buses to return to their native places amid the Covid-19 lockdown.The division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice KK Tated has asked the state to elaborate on the procedure that a migrant worker is required to follow to be eligible to leave Maharashtra. The bench has also asked the state to specify the waiting period of the migrant labourers to board a train or bus, the nature of shelter being made available to them and the details of provisions made available for their sustenance.The CITU, which was represented by senior counsel Gayatri Singh along with advocates Kranti LC and Ronita Bhattacharya Bector, informed the court that migrant workers who had applied to leave the state are left in the dark about the status of their applications and are being forced to live in unhygienic shelters without food and other basic essentials till they can board the trains or buses.Also read: Experts warn 2020 could be the hottest year since records began In response, additional solicitor general Anil Singh - on behalf of the central government - informed the bench that the plight of the migrant workers had been taken care of by a detailed order of the Supreme Court passed on May 28 and that the measures are to be implemented by all states and reports to be filed by them.After perusing the apex court order, the Bombay High Court bench noted that the directions were issued to all states for simplifying and expediting registration process for migrant workers and to provide them with a helpdesk at the places where they are stranded.As the SC is to hear the petition on June 5, the bench observed, “At this stage, neither are we empowered nor do we wish to make any order contrary to the spirit of the order of the Supreme Court. However, having regard to the peculiar local conditions, we consider it fit and proper to call upon the State to file a report.”The bench further stated that it had come across photographs in newspapers showing congregation of migrant workers on railway platforms and on the adjoining streets.“Such congregation, if allowed, would run counter to the object, for which the lockdown has been imposed,” said the bench. After asking the state to file a detailed report, the bench posted the matter for hearing on June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-asks-state-to-file-detailed-reply-on-migrant-workers/story-DyaUBXizFjzqfWwt0nj4SL.html
30-05-2020||India||Tejashwi Yadav booked for flouting lockdown norms, says not afraid of false cases||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday stepped up his attack on Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar after the police booked him and several other leaders of the opposition party for violating lockdown norms, including social distancing, while trying to march to Gopalganj.Leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav, former Bihar chief minister and his mother Rabri Devi, brother Tej Pratap Yadav, and the RJD’s state unit president Jagadanand Singh are among the 92 leaders booked by the police.The police lodged the first information report (FIR) after they attempted to March to Gopalganj on Friday to protest the attack on RJD leader JP Yadav and the killing of his mother, father and brother last week. JD(U) MLA Amar Nath Pandey alias Pappu Pandey has been named in an FIR along with others. Pandey’s elder brother and his son were arrested while the MLA is absconding.On Saturday, Tejashwi Yadav repeated his allegation that Nitish Kumar was “shielding” the JD(U) MLA, named in the triple murder case.“Respected Nitish Ji, If you think you can intimidate us by filing false cases against me & my party leaders then you are living in illusion. We wouldn’t rest untill your favourite criminal MLA is arrested & justice is done. As a LoP, I won’t let Bihar become a lawless state. Thx (sic),” he tweeted.Tejashwi Yadav, who had given a call to party workers and MLAs for a procession to Gopalganj to protest the killings, Tej Pratap, Rabri Devi, Jagadanand Singh and a number of MLAs were prevented by the police and officials who had cordoned off the area, leading to a face-off.DSP (secretariat) Rajesh Kumar Prabhakar had met Tejashwi earlier in the day and handed him a letter saying their procession could not be allowed in view of the Covid-19 lockdown.The stalemate, which lasted hours, ended after Tejashwi said he wished to meet the Bihar assembly Speaker, which was allowed by the district administration.“Our job is to expose the government for its failures on multiple fronts, especially in the wake of lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, and we have succeeded in it. We have demanded that special session of the Assembly be called at the earliest to discuss burning issues to further expose the government,” Yadav told his supporters and legislators after coming out of the meeting.Tejashwi said though there was no restriction on movement within the city with proper safeguards during the lockdown, he was stopped even from going to the Vidhan Sabha. “I knew it they would create hurdles, but they have only exposed themselves. Without chief minister Nitish Kumar’s consent, no permission can be granted here,” he said.RJD leader JP Yadav’s mother, father and brother were shot dead in Gopalganj district on Sunday last week.Tejashwi had set an ultimatum till Thursday for JD(U) leader Amar Nath Pandey’s arrest and said he would visit Gopalganj and take out a march if Pandey was not held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejashwi-yadav-booked-for-flouting-lockdown-norms-says-not-afraid-of-false-cases/story-h6UKlclFXHjgBcV1dbjXDJ.html
30-05-2020||India||A star-shaped papaya reconnected this HT reader with long-lost friends!||Our reader, Kamal Jit Singh, found a star-shaped papaya and it helped him revive lost friendships! “This papaya made my day! I could not stop clicking and sharing it with everyone, even those I had not been in touch with for ages,” he says. The lockdown has helped us find joy in little, everyday things. Nothing in life should be taken for granted, not even a celestial looking papaya!Kamal says, “With the imposition of the lockdown, nature has been giving us such wonderful delights. When the local fruit seller got me a star-shaped papaya, I immediately shared the picture with many of my friends and relatives. All of them echoed the same sentiment about how nature is giving us hope and subtle hints to fight against Covid -19 with patience and courage. This shape of papaya is very rare and I have never come across such a shape.”With a stable internet connection and camera, connecting with friends online is perhaps easier now than ever. At some point during the lockdown, we all have realised that it’s not as weird to send a picture to someone you haven’t spoken to in years. He says, “This virus has brought long lost friends and acquaintances back to me. I’ve reconnected with people I have not heard from in years. I WhatsApped the picture of papaya to so many of my long lost friends.”Humans have a tendency to adopt a fatalistic mindset that acknowledges human mortality and impermanence, specially during pandemics. Kamal says, “The pandemic has scared all of us, so we’ve broken down social barriers. If not now, then when? This is the question crossing everyone’s mind. What’s the point in waiting anymore to get in touch, to unburden your worries, to tell secrets? We have just one life, we need to make the most of it.”After the corona carnage ends, the world we emerge from will be different. Though the world has shrunk radically, it has been inhabited virtually, for the moment by dozens of people whom all of us had loved and lost and forgotten about.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-star-shaped-papaya-reconnected-this-ht-reader-with-long-lost-friends/story-t8u8ZxFvMjCJ6fE8LyKxQN.html
30-05-2020||India||‘Can’t be in permanent lockdown’: Delhi CM Kejriwal messages people||There is nothing to be scared of, underlined Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, stressing that the state government is four steps ahead of the coronavirus disease.“It is a matter of concern but it is nothing to be scared of. I assure you that your government is four steps ahead of coronavirus,” said CM Kejriwal on Saturday.The CM also emphasised that the country cannot be in a permanent lockdown. There is a nationwide lockdown, till May 31, in place to halt the spread of the coronavirus disease. “Delhi is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, we accept it. But there is nothing to worry about, I assure you that we are fully prepared. We cannot be in a permanent lockdown,” said Kejriwal.In Delhi, coronavirus cases rose to 17,386 today, and there have been 398 deaths. Nationally, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of coronavirus cases, followed by Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat. Out of the total patients in Delhi, the CM informed, only 2100 are in hospitals, the rest are undergoing treatment at their homes. The CM said 6,500 beds are ready and another 9,500 beds will be ready by next week.“Most of the people are recovering, and they are recovering at home. There is no need to panic,” said Kejriwal. On Thursday, Delhi had crossed the key threshold of 1,000 cases on a single day for the first time, reporting 1,024 positive infections.For the first time, the government notified five hotels to be fully used as “extended Covid hospitals” for patients with moderate symptoms. The hotels include JW Marriot, Le Meridien and IBIS. Two of the 10 hotels — Hotel Sheraton in Saket and Hotel Surya in New Friends Colony — will also serve as extended Covid hospital.In a digital press conference on Friday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the government was “fully geared up” to handle more than 1,000 cases a day. To ensure asymptomatic Covid patients do not panic and choose home quarantine instead of insisting on being admitted, the Delhi government on Friday evening also aired a video on news channels, informing people about the dos and don’ts of home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-four-steps-ahead-of-coronavirus-says-cm-kejriwal/story-mQ515ZXrNRmeJvhxTTdWjM.html
30-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Experts warn, 2020 could be the hottest year since records began and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Experts warn, 2020 could be the hottest year since records began The year 2020 has been marked by astounding events globally, from nearly the entire planet gripped in the clutches of Covid-19 disease, super cyclone Amphan ravaging the Bengal coast, locust attack in parts of India and other countries to the scorching heatwave. Read more.Lockdown 5.0: These 13 cities will see stricter rules, more monitoringIndia’s exit strategy from the fourth phase of the lockdown scheduled to end on Sunday could see new guidelines and comparatively stricter ones for 13 cities, which account for about 70% of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, officials have indicated. Read more.Virat Kohli only cricketer in Forbes’ top 100 highest-paid athletes of 2020India captain Virat Kohli remained the only cricketer to be included in the list of top 100 highest-paid athletes of 2020 put forward by Forbes magazine. Read more.Domestic violence, child abuse cases on the rise in this lockdown: Experts explain whyWhile the lockdown is helping control the spread of the Covid-19 virus, one aspect of people being at home for extended period of time has left all shocked — the rise in the number of domestic and child abuse incidences. Read more.The new Apple iPad Pro is on sale in India: Here are all the price detailsApple launched its new 11-inch and 12.9-inch iPad Pro earlier this year in March. The new line-up were refreshed models of the older iPad Pro but the highlight was the inclusion of dual rear cameras and a brand new A12Z Bionic chip that made these new iPads the most powerful ones from Apple yet. Read more.Mizoram residents give food to Assam flood victims on their way home on special train, CM Zoramthanga tweets heartening videoMizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga recently took to Twitter to share a viral video which captures the true spirit of humanity. The 33-second-long video shows stranded passengers returning home on a special Mizoram-bound train giving away their food to Assam floods victims walking along the railway track. Read more.Trump terminates relationship with WHO, announces actions against ChinaDonald Trump announced US will end its relationship with the World Health Organization. This comes amid growing tensions between US and China over covid-19. Trump said, “We have detailed reforms that they must make and engage with them directly, but they have refused to act. We will be today terminating our relationship with the WHO.” Watch full video here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-experts-warn-2020-could-be-the-hottest-year-since-records-began-and-all-the-latest-news/story-1UU2rz1Dn3XZYXDpdaUz3K.html
30-05-2020||India||Migrant children at risk of dropping out of school after moving back to hometowns: Experts||Sunita Majhi (name changed) wants to become a doctor. Her father Shyam Majhi believed in his daughter’s dream and to fulfil that he sold most of his property to move to Visakhapatnam so that Sunita could study in a good school.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage But after losing almost everything in the lockdown, Shyam has returned to his village in Odisha’s Kalahandi district and has no plans to send 10-year-old Sunita to school at least for the next one year. “The nearest school is 25 kilometre away. I don’t have the means or the money to bear the cost of her education yet,” Shyam, who worked as a driver in Visakhapatnam, told PTI over phone. Child rights NGOs have expressed concern over migrant children dropping out due to closure of schools. Priti Mahara, Director – Policy, Research and Advocacy, Child Rights and You (CRY) said, “Since the first official national lockdown was announced, schools have been closed across the country. As migrant families return to their villages, struggling for their survival, it is very likely that their children’s access to education will suffer unless special efforts are made.” “The recent traumatic experiences may affect their learning outcome and eventually affect their retention in school. School administration will need to provide special attention and counselling services to these children,” she said. Kamal Gaur, Deputy Director - Education at Save the Children, said Covid-19 has not just been a health emergency but also an education disaster. “Studies suggest that on an average 20 per cent children dropout post emergencies, and the last 90 days lockdown has resulted in complete loss of education for these children who are moving with their migrant families,” she said. Working as a daily wage labourer at multiple construction sites of Greater Noida, Zorawar Singh (name changed) ensured that his two sons went to a respectable private school in Noida. Singh moved back to his village in Rajasthan last week after spending nearly 12 years in Delhi when all his savings were exhausted. “I wanted my sons to become bada sahib and not end up like me. I tried my best,” Singh said. Singh now says he wants his sons to join the workforce and support the family. “My sons are good in studies. One of them wants to become a teacher, while another aspires to become an IAS officer but right now the financial situation is such that I need more hands that could earn,” Singh, whose sons are 15 and 14 years old, said. For Raju Minz, the decision to move back to his village Dumka in Jharkhand from Delhi has been one of the toughest decisions of his life because of the education of his four daughters. “I waited for two months thinking the situation would improve but it didn’t. It just worsened.  My wife and I did all odd jobs just to ensure that my daughters could continue their studies here. But now, all our savings have been exhausted and we will return,” Minz said. “And now my daughters would need to study at home at least for this year, there is no scope in the current situation to send them back to school,” Minz whose daughters are 8, 10, 12, 13 years old said. Priti Mahara suggested that the government schools should collect data of all migrant children from local administration and initiate an enrollment drive after lockdown. “In the current scenario, even those who are receiving any kind of formal or non-formal education will face a lag. While the government has initiated several measures to enable continuity of education during lockdown through online means as well as initiatives using radio, community radio and television, special efforts would have to be made to ensure these children get access to these mediums of communication,” she said. They must also get access to special training or bridge courses to recover the loss in education and get enrolled into grades appropriate to their age into the mainstream education system once the lockdown is lifted up, she said. She further recommended that the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act 2009 must be strictly implemented, which mandates local authorities to ensure admission of children of migrant families. “Equally important is to start early childhood education and enroll children below 6 years in Anganwadi centers,” she said. Gaur said education facilities are anyway hindered by pre-existing inequalities, lack of learning opportunities, homelessness, unemployed parents and sibling care when parents are exploring work opportunities.  “Moreover, current government programmes are Information and Communication Technology (ICT) based and children on the move cannot access it. While institutions are in place, the pandemic has disrupted access to education facilities and unsettled the system of education,” she added. The coronavirus-triggered lockdown has had a devastating impact on the economy as well as on the livelihoods of lakhs of migrant workers. The plight of migrant workers, walking hundreds, sometimes thousands of kilometres, cycling or clambering onto buses and trains, to go from urban centres to their villages has been the focus of concern for almost two months. The Centre has said around four crore migrant labourers are engaged in various jobs across the country. And so far, 75 lakh of them have returned home in trains and buses since the nationwide lockdown was imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-children-at-risk-of-dropping-out-of-school-after-moving-back-to-hometowns-experts/story-nzx5STywMTqPEwfHDjjhUJ.html
30-05-2020||India||‘PM has bridged development gap of last 60 years in 6 years’: JP Nadda on first anniversary of Modi’s second term||Prime Minster Narendra Modi’s policies have bridged the development gap of the last 60 years in the six years since he has assumed power, underlined BJP president JP Nadda at a press conference to mark the first anniversary of the second term of the NDA government.The same sentiment was expressed by home minister Amit Shah in a tweet while congratulating PM Modi on the completion of first year in office in the second term. The comment is a direct attack on the Congress rule.Nadda underscored how the first year of PM Modi’s second term has been a “year of accomplishments”. He said there were “unimaginable challenges”, but they were met by PM Modi “boldly”. As an example, he cited the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and said it helped accomplish the task of one nation, one flag.There will be 250 press conferences and 2000 rallies, all virtual, to bring home the achievements of the government to the people, said Nadda. The government, said Nadda, has been responsive, receptive and has the capacity to take decisions. The BJP chief credited PM Modi of bringing about a “cultural change in the political arena”.“What is right is right and will be implemented...The ‘chalta hai (whatever goes)’ attitude will not be tolerated,” said Nadda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-has-bridged-development-gap-of-last-60-years-in-6-years-jp-nadda-on-first-anniversary-of-modi-term/story-bjsHrwk8JuFNpaEZ8ImzmN.html
30-05-2020||India||‘‘Modi’ name has a mantra’: Madhya Pradesh CM lauds PM as govt completes a year||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said that ‘Modi’ name has a mantra. Chouhan said that each letter in the name ‘Modi’ stands for some quality.“M stands for ‘motivational’. He works to take India to greater heights and motivates us,” Chouhan said.Chouhan went on to say that ‘O’ in ‘Modi’ stands for ‘Opportunity’, “he works to bring out the nation’s hidden opportunities”. “D for ‘Dynamic leadership’. I for ‘inspire’, ‘India’. He inspires us to make India self-reliant,” the chief minister stated.  Also read: From Article 370 to CAA to Covid-19 - What PM Modi said in letter to citizens'Modi' name has a mantra. M for 'motivational'. He works to take India to greater heights&motivates us. O for 'Opportunity', he works to bring out nation's hidden opportunities. D for 'Dynamic leadership'. I for 'inspire', 'India'. He inspires us to make India self-reliant: MP CM pic.twitter.com/cFwJtx5AqPChouhan’s comments came on the day when the PM Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party completed a year of governance in Centre after winning the second term during last year’s Lok Sabha polls. In a letter marking the occasion, PM Modi thanked the citizens and said that “this day last year began a golden chapter in the history of Indian democracy.”The prime minister recounted the many moves and steps taken by his government in the past year and revisited India’s trajectory of growth and development.“In 2019, the people of India voted not merely for continuity but also with a dream— of taking India to new heights. A dream of making India a global leader. The decisions taken in the last one year are directed at fulfilling this dream,” PM Modi said.Earlier in the day, BJP national president JP Nadda also tweeted on the occasion and said that the country has been steered into a new direction under PM Modi’s leadership. “This year of Modi ji’s government is full of many achievements,” Nadda tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-name-has-a-mantra-madhya-pradesh-cm-lauds-pm-as-modi-2-0-govt-completes-a-year/story-VLOcIODtUuc32gbL01YwsL.html
30-05-2020||India||Lockdown 5.0: These 13 cities will see stricter rules, more monitoring||India’s exit strategy from the fourth phase of the lockdown scheduled to end on Sunday could see new guidelines and comparatively stricter ones for 13 cities, which account for about 70% of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, officials have indicated.The hints came during two meetings held on Thursday. The first meeting was chaired in the morning by Rajiv Gauba, the Union cabinet secretary, and the second by Union home minister Amit Shah. The fresh guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs for the extended lockdown will give powers to states to take strict measures as per their need but they will have to follow the ones issued by the Centre.Guidelines on the management of Covid-19 in urban settlements have already been issued by the Centre. According to news agency PTI, the highlights of this strategy include work on high-risk factors, indices such as confirmation rate, fatality rate, doubling rate, tests per million people etc.Also Watch | More Covid-like pandemics in store? New York’s Dr Syra Madad on what to do The strategy defined the factors to be considered while mapping the containment and buffer zones, the activities mandated in containment zones like perimeter control, active search for cases through house-to-house surveillance, contact tracing, testing protocol, clinical management of the active cases.The nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for three weeks days to curb the spread of the coronavirus infections. It was then extended till May 3 and again till May 17.All the metros have been included in the Centre’s list of the 13 worst-hit areas of India. And, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have three cities each, Rajasthan has two cities each in that list.Here’s a list of those cities, which could see stricter rules:• Mumbai• Chennai* Delhi• Ahmedabad• Thane• Pune• Hyderabad• Kolkata and adjoining Howrah• Indore• Jaipur• Jodhpur • Chengalpattu • Tiruvallur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-5-0-these-13-cities-will-see-stricter-rules-more-monitoring/story-FNB1TTTIwBqgILlvCbhQUO.html
30-05-2020||India||Doing good quietly: HT reader Anil Vinayak took a rickshaw ‘joy ride’ just to help this man||HT reader, Anil Vinayak from Amritsar, saw a rickshaw puller, Baldev Kumar , roaming in the scorching sun, desperately looking for a passenger. Vinayak decided to take a joy ride in his rickshaw, just to be able to help the man without embarrassing him. The incident led to an unlikely camaraderie between the two. “When I signalled him to stop, a smile lit up his face. A 10-minute joyride compensated by Rs 50 made his day,” shares Vinayak.A large number of rickshaw pullers, house-helps, daily wage labourers and other informal workers were left in the lurch, as the government imposed the lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus scare.Harry S. Truman, the 33rd president of the United States, had once said, “The place of labour is side by side with the businessman and the farmer - and not one degree lower.” But it’s tragic that these labourers and daily wage workers have been living on the margins in big cities, earning a little more than what they could have earned in their home towns, somehow surviving in dilapidated conditions. Most of them have insecure jobs in the informal sector and are never accorded any dignity for their work. Vinayak says, “All of us have been feeling the pressure of the lockdown and these daily wagers have been hit the hardest. I have seen Baldev Kumar many times as he waits with his rickshaw in our vicinity. He has catered to so many people at so many points. Some of us choose to ignore the plight of these workers because we feel that we cannot do much to make an impact in their lives. At a personal level, the least that we can do as individuals is to consciously acknowledge the dignity of labour. We must break down the social hierarchies that we have internalised and recognise the importance of all work.”Vinayak shares that Kumar shared our story published on May 21 with his friends and other rickshaw pullers. “He was on cloud nine with when he saw his picture in the newspaper. The article led vegetable vendors in my locality asking for their stories to be published too, so that even their good work reaches to a larger audience!.”A little appreciation post by Anil and HT made Kumar so happy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doing-good-quietly-ht-reader-anil-vinayak-took-a-joy-ride-in-a-rickshaw-just-to-help-the-rickshaw-puller/story-BGwLYh8FsxM87LFBqMF0TO.html
30-05-2020||India||These states have over 20,000 Covid-19 cases, more than 15,000 infected in Delhi and Gujarat||As the country nears the end of the fourth phase of the nationwide coronavirus lockdown, the number of Covid-19 cases seem to rise unabated. On Saturday, the Ministry of Health updated that national Covid-19 tally to 173,763 infections. There are 86,422 active cases of coronavirus in the country while 82,369 people have been cured from the disease across the country. The Covid-19 death toll in the country nears 5,000 with 4,971 fatalities. Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country, followed by Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat. All these states have more than 15,000 coronavirus cases. States with over 20,000 casesMaharashtra and Tamil Nadu are struggling with a rapid rise in the number of coronavirus infections. While Maharashtra, on Saturday reported a total of 62,228 coronavirus cases, in Tamil Nadu the figure stands at 20,246. As many as 2,098 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra - highest in the country, while Tamil Nadu has seen 154 fatalities. Mumbai and Chennai are the two most affected cities in these respective states. Also read: With highest single-day spike of 7,964 cases, India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 1.73 lakhStates with over 15,000 casesNow come states where Covid-19 cases have breached the 15,000-mark and are rapidly rising. The national capital and PM Modi’s native place are two such states. Delhi’s tally rose to 17,386 on Saturday, 7,846 people have recovered here while 398 died due to Covid-19. In Gujarat, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 15,934 on Saturday. The state has seen 8,611 people recover from coronavirus while 980 people have died. Ahmedabad is the worst-hit district in Gujarat.  States with over 5,000 casesRajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have reported more than 5,000 coronavirus cases so far. In Rajasthan, Covid-19 cases reached 8,365 on Saturday. The state has reported 184 fatalities while 5,244 patients have recovered from the infection here. Madhya Pradesh, on the other hand, has registered 7,645 infections till date. Three hundred and thirty-four people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 4,269 have recovered.The number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 7,284 in Uttar Pradesh. While 4,244 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 198 have died from the infection here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-have-over-20-000-covid-19-cases-more-than-15-000-infected-in-delhi-and-gujarat/story-PeN85XPwUwaoOWILvxFzNK.html
30-05-2020||India||7 hurt as bus carrying migrants from Kerala to Bengal overturns in Odisha||At least seven people were injured when a bus carrying West Bengal-bound migrants, who were stuck in Kerala due to the nationwide lockdown, overturned in Odishas Balasore district on Saturday, police said.The bus carrying 38 passengers was on its way to Kolkata when it skidded off the National Highway 16 and overturned near Balasore town, causing injuries to seven persons, a police official said.Click here for full Covid-19 coveragePolice and fire service personnel rushed to the spot and rescued the passengers with the help of locals, while the injured persons were sent to the district headquarters hospital here, he said.The passengers, who were engaged in various establishments in Kerala were returning homes in different places in West Bengal after remaining stranded in the southern state since March due to the lockdown, the official said.The condition of the injured persons was stated to be stable, he said.The rest of the passengers were kept in a temporary camp by strictly adhering to social distance guidelines.Arrangements are being made to send the migrant returnees to their destinations in another bus, the police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-hurt-as-bus-carrying-migrants-from-kerala-to-bengal-overturns-in-odisha/story-VO1Ebp8cGU2CKKULPCboZL.html
30-05-2020||India||Foreign ministry staff members to quarantine after 2 test Covid-19 positive in office||At least two people working at India’s foreign affairs ministry have tested positive for Covid-19, and the government has asked several officials to self quarantine as a precaution, according to a source and internal e-mails seen by Reuters.One person who tested positive worked as a consultant in the ministry’s Central Europe division in New Delhi, while the other worked as a legal officer in the law division, the e-mails stated.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“As per protocol, all members of the CE Division have been asked to go for self quarantine for 14 days and work from home,” the ministry advised in an internal e-mail on May 27, which was reviewed by Reuters.In a separate email on Friday, all officials who came into direct contact with the legal officer, who tested positive for the new coronavirus, were also asked to self-quarantine.The Foreign Affairs Ministry did not immediately respond to requests seeking comment.It was not immediately clear how many officials have been asked to self quarantine.The ministry is involved in many of India’s critical coronavirus relief efforts, especially those relating to the evacuation of Indian citizens stranded overseas.It has ordered sanitisation of rooms occupied by the Central Europe and legal division and those nearby, the source with knowledge of the matter said.Last month, about 500 people entered self-isolation in staff quarters of India’s presidential palace after a family member of a sanitation worker living in employee quarters tested positive.The number of Covid-19 cases are steadily rising in India. Government data on Friday showed nearly 166,000 have now tested positive for the virus, of which 4,706 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/staff-members-to-quarantine-after-two-positive-for-covid-19-in-foreign-ministry-office/story-rviFVOFQHBVizhz7j5ITON.html
30-05-2020||India||UN honours Indian woman peacekeeper who served in South Sudan||United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres and Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane have lauded the achievements of a female Indian Army officer who has been awarded the United Nations Military Gender Advocate of the year for 2019 for her role as a peacekeeper with the UN Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) last year.Major Suman Gawani, who is from the Corps of Signals, received the award from Guterres at an online ceremony organised by the New York-based UN headquarters on May 29 on the occasion of the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers, an army spokesperson said. Gawani, who was deployed to South Sudan last year, is currently posted in New Delhi. The UN gave out the award for the first time to a woman peacekeeper in 2016 for “integrating a gender perspective into peacekeeping activities.”The Indian woman officer received the award along with Brazilian navy officer Commander Carla Monteiro de Castro Araujo.“I’m proud to share that Commander Carla Monteiro de Castro Araujo of Brazil and Major Suman Gawani of India have been awarded the Military Gender Advocate Award. Their @UNPeacekeeping contributions highlight how women peacekeepers are vital to peace and security everywhere,” the UN Secretary-General tweeted.India is one of the largest contributors of personnel to the UN’s peacekeeping operations and women have served in foreign missions in different capacities.South Sudan, the world’s newest country carved out of Sudan in July 2011, represents the second-largest deployment of the Indian Army on foreign soil with more than 2,300 Indian soldiers deployed there. Major Gawani was a military observer at the mission from November 2018 to December 2019.“Gender becomes relevant especially in the places driven by conflict. Women and children being more vulnerable are the worst hit in such situations. UNMISS is making all efforts to deploy more and more female peacekeepers in front roles such as military observers and contingent so that so they can reach deeper into the community and bring some sense of security for the survivors of conflict,” Major Gawani said in a video message released by the army.“While at the mission, she was the principal focal point of contact for gender issues for military observers in the mission. The officer encouraged participation in joint military patrols to maintain gender balance, irrespective of the hardships under extreme field conditions. She visited various mission team sites across South Sudan to integrate gender perspective into the planning and military activity in the mission,” the army said in a statement.“General MM Naravane #COAS congratulates Major Suman Gawani for receiving prestigious United Nations Military Gender Advocate of the Year Award (2019). Major Suman received the award during an online ceremony presided over by United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres,” the army tweeted on Saturday.Major Gawani was selected to attend a specialised training on conflict-related sexual violence (CRSV) in Nairobi and also participated in various UN forums to demonstrate how a gender perspective can help in protecting civilians, especially from CRSV, a spokesperson said.“Apart from supporting the UNMISS force initiatives, she also trained the South Sudan government forces on CRSV-related aspects. The officer also commanded the UN Peacekeepers Day Parade organised at UNMISS,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-honours-indian-woman-peacekeeper-who-served-in-south-sudan/story-dV1Ih2guAgxyzoSROSdNcL.html
30-05-2020||India||With highest single-day spike of 7,964 cases, India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 1.73 lakh||India on Saturday reported 7,964 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 265 deaths in the last 24 hours, in another highest single-day spike, taking the tally to 173,763, Union health ministry data showed.This is the second day in a row that India has witnessed a daily rise of more than 7,000 Covid-19 cases.The number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 also went up as 82,369 patients were discharged from hospitals across the country, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here With this India’s recovery rate has jumped to 47.40%, up from 42.88% on Friday, as the fourth phase of the lockdown to curb the spread of the deadly infection is scheduled to end on Sunday.Maharashtra has reported 62,228 Covid-19 cases, including 2098 deaths, so far. In Tamil Nadu, there have been 20,246 infections, including 154 deaths, and Delhi with 17,386 Covid-19 cases is the third worst-affected region in the country. The national capital has seen 398 people dying of the respiratory disease.Gujarat has fewer number of Covid-19 cases at 15,934 but with 980 fatalities the state’s death toll is nearly double of Tamil Nadu and Delhi.A number of states want the lockdown to continue in some form and, at the same time, have called for more relaxations after the fourth phase ends.Also read: Centre flags 145 districts as potential Covid-19 hotspotsUnion home minister Amit Shah met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, less than 24 hours after Shah held discussions on the phone with chief ministers on the coronavirus outbreak.News agency PTI quoted a government official as saying that Shah briefed Modi about the suggestions and the feedback he received from chief ministers on the road ahead.The nationwide lockdown, with the first phase imposed on March 25 for 21 days, has been extended thrice. States can frame their own guidelines for the lockdown but they have been advised not to dilute the central rules.The central government has identified 145 new districts, mostly rural, that have reported Covid-19 cases over the past three weeks and warned that they could emerge as “epicentres” of the disease if effective containment measures are not undertaken. Also read: Centre may announce 2nd stimulus to increase demand after lockdown is liftedCabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, in a presentation to state representatives, on Thursday highlighted that eastern India was likely to be the next big Covid-19 hotspot with the return of migrant workers from the worst-hit states.The cabinet secretary said 12 states, including Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha in eastern India which had not reported many cases earlier, have witnessed rapid infection spread in the three weeks until May 25.Other states such as Tripura and Manipur, too, have reported an increase in Covid-19 cases after having infections in single digits earlier.The Union health ministry has said the bigger states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh remained the main contributors to the surge but that states such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha saw a sharp increase in cases primarily because of the return of migrant workers from Covid-19 hotspots.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Most states have recorded a fall in the fatality rate even as it increased in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat between May 18 and May 25, according to the ministry.The fatality rate has declined from 8.5% to 7.1% in West Bengal but it remains the highest for any major state.Dr KK Agarwal, the former Indian Medical Association president, said the fatality and the confirmation rates in India were still less than the western countries and that the lockdown has helped in containing the numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-highest-single-day-spike-of-7-964-cases-india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-1-73-lakh/story-ETzbKwnc4mVWsVNHvSULLJ.html
30-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0 nears end, Delhi climbs to third spot with over 17,000 coronavirus cases: Covid-19 state tally||With highest single-day spike of 7,964 Covid-19 cases and 265 fatalities, India’s coronavirus tally on Saturday crossed 1.73 lakh, Ministry of Health stated. As per the fresh figures, 86,422 people are currently infected by the virus while 82,369 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals. The Covid-19 death toll in the country stands at 4971. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi continue to be the top 4 states with the most coronavirus cases while patients in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh are on the rise. Here’s a look at Covid-19 state-wise tally.The Big 4MaharashtraCovid-19 cases in Maharashtra reached 62,228 on Saturday. The state has recorded 2,098 deaths so far, highest in the country, while 26,997 have recovered from Covid-19 in the state.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with 20,246 infected so far. While 11,313 people have recovered from the disease here, 154 patients have died.Also read: Centre flags 145 districts as potential Covid-19 hotspotsDelhiThe fresh cases took Delhi’s infection tally to 17,386 on Saturday. While 7,846 people have recovered, 398 died due to the disease. On Friday, the national capital reported more than 1,000 Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row.GujaratIn Gujarat, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 15,934 on Saturday. Gujarat has seen 8,611 people recover from coronavirus while 980 people have died.States inching toward the 10,000-markRajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan reached 8,365 on Saturday. The state has reported 184 fatalities while 5,244 patients have recovered from the infection in the state.Madhya PradeshAs many as 7,645 people have been infected from Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh till date. Three hundred and thirty-four people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 4,269 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 7,284 in Uttar Pradesh. While 4,244 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 198 have died from the infection here.Situation in other statesIn West Bengal, coronavirus cases near the 5,000-mark. The number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 4,813 on Saturday. There have been 302 deaths and 1,775 recoveries in the state. Domestic flight services resumed in the state on Thursday.States with under 3,000 coronavirus cases include Telangana, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka and Haryana. Bihar saw a spike in the number of cases and its tally now stands at 3,376.Kerala crossed the 1,000-mark in the number of Covid-19 cases. On Saturday, the state’s tally stood at 1,150.Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura have reported 500 Covid-19 cases or less while Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya, Ladakh and Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli has reported two cases of Covid-19, Sikkim has one. Arunachal Pradesh has three Covid-19 patients and one of them has recovered.All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Mizoram have recovered. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-nears-end-delhi-climbs-to-third-spot-with-over-17-000-coronavirus-cases-covid-19-state-tally/story-tV54Zbmk46AhBBkZPKmyUN.html
30-05-2020||India||Tough, big decisions marked Modi 2.0 first year: JP Nadda||The first year of the Modi government’s second term is full of historic achievements, top BJP leaders said on Saturday, with party president J P Nadda asserting that it would be known for its tough and big decisions that have “changed” the country’s face. Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in its six years of tenure had corrected many “historic wrongs” and laid the foundation of a self-reliant India, which is on the road to development. “I heartily congratulate the country’s popular Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the successful one year of Modi 2.0. It has been full of historic achievements,” Shah tweeted. Nadda said Modi had given a new direction to the country’s democracy with his far-sighted policies, dedication and the spirit of team India, and people’s welfare and the country’s interest were reflected in every decision of the government. “I congratulate Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other members of the government on the completion of the successful one year of its second term,” the BJP president said. “This year of the Modi government is full of many achievements.” “This first year of the Modi government’s second term will be known for its tough and big decisions and converting challenges into opportunities,” he said. “Modi implemented decisions which were awaited for decades. These decisions have changed the country’s face.” BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh described the government as “decisive, caring and visionary”. India marches on converting challenges into opportunities under a dynamic leader, a responsive government and a vibrant society, he said. Modi and his cabinet had taken oath on this day last year. PTI KR HMB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tough-big-decisions-marked-modi-2-0-first-year-jp-nadda/story-3pqYBZBDdhU6O4PL4LCUOL.html
30-05-2020||India||Indore engages more than 5,000 personnel in identifying Covid-19 patients||Authorities in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore announced on Friday they have engaged about 2,000 additional personnel in identifying patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city, which is one of the major hotspots in the country.Indore is one of 13 worst-affected cities, which account for 72% of the 165,000 cases across the country till Thursday. The other cities include Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Thane, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur.“We are carrying survey, sampling and tracing work more aggressively now while engaging more than 2,000 personnel from health and other departments in this work for quite some time. Thus, we have more than 5,000 personnel now engaged in this task,” Dr Pravin Jadia, chief medical and health officer, said.Dr Jadia said there was no change in the strategy of the department in identifying and treating Covid-19 patients but the number of personnel involved in the survey, sampling and contact tracing was increased considerably.“We have 2,000 teams just for survey only. We have the situation under control as most of the patients identified are those who were identified during the survey and screening and were already quarantined. Also, about 50% of the patients have already recovered and been discharged from hospitals,” he added.Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba interacted with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and other officials on Thursday to assess the situation and how to control it, government officials said.Indore registered 3,260 Covid-19 cases till Thursday evening that accounts for 43% of the infections in Madhya Pradesh that stood at 7,453 as on Thursday evening, according to the state government’s health department’s bulletin. Indore has witnessed the death of 122 patients that accounts for 38% of all the fatalities reported from the state that stood at 321 till Thursday evening.In the past 10 days, the city has reported about 700 cases or 70 cases daily or about three patients every hour on an average despite the oft-repeated claims of the state government and the district administration that the situation in the commercial capital of the state is under control.As the state government and Indore administration are battling with the respiratory disease in Indore, Ujjain, Dhar, Burhanpur, Khargone, Khandwa, Neemuch, Dewas, Mandsaur and Neemuch in Malwa-Nimad region, Sagar in Bundelkhand region, Gwalior and Morena in Gwalior-Chambal region and Raisen in the central region are emerging as Covid-19 hotspots. Bhopal in the central region continues to remain a hotspot with 1,373 cases and 51 deaths.In Sagar, the divisional headquarters in Bundelkhand, 24 new cases were identified in the past 24 hours to take the tally of patients to 165 out of whom 7 have died so far.“We have been requesting the state government right from day one to enhance the number of sampling and tests, upgrade the public health system to have a lab for testing in every district, make a better quarantine plan, chalk out a separate plan for every district and containment zone and let the doctors and experts decide how to contain the disease and treat the patients. But unfortunately, the government’s entire plan and approach is bureaucrats centric,” public health expert Amulya Nidhi said.Mohd Suleman, the additional chief secretary of the health department, could not be reached for his comments.“We need to understand that the state government is doing its best in controlling the situation and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has gone on record saying that more and more patients are recovering in the state that suggests an improvement in the scenario,” state BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-engages-more-than-5-000-personnel-in-identifying-covid-19-patients/story-iUoTPwW1z3Yefx0t89d6PM.html
30-05-2020||India||2 terrorists gunned down by security forces in J-K’s Kulgam||Security forces killed two terrorists after a gun battle in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Saturday, officials said.They added that a joint team of Rashtriya Rifles, state police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were involved in the operation against the terrorists in Wanpora area of south Kashmir’s Kulgam.Officials said the search operation is still underway and that internet services have been snapped in the district.The encounter in Kulgam comes days after two terrorists were killed in Manzgam area of the district.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-between-security-forces-terrorists-underway-in-j-k-s-kulgam/story-mi40VAmJ1JVlXfFUhCxJQI.html
30-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt may plan scheme for welfare, jobs of migrants and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt may plan scheme for welfare, jobs of migrantsThe Narendra Modi government may consider an ambitious, targeted programme to ensure welfare and jobs for millions of migrants who have returned home during the Covid19 pandemic. Read more.Meant to eradicate locusts, pesticides affect soil, cropsThe Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations said on Friday that it may declare the locust invasion a plague if it takes a turn for the worse after breeding by the voracious, crop-crunching insects in India, Pakistan and West Africa. Read more.Centre may announce 2nd stimulus to increase demand after lockdown is liftedThe government may unveil another stimulus package of fiscal, monetary and policy measures to boost demand in the economy after the nationwide lockdown imposed for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is completely lifted, three officials familiar with the development said on Friday. Read more.Potterheads, take note: Alia Bhatt joins Daniel Radcliffe, Eddie Redmayne on Wizarding World to read Harry Potter And The Philosopher’s StoneThe words from J.K. Rowling’s magical world have magicked their way into our hearts and how! The 7-part Harry Potter series, J.K. Rowling’s most famous work to date, has been touted to be a children’s books. Read more.Radhika Madan describes taking a flight during Covid-19 times: ‘It was like a scene out of an apocalyptic film’Actor Radhika Madan, who flew to New Delhi from Mumbai during the coronavirus pandemic, has described the experience as “a scene out of an apocalyptic film.” Read more.How to use Google’s AR tool Sodar for social distancingGoogle and Apple are working on a contact tracing tool but in the meanwhile Google has found a way to help you practice social distancing and adjust to what just might become the ‘new normal’. Google’s AR-based tool Sodar is what you need to try out. Read more.Watch: Back India’s call for reform of WHO: Italian Minister | WorldViewItaly wants an independent inquiry into the origin of the Covid-19 pandemic in China and backs India’s calls for reform of multilateral bodies such as WHO, Italy’s minister for European Affairs Vincenzo Amendola tells WorldView in an interview over Skype. Watch video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-may-plan-scheme-for-welfare-jobs-of-migrants-and-all-the-latest-news/story-l4oHSw0nXEzKdFa9allvVI.html
30-05-2020||India||From Article 370 to CAA to Covid-19: What PM Modi said in letter to citizens||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has written a letter to the nation listing his government’s achievements during his second term and said the decisions taken in the last one year were aimed at fulfilling the dream of making India a global leader.PM Modi also put forward his economic vision for the country and the challenges ahead. Here are the top quotes from his letter: * Back in 2014, the people of the country voted for a substantive transformation. In the last five years, the nation saw how the administrative apparatus broke itself free of the status quo and from the swamp of corruption as well as misgovernance. True to the spirit of ‘Antyodaya’ the lives of millions have been transformed.* From 2014 to 2019, India’s stature rose significantly. The dignity of the poor was enhanced. The nation achieved financial inclusion, free gas and electricity connections, total sanitation coverage, and made progress towards ensuring ‘Housing For All.’ India demonstrated its mettle through the surgical strike and airstrike. At the same time, decades-old demands such as OROP, One Nation One Tax- GST, better MSP for farmers were fulfilled.* The decision on Article 370 furthered the spirit of national unity and integration. The Ram Mandir judgment, delivered unanimously by the Honourable Supreme Court of India, brought an amicable end to a debate persisting for centuries. The barbaric practise of triple talaq has been confined to the dustbin of history. Amendment to the Citizenship Act was an expression of India’s compassion and spirit of inclusiveness.A look at significant moments of Modi 2.0* Many feared that India will become a problem for the world when the coronavirus hits India. But today, through sheer confidence and resilience, you have transformed the way the world looks at us. You have proven that the collective strength and potential of Indians are unparalleled compared even to the powerful and prosperous countries of the world. * In a crisis of this magnitude, it can certainly not be claimed that no one suffered any inconvenience or discomfort. Our labourers, migrant workers, artisans ad craftsmen in small scale industries, hawkers and such fellow countrymen have undergone tremendous suffering. We are working in a united and determined way to alleviate their troubles.* In the last few days, a super cyclone has wreaked havoc in parts of West Bengal and Odisha. Here too, the resilience of the people of these states is noteworthy. Their courage inspires the people of India.* In the economic domain, through their strength, 130 crore Indians cannot only surprise the world but also inspire it. It is the need of the hour that we must become self-reliant. We have to move forward based on our own abilities, in our own way, and there is only one way to do it – Atmanirbhar Bharat or Self-reliant India.* The fragrance of Indian soil along with the sweat, hard work and talent of our workers will create products that will reduce India’s dependence on imports and will move towards self-reliance.* It is the strength of your blessings that has made the nation take historic decisions and progress rapidly in the last one year. However, I am also aware that there is a lot that needs to be done. There are many challenges and problems that our country faces. I am working day and night. There could be deficiencies in me but there is nothing that our country lacks. So, I believe in you, your strength and your abilities even more than I believe in myself.* The source of strength for my resolve is you, your support, blessings and affection. Due to the global pandemic, this is certainly a time of crisis but for us Indians, this is also a time for a firm resolve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-article-370-to-caa-to-covid-19-pandemic-key-points-in-pm-modi-s-letter/story-yoa5VtFXGW8zY8OoTX15HN.html
30-05-2020||India||Monkeys attack lab assistant, snatch Covid blood samples||Sensation gripped Meerut’s Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical (LLRM) College on Thursday after a group of monkeys snatched some samples of suspected Covid-19 patients from a health worker, officials confirmed on Friday.The Covid-19 testing lab is situated on the college premises and a health worker was on his way to handover the samples to a laboratory when a group of monkeys attacked him and ran away with at least three samples being taken for testing. The monkeys tore the kit and tried eating the sample. The matter came into focus after a video of the incident began circulating. Deputy superintendent of the college Dr Dheeraj Baliyan was asked to probe after it came to the notice of principal Dr SK Garg.Dr Baliyan said monkeys are a problem inside campus. “The entire area has been sanitized and the staff has been directed to take extra precautions.” He said the monkeys many a time had attacked doctors and often entered the wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monkeys-attack-lab-assistant-snatch-covid-blood-samples/story-XMeG31oy48UD3vzWgwRsLM.html
30-05-2020||India||Madras HC declares Jayalalithaa’s nephew and niece as her legal heir||Two days after it declared the nephew and niece of late Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa as her legal heir, the Madras High Court on Friday said the duo was entitled to her properties under the Hindu Succession Act.A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and Abdul Quddhose passed an order in which it stated that Deepak and Deepa, nephew and niece of Jayalalithaa were her legal heir as per section 15(2)(a) of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 “... Hence, in the order passed on May 27 it has been inadvertently stated that the petitioner (Deepak) and Deepa have become the legal heirs of Late chief minister Dr J Jayalalithaa under Entry IV Class II of Hindu Succession Act, 1956,” it said.However, in respect of the properties inherited by the former chief minister from her mother, the petitioner and the respondent are legal heirs as per Section 15(2)(a) of the Act.With regard to self acquisitions of Jayalalithaa, the petitioner and the respondent are the legal heirs as per Section 15(1)(d) of the Hindu Succession Act,1956.Accordingly, they are entitled to succeed to the estate of their aunt, the court said.Meanwhile, referring to the arrival of Deepa at Jayalalithaa’s ‘Veda Nilayam’ residence here and addressing the media, Advocate General Vijay Narayan made a mention before the bench that she ‘made a scene.’ The bench then asked the counsel for Deepak and Deepa to instruct their clients to desist from such acts and advised the duo to proceed legally in matters relating to their aunt’s assets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-declares-jayalalithaa-s-nephew-and-niece-as-her-legal-heir/story-MF2bD6FfuK0N8dkNOyUdUJ.html
30-05-2020||India||Rajnath Singh talks to US defence secy over regional progress||Defence minister Rajnath Singh and US secretary of defecse Mark T Esper on Friday spoke on the phone and exchanged views on “regional developments of shared security interest,” a defence ministry spokesperson said. The phone call, requested by Esper, came at a time when India and China are locked in a tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh, and diplomatic and military talks are underway to break the stalemate.The two ministers also briefed each other on their experiences of fighting Covid-19. “They reviewed progress on various bilateral defence cooperation arrangements and expressed their commitment to further promote our defence partnership,” the spokesperson said. Esper accepted Singh’s invitation to visit India “at the earliest mutual convenience.”Esper expressed condolences over the loss of lives in east India due to Cyclone Amphan. People familiar with the development said that the ongoing border row with China were also discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-talks-to-us-defence-secy-over-regional-progress/story-Le2IzkcnHRGVeLzvMOJ1oK.html
30-05-2020||India||Odisha announces Rs 17,000 crore programme to generate employment||Odisha would spend Rs 17,000 crore over the next 10 months, including Rs 6,640 crore under NREGA, to generate employment through sectors like agriculture, fisheries and animal resources development, forest and handlooms and handicrafts in rural areas as part of a special plan.The state council of ministers, which met on Friday, approved the special livelihood intervention plan that will help the spend to tide over the economic crisis triggered by the coronavirus pandemic.Chief secretary Asit Tripathy said the state would generate employment of 20 crore person-days under NREGS, while Rs 140 crore will be spent for skill development of 40,000 migrant workers. For the migrant workers who have returned to Odisha, Rs 1,000 crore would be spent for creation of 1.05 lakh farm ponds under “Mo Pokhari” initiative.The livelihood package includes Rs 200 crore support for 24.56 lakh farmers who will be supplied with 5 lakh quintals of subsidised certified quality seeds, hybrid vegetable seeds covering 50,000 hectare, vegetable seed mini kits covering 50,000 hectare, seedlings for fruit plants for backyard plantation to 2 lakh farmers and high-value vegetables in 40 tribal blocks. At least 4 lakh plastic crates will be supplied to farmers with a 90% subsidy.“Contract farming will be encouraged. It will cover production, post-harvest and marketing and help agricultural entrepreneurs aggregate produce in a better manner. New investment in agriculture will be a win-win situation for farmers,” said the chief secretary.For fisheries, Rs 111.47 crore support will be given to 38,900 farmers for new fish ponds, input assistance to 1,500 women self-help groups for pisciculture in panchayat tanks and livelihood support to 10,600 marine fishermen.The cabinet also granted permission to allow workers to work 115 hours overtime in three months. Women workers can now be engaged in all small and large-scale industries. “The government has finalised detail guidelines for their safety and security during night hours,” said the chief secretary.Last month, the Odisha government had announced the Urban Wage Employment Initiative worth Rs 100 crore for 4.50 lakh families residing in 114 urban local bodies across the state.Under the programme, developmental works such as cleaning of drains, remediation of water bodies, remodelling of playgrounds and parks, construction of public toilets can be undertaken. The beneficiaries would get their payment once a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-announces-rs-17-000-crore-programme-to-generate-employment/story-svf59hqDmserejDJoQLpwN.html
30-05-2020||India||Arrested Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal now booked under UAPA||The Delhi Police on Friday booked arrested Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for her alleged role in inciting the communal riots in Northeast Delhi in February. Narwal was re-arrested by the special cell, a day after a Delhi court sent her and Devangana Kalita, another activist of Pinjra Tod, to Tihar Jail for 14 days in a case related to Delhi’s communal violence that claimed 53 people and left over 400 injured. Narwal is the seventh person to be booked under UAPA in the case in which suspended Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain and two Jamia students – Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar – are in judicial custody. A police officer privy to the investigation, who did not wish to be named, said, “Narwal was arrested since there is enough evidence to establish the charges against her. The decision to book and arrest Kalita would depend on how much evidence we collect against her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrested-pinjra-tod-activist-narwal-now-booked-under-uapa/story-LR5A30HUCsg1zeKkDC8jUO.html
30-05-2020||India||Goa lokayukta accuses govt of paying lip-service to eradication of corruption||The Goa lokayukta has in a stinging letter to the governor questioned the very need for its existence as an institution if its recommendations are regularly rejected by the government “given the usual attitude of protecting the privileged and the powerful.” Lokayukta Justice PK Misra wrote the letter to Governor Satyapal Malik after the state government rejected his recommendations to prosecute former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar and two other senior officials for having hurriedly cleared Goa’s mining renewals, including 31 in a single day. “The posterity may rightly question as to why [the] public exchequer should be depleted by having Institutions like the Lokayukta or Human Rights Commission if their reports are to be routinely rejected without bestowing the attention their reports deserve,” Misra said in his letter. The Goa government had in an earlier communication to the lokayukta declined to prosecute Parsekar and the two officers indicted for having allegedly renewed 88 mining leases “with malafide intention”.The lease renewals were struck down by the Supreme Court and petitioner Goa Foundation had filed a complaint with the lokayukta alleging corruption in the lease renewals. The Goa lokayukta conducted an inquiry and ruled that the complaint had been substantiated and recommended that Parsekar and Prasanna Acharya, the then director of mines, and mines secretary PK Sain be asked to demit office while also directing that an FIR be registered against them.“The hasty renewal of 31 mining leases on January 12th 2015, where the file suddenly surfaced before the (Mines) Director, without the files having been placed before him by any preceding note, and recommendations were made without waiting for a mandatory report from [the] IBM (Indian Bureau of Mines) and without waiting for report relating to [the] violation of rule 37 was definitely an abuse of position by the Director,” Misra wrote in the letter. “The other two actors in this sordid drama clearly connived with the Director and cleared all such 31 files in a single day, the day on which the ordinance was issued. If the above acts were not ‘abuse of position’ then God only knows the meaning of such expression and God alone can save the State,” he said.“No amount of legalese can mask the stark reality that the leaseholders received a windfall on account of abuse of position by respondents 1 to 3 by directing renewal of 31 leases on a single day, the day the ordinance came into force,” the letter reads. In January this year, the lokayukta in his verdict on a complaint filed by the Goa Foundation found that the officials “have abused their official position thereby causing loss to the entire State of Goa and benefitting only a few mining leaseholders.”The Goa Foundation had alleged that the act of the state government to renew the leases was an act of corruption.The Goa government renewed 56 mining leases between January 5, 2015, and January 12, 2015, and 31 of which were renewed in a single day—January 12, 2015, the day the Mines and Minerals Development Ordinance, 2015, came into effect. The ordinance made it mandatory that leases will have to be granted through a process of auction, and the lokayukta observed the hurry was obviously to avoid the process of an auction.“If a single, even remote explanation by any of the three respondents as to why and how 31 files which were gathering Covid virus were suddenly resurrected on 12th January 2015, notes were prepared without any relation to any of the previous notes in the concerned files, and approved without bothering to examine the question of compliance and if there were other violations and if stamp duty had been paid, were finalized on the very same day can be pointed out, this institution shall in exercise of its power to review recall the entire report suo motu and instead recommend for conferring appropriate honour on the three respondents preferably on the upcoming Independence Day for the remarkable efficiency shown by the three respondents on 12.1.2015,” the Lokayukta said.Parsekar denied wrongdoing and claimed he acted on the basis of a resolution of the state cabinet and that he should not be singled out for prosecution since it was the collective responsibility of the cabinet.Acharya has said he will explore legal options.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-lokayukta-accuses-govt-of-paying-lip-service-to-eradication-of-corruption/story-LDsn6X5nWmuZL7DypEtfOJ.html
30-05-2020||India||Bengal records over 300 Covid-19 fatalities, total cases touch 4,813||West Bengal reported seven more Covid-19 fatalities on Friday, pushing the death toll due to the disease in the state beyond the 300-mark, while 277 new cases were registered during the day, according to a health department bulletin.Of the total 302 deaths, 72 were due to comorbidities and the novel coronavirus was “incidental” in these cases, it said.Since Thursday, two deaths each were reported from Kolkata and its neighbouring Howrah district. One fatality each was registered in South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas and Nadia districts, the bulletin said.West Bengal has a total of 4,813 confirmed Covid-19 cases so far, of which 2,736 are active.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee blamed the rise in the number of cases on the influx of migrant labourers from Covid-19 hotspot states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh. Meanwhile, four persons at the Nil Ratan Sircar Medical College and Hospital -- two in the gynaecology ward and two in the medicine ward -- tested positive for the virus, sources said.Around 10 personnel from the Kolkata Police combat force also tested positive for the infection, they added.Since Thursday afternoon, 9,282 samples were tested in the state, and the total rose to 1,85,051, the bulletin said.Kolkata accounted for the maximum number of fresh cases at 71, followed by 54 from North 24 Parganas district. Twenty-nine cases were reported from Howrah and 23 from North Dinajpur districts, it said.Twenty-one people from Birbhum tested positive for Covid-19 infection, East Burdwan accounted for 19 cases, Nadia 18, South 24 Parganas 13, East Medinipore six, West Burdwan five, Alipurduar four and two each from Murshidabad, Jalpaiguri, Hooghly and Bankura districts, the bulletin said.Six new cases of Covid-19 infection were also found among people from other states, it added.The districts of North Dinajpur, North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas have been witnessing a massive influx of migrants labourers.“We were successful in controlling the spread of COVID in last two months, but now it is increasing as a lot of people are coming from outside. Railways are sending migrants in jam-packed compartments. In one seat, three-four persons are travelling. The railways in the name of Shramik Special trains are running ‘corona express’,” the fiesty TMC boss said. Meanwhile, over a hundred people were discharged from a hospital in West Bengal’s Howrah district on Friday after they recovered from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-records-over-300-covid-19-fatalities-total-cases-touch-4-813/story-aGz7lBFqY0U25CkdoCjOKL.html
30-05-2020||India||Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist owned explosive-laden car: Cops||A Hizbul Mujahideen militant active in south Kashmir is the owner of the explosive-laden vehicle that security forces intercepted on Thursday, foiling a planned car bombing similar to the 2019 Pulwama attack, J&K police said on Friday.The vehicle, a white Santro, was laden with at least 40 kilograms of explosives and found in a village near Rajpora in Pulwama district, where a suicide car bombing on February 14, 2019, left 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers dead. The car was not registered in the Kashmir valley, but in the Jammu division of the J&K Union territory, the police said.A police officer privy to the investigations said the Hizbul militant, who is active in south Kashmir over the last two years and is the owner of the car, is at large, but efforts are on to catch him. The car belongs to Hidayatullah Malik of Sharat Pora village in Shopian district; Malik has been an active militant of the Hizbul since July 2019, said the officer, who requested anonymity.Vijay Kumar, the inspector general of police, (IGP), Kashmir zone, said that security forces received both intelligence inputs last week that the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), which had claimed responsibility for the 2019 Pulwama attack, and the Hizbul Mujahideen were planning a major suicide attack using a car bomb.“On Wednesday, [J&K] police, Army and the CRPF established multiple barricades after the leads about the attack emerged. In the evening, a naka party directed a car to stop, but it sped away. At another naka, warning shots were fired on the vehicle. The car’s driver fled towards a forest under the darkness of the night,’’ Kumar had said.The police are seeking expert opinion on the nature of the explosives, which were destroyed through a controlled explosion.The Pulwama car bombing led to the Indian Air Force bombing a JeM terror camp in Pakistan’s Balakot and brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hizbul-mujahideen-terrorist-owned-explosive-laden-car-cops/story-r7S2pz0z0zpzIecR0AKzuM.html
30-05-2020||India||Significant moments of Modi 2.0||Ideological MilestonesThe 2019 mandate was interpreted by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as an endorsement of its long-held ideological beliefs. It also had the political confidence and legislative might to push through changes that it had long sought.The BJP-led government began by leading the passage of what came to be commonly referred to as the Triple Talaq Bill — criminalising instant triple talaq. This, the government claimed, was a step towards gender justice. Critics, however, saw it as a step meant to alienate minorities and potentially victimise Muslim men.On August 5, the government, in a surprise move, pushed through legislative changes on Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). This effectively nullified Article 370, removing the special status the state had enjoyed so far. It also reorganised the state, carving it into two distinct units of J&K and Ladakh. These units were also deemed to be union territories. The government claimed these measures would lead to the greater integration of the region with the rest of India, help citizens in the region enjoy the same rights as citizens elsewhere, and defeat separatism and terrorism. Critics, however, pointed to the fact that the move was not accompanied by consultations with the leaders and people of J&K; it was implemented with draconian measures including large-scale detentions; and could potentially lead to more alienation.The government then pushed through the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill in Parliament. This was aimed at fast-tracking the grant of Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities — Hindus, Christians, Parsis, Jains, Sikhs and Jews — from Bangladesh, Afghanistan and Pakistan. The government argued this was a humanitarian gesture. Opposition parties claimed that the absence of Muslims from the list of communities eligible for citizenship was discriminatory and unconstitutional. They also linked this with a possible National Register of Citizens (NRC) as a step meant to disenfranchise Muslims; the government clarified that NRC was not on the agenda and the move had nothing to do with Indian Muslims.There was one other significant milestone — which aligned with the BJP’s long-held agenda but where the government did not have a role. The Supreme Court, in a landmark verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi case, while holding the destruction of the Babri Masjid in 1992 as illegal, awarded the disputed land in Ayodhya to the Hindu parties. This has enabled the construction of the Ram Temple at the disputed site.Political landscapeEven as the year was marked by ideological triumphs for the BJP, its record on the electoral front was mixed, with more setbacks than successes.In the first set of state elections after the Lok Sabha polls, Maharashtra threw up a hung assembly — BJP was the single largest party, and along with Shiv Sena, it had a majority. But the Sena demanded rotational chief ministership. When the BJP refused to relent, Sena aligned with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The BJP sought to wean away NCP leader Ajit Pawar, but the ploy failed. Uddhav Thackeray (below) took over as CM and BJP lost one of India’s most important states.In Haryana, the BJP retained power — but it lost its majority, and had to ally with Dushyant Chautala. In Jharkhand, in a subsequent election, the BJP lost power to the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha-Congress combine. And in Delhi, earlier this year, despite a high-voltage campaign, in which several BJP leaders were accused of hate speech, the Aam Aadmi Party won a resounding mandate for the second time in a row, bringing Arvind Kejriwal back to power.All of this established a new trend in Indian politics — of voters carefully distinguishing between national polls and state polls, national leaders and state leaders, and national issues and state issues. Anecdotes from the ground and surveys suggested that PM Modi remained the most popular national leader, but this was not enough to offset local disadvantages the BJP had.The party also confronted another political challenge — in the form of a proliferation of protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and a possible National Register of Citizens. The protests were led largely by Muslims, but also included others opposed to the government. While the BJP’s support base rallied behind the government, the public opposition raised questions about social harmony, and led to international criticism.The economic storyEven as the government scored ideologically and, despite setbacks, continued to remain dominant nationally, the big challenge for it remained the economy.As figures made public on Friday show, growth in 2019-2020 slipped to 4.2% — from 6.1% in the preceding year. For the third year in a row, growth decelerated. An official National Statistical Organisation report, released last year, showed that unemployed had increased in 2017-18 to a 45-year high. According to another report, which was leaked and subsequently not published, real consumption levels dipped between 2011-12 and 2017-18. All of this presented a grim picture. Growth was slowing, unemployment was rising, demand was plummeting. In addition, the balance sheet crisis extended to non-banking financial companies.The government decided to address this situation primarily through supply-side mechanisms. The biggest measure announced was in September last year, when corporate taxes were reduced. The government also unveiled a ₹100 lakh crore infrastructure plan for the next five years. But these measures were not enough to instil confidence and questions about whether the Indian economic story would revive continued to be asked.The coronavirus challengeAnd then the pandemic came home.Modern India has rarely faced a challenge as grave as the coronavirus disease pandemic. As the disease travelled to India and cases increased, PM Modi first announced a one-day people’s curfew and then a three-week national lockdown. The government was given credit for not underplaying the threat and taking decisive action — but it also came in for criticism for not planning the lockdown well.Over the past 70 days, the government has had to confront serious health infrastructure deficits — even as cases have continued to rise. An economy which was already slowing is now staring at an outright recession. Joblessness has grown, demand has dipped further, manufacturing has shrunk, sectors such as aviation and hospitality have borne huge losses, services have been disrupted, supply chains have broken down.Alongside, the government has also had to confront a serious humanitarian crisis, with migrant workers, in millions, returning home to their villages in desperation.PM Modi’s first year was laced with successes and challenges. But the rest of his term, and perhaps, even his legacy, will now he defined by how his government helps India deal with the pandemic — which is set to redefine politics, the economy, and everyday life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/significant-moments-of-modi-2-0/story-T34LTP0FmEmYRxxSRjQ7WJ.html
30-05-2020||India||Work-from-home policy should also address emotional distress: Govt staff||Managing emotional distress, digital literacy and cyber hygiene are the key concerns flagged by government employees as the Centre drafts a work-from-home policy in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic.These concerns, and how employees can be assured of an objective, performance-oriented assessment of the work they do from home, were articulated at a webinar organised by the department of science and technology, Rajasthan, in association with the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) on Thursday.The event could be the first in a series of webinars to be held with various states on the work-from-home policy, said an official at DARPG, which is spearheading efforts towards putting the policy in place. “Work from home is here to stay,” DARPG additional secretary V Srinivas said at the webinar. “Offices will not work with 100% capacity in the near future. Cooperative federalism has become pivotal and we need to ensure seamless exchange of information between the Centre and the state governments...”Charru Malhotra, associate professor at the Indian Institute of Public Administration, said ensuring equipment and infrastructure to work from home is efficient will be key. Moreover, not only physical well being, while working from home, emotional distress also has to be taken into account,” Malhotra said. “Some aren’t doing as well as they used to when offices were functional. There are a host of emotional and mental pressures that may affect the capability of people who are not used to working in closed spaces.”Secretary of the department of science and technology, Rajasthan, Mugdha Sinha, agreed that mental health of the employees is an important factor. Dr Ritu Sharma of Delhi University said a “performance-oriented assessment should be standardised and objective”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/work-from-home-policy-should-also-address-emotional-distress-govt-staff/story-z5FX626qR7lcIv8JusNr9N.html
30-05-2020||India||Army seeks to purchase land from J-K’s Baramulla district administration||After the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir special status with the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution last August, the Army has set out to buy land for its camps in the Valley. In the first such instance, the Army has approached Baramulla administration, evincing interest in buying 129 kanal (6.5 hectare) of land at Kreeri high ground at Tapperwari in Pattan area of the north Kashmir district, where the troops are already “temporarily stationed”, defence sources said.They said the Quartermaster for Commanding officer of the 19 Infantry Division Ordnance Unit has written to the district administration, requesting it to inform if the administration wishes to sell the land to the Indian army. The Army has sought the district administration reply by May 30, the sources added. It is perhaps for the first time that the Army has directly written to the department concerned for purchasing land in the Valley. Prior to the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year, the defence estates officer would write to Jammu and Kashmir government for getting lease of the land required by the Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-seeks-to-purchase-land-from-j-k-s-baramulla-district-administration/story-vnBloOA1k5Fi4mhlSxXdEO.html
30-05-2020||India||‘A year of historic firsts for Indians’: PM Modi in letter to citizens||My fellow Indian,This day last year began a golden chapter in the history of Indian democracy. It was after several decades that the people of the country voted back a full term government with a full majority. Once again, I bow to the 130 crore people of India and the democratic ethos of our nation.During normal times, I would have been in your midst. However, the present circumstances do not permit that. That is why I seek your blessings through this letter.Your affection, goodwill and active cooperation have given new energy, and inspiration. The way you have showcased the collective strength of democracy is a guiding light for the whole world.A look at significant moments of Modi 2.0Back in 2014, the people of the country voted for a substantive transformation. In the last five years, the nation saw how the administrative apparatus broke itself free of status quo and from the swamp of corruption as well as misgovernance. True to the spirit of ‘Antyodaya’ the lives of millions have been transformed.From 2014 to 2019, India’s stature rose significantly. The dignity of the poor was enhanced. The nation achieved financial inclusion, free gas and electricity connections, total sanitation coverage, and made progress towards ensuring ‘Housing For All.’India demonstrated its mettle through the surgical strike and air strike. At the same time, decades old demands such as OROP, One Nation One Tax- GST, better MSP for farmers were fulfilled. In 2019, the people of India voted not merely for continuity but also with a dream— of taking India to new heights. A dream of making India a global leader. The decisions taken in the last one year are directed at fulfilling this dream.Today, 130 crore people feel involved and integrated in the development trajectory of the nation. The light of ‘Jan Shakti’ and ‘Rashtra Shakti’ has ignited the entire nation. Powered by the Mantra of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’ India is marching forward in all spheres. My fellow Indian,In the last one year, some of the decisions were widely discussed and remain etched in public discourse.The decision on Article 370 furthered the spirit of national unity and integration. The Ram Mandir judgment, delivered unanimously by the Honourable Supreme Court of India, brought an amicable end to a debate persisting for centuries. The barbaric practice of triple talaq has been confined to the dustbin of history. Amendment to the Citizenship Act was an expression of India’s compassion and spirit of inclusiveness.But there have been many other decisions that have added momentum to the nation’s development trajectory. The creation of the post of the Chief of Defence Staff was a long pending reform that has improved coordination among the armed forces. At the same time, India has stepped up preparations for Mission Gaganyaan.Empowering the poor, farmers, women and youth has remained our priority.PM Kisan Samman Nidhi now includes all farmers. In just one year, more than ₹72,000 crore has been deposited in the accounts of over nine crore fifty lakh farmers.The Jal Jeevan Mission will ensure supply of potable drinking water through piped connections to over 15 crore rural households. A huge campaign of free vaccination is being conducted for better health of our 50 crore livestock. For the first time in our country’s history, farmers, farm labourers, small shopkeepers and workers in the unorganised sector are assured the provision of regular monthly pension of ₹3,000 after the age of 60 years.Besides the facility of availing of bank loans, a separate department has also been created for fishermen. Several other decisions have been taken to strengthen the fisheries sector. This will boost the blue economy. Similarly, it has been decided to constitute a Vyapari Kalyan Board for timely resolution of the problems of the traders. Higher quantum of financial assistance is being provided to more than seven crore women attached to self help groups. Recently the loans without guarantee for self help groups has been doubled to ₹20 lakh from the earlier ₹10 lakh.Keeping in mind the education of tribal children, we have begun the construction of more than 400 new Ekalavya Model Residential Schools. Several people friendly laws have been ushered in during the last year. Our Parliament has broken the decades-old record in terms of productivity. As a result, whether it be the Consumer Protection Act, the amendment to the Chit Fund Law or laws to provide more protection to women, children and Divyang, their passage in Parliament was expedited.As a result of the policies and decisions of the government, the rural-urban gap is shrinking. For the first time, the number of rural Indians using the internet is 10% more than the number of urban Indians. The list of such historic actions and decisions taken in national interest would be too long to detail in this letter. But I must say that every day of this year, my government has worked round the clock with full vigour, taking and implementing these decisions.My fellow Indian, As we were moving ahead at a fast pace in the fulfilment of hopes and aspirations of our countrymen, the coronavirus global pandemic engulfed our country as well.While on one hand are powers with great economic resources and state-of-the-art health care systems, on the other hand is our country besieged with problems amid a vast population and limited resources.Many feared that India will become a problem for the world when the coronavirus hits India. But today, through sheer confidence and resilience, you have transformed the way the world looks at us. You have proven that the collective strength and potential of Indians are unparalleled compared even to the powerful and prosperous countries of the world. Be it clapping and lighting a lamp to honour Corona Warriors by India’s armed forces, Janta Curfew or by faithful adherence to rules during the nationwide lockdown, on every occasion you have shown that Ek Bharat is the guarantee for Shrestha Bharat.In a crisis of this magnitude, it can certainly not be claimed that no one suffered any inconvenience or discomfort. Our labourers, migrant workers, artisans ad craftsmen in small scale industries, hawkers and such fellow countrymen have undergone tremendous suffering. We are working in a united and determined way to alleviate their troubles.However, we have to take care to ensure that inconveniences that we are facing do not turn into disasters. Hence, it is very important for every Indian to follow all rules and guidelines. We have displayed patience so far and we should continue to do so. This is one of the important reasons for India being safer and in a better state than many other countries. This is a long battle but we have started traversing on the path of victory, and victory is our collective resolve.In the last few days, a super cyclone has wreaked havoc in parts of West Bengal and Odisha. Here too, the resilience of the people of these states is noteworthy. Their courage inspires the people of India. Dear friends,In such a time, there is also a widespread debate on how the economies of various countries, including India’s, will recover. However, given the way India has surprised the world with its unity and resolve in the fight against the coronavirus, there is a firm belief that we will also set an example in economic revival. In the economic domain, through their strength, 130 crore Indians cannot only surprise the world but also inspire it.It is the need of the hour that we must become self-reliant. We have to move forward based on our own abilities, in our own way, and there is only one way to do it – Aatmanirbhar Bharat or Self-reliant India.The recent ₹20 lakh crore package given for Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan is a major step in this direction.This initiative will usher in a new era of opportunities for every Indian, be it our farmers, workers, small entrepreneurs or youth associated with start ups.The fragrance of Indian soil along with the sweat, hard work and talent of our workers will create products that will reduce India’s dependence on imports and will move towards self-reliance.Dear friends,In this journey of the last six years, you have continuously showered me with love and blessings. It is the strength of your blessings that has made the nation take historic decisions and progress rapidly in the last one year. However, I am also aware that there is a lot that needs to be done. There are many challenges and problems that our country faces. I am working day and night. There could be deficiencies in me but there is nothing that our country lacks. So, I believe in you, your strength and your abilities even more than I believe in myself.The source of strength for my resolve is you, your support, blessings and affection.Due to the global pandemic, this is certainly a time of crisis but for us Indians this is also a time for a firm resolve.We must always remember that the present and future of 130 crore will never be dictated by an adversity.We will decide our present and our future.We will move ahead on the path of progress and victory will be ours.It is said that:This means, if we have action and duty on one hand, then success is assured on the other hand. With prayers for our country’s success, I bow to you once again. My heartiest wishes to you and your family. Stay healthy, stay safe!!!Stay aware, stay informed!!!Your Pradhan SevakNarendra Modi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-of-historic-firsts-for-indians-pm-modi-in-letter-to-citizens/story-hkVsXYqYDkBks3EkcHR9rJ.html
30-05-2020||India||Pakistan Army claims to shoot down ‘Indian quadcopter’ along LoC||The Pakistan Army on Friday claimed to have shot down an “Indian quadcopter” allegedly intruding across the Line of Control (LoC).Military spokesperson Major General Babar Iftikhar said that the copter intruded 700 meters from Kanzalwan sector.“Pakistan Army troops shot down an Indian spying quadcopter which came from Kanzalwan Sector, intruded 700 Meters on Pakistan side of the LOC in Nekrun Sector,” according to a tweet by the spokesman.India has dismissed previous such claims by the Pakistan Army.It was the second quadcopter which the Pakistani Army has claimed to have shot down in three days. On Wednesday, it said that it has downed an Indian “spying quadcopter” for allegedly violating the airspace along the LoC.In April, the Pakistan Army claimed to have shot down an Indian drone.The ties between the two nations strained following the Balakot strike when the Indian Air Force jets bombed a Jaish-e-Mohammed training camp in Pakistan on February 26 last year to avenge the killing of 40 Central Reserve Police Force personnel in the Pulwama terror attack on February 14.Pakistan retaliated on February 27 by attempting to target Indian military installations.The ties further nose-dived after New Delhi abrogated Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir in August last year. Pakistan downgraded diplomatic relations with India and expelled the Indian High Commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-army-claims-to-shoot-down-indian-quadcopter-along-loc/story-RiUQmwFmutAN1M6H4ZN6VL.html
30-05-2020||India||Covid-19: US pharma giant seeks marketing authorisation from India for remdesivir||US pharma giant Gilead Sciences has applied to India’s drug regulator seeking marketing authorisation for its anti-viral drug remdesivir, which is being touted as a potential treatment for Covid-19.Gilead Sciences, who is the patent holder of the drug, has the complete data about the pre-clinical and clinical studies for remdesivir, sources said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The company has applied seeking marketing authorisation for its anti-viral drug remdesivir to India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). The CDSCO will examine the application with the help of the expert committee. It will take a final decision based on the recommendations of the expert committee,” a source said.  The medicine has been issued an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat hospitalised coronavirus-infected patients.    Regulatory approval under exceptional pathway was granted by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare on May 7, on the basis of clinical data from the US, sources said.On the basis of approvals granted by USFDA or any other reputed regulator, the Indian regulator can approve the drug by waiving off clinical trials in special circumstances in accordance with the provisions of the New Drug and Clinical Trial Rules 2019, a source in the know of the developments said.This comes in the backdrop of two Indian pharmaceutical companies -- Cipla and Hetero Labs -- applying to the drug regulator seeking permission to manufacture and sell remdesivir in India.  They have also sought a clinical trial waiver for remdesivir so that the medicine can be made available for the patients faster, an official said.Their applications are still under consideration, the official said.Gilead Sciences Inc have entered into non-exclusive licensing agreements with pharma firms including three domestic majors Cipla, Jubilant Life Sciences and Hetero for manufacture and distribution of remdesivir.   The Indian Council of Medical Research had earlier said anti-viral medication remdesivir which was used during Ebola outbreak may inhibit the SARS-CoV-2 replication and research on its efficacy in the treatment of Covid-19 is a part of the WHO’s ‘solidarity trial.’  According to a recently published study in the New England Journal of Medicine, two out of three critically ill coronavirus patients who were on oxygen support showed signs of improvement when they were administered remdesivir.All new drugs have to undergo trials before getting approval for marketing them in India.  But the New Drug and Clinical Trial Rules, 2019, provide for certain clauses, according to which the provision of waiver of local phase-III clinical trials of the drug is approved and marketed in certain countries (as notified from time to time) subject to certain conditions, like national emergency or epidemics, in public interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-us-pharma-giant-seeks-marketing-authorisation-from-india-for-remdesivir/story-d0UZMiw68SBLV8P18md93M.html
30-05-2020||India||Rajya Sabha official, kin test positive for Covid-19||A senior Rajya Sabha official and his family members tested positive for Covid-19 , making him the second Parliament employee to be detected with the infection this month, officials familiar with the development sad. The director-rank official, his wife and children tested positive on Thursday, the officials said, without specifying the number of children. He worked in the first floor of the Parliament House Annexe, where a week ago another senior official with the editorial and translation (E&T) services tested positive.The director had attended office until Thursday before going into quarantine with the other members of his family, the officials cited above said.The first floor of the annexe has several meeting rooms for parliamentary panels. His room had been sanitized and sealed by Thursday evening. The security service of Parliament also decided to take no chances and sanitized the entire floor, elevators, washrooms, corridors, the passage from the VIP Gate and staff gate to his room.According to the officials cited above, while many parliamentary committee meetings take place in the annexe, an upcoming meeting of the standing committee on home affairs is likely to be held in the main Parliament building, which has not reported any Covid-19 case so far. The annexe is located about 100 metres away from the main building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-official-kin-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-PjBK63XMfRUuzrRIBJAkhM.html
30-05-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||What proportion of India’s population is infected with Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease?What proportion of tests return a positive result in Delhi?Why are so many passengers landing in Coimbatore testing positive?These are important questions — and linked ones.In Delhi, and in Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, the proportion of tests returning a positive result remains high. In the seven days to May 21, the average daily positivity (as it is called) rate was 9.4% in Delhi. It was 17.9% in Maharashtra, and it was 5.7% in Tamil Nadu.Also read: Centre may announce second stimulus to increase demand amid Lockdown 4.0And in the seven days till Thursday, May 28, the corresponding numbers were 12.2%, 18%, and 6.1% respectively.All three states tested more people on average in the seven days ended May 28 compared to the previous seven-day period. Delhi did 5,370 tests a day as compared to 4,950; Maharashtra, 14,244 against 11,366; and Tamil Nadu 14,189 as against 10,838.These positivity rates would be alarming if not for the fact that they pretty much reflect the trend across most countries, including the US, which has seen the most number of cases and deaths. Positivity rates keep increasing with the number of tests, plateau at a certain level as the tests increase further, and finally start falling as the number of tests increases even more. Given the trend of the disease in other countries, in India, the states of Delhi, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu will likely be the first to see the positivity rates declining — but they aren’t there yet. The two-week trend line for Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu would appear to be flattening, but this needs to happen for a longer period before it can be safely assumed that the positivity rates have peaked.The high positivity rates can also be explained by India’s testing protocol, which still skews the sample towards those likely to be infected; it is difficult to get a test done unless one has severe symptoms, has been exposed to an infected person, or takes a flight to certain states (or certain cities within those states). More on the last anon.Also read: Govt may plan scheme for welfare, jobs of migrantsIs there a relationship between the positivity rate and the proportion of a country’s population that has been exposed to the virus (and which is, as a result, immune)?There should be, but this only applies when a population has been tested widely, not at the current levels of testing in India.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Now to the issue of passengers landing in Coimbatore — flights started earlier this week — testing positive, as reported by both local officials and airlines. That’s probably because everyone landing in Coimbatore is tested — just like everyone landing in Jammu is. Not all states require arriving domestic air passengers to be tested; nor do all cities within a state. Some make do with screening and quarantining. In the case of the passengers who tested positive in Coimbatore, most are reported to be asymptomatic. The interesting thing about them is, because their Aarogya Setu apps showed them to be “safe”, and because they didn’t have symptoms, they would have never been tested if they had not taken the flight to a city that mandated tests for all arrivals. This is another piece of evidence that points to the number of people infected by the coronavirus in India actually being far higher than the tested numbers. This is actually a good thing because it means the case fatality rate in India, already at 2.8%, much lower than the global average of 6.1%, is actually even lower and because it means we are slowly inching our way up towards achieving herd immunity. To be sure, we are a long way from that, but till a vaccine is discovered, that remains our best bet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-TD2pK2awzRH3OwpIoxTpZO.html
30-05-2020||India||Railway Protection Force reports 80 deaths on Shramik trains||There have been almost 80 deaths on board the Shramik Special trains (for stranded migrant workers) between May 9 and May 27, according to data from the Railway Protection Force reviewed by Hindustan Times.The trains were launched on May 1, and till May 27, 3,840 have been run, transporting around five million migrant workers back home. On Wednesday, there were reports of nine deaths on these trains over the previous few days, but the rail ministry clarified immediately that most of those who died were “chronic disease patients” many of whom were actually in the cities for “medical treatment” and could come back only after these special trains were launched. It was responding to some reports that claimed the passengers died of exhaustion, heat, and hunger. This is the first time, though, that details of more deaths are emerging. An RPF official confirmed the numbers and said that an initial list has been complied, however, a final list will soon be issued after coordinating with the states.A spokesperson for the ministry of railways, upon being specifically asked about the 80 deaths, said the “chairman railway board had responded to the query in the press conference.” At a press conference on Friday, railway board chairman VK Yadav said: “Anyone’s death is a big loss... Indian Railways has a control system were the train is immediately stopped if someone is found ill and they are sent to the nearest hospital base to try and save their lives. Many such passengers were attended to and many deliveries also took place. I can imagine the plight of labourers travelling even in these conditions. In case of deaths, the local zones investigate the reason and without an investigation, there are allegations that they died of hunger when there was no shortage of food. Some deaths occurred and we are compiling the figures... we will issue the figures in a few days.” He did not mention any number. To be sure, the RPF data will need to be vetted and validated by the ministry. According to the data reviewed by HT, the deaths were recorded from May 9 till May 27 across several zones including the East Central Railway zone, North Eastern Railway zone, Norther Railway Zone and North Central Railway zone; and the ages of the dead ranged from 4 to 85. The list also mentions the co-morbidities or accidents that caused the deaths in a few cases. Data between May 1 and May 8 was not available. There have been 18 deaths in the North Eastern Railway zone, 19 in North Central zone and 13 in East Coast Railway zone. Nearly 80% of total Shramik trains are destined for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, and ply on these zones.The Railway ministry, in response to reports of the nine deaths ,said in a statement on Friday morning: “Indian Railways has been running Shramik special Trains on a daily basis throughout the country to ensure that migrants can travel back to their homes. It has been observed that some people who are availing this service have pre-existing medical conditions which aggravates the risk they face during the Covid-19 pandemic. A few unfortunate cases of deaths related to pre-existing medical conditions while travelling have happened.” “Heat, exhaustion and thirst are among the primary issues faced by the passengers on board these trains. We have seen several of such cases over the past month,” a zonal railway officer said, requesting anonymity, referring to the 80 deaths reported across the country. According to RPF data, there have been 10 deaths in Northern Railway zone. “I am not aware of the total numbers but in all the cases that we know of there were health conditions like one person had heart valve replaced, one had hypertension. But to say that the primary reason of deaths is hunger is not correct,” said Northern Railways’ spokesperson. On Friday, railway minister Piyush Goyal also issued a statement appealing to people suffering from ailments to avoid travel by Shramik Trains.“I appeal to people suffering from serious ailments, pregnant women & those above 65 years and below 10 years of age to travel only when necessary in Shramik Trains. Railway Parivaar is committed to ensuring safety of all passengers,” he said.In several cases reported by the railways the reasons for the deaths are pre-existing illness. In the case of 23-year-old Parbina Khatun, from Katihar District in Bihar the report says, “travelling from Ahmadabad to Madhubani with her sister, died due to her illness. Body was detrained for further action.” She died on May 25. In West Central Zone, on May 16, Javed Ahmed aged 55 years, was found dead aboard a train. The ministry’s report said: ” He fell unconscious between Itarsi-Piparia of Jabalpur division/WCR GRP Jabalpur took custody of the deceased body for further course of action. District administration has been informed and they are checking his family.”On Thursday, in an interim order, the Supreme Court said states where the workers are boarding trains and Indian Railways should provide food and water to the migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-protection-force-reports-80-deaths-on-shramik-trains/story-psJl3EenY4B0uUYMRvkChL.html
30-05-2020||India||Amid lockdown, this Kolkata hospital is conducting dialysis at Rs 50 only||At a time when most patients are facing increased medical expenses for hospital treatment due to increased cost of operation in the hospitals and increased transport cost, a small hospital in Kolkata is conducting dialysis for patients with kidney ailments at Rs 50 only.The hospital in central Kolkata, named Kolkata Swasthya Sankalp, has been a low-cost dialysis centre essentially for the poor and used to charge Rs 350 per dialysis. This is nearly one third of the cost of dialysis at government-hospitals.“We had designed the hospital in a low-cost manner. There is no air-conditioning, no lift, no reception and no waiting area for patients’ families. Of the three doctors, only one resident doctor gets a stipend. Others, including myself, offer services for free. So, we managed to keep our usual rate at Rs 350 per dialysis,” Fuad Halim, who runs the hospital said.The five-bedded hospital attached to Halim’s residence on Dr. Md Ishaque Road has nine dialysis machines. During the two months of the lockdown, the hospital also witnessed a change in the background of its patients.According to Halim, only the poor used to visit the hospital before lockdown but since the lockdown even people belonging to the lower middle class have been visiting it. To handle this added pressure a new dialysis machine was installed.“After lockdown, we realized that patients had to cough up more money for transport. So, we decided to subsidise the cost from our corpus. At least 1,571 dialysis were conducted between March 26 and May 28 at Rs 50 per dialysis,” Halim said.Halim is also a member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. His father, Hasim Abdul Halim, was Bengal’s longest-serving Assembly speaker.According to a patient who did not want to reveal his identity, “I worked as a salesman at a prominent market. Previously, I used to visit a better hospital, which has recently increased its rates saying Covid-19 precautions have increased their medical costs. I could not afford it anymore, especially with no income for two months.”Mirza Hassan, a resident of Park Circus whose uncle underwent dialysis here, said, “This hospital comes as a great hope despite the inconveniences. We were not in a position to take my uncle to any other nursing home because of the increased cost of transport and increased rates at the nursing home.” While the patients undergo dialysis, their family members wait nearby.Each dialysis takes about four hours.Doctors in the city said private nursing homes usually charge between Rs 1,200 and Rs 1,500 per dialysis but increased them to over Rs 2,000 since lockdown.“We had to increase the rate due to the increased costs on account of sanitization, PPE and masks,” said the owner of a private nursing home in south Kolkata who did not want to speak on record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-this-kolkata-hospital-is-conducting-dialysis-at-rs-50-only/story-He1Rom5xeRLKC0s0vWlcCN.html
30-05-2020||India||Karnataka asks travellers from high-risk states to pay Rs 650 for mandatory Covid-19 test||The Karnataka government on Friday issued an order whereby passengers coming in by air or trains from high-risk states will have to pay Rs 650 per person to get themselves mandatorily tested for Covid-19. The government said that it had decided on this move as there was a limitation on the institutional quarantine capacity available in the state.Earlier, all the passengers from high-risk states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Delhi were quarantined at hotels and lodges and a Covid-19 test was carried out on either the 5th or 7th day. Till now the passengers were paying only for the institutional quarantine - according to desired hotels and slabs - while the test was free.Health department officials though clarified that while there was no change in quarantine policies with people coming from high-risk states having to undergo one week of institutional quarantine and if their test was asymptomatic then they would be sent for one more week of home quarantine. For this, the state has tied up with private labs so that their capacity could be utilised to the maximum. Samples will be tested by the pooling method - five samples in one pool as per ICMR guidelines.There was no clarity on what would be done in case the incoming person by train or air could not afford the fee of Rs 650 for testing. The order also said that airport authorities and railways will provide necessary space for establishing swab collections kiosks and centres free of cost. Whenever a passenger is detected positive, after the test, the jurisdictional district health and family welfare officer shall be informed for necessary movement of the patient to a hospital, contact tracing and tracking. Outside of Bangalore the deputy commissioners of the remaining 29 districts shall link ICMR approved private labs with passengers and follow similar protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-asks-travellers-from-high-risk-states-to-pay-rs-650-for-mandatory-covid-19-test/story-hvl2b0KoUOgtzOXfe9oSPM.html
30-05-2020||India||Delhi adds another 1,000 Covid-19 cases, toll rises by 82||Delhi reported more than 1,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday for the second consecutive day, prompting the city-state’s government to announce a raft of measures to elevate the state’s preparedness to deal with a potential surge of infections. On Friday, 1,106 new cases of Covid-19 were added to the city’s tally, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said at a press briefing. According to the official health bulletin, the total number of cases in the city are 17,386. However, with the addition of 1,106 cases to Delhi’s tally of 16,281 from Thursday, Friday’s cases should have stood at 17,387. There was no immediate clarification from the government on the discrepancy. The city’s death toll from the viral disease rose to 398 with the addition of 82 fatalities, although only 13 of the deaths were from the preceding 24-hour period. On Thursday, Delhi crossed the key threshold of 1,000 cases on a single day for the first time; it is the third of three scenarios projected by a five-member panel of doctors advising the Delhi chief minister which had foreseen the daily tally rising progressively from 100 to 500 to 1,000 cases. The sudden spike in the numbers has been attributed to increased testing by officials of Delhi’s health department. According to the Friday health bulletin, 7,649 samples had been tested over the past 24 hours, compared to 7,615 the day before, which is much higher than the average 4,900 samples tested each day over the past week. Delhi now tests 10,075 people per million, as compared to the Indian average of 2,614 a million. “If you see the data, the numbers have gone up because more people have been tested during these two days – these samples were collected both from the community and from those who had come in contact with the positive cases,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department who requested anonymity.As the daily tally rose past 1,000 for the second day in a row, the Delhi government on Friday ordered the setting up of 1,900 new beds, including paid hospital facilities in hotels. The government for the first time notified five hotels to be fully used as “extended Covid hospitals” on a payment basis for patients with mild symptoms. While 1,000 beds are being readied in these five hotels, another 400 beds were added through a second order on Friday in which two Delhi government hospitals with 200 beds each were converted into dedicated Covid hospitals. In a third order, the government earmarked 500 beds in GTB Hospital for Covid-19 patients.In a digital press conference on Friday, Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said the government was “fully geared up” to handle more than 1,000 cases a day. “We have more than 5,000 beds for coronavirus treatment in Delhi. Out of this, 1,400 beds are in private hospitals, and 3,700 in government hospitals. The number of patients currently on the ventilator is 28. And we have more than 300 dedicated ventilators available currently in Delhi. Our aim is to double the number of beds in the coming days in comparison to the number of patients right now,” said the minister. Along with the number of cases, the positivity rate, or the percentage of people who test positive among the total number of people tested, also increased. The positivity rate -- the rate at which tests return positive for the infection -- in the city was 14.5% on Friday, higher than 11.2% a week before on May 22.“A high positivity rate indicates that there are more cases in the community being diagnosed. Right now, we are mainly testing symptomatic individuals and it would be ideal to test more to diagnose them early and isolate them,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.The testing capacity of laboratories in the city is limited and government labs that are handling the maximum samples have already reached their limit, warned Dr Broor, who is still in touch with former colleagues and members of the medical fraternity at other hospitals.Delhi also registered a sharp spike in the number of deaths, with 82 deaths being added to the cumulative toll on Friday. The Delhi health minister said 69 of these deaths had occurred over a period of 34 days and had been recorded after verification by the death audit committee. This pushed the case fatality ratio of the viral infection in the city to 2.3%, which is still lower than the national average of 2.8%. On May 11, before the death audit committee started recording backlog deaths, Delhi’s mortality rate was 1%.Confirmed Covid-19 cases crossed 500 on a single day on May 19,two weeks after the first wave of lockdown relaxations were announced by the Delhi government on May 4 . The relaxation included opening of liquor stores and movement of people in personal vehicles, among others. The incubation period, or the time an infected person takes to develop symptoms, is five to six days.“If more people are tested, more people will turn out to be positive. The numbers are likely to go up further now that travel has resumed and markets have opened up. If you look at global data, India is on an increasing trend right now. The only way to contain the infection in pockets is to seal every lane where cases are being reported,” said Dr GC Khilnani, chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and critical care.With the city reporting over 1,000 cases a day, hospitals have started filling up. The currently designated Covid-19 hospitals are running at about 74% capacity. There are three levels of care for Covid-19 patients in Delhi: Those with mild symptoms can either remain in home isolation or get admitted to the Covid Care Centres, those with moderate symptoms like a slightly elevated respiratory rate are admitted to Covid Health Centres with better monitoring, and those with severe symptoms such as respiratory distress and very low oxygen saturation are admitted to hospitals. There are a total of 9,142 active cases in Delhi, out of which almost 24% are admitted to hospitals, 50% are in home isolation and the remaining in Covid Care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-adds-another-1k-cases-toll-rises-by-82/story-LqaDHLk9IlnpjD4tZHsVRJ.html
30-05-2020||India||Twitter censors ‘provocative’ Trump post, President hits back with order||US President Donald Trump’s executive order targeting social media companies may be motivated by personal and not national concerns — in this case, a spat with Twitter — but does reflect a growing concern around the world over the role these companies play in disseminating information and shaping opinions, both akin to the role traditionally played by media firms, even while being legally protected from being sued for content. This is especially ironic because the main source of revenue for such platforms is the same as that for media companies — advertising, which, in their case, is sharply targeted given the extent of information they have about their users. Section 230 of a 1996 US federal law protects these platforms from being treated as “publishers” even while it gives them the powers to moderate or regulate content without any liability.Trump’s ire, as mentioned in the executive order passed on Thursday, is that the “online platforms are engaging in selective censorship that is harming our natural discourse”; “flagging content as inappropriate even though it does not violate any stated terms of service” ; and “deleting content and entire accounts with no warning”. The order targeted Twitter, which it said “selectively decides to place a warning label on certain tweets in a manner that clearly reflects political bias” and which “never seems to have placed such a label on another politician’s tweet”. The reference was to Twitter fact-checking two of Trump’s tweets about mail-in-ballots. But far from backing away, Twitter responded by flagging a post from the US President several hours later for violating its policy on glorifying violence. Trump’s action struck a chord in India where social media platforms have been accused of bias and trying to behave like media companies without any of the accountability that entails. Information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad warned that “the right to freedom of opinion must be respected by platform owners otherwise they themselves will be questioned by the people of stifling a contrary view”.“What is happening in America is their concern; I have no comment to offer on that,” said Prasad. “As an IT minister, I can only say that India is a free, democratic country and we appreciate the role of social media in empowering people. However, these social media platform operators must follow certain well defined norms, not promote hatred, terrorism, secessionism and communal violence,” he added in an interview. In the past, these platforms have been accused of bias. “Criticism is welcome but if only one type of criticism is allowed and the counter to it is shelved, then it is not fair. The social media platforms need to acknowledge that free, frank and responsible exchange regardless of political colour or ideology, is of essence in a democratic world and if there are grievances on that score that a platform is favourably disposed towards one and hostile against the other, then it is neither fair nor appreciated,” Prasad explained. When asked if he was dissatisfied with Twitter’s response to his concerns, he said: “In some cases they have been responsive, in others they need to be more proactive.”Internet freedom activist and founder of medianama, Nikhil Pahwa, said that governments, including India, will use what they can to control social media platforms. In a LinkedIn post, he wrote that since India was pushing for traceability of a message and proactive takedown of content, “this might lead to the minister saying his ministry is justified in proposing/demanding these amendments”.Lawyer Prasanna S, who deals with privacy issues, said that the order sparked a debate about an “underlying principle of whether the platform companies should have as much censorial power — particularly when they have become an almost primary tool for exercise of political speech and political organising”.Twitter India refused to comment on the matter, other than pointing to the company’s response to the executive order which said: “This is a reactionary and politicized approach to such a landmark law. #Section230 protects American innovation and freedom of expression, and it’s underpinned by democratic values. Attempts to unilaterally erode it threaten the future of online speech and Internet freedoms.”But it may not be as black and white as that. Facebook chief executive officer Mark Zuckerberg said in response to Twitter’s actions that social media platforms cannot be an “arbiter of truth”. His comments came ahead of the executive order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-censors-provocative-trump-post-president-hits-back-with-order/story-Vc2hVM5EP0VjfzobssSelI.html
30-05-2020||India||FY20 growth stands at 11-yr low of 4.2%||The Indian economy grew by 3.1% in the three months ended March and 4.2% in 2019-20 on the back of falling investment and consumption, with the lockdown imposed to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) having only a marginal impact because it affected only the last week of March. The lockdown, however, is expected to sharply affect growth in 2020-21, with many analysts estimating that the economy will actually shrink, perhaps by as much as 5% this financial year.The quarterly and annual numbers are against projections of 4.7% and 5% respectively, although it has been clear for some time that these will not materialise. Provisional accounts for 2019-20 released Friday showed that the fiscal deficit for the year was 4.59%.To be sure, the March quarter performance is better than expected. A Reuters poll of economists forecast a growth rate of 2.1% for the March quarter.The 3.1% growth in the March quarter is the lowest since March 2009, when, under the impact of the global financial crisis, the economy expanded by only 0.2%. The 4.2% growth in 2019-20 is an 11-year low.According to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), India’s gross domestic product (GDP) will shrink in 2020-21. This means that India’s GDP would have been in a deceleration phase for four consecutive years since 2017-18. This is unprecedented in post-Independence India. Friday’s data also shows that Gross Fixed Capital Formation (GCFC), a measure of investment, will contract by 2.8% in 2019-20. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s (CMIE) database shows that this is the worst investment performance since 1991-92. Core inflation, ie non-food non-fuel inflation, grew at 3.8% in 2019-20, the lowest since 2012-13, the earliest period for which data is available under the 2012 Consumer Price Index series. RBI reduced its policy rates in every quarter in 2019-20. A contraction in investment in a low interest low inflation environment suggests that it is lack of demand rather than availability of cost of capital which has led to this. Put the two together and it means that both investment and consumption, two pillars of the economy, are in trouble. The government announced a host a measures to boost the economy last year. The biggest among these was a reduction in corporate tax rates which was expected to reduce tax burden on companies by ~1.45 lakh crore in the month of September. The economy’s performance in the December and March quarters shows that they have not helped. Private Final Consumption Expenditure (PFCE) statistics support the weak demand argument. From a peak of 8.1% in 2017-18, it grew at just 5.3% in 2019-20. Government spending is the only head which has grown at a faster pace than 2018-19. However, Government Final Consumption Expenditure accounts for just 10% of the GDP. PFCE and GFCF have a share of 56% and 29%, respectively.Gross Value Added (GVA) figures for the March quarter also suggest that employment-intensive sectors in the non-farm sectors might have suffered a bigger hit due to the pandemic. Construction and trade, hotel and restaurants category has suffered the biggest reduction in growth rate between the December and March quarters. Manufacturing, which was already contracting in the September and December quarter, lost another 66 basis points in terms of growth in the March quarter. These three sectors account for 41% of India’s total employment. The index of eight core sector industries — coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery, fertiliser, steel, cement and electricity — fell by 38% in the month of April. This suggests that non-farm activity, especially manufacturing and construction will not revive in the June quarter as well. The GDP figures reinforce a trend which was seen in the December numbers released on February 28. They show that the previous numbers were underestimating the economic slowdown. The latest figures highlight a downward revision of 16, 36, 66 and 64 basis points in the GDP growth figures for the March 2019, June 2019, September 2019 and the December 2019 quarter respectively. DK Aggarwal, president of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, expressed concern about the deceleration in GDP growth to the level of 3.1%. He, however, expressed optimism that the growth will revive in the second half of the financial year 2020-21 on the back of various reform measures announced by the government. The government has announced a slew of policy reforms and a revival package of ~20 lakh crore to help India cope with the Covid-19 pandemic and the impact of the lockdown imposed to fight it. “The stimulus package will re-fuel economic growth fundamentals of the economy and resume the lost economic activity, going forward,” he said in a statement.DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor at EY India, said the real GDP growth has fallen to 4.2% in 2019-20, the lowest since 2008-09 when it was 3.1%, due to a contraction in investment (-2.8%) and exports (-3.6%). “On the output side, there has been a fall mainly in manufacturing, construction as also in the two heavy-weight service sectors namely, trade, hotels, et al, and financial and real estate services. India is thus facing a problem of falling investment and savings and an acute problem of Covif-19-induced lockdown,” he added. Dilip Chenoy, secretary general of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), said: “GDP numbers released today are on expected lines. The data reflects the impact on the economic situation due to actions on account of Covid-19. Growth slipped to 3.1% in the fourth quarter of 2019-20 and to 4.2% for the full fiscal year 2019-20 and this is the lowest since 2008-09.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fy20-growth-stands-at-11-yr-low-of-4-2/story-r7wrWsa1yRdWSfKCh8RMkI.html
30-05-2020||India||Ajit Jogi: A formidable leader and pivot of tribal politics dead at 74||Ajit Pramod Jogi, the first chief minister of Chhattisgarh, who died on Friday at the age of 74, was the pivot of tribal and dalit politics in the state carved out of Madhya Pradesh in 2000.He emerged as a formidable political force in the tribal-dominated state he led for three years from November 2000 at the helm of a Congress government. Left in awe by the power and charisma of a Parsi Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer who visited his village when he was a boy, Jogi always nursed the ambition of becoming a civil servant. A Marathi Brahmin teacher guided him in the direction by prodding him to learn English. Always brilliant in studies, Jogi went on to study mechanical engineering in Bhopal before achieving his ambition. He joined the Indian Police Service first, but while training in Mussoorie, he realized that IAS officers tended to treat officers of other services with condescension. He joined IAS in 1971, getting the eighth rank in the civil services examination, according to Union Public Service Commission records.Jogi served as collector for 12 years in different districts before resigning in 1986 and joining the Congress party. He was sent to the Rajya Sabha twice by the Congress, in 1986-92 and 1992-98.It was when he was serving as the collector in Raipur that Jogi became acquainted with Rajiv Gandhi, who was then an airline plot.“Rajiv ji was a pilot and when he used to come to Raipur , I visited him at airport. He always treated me as a friend.. We used to talk for hours on various issues in the VIP lounge of Raipur airport,” Jogi told this reporter in an interview in 2018.Rajiv Gandhi became the Prime Minister of India in 1984 after his mother and predecessor Indira was assassinated. In 1986, the Congress needed a tribal face to represent it in the Rajya Sabha and party politician Digvijay Singh suggested the name of Ajit Jogi. Within a day, Jogi resigned from the bureaucracy and entered politics. Owing to his sharp intellect and political acumen, Ajit Jogi rose up the ranks in the Congress and became party spokesman and when Chhattisgarh was created in 2000 became its first chief minister. His political fortunes declined because of infighting within the Congress. After defeat in the 2003 assembly elections, Jogi became the centre of many controversies.In the same year, the Bharatiya Janata Party released an audio tape purportedly to show he tried to break up the party’s Chhattisgarh unit by bribing its MLAs Fielded as the Congress candidate in the 2004 parliamentary election from Mahasamund constituency against Vidya Charan Shukla, who contested the poll on a BJP ticket, Jogi entered the Lok Sabha. It was during the campaign in Mahasamund that Jogi met with a road accident that left him wheelchair-bound. Jogi parted ways with the Congress in 2016 after he and his son were alleged to have fixed the Antahgarh byelection in Kanker district.In June 2016, Jogi formed his own party, the Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J).In the 2018 assembly elections Jogi managed to win seven seats in a coalition with the Bahujan Samaj Party. Out of 90 assembly seats, Congress won 68 and the BJP was reduced to 15. Jogi himself won his traditional seat, MarwahiJogi suffered a cardiac arrest earlier this month and had been in a Raipur hospital since in a comatose state.He is survived by his wife Renu Jogi, MLA from Kota, and son Amit Jogi.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel announced three days of state mourning for Jogi, who will be cremated with full state honours.“The death of the first Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh Shri Ajit Jogi is a major political loss for the state of Chhattisgarh. He will live on in the memories of all the people of the state,” tweeted Baghel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-jogi-a-formidable-leader-and-pivot-of-tribal-politics-dead-at-74/story-Va3ifxnU28YinpEEaQVxoI.html
30-05-2020||India||Rising cases, positivity indicates need to expand, randomise testing||With Delhi registering more than 1,000 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the second day in a row on Friday, the proportion of tests returning a positive result continued to rise even with the number of tests going up, prompting experts to call for a more aggressive and randomised testing strategy.With an average of 5,624 daily tests performed in the last seven days, the average daily positivity – or the percentage of people who test positive in the last week – was 12.6% for the week ending May 29. Last Friday, the average daily positivity rate for the seven days before it was 9.9% and the corresponding number was 6.4% for the week before. In the last 30 days, this average has nearly doubled from 6.5% on May 1 to 12.6% on May 29.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDelhi’s positivity rate also remains much higher than the national average of 6.1% till Thursday, the latest this data was made available according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).In the same time, the average number of samples tested in a week has increased to 5,624 on Friday, from 5,009 a week ago, according to data released by the Delhi government. To be sure, Delhi’s testing numbers have been the highest among the worst-hit regions in the country and the Capital has performed 10,075 tests for every million residents, nearly 3.5 times the national average.Experts pointed out that the positivity rate can be heavily influenced by a targeted testing strategy.“The positivity rate depends on the testing criteria. Who are you testing? If you are only testing those who are likely to have the infection such as someone from a containment zone with fever, then the positivity rate will be high. Having said that, the positivity rate is increasing along with the absolute number of cases as well, which shows that transmission is happening. And, India is on the upwards trend; the numbers are likely to go up further with travel being resumed,” said Dr GC Khilnani, chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical Care and former head of the department of pulmonology at AIIMS.Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at AIIMS, suggested that randomised antibody tests be conducted in the community to understand the underlying burden of the infection and the number of people who were asymptomatic carriers. “Sero-surveillance (population level monitoring of antibodies that remains in the blood even after the infection is cured) will help us in understanding the trend of the infection as well. And, it is likely that as more and more asymptomatic transmission happen, the virulence or the severity of the infection will reduce over a few months with it later becoming endemic,” she said.Delhi, as per national guidelines, has been testing all those with influenza like illness or severe acute respiratory infection and asymptomatic high-risk contacts of a person who has tested positive for Covid-19.In April-end, Delhi had started reporting huge pendency of samples, especially those collected from the containment zones hurting the city’s contact tracing measures. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had raised the issue on April 28 with the union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, as the pendency was the highest at the centre-run National Institute of Biologicals in Noida. A day after the meeting, the government stopped sending samples to the laboratory till the pendency reduced.On May 4, the Delhi High Court directed the government to ensure that the samples are tested and reports provided within 48 hours.“Yes, we need to test more people to contain the spread of the infection by identifying cases and isolating them early on. However, there is a capacity of the laboratories – they still have the same number of staff, the tests take a few hours to perform, all biosafety measures have to be taken. So, even though in an ideal situation we should test the asymptomatic people, but currently we do not have the capacity to perform so many tests,” said Dr Broor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rising-cases-positivity-indicates-need-to-expand-randomise-testing/story-wRjdeDEFDfyBjO6QDKNFkI.html
30-05-2020||India||AgustaWestland case: Rajiv Saxena’s villa, bank accounts attached||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth $50.90 million (about Rs 385.44 crore), including a villa in Dubai’s Palm Jumeirah and five Swiss bank accounts, linked to AgustaWestland case suspect Rajiv Saxena.The villa is worth 20 million dirhams and the money attached in five accounts is worth $45.5 million, the agency, which probes financial crimes, said in a press statement on Friday. An accused-turned-approver in the ₹3,600-crore AgustaWestland helicopter deal, Saxena was deported to India from the UAE on January 31, 2019, and arrested under money laundering act. ED has claimed that Saxena, a Dubai-based businessman, is a hawala operator. ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) are probing allegations of corruption and money laundering in the 2007 contract for the purchase of 12 luxury VVIP helicopters for use by top leaders, including the President, Prime Minister and former PMs. The deal was cancelled on January 1, 2014 over the allegations of wrongdoing.ED has tried to get Saxena’s approver status revoked, claiming that he misled investigators and withheld crucial information. However, a Delhi court has refused to do so — a decision has been challenged by the agency in the high court.“Rajiv Saxena manages the proceeds of crime and tainted funds of many high profile and High Net worth Individuals (HNIs). He has admitted to laundering the proceeds of crime not only of AgustaWestland deal but also various other defence deals. The proceeds of crime have also been transferred to the personal accounts of Rajiv Saxena and his wife Shivani Saxena (also an accused in AgustaWestland case),” the ED press release said.Saxena’s lawyer, RK Handoo, said, “What’s happening is very wrong and is harassment of Rajiv Saxena by the agency. He was made an approver and then now agency is making these claims.”ED said Saxena is a “hawala operator who runs accommodation entry business in Dubai through numerous companies, known as Matrix group companies, and has laundered proceeds of crime in the cases of AgustaWestland chopper scam and Moser Baer bank fraud case”.The Moser Baer case is linked to businessman Ratul Puri, the nephew of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath, and his father Deepak Puri. Ratul Puri, who denies any wrongdoing, was arrested in this case. He is out on bail. His lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, refused to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agusta-rajiv-saxena-s-villa-bank-a-cs-attached/story-NcC8gG49j2JOX0vjAutA8K.html
30-05-2020||India||CBI kicks off probe into Tablighi funding||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a Preliminary Enquiry (PE) to investigate “international linkages” and foreign funding of Tablighi Jamaat that has been in the news since a congregation it organised in Delhi in March was blamed for a jump in the Covid-19 infections, two officials familiar with the matter said. PE is the first step in CBI’s investigations and involves verifying irregularities to determine whether there is a need for filing a First Information Report.The officials said the initial probe will primarily focus on whether the Jamaat violated the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) while receiving donations from individuals or entities abroad. They added CBI has collected relevant probe documents from the Delhi police and is analysing the same. “We will look into financial operations of Tablighi Jamaat and people behind its funding here in India and abroad; antecedents of people associated with it and its sister organisations,” said one of the officers on condition of anonymity.CBI will also take copies of 47 charge sheets that the Delhi police filed this week against over 900 foreign members of the Jamaat, who attended the congregation at the group’s Nizamuddin headquarters in March, for violating visa conditions and Covid-19 lockdown rules. The Delhi police have also filed a criminal case against Jamaat chief Maulana Saad and its six other top officials for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.“CBI has registered a PE against organisers of Tablighi Jamaat and others on a complaint alleging that organizers and trustees of Jamaat were indulging into dubious cash transactions by using illegal/unfair means and also in non-disclosure of the receipts of foreign funds to the authorities,” said a CBI spokesperson.Another official said CBI is likely to summon Jamaat’s office-bearers in Delhi and other cities, including Saad, after studying all the documents. The official added if required, CBI may even take the help of foreign agencies at a later stage.The Enforcement Directorate is probing money laundering charges against the Jamaat and Saad and whether they used hawala networks to receive money. Terrorists belonging to Indian Mujahideen and IS-inspired operatives are believed to have attended Jamaat’s events but the organisation has never been named in any terror cases in India.Jamaat’s lawyer Fuzail Ayyubi did not respond to calls for his comments.The government blamed the Jamaat’s congregation for being responsible for almost 35% of Covid-19 cases in India till April 7. The headquarters of the group in New Delhi were sealed and its followers, including from Indonesia, Malaysia, and Bangladesh, were quarantined in March. Police initially filed a case against Saad for violating the ban on big gatherings and later charged him with culpable homicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-kicks-off-probe-into-tablighi-funding/story-VhXZtZtTSXBV4PPbID2O4I.html
30-05-2020||India||1.85% of Shramik trains diverted due to route congestion: Railways||The railways operated 3,840 Shramik Special trains that ferried 5.2 million migrants since May 1 and only 71 trains, or 1.85%, were diverted because of route congestion, the national transporter said on Friday, defending itself against criticism of delays and poor services. At a press conference, railway board chairman VK Yadav also said that it was not possible for trains to get “lost”, referring to reports of trains bound for one state ending up in another state. “Out of 3,840 trains, 71 were diverted to deal with network congestion only between May 20 and May 24, as the railways had to meet demand of the respective states, nearly 90% of the trains were going to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar,” Yadav said.Among the 71 diverted trains, 51 were bound for Bihar, 16 for Uttar Pradesh, two for Jharkhand, and one each for Assam and Manipur. The trains had originated mainly from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Rajasthan.“Only four trains took more than three days to reach the destination states in the north eastern part of the country,” Yadav clarified, adding that allegations of trains taking nearly nine days to reach destinations were incorrect.The national carrier had come under criticism over the delay and diversion of several Shramik trains in the last week. A Gorakhpur-bound train from Maharashtra ended up in Rourkela, Odisha, adding two days and five states to the original route.But the railways blamed route congestion for the chaos. With several Shramik Special trains bound for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the railways said last Sunday that the convergence of trains to these destinations caused the congestion in the network, and added that the total number of trains to the region had increased. Yadav said uncertainty in demand also led to the congestion. “As per railway capacity, it was not a 24-hour steady flow. The originations of Shramik Special trains took place after completing all the local protocols by the state mostly in post noon 16-24 shift. Thus, this left one-third route capacity per day to handle these trains,” he said.“On arrival, all passengers were registered and screened by state governments, which limited the capacity of terminals to handle trains. As against 20 minutes taken in normal trains, it took one to three hours in releasing the train at terminals,” he added.Demand for Shramik Special trains was diminishing, he said.“It appears that demand for these trains is declining from the originating state. 137 trains were flagged yesterday (Thursday) and 172 the day before (Wednesday). Demand for trains has been going down in the last two days,” Yadav said.Nearly 1,524 Shramik Specials were operated from May 22 to May 28 and ferried two million passengers. On May 20, as many as 279 trains ran.Last week, originating states had asked for 923 trains for migrants, but the number stood at 450 as of Thursday. Yadav said. “Railways has accommodated almost all requests received from the sending states and we are ready to meet all demand of Shramik movements. We will run Shramik Trains for as long as they are needed. Each and every migrant will be transported,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-85-of-shramik-trains-diverted-rly/story-n3zbB0LG0ZZ5uqfX7CQBwI.html
30-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0: Bengal to open religious places, Goa backs limited ops for malls||West Bengal announced the conditional reopening of places of worship and Goa favoured limited operations of malls, restaurants and gymnasiums on Friday, joining a growing chorus for more relaxations after the fourth phase of the lockdown ends on May 31.The developments came on the day home minister Amit Shah met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, less than 24 hours after Shah held t discussions on the phone with chief ministers on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Shah briefed Modi about the suggestions and the feedback he received from chief ministers on the road ahead, news agency PTI quoted a government official as saying. The first anniversary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government also featured in the talks between the two leaders, an official told HT on condition of anonymity.In West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced a slew of measures, including allowing government and private offices to work with their full staff from June 8. At present, offices in the state can function with 50% of staff strength.“From June 1, religious sites and places can open in West Bengal. But there will be no major congregation or celebration of any festival. Only 10 persons can gather at a religious place at any given time,” she said at the state secretariat. “Jute and tea industries will also be allowed to operate with 100% workforce from June 1,” she added. In Panaji, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant backed extending the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 till June 15, but sought several relaxations such as reopening of malls, restaurants and gyms. He said these businesses can open with 50% of their staff capacity while strictly adhering to social distancing norms.Sawant said the state government is waiting for fresh lockdown guidelines from the Union home ministry, which is expected to release them by Sunday when the fourth phase ends.The nationwide lockdown — the first phase was imposed on March 25 for 21 days — has been extended thrice. The second and the third phases of the curbs — beginning April 15 and May 4 — lasted 19 days and 14 days, respectively. According to the federal guidelines applicable to the period between May 18 and May 31, malls, gymnasiums and dine-in restaurants are to be shut across the country. Metro train services, international passenger flights, schools and colleges, hospitality services, cinema halls, and religious and political gatherings, too, are prohibited. Though states can frame their own guidelines, they have been advised not to dilute the rules framed by the Centre.A Karnataka government official said the stated had opened most sectors and life is back to normal except in containment zones, which can be broadly defined as the epicentre of an infection with strict perimeter controls. “Only some decisions such as running the metro and opening of malls, shopping complexes and movie theatres...are still restricted. We will await the Centre’s directive when the current lockdown ends on 31 May and take appropriate decisions based on that,” said the official who did not want to be named.In telephone conversations with home minister Shah — which took place just three days before the end of the fourth phase of the lockdown — several chief ministers wanted the lockdown to continue in some form but at the same time favoured opening up of economic activities and gradual return of the normal life, PTI reported. Shah sought to know the areas of concern of the states and the sectors they want open from June 1, according to the report.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy suggested to Shah that more relaxations be given if the Centre decides to extend the lockdown. Jagan Reddy explained what steps his government was taking to contain Covid-19 in the state, an official in the chief minister’s office said.(With inputs from state bureaus and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-to-open-religious-places-goa-backs-malls/story-lbCOThJtCqukeiLtANJT3L.html
30-05-2020||India||Centre flags 145 districts as potential Covid-19 hotspots||The central government has identified 145 new districts, mostly rural, that have reported Covid-19 infections over the past three weeks and warned that they could emerge as “epicentres” of the disease if effective containment measures are not undertaken. In a presentation to representatives of states on Thursday, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba highlighted that eastern India was likely to be the next big Covid-19 hotspot with the return of migrant workers from the worst-hit states. The cabinet secretary said 12 states, including Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha in eastern India which had not reported many cases earlier, have witnessed rapid infection spread in the three weeks until May 25. Other states such as Tripura and Manipur, too, have reported an increase in Covid-19 cases after having infections in single digits earlier.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe health ministry said bigger states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh accounted for the bulk of India’s around 1,65,000 cases until Thursday. There has been a faster increase in the cases over in the past fortnight. India had reported 75,000 cases until May 13. The ministry said the bigger states remained the main contributors to the surge but that states such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha saw sharp increase in cases.“It is primarily because of the return of migrant workers from Covid-19 hotspot states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh that the cases increased in eastern India,” said an official on condition of anonymity. “As the rush of migrant workers was huge, there was no proper screening of passengers at railway and bus stations. Therefore, many took infections from one state to another.”Also Read: Govt may plan scheme for welfare, jobs of migrantsThe ministry has identified the 145 districts, where state governments need to “proactively” conduct containment activities to ensure that new epicentres do not emerge. According to the presentation, 2,147 active cases in these districts account for 2.5% of the total cases in India. Of these, 26 districts have more than 20 active cases.Half of these districts are in Assam, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh. Bihar health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said the government is concerned as migrant workers account for around two-thirds of about 3,200 cases in the state. Jharkhand minister Rameshwar Oran said only a few cases have been reported from outside quarantine centres, which shows the virus has not spread. “We have been able to control the spread even though a large number of workers returned from infected places.” Odisha’s additional chief secretary, Pradipta Kishore Mohapatra, said the state’s Covid-19 recovery rate of 41% was better than the national average of 42%. “None of the new Covid patients is in ICU [intensive care units] or [on] ventilator [support] and we are confident of overcoming the crisis once all migrant workers return.”The health ministry also expressed concern over an increase in the Covid-19 confirmation rate, or the positives for total tests done, in some states such as Delhi, Maharashtra and Bihar. Most states have recorded a fall in the Covid-19 fatality rate even as it increased in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat between May 18 and May 25, according to the ministry. The fatality rate has declined from 8.5% to 7.1% in West Bengal but was remains the highest for any major state.Former Indian Medical Association president Dr K K Agarwal said the fatality and the confirmation rates in India were still less than the western countries. “Everybody expected the cases to increase ; it does not mean the lockdown failed. The lockdown has helped us to contain the spread.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-flags-145-districts-as-potential-covid-19-hot-spots/story-Pv5VXDKzb4Iyl589YoTOSM.html
30-05-2020||India||Meant to eradicate locusts, pesticides affect soil, crops||The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations said on Friday that it may declare the locust invasion a plague if it takes a turn for the worse after breeding by the voracious, crop-crunching insects in India, Pakistan and West Africa. FAO now categorises the locust invasion that has reached India as an “upsurge”. Swarms of desert locusts have chomped through vegetation and crops across farm lands in Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. The Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) sprayed Malathion 96 and Chlorpyrifos, both organophosphate pesticides, to control the locust swarms across states. Both are extremely toxic and high level of exposure to the pesticides may cause nausea, dizziness and even death. They can also impact soil fertility by altering the ecological balance.“We have conducted control operations in 47,000 ha in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh by spraying pesticides,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director of the LWO. A swarm near Jhansi in UP has scattered. Gurjar said there is no clear indications the locusts will head towards Delhi.FAO, saying it may declare a plague of locusts, cautioned that farmers shouldn’t try to control the swarms. “Unfortunately, spraying of chemical insecticides is the only effective method when desert locusts are in such large numbers. There are bio-pesticides which are safe ways of controlling them, but may not be as effective. FAO doesn’t encourage control of desert locusts by farmers. State or federal teams that are trained in locust invasion management should do it with safety equipment,” said Keith Cressman, senior locust forecasting officer at FAO, at a webinar organised by the Centre for Science and Environment on Friday. One of the options with farmers is to dig trenches around their farms to prevent hoppers from entering. Noise can scatter locusts, but they prevent focused control operations by the authorities as the swarms move in different directions.Cressman said the current severe locust invasion was linked to climate change-induced aberrations in rainfall. “There was good breeding in India last year, the monsoon was protracted which allowed further increase in locust populations. The drying vegetation in south-west Pakistan also led to them reaching India a month in advance,” he said. India was alerted by FAO last year about the possibility of waves of invasions. The desert locusts were expected to remain limited to its habitat in Rajasthan, but the swarms scattered to Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra because of the strong north-westerly winds following cyclone Amphan, which struck West Bengal and Odisha on May 20.“Except for Malathion 96, the rest that they are spraying are highly poisonous pesticides. They are red-labelled. They are meant for locust control in desert areas which are largely uninhabited. But the same pesticides are being sprayed on in areas with habitation and with water bodies. These pesticides will drift and residue will remain. They will definitely disturb the ecological balance of the area and kill natural enemies—pests which can counter other crop pests. So, we can expect outbreak of other pests,” said GV Ramanjaneyulu, executive director at the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture. “Desert locusts don’t multiply in non-desert areas so there is no point in spraying toxic pesticides in such large quantities in other states. They have a short life cycle and will die in due course. Government must consider biocontrol agents,” he added. With the onset of monsoon rains, the locusts will come back to their summer breeding sites in the desert along the India-Pakistan border. “They will be flying back and forth with the winds till monsoon arrives,” Cressman said.The other forecast that FAO has made is that with the south-west monsoon winds, desert locusts that bred in the Horn of Africa will travel to Rajasthan across the Indian Ocean in June.“Spraying of insecticides is compounding environmental problems in the Horn of Africa. We do not have wherewithal to undertake these measures at the scale required, we need aircraft to spray, expertise to spray. Biotechnological interventions should be considered…locust invasions are an existential challenge if they are allowed...in the coming years,” Richard Mark Mbaram, technical adviser to the Nigerian ministry of agriculture, said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meant-to-eradicate-locusts-pesticides-affect-soil-crops/story-hotty6JrfYyCXP4h1C4ZON.html
30-05-2020||India||India, China reject US bid to mediate on border issue||The Indian government on Friday doubled down on its rejection of US President Donald Trump’s offer to mediate on the border standoff with China, with people familiar with development contradicting the American leader’s remarks that he had discussed the “big conflict” with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.China too rejected Trump’s offer of mediation, and foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said the two countries don’t need the intervention of a third party as they have existing mechanisms to resolve problems. China’s foreign and defence ministries described the situation at the border as “stable and controllable”.The reactions from New Delhi and Beijing came hours after Trump reiterated his offer to mediate between India and China to resolve the standoff between border troops of the two countries at a briefing at the White House early on Friday (Indian time).Trump initially made the offer to mediate through a tweet on Wednesday. Though it was tacitly turned down by India’s external affairs ministry on Thursday, he went a step further and said on Friday that Modi was “not in a good mood” regarding the “big conflict” with China.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the last conversation between Modi and Trump had occurred long before the standoff with China became public, and the discussion had centred around the US request for supply of hydroxychloroquine to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.“There has been no recent contact between Prime Minister Modi and President Trump. The last conversation between them was on April 4 on the subject of hydroxychloroquine,” said one of the people cited above.“Yesterday [Thursday], the external affairs ministry had made it clear that we are directly in touch with the Chinese through established mechanisms and diplomatic contacts,” the person added.This is the second time New Delhi has called out such a claim by Trump regarding mediation between India and another country. In July 2019, India dismissed Trump’s remarks, at a joint news briefing with Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, that Modi had asked him to help resolve the Kashmir issue.At that time too, Trump contended he had spoken directly with Modi about Kashmir. “And he actually said, ‘Would you like to be a mediator, or arbitrator? I said ‘Where?’, and he said ‘Kashmir, because this has been going on for many many years’,” Trump had said at the time.Trump created a flutter on Wednesday with his tweet about mediating to end the standoff: “We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute. Thank you!”After studied silence for a day, the external affairs ministry cleared the air at its weekly briefing on Thursday. Asked about Trump’s offer, ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava ruled out any role for a third party in addressing the border tensions: “As I’ve told you, we are engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve this issue.”Despite the position adopted by India, Trump reiterated his offer to arbitrate when he was asked by an Indian reporter about the border standoff at the White House briefing.Prefacing his offer to mediate with the comment that “they like me in India”, Trump said: “They have a big conflict going with India and China. Two countries with 1.4 billion people, two countries with very powerful militaries. And India is not happy, and probably China is not happy. But I can tell you, I did speak to Prime Minister Modi. He’s not – he’s not in a good mood about what’s going on with China.”Asked specifically if he would mediate between India and China, Trump replied: “I would do that. You know, I would do that. If they – if they thought it would help if I were the mediator or the arbiter, I would do that. So, we’ll see.”In Beijing, foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian rejected the US offer to mediate by saying: “Between China and India, we have existing border-related mechanisms and communication channels. We are capable of properly resolving the issues between us through dialogue and consultation. We do not need the intervention of the third party.”Both Zhao and, for the first time, defence ministry spokesperson Senior Colonel Ren Guoqiang described the situation at the border as “stable and controllable”.“The two sides have the ability to communicate and solve relevant issues through the established border-related mechanisms and diplomatic channels,” Ren said in an online media interaction on Thursday.Zhao told a regular news briefing on Friday: “We have been implementing the important consensus reached by leaders of both countries, observing the bilateral agreements and have been committed to safeguarding territorial sovereignty and security, stability and peace in the border area.”The statements from China’s foreign and defence ministries were perceived as a sign that, at least as of now, the government isn’t willing to let the situation worsen through a war of words with India.To be sure, India has rejected China’s assertion that Indian troops carried out illegal constructions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Arun Singh, who served as India’s envoy to the US during 2015-16, described Trump’s mediation offer as an effort to “project that he is influential internationally”.“The US president is erratic and unpredictable and even Twitter is hiding his tweets. I’m sure even he wasn’t expecting a positive response from India or China. We should ignore it and move on,” Singh said.China’s state-run media too dismissed Trump’s proposal.“The latest dispute can be solved bilaterally by China and India. The two countries should keep alert on the US, which exploits every chance to create waves that jeopardise regional peace and order,” the nationalistic Global Times tabloid said in a comment piece.The article titled “China, India don’t need US help on their frictions” further said: “It seems Trump finally knows that China and India, the two largest Asian powers, share borders. Early this year, A Very Stable Genius, a book written by two Washington Post journalists, revealed that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi was shocked and concerned when Trump told him India and China did not share a border.”It noted India had turned down Trump’s offer last year to mediate on the Kashmir issue, and that India “perhaps has been aware of the US’ bad history of mediation in which the US made troubles rather than solved problems”.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has said that the government must come clean on the border face-off between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“The Government’s silence about the border situation with China is fueling massive speculation and uncertainty at a time of crisis. GOI must come clean and tell India exactly what’s happening,” Gandhi tweeted on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-reject-us-bid-to-mediate-on-border-issue/story-nZWAd5QJAkzqzpuAjMwsiM.html
30-05-2020||India||Must adapt to e-courts, says Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Friday said the world would not be the same post-Covid and asked lawyers to adapt to effectively use the digital and physical court processes as India’s future lies in digital technology.“The post-Covid world will be a different world. It won’t be the same. We must begin to prepare ourselves for the digital courts and physical courts must go together with one supplementing the other,” he said in a speech as part of a series of memorial lectures organized in educationist N R Madhava Menon’s memory.Prasad, who also holds communications, electronics, and information technology portfolio, said that with the help of technology, over 16,000 courts have been digitised. He added the second phase of e-filing of cases has been launched in the Supreme Court. Prasad said trial courts have been able to conduct e-trials through virtual examination of witnesses and recording of evidence in nearly 200,000 cases.He spoke about future technologies and challenges they could pose for lawyers. “Artificial intelligence [AI] will play a crucial role in the coming times. You [lawyers] need to coordinate with new ideas of technology to accelerate the justice delivery system. But the human mind will continue to play its role as AI cannot cross-examine. That only a lawyer can do.”He cited the example of driverless cars to show how machines cannot take the place of human consciousness. “Driverless car technology is good but I am worried that if such a car gets involved in an accident, who should be held responsible.” He stressed privacy too and promised a robust Data Protection law.Prasad praised indigenously developed digital products like the Mitron app and expressed his confidence that the “innate abilities of Indians” and “divine entity of India” will help the country to deliver solutions to the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-adapt-to-e-courts-prasad/story-xIxPf7zQRQ0ZvB33KTl8tL.html
30-05-2020||India||Kids have 56% lower chance of catching Covid-19 infection: Study||In a finding that has implications for the reopening of schools, a new study has found that children and teenagers carry about half the risk that adults do of being infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). It is still not clear whether children are also less likely to spread the infection to others.Children are 56% less likely than adults to get infected by the virus when they come in contact with an infected person, according to the study by researchers at the University College London, which was published in the preprint journal medRxiv. The study has not yet been peer-reviewed.“There is preliminary evidence that children and young people have lower susceptibility to Sars-CoV-2, with 56% lower odds of being an infected contact. There is weak evidence that children and young people play a lesser role in transmission of Sars-CoV-2 at a population level. Our study provides no information on the infectivity of children,” said the report, which analysed data from 6,327 studies that had been published till May 16, 2020.The role of children and young people in spreading the disease depends on several factors, including their susceptibility to infection, severity of symptoms, viral load, social contact patterns, and risk behaviour. Clinical series and testing of symptomatic cases alone gives biased estimates of susceptibility in children, who often don’t develop symptoms.“The susceptibility of children to Sars-Cov2 is low, according to most of the information. If they are asymptomatic, as most are, transmission risk will be very low,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.Studies on Covid-19 prevalence in children have produced widely varying results, noted the University College London analysis. Large studies from Iceland, the Netherlands and Spain and Italy showed markedly lower Sars-CoV-2 prevalence among children and young people, but studies from Sweden, England and some cantons in Switzerland and Germany found no difference in infection prevalence between adults and children.The Swedish Public Health Agency found 4.7% antibody prevalence in children and teenagers, compared with 6.7% in adults aged 20 to 64, and 2.7% in 65- to 70-year-olds.“Long-lasting school closures not only lead to a loss of learning but the isolation also harms their mental health and social development, so we have to consider whether the harm outweighs the infection risk for children, who can spread it to their families, school staff and the community,” said Dr Rajesh Sagar, professor in the department of psychiatry, All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Most schools in India have been closed since March 21, the weekend before a national lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24.Unlike Sweden, which kept day care centres and schools through the ninth grade open without major adjustments to class size, lunch policies, or recess rules, schools in India are unlikely to open before July as the authorities attempt to lower children’s exposure to the risk of infection.“Most young children find it difficult to follow social distancing norms and given the large number of students in one classroom, and crowded transport and playgrounds, schools can easily turn into infection clusters if children infect teachers or take the infection to their family and neighbourhood even if they don’t get severe disease themselves,” said Dr Sagar, who specialises in child mental health.Socially- and economically disadvantaged children who depend on schools for midday meals, education, nutrition and health are among the worst hit by prolonged school closure. “School provides a structured setting in which children can learn and develop social competencies, such as self-confidence, friendship, empathy, participation, respect, gratitude, compassion, and responsibility. Social and emotional learning is important for young people to become conscious members of a solidarity-based community,” according to a paper on rethinking the role of the school after Covid-19, published in The Lancet.A hybrid model of education with greater dependence on e-learning is being used in many countries that are reopening schools post lockdown, but it has its challenges. “Since all children do not have access to online learning because of uneven access, teaching using radio and television should be considered as that group cannot be ignored,” Dr Sagar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kids-have-56-lower-chance-of-catching-infection-study/story-F2dE3FQxCxtQcnDxNo089M.html
30-05-2020||India||During Covid-19 lockdown, births at clinics plummet by 40%||Savitri Devi, 22, of Lucknow’s Narsingh Khera village, delivered a baby boy at her house on the first day of lockdown . The lockdown prevented her from travelling to a government-run health care centre where she would have otherwise given birth. Mother and son are fine but her story is the story of thousands of women who delivered children at home because they couldn’t travel to the nearest community health centre or a hospital . Data from states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha and Chhattisgarh shows that the number of institutional deliveries may have fallen by as much as 40% during the lockdown. That’s significant because institutional deliveries are believed to be behind the major strides India has made in reducing maternal and infant mortality in recent decades. “Institutional delivery improves survival chances for a newborn manifold,” said Sayeeda Hamid, who was member in-charge of health in the Planning Commission for a decade till 2014. . “It is sad that institutional deliveries have come down but, I think, it is a temporary phase because of the lockdown. State governments should ensure proper supplements for mothers and their kids through Asha workers,” she said. Infant mortality rate (IMR) has fallen from 129 per 1,000 live births in 1971 to 32 in 2018, according to Census Commissioner of India’s website. The biggest dip in IMR was between 2008 and 2018 with improvement in health infrastructure in rural areas. Similarly, the maternal mortality rate has fallen from 22 in 2008 to 12 per 1,000 live births in 2018, according to National Institution for Transforming India (NITI) Aayog.According to National Family Health Survey, the proportion of institutional deliveries in India has increased from 38.7% in 2005-6 to 78.9% in 2015-16 due to improvement in rural health infrastructure and the presence of health workers in every village to monitor health of pregnant woman.“Bihar reported 90,000 institutional deliveries during the first 30 days of the lockdown (March 25 to April 25), as compared to an average of 1.50 lakh deliveries a month,” a Bihar government health department official said on condition of anonymity. In Uttar Pradesh, the institutional deliveries in April was 98,515 compared to a monthly average of 1,12,681,said Mithilesh Chaturvedi, UP’s director, family welfare, adding that instructions have been issued to ensure all expecting mothers are admitted and those symptomatic, tested for Covid. Jharkhand’s health secretary Nitin Kulkarni said that institutional deliveries in May dropped to 35,000 as compared to monthly average of about 50,000 in the first four months of this calendar year. “As compared to 80% institutional delivery rate in Jharkhand in 2019, the number during the lockdown period is around 55%,” said Dr Shailesh Chourasia, managing director, national health mission.In Chhattisgarh, only 20,013 institutional deliveries were recorded in the month of April, as compared to 30,629 in the previous month. The number has witnessed slight increase in May but it is still less than the monthly average of about 34,000 institutional deliveries, officials said. “People in villages are hesitant to come out thinking they would not be able to return to their villages. Moreover, non-Covid services were not available in most of the hospitals,” explained Deepak Soni, the collector of Dantewada district , which has seen the highest proportion of home deliveries in the state. According to health department officials in West Bengal, institutional deliveries have reduced by around 25-30% during lockdown. “On an average around one lakh institutional deliveries take place every month. During the lock down it has gone down to around 70,000 to 75,000,” said a health department official, who asked not to be named. Most rivate nursing homes in the state were closed in April. Odisha’s director family welfare, L Mishra, said that there has been some decrease in the institutional deliveries , but not much, because Odisha was the first state to have exclusive Covid-19 hospital that did not hamper routine hospital work in other government hospitals. “Close to 80% of the births took place in government run institutions during the lockdown period in April and May, 2020,” he said.Those women fortunate enough to get to a hospital or a health centre in time, did so after jumping through hoops.  Radha Kumari, delivered a baby girl, her first child, at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) on Friday morning, but after her husband Golu Kumar, 21, a tile mason, ran around -- from a private hospital to a government run medical centre to PMCH. . They reached PMCH at 4am on Friday and had to wait for several hours to get a bed. Finally, Kumari delivered a baby girl around 11 am.In Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura district, Rajender Kumar hired a taxi for Rs 5,000 to take his wife Geeta, to the district hospital, 20 km away from their home. “There was no response at the government helpline number. I called a taxi owner, who agreed after much persuasion. At the hospital, they (hospital administration) refused to admit her saying she did not have a Covid free certificate. They later allowed her entry when I signed an undertaking that hospital will not be responsible if she tests positive for Covid,” he said. In Narsingh Khera, Savitri Devi’s troules didn’t end with the birth of the child. She and her husband are now struggling to ensure post-birth check-ups for her and also or the child. (With inputs from HTC New Delhi, Kolkata and Agra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/during-lockdown-births-at-clinics-plummet-by-40/story-D1DzxlaZhGswBRtHbeXwjN.html
30-05-2020||India||Govt may plan scheme for welfare, jobs of migrants||The Narendra Modi government may consider an ambitious, targeted programme to ensure welfare and jobs for millions of migrants who have returned home during the Covid19 pandemic. According to officials directly familiar with the plan, the programme may start in June and go on for four months at the least and provide either jobs or cash to the people who have returned to their hometowns and villages after losing employment in the cities they had migrated to following the nationwide lockdown. The programme, however, may not entail any additional support from the exchequer, the officials explained. Existing centrally sponsored schemes such as MGNREGS and scholarships will be tweaked to address the extraordinary situation, they said. The finance ministry announced a ₹20 lakh crore stimulus package earlier this month to help individuals, businesses and states to cope with the pandemic and the impact of the lockdown imposed to fight it. Many of the measures announced in the package, especially those for small businesses, agriculture and the rural sector, will also come handy for the government to support welfare and financial plans for migrant labourers, the officials added. Around 9.1 million migrant workers have already returned to their homes.Preparing the ground for the big-ticket plan, the government’s machinery has already started mapping districts that have received 25,000 or more migrant workers, the officials said. Those areas with a higher concentration of migrants would see an early roll-out of the plan. The final decision on the plan, according to them, will be taken by the PMO. “Millions of workers have returned to their villages and not all of them will be interested in digging earth under MGNREGS. They have a wide variety of expertise and we need to address their needs through a bouquet of welfare programmes, using MSMEs,and rural or agricultural schemes,” said one of the officials. According to this person if approved, the programme could be launched by June. A second official pointed out that centrally-sponsored and central sector schemes already have the capacity to adapt to rising demand. They further argue that as these schemes are monitored and executed directly by the union government, it is easier to use them for such exigencies. The second official added that it’s not required to further dig into the exchequer for rolling out such a targeted programme as funds are already tied up for each scheme. “Such a targeted programme, if it is approved and executed, has a dual advantage: It can help millions of distressed workers and maximize the potential of government schemes and the stimulus package,” said the first official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-plan-scheme-for-welfare-jobs-of-migrants/story-jRxtYZn6QJBMnWnKpgvdUM.html
30-05-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: 14-day Amarnath Yatra to start from July 21||The annual Amarnath Yatra, curtailed because of the coronavirus disease pandemic, will be held only for 14 days from July 21 this year, officials familiar with the matter said on Friday.The pilgrimage to the 3,880-metre-high holy cave shrine of Amarnath in the south Kashmir Himalayas will now be from the shorter Baltal route only, they added.The decision was taken during a meeting held by Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor GC Murmu on Thursday night with chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam, principal secretary to the LG, Bipul Pathak, and director general of police Dilbagh Singh, according to the officials cited above, who requested anonymity.“It was finalised that a 14-day-long yatra will be allowed from the shorter Baltal track from July 21 to August 3 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, “ one official said. Thousands of pilgrims either take the traditional and longer 45km-long Pahalgam route or the shorter 14km-long Baltal route to Amarnath, one of Hinduism’s holiest shrines, every year. The pilgrimage usually spans nearly a month-and-a-half and takes place during July and August.The government decided in February on a 42-day pilgrimage to the holy cave shrine. It was scheduled to begin from the twin tracks of Pahalgam in Anantnag district and Baltal in Ganderbal district on June 23 and end on August 3 on the day of Shravan Purnima (Raksha Bandhan).Last year, the Amarnath Yatra was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-day-amarnath-yatra-to-start-from-july-21/story-HVkc1ZZZkSM2zJuLDcBieO.html
30-05-2020||India||Food Corporation of India dominates wheat procurement||India’s private sector has nearly exited the country’s foodgrain markets, pushed out by high levies and bonuses on wheat and rice, and resulted in a virtual monopoly of state-run Food Corporation of India (FCI), latest procurement figures of wheat show. This leaves farmers with little incentive to grow crops other than rice and wheat in food bowl states like Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana. High taxes and extra bonuses in some states, offered as a top-up to federally determined minimum support prices (MSP), are the main reasons for the private sector being “crowded out”, leaving FCI as the only buyer in the grain bowls of Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, analysts say. According to official figures as on May 24, procurement of wheat by government agencies has touched 34.1 million tonnes, which is slightly more than last year’s levels.Experts say FCI, India’s main grain handling agency, is burdened with mountains of wheat and rice stocks, often beyond its capacity. For instance, total food stocks owned by FCI exceed its total capacity for protected and scientific storage, technically called covered and plinth, or CAP. Take for instance this year’s rate of procurement, or the buying of wheat at statutory minimum support prices by the FCI. Punjab has procured 12.65 million tonnes of wheat against market arrivals of 12.7 million tonnes, which is 99.5% of total stocks offered by farmers for sale. In Madhya Pradesh, government agencies have procured 11.33 million tonnes, which is nearly 99% of the total arrivals of 11.40 million tonnes. In Haryana, the state’s agencies have procured 7.06 million tonnes, nearly 95% of market arrivals.“Private buyers have almost completely withdrawn from Punjab. One reason is taxes and arhatiya commission of about 8.5% on the wheat purchase,” said Siraj Hussain, a senior visiting fellow of the think-tank ICRIER. Hussain is the country’s former agriculture secretary.According to Hussain, Punjab stores some of its wheat in an unscientific manner that is prone to damage due to rains. FCI’s general manager of procurement, KC Sahu, did not take calls. An email containing queries were sent to him.The exit of the private sector from grain markets was highlighted by a high-level committee headed by former food minister Shanta Kumar. The Narendra Modi government formed the panel in 2015 to overhaul the 50-year-old FCI. “The HLC [high-level committee] also notes that private sector has been crowded out not only in states that give extra bonus but also those that charge very high statutory levies and commissions, which vary from 3.6 percent in Rajasthan to 14.5 percent in Punjab in case of wheat in 2012-13,” the panel said in its report to Modi.Crowding out refers to a situation where increased government involvement in a sector affects other players, including the private sector. “With the government procuring only wheat, what is the incentive for farmers to grow crops such as maize, channa or mustard? Farmers, who are able to sell wheat, paddy or sugarcane at prices fixed by the government, do not deserve Rs 6,000 a year as cash hand-out under PM-KISAN. Farmers, whose crops are not procured, should receive at least Rs 10,000 under PM-KISAN. The farmers in rain-fed areas should get even more,” Hussain said.The Shanta Kumar committee report had said “bonuses distort the market, encouraging farmers to produce and sell more of wheat and rice to the government agencies, crowding out the private sector from that state”. In some states, it said, the “procurement by government agencies goes to 60-80 percent of marketed surplus”. “This is nothing short of a monopolistic situation in the market, with just one large buyer [the state agencies].”To get private companies back to grain markets, the committee recommended that “state-level bonuses [some states declare bonus over and above the MSP declared by the central government] must be contained, taxes and statutory levies made uniform at 3% of MSP, levies on rice millers abolished and quality of grain be adhered to through mechanical and transparent processes.” The government never took up the report for implementation. “Some of its proposals, such as restricting subsidised grains to 40% of the population were politically risky,” a retired food ministry official said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fci-dominates-wheat-procurement/story-lwWeXb2IcSE9HSaM1jMZBK.html
30-05-2020||India||UGC to bring norms for e-degree courses||The University Grants Commission is set to bring in regulations for online degree courses, officials familiar with the matter said.The development has come after the ministry of human resource development asked the country’s top 100 universities to offer such courses amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Members of the commission, in a meeting on Friday, discussed the contours of the regulations which will be similar to those for open learning courses.“It is likely that an integrated set of regulations for distance and online learning can soon be brought out by the UGC. There is a general agreement that courses which are high on practical content like engineering or others will not be offered through online education. However, courses where there is less of practical training are ideal for such teaching. Moreover, subjects like coding can also be taught,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Even with integrated regulations, there may be clauses specifically for online courses, the official cited above said. The reason for bringing in regulations is mainly to address quality concerns related to such courses, he said.The higher education regulator has already decided that it will lower the bar for varsities to offer online and distance learning courses from the earlier benchmark 3.26 score by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) at least for one academic year.It is also likely that varsities will be given a free hand in offering diploma and certificate courses online, said another official. Following the outbreak of the coronavirus disease, the HRD ministry has been focusing on popularising the online mode of education as classroom teaching appears increasingly difficult.In her budget speech earlier this year, Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the country’s top 100 educational institutions will start offering full-fledged degree courses online. Sitharaman had again mentioned online courses while announcing the relief measures to alleviate the effect of the pandemic on the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-to-bring-norms-for-e-degree-courses/story-DbCrCZSOo4iPI1H93oCe8K.html
30-05-2020||India||Centre may announce 2nd stimulus to increase demand after lockdown is lifted||The government may unveil another stimulus package of fiscal, monetary and policy measures to boost demand in the economy after the nationwide lockdown imposed for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is completely lifted, three officials familiar with the development said on Friday.A thorough assessment of the Rs 20.97 lakh crore Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Mission) will precede the likely announcement, the officials said, requesting anonymity. Some critics have said the package of fiscal and monetary measures, which included past announcements, didn’t go far enough to address the economic fallout of Covid-19 and the ensuing lockdown.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe government has kept all its “options open” and will respond with appropriate measures to streamline supplies and boost demand to put the economy on a higher growth trajectory, one of the officials, who has direct knowledge of the matter, said.The other two officials said the next package, which is expected at least after a month, will fill the gaps that could have been left by the series of measures already announced since March 26. The package would be prepared after discussions with all stakeholders in the economy, they said.The government is concerned about slack in demand in the economy despite the series of fiscal and monetary measures announced in the last two months, the officials said. One sign of weak demand is the poor credit offtake despite banks reporting record loan sanctions.Also read: FY20 growth stands at 11-year low of 4.2%According to the finance ministry, public sector banks (PSBs) sanctioned loans worth Rs 6.45 lakh crore in just two-and-a-half months, between March 1 and May 15, to about 5.5 million accounts, but officials said the actual disbursal was minimal. According to the finance ministry, loan disbursal will start after the lockdown is lifted. Phase four of the lockdown is set to end on May 31. “The industry does need money, particularly MSMEs. It is good that the money has been sanctioned, now disbursal should happen as soon as possible,” HT quoted Niranjan Hiranandani, president of the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham), as saying in a report published on May 8.Experts say that borrowers are reluctant to avail of the sanctioned loans because they do not immediately see sufficient demand in the economy.On May 22, the Reserve Bank of India slashed policy rates by 40 basis points (bps) and extended a moratorium on repayment of loans by another three months to provide relief to borrowers caught in the economic fallout of Covid-19. It was the third monetary intervention since March 27; The Atmanirbhar Bharat Package included RBI measures worth ₹8.01 lakh crore.Commenting on the RBI decision, securities firm Nomura said: “While the policy easing is welcome, the effectiveness of rate cuts and excess liquidity (on delivering the growth bang) is incrementally diminishing in a scenario of rising credit risk aversion (among lenders).”The first official mentioned above admitted that the “disbursal and sanction mismatch” was a matter of concern to the government, which is examining the matter.The government’s relief packages are meant to provide temporary support and help in kickstarting the economy, said DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor at EY India. “Growth calls for a straight-forward push to demand, particularly investment demand. To kickstart this, it is the government’s capital expenditure that should play a pivotal role. By augmenting this, private investment would also increase through multiplier effects,” he said.According to officials, the cash-strapped government is not in favour of raising taxes on non-essential items as that could further depress demand.Although dwindling Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue is a concern for both the Centre and states, the Union government is not in favour of raising taxes on non-essential items because that could be detrimental for demand generation, the first official said.The government has not yet released the monthly GST collection data for April, which is expected to be one-third of the March collection (Rs 97,597 crore) because economic activity was negligible during the lockdown period. GST collections had exceeded Rs 1 lakh crore for four consecutive months since November 2019. The GST Council is expected to meet in June to discuss a sharp decline in revenue collection and could also consider raising money from the market to compensate states for their revenue shortfall, the other two officials said.They said the economy had been battered by a prolonged lockdown since March and its revival needs a series of booster doses.“The first round of announcements worth over ₹20 lakh crore was completed just on May 17. This is not all. There are more to come depending on how the economy respond to the stimulus already announced,”one of the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-announce-second-stimulus-to-increase-demand/story-TxDCRiEkEmi6By5KrUpg1L.html
30-05-2020||India||Atmanirbhar plan covers credit for traders: Union Minister Piyush Goyal||The ₹3 lakh crore credit guarantee facility extended to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Initiative) also covers traders, minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal has clarified.Traders can access easy loans under the recently announced stimulus package,an official statement on Friday quoted him as saying. “The changes made in the definition of the MSME sector will also help them,” he said. HT had reported on Tuesday that export units, trading firms and hospitality ventures could also tap the Rs 3 lakh crore credit facility offered to MSMEs under the recent economic stimulus package even if they are not registered as MSMEs, but meet the eligibility criteria.On hardships being faced by retail traders even after the relaxations of the lockdown restrictions, the minister said that a majority of shops had been allowed to open, without any distinction between essential and non-essential goods and services. “The decision to open the remaining shops in the malls will be taken soon, after taking into account the guidelines of the health ministry,” the statement quoted him as saying at a meeting with the representatives of traders associations via video conferencing on Thursday night.The minister said several indicators show that an economic recovery lies ahead. “The power consumption this month is almost at par with the corresponding period last year,” he said. Exports, which declined in April by almost 60%, have started showing an uptick, and preliminary figures indicate the decline this month will be smaller, he said.Services exports rose even the last month. The decline in imports outpaced the fall in merchandise exports, lowering the trade deficit.Goyal said that during the lockdown period, the nation had geared itself up to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and built capacities. “Domestic manufacturing of the protection equipment (like masks, sanitizers, gloves) got a boost, health infrastructure was scaled up, and awareness was generated among the people,” the statement quoted the minister as saying.“Timely and correct decisions taken by the Prime Minister, and adhered to by the people, have helped the country, as we are in a better position compared to many other nations of the world, with more resources and lesser population,” he said.Goyal told traders not to feel threatened by e-commerce, saying consumers had realised the importance of neighbourhood stores in an hour of crisis.He said the government was working to facilitate a B-2-B (business to business) model for retail traders so that they can expand their reach.Goyal urged traders to use, promote and support Indian goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atmanirbhar-plan-covers-credit-for-traders-goyal/story-vZOlzaamZIsh10Oazqc00M.html
30-05-2020||India||Ajit Jogi, first chief minister of Chhattisgarh, dies at 74||Ajit Jogi, who served as the first chief minister of Chhattisgarh after the formation of the state, died at 74 on Friday. According to a statement by the hospital, the death took place at 3:30 pm. His condition deteriorated around 1:30 this afternoon as he suffered a cardiac arrest, said the hospital. After a two-hour effort, the doctors could not revive the patient.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel announced a three-day state mourning in memory of the first leader of the state. He will cremated with full state honours, said Baghel. Watch | Chhattisgarh’s first CM Ajit Jogi passes away; President, PM Modi pay tribute “The death of the first Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh Shri Ajit Jogi is a major political loss for the State of Chhattisgarh. He will live on in the memories of all the people of the state,” tweeted Baghel.The former CM is survived by his wife Renu Jogi, MLA from Kota, and son Amit Jogi.Jogi, a bureaucrat-turned-politician, suffered a cardiac arrest earlier this month and has been in a Raipur hospital since then. He was in a comatose state all through this period. “In this moment of anguish, I have no words. I pray to god to give peace to @ajitjogi_cg ji’s soul and strength to all of us,” tweeted Amit Jogi. The junior Jogi said the funeral will take place tomorrow at his native land Gorela.The son also shared pictures from the hospital where he last met his father. In one of the pictures, Amit Jogi, bent forwards, can be seen clutching his father’s feet and his head resting on the toes.Senior Jogi was an MLA from Marwahi seat and helmed the first Congress government from November 2000 to November 2003.The former chief minister parted ways with the Congress in 2016 after he and his son Amit Jogi got embroiled in a controversy over the alleged fixing of the bypoll to Antagarh seat in Kanker district in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-jogi-first-chief-minister-of-chhattisgarh-dies-at-74/story-ntcOrKr3LLvAk7dm8b54qN.html
30-05-2020||India||Trump offers to mediate as India, China eye reset||US President Donald Trump on Wednesday waded into the tense border standoff between India and China, saying he was “ready, willing and able to mediate” between the two Asian neighbours, a statement that could irk Beijing more than New Delhi.Shortly before Trump made his offer through a tweet, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at a press conference in Beijing that the situation on the China-India border was “generally stable and controllable.” The sides were communicating through both their front-line military units and their respective embassies to “properly resolve relevant issues through dialogue and consultation,” Zhao said.China is committed to abiding by agreements signed by the sides and to “maintaining peace and stability in the border area between China and India”, he said.Also read| India China standoff explained: Bridge over troubled watersChina’s ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, made a pitch for putting ties back on an even keel. Without referring to the border standoff, Sun told a webinar that the two sides “pose no threat to each other” and should “never let the differences shadow the overall… bilateral cooperation”. At the same time, he added, they should seek “understanding through communication and constantly resolve differences”. Also Watch | China’s muscle flexing explained and how India can tame the dragon l In FocusThere was no official reaction to both developments from Indian officials, but people familiar with developments acknowledged that the two sides were in contact through diplomatic channels in both New Delhi and Beijing to address the situation.The Indian side has already made it clear that it won’t allow any unilateral alteration of the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) even as it works towards a peaceful resolution of the worst stand-off since the 73-day face-off between border troops at Doklam in 2017.Trump, who has in the past repeatedly offered to mediate between India and Pakistan on the issue of Kashmir and been rebuffed by New Delhi, said he had informed India and China of his offer. However, this couldn’t be independently confirmed.Also read: Donald Trump offers to mediate ‘raging’ India-China border dispute“We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute. Thank you!” he tweeted.The US has been closely tracking the latest flare-up on the India-China border, and Trump’s remarks came a week after his administration’s outgoing pointperson for South Asia, Alice Wells, strongly backed the Indian position in the standoff and said such disputes are a “reminder of the threat posed by China”.The flare-ups were a “reminder that Chinese aggression is not always just rhetorical”, Wells told reporters on May 20. “And so whether it’s in the South China Sea or whether it’s along the border with India, we continue to see provocations and disturbing behaviour by China that raises questions about how China seeks to use its growing power,” she had said.Chinese envoy Sun Weidong, while fielding questions during the webinar organised by the Confederation of Young Leaders (CYL), underscored the importance of developing bilateral relations and deepening understanding of the “important consensus reached” by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping.Without any reference whatsoever to the standoff, Sun said: “We should adhere to the basic judgment that China and India are each other’s opportunities and pose no threat to each other. We need to see each other’s development in a correct way and enhance strategic mutual trust.“We should correctly view our differences and never let the differences shadow the overall situation of bilateral cooperation. At the same time, we should gradually seek understanding through communication and constantly resolve differences.”The “‘Dragon and Elephant dancing together’ is the only right choice for China and India” as it serves the fundamental interests of both countries, which should also strengthen cooperation in investment, production and other fields, Sun said.Sun referred to the responses of both countries to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and said China “will continue to provide assistance to India within our capacity” to fight the pandemic. He also said the two sides will try to celebrate the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations in various ways despite the pandemic.Meanwhile, the Indian Army’s top brass discussed security issues, including the border row with China in eastern Ladakh, where thousands of Indian and Chinese soldiers are locked in a standoff at multiple points, officials said.Soldiers from both sides are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the LAC and several rounds of talks between local military commanders have failed to break the deadlock.The situation in eastern Ladakh was discussed in detail at the three-day army commanders’ conference that began on Wednesday. “The apex level leadership of Indian Army will brainstorm on current emerging security and administrative challenges and chart the future course for the army,” an army spokesperson said on Tuesday.Trump’s offer to mediate came against the backdrop of steadily rising hostility and antipathy towards China in the US over the Covid-19 outbreak, which followed months of differences over trade and mounting irritation over alleged theft of intellectual property.People closely involved with India-US discussions said Trump’s tweet conformed to continuing hardening of his antipathy for China, driven by powerful hawks in his administration.“It’s a move to poke the Chinese, surely, much like a class teacher calling two squabbling students,” said a person familiar with these matters on condition of anonymity. “China believes it belongs to a more senior class, the argument goes, and will not take kindly to being monitored with India by a higher authority.”India is likely to reject Trump’s offer, as it has rejected all third-party mediation in any of its international disputes as a matter of policy, which has bipartisan endorsement from all political parties.Trump and his Republican allies have attacked China relentlessly over the Covid-19 outbreak in a bid to hold it responsible for its spread in the US. Trump has also called for an independent investigation into the origin of the outbreak and American officials have suggested the virus might have leaked from a virology lab in Wuhan.About two-thirds of Americans — 66% — have an unfavourable view of China, according to a study conducted by Pew Research Center in March. “This is the most negative rating for the country since the Center began asking the question in 2005 and is up nearly 20 percentage points since the start of the Trump administration (January 2017),” the research body said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trump-offers-to-mediate-as-india-china-eye-reset/story-6eB13dM5PB72PVgrmG7sJK.html
30-05-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak in Chennai’s Koyambedu market leads to surge in cases in Andhra’s Chittoor||As Tamil Nadu crossed 10,000 cases on May 15 — the first case, a 45-year-old man with a travel history to Oman, was detected in early March — a wholesale market of fresh fruit, vegetables and flowers in Chennai has become the latest warzone for the administration battling the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. According to a state government official who did not wish to be named, around 4000 people linked to the market have already been tested out of which 1000 are primary contacts. At least 2500 positive cases currently pertain to the Koyambedu cluster, which is higher than the total number of cases, close to 1350, linked to the Tablighi Jamaat religious conference held in New Delhi in mid-March, and which drove up Tamil Nadu’s numbers in April.The Koyambedu hotspot is also responsible for cases in 10 districts other than Chennai including Ariyalur, Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram, Cuddalore, Perambalur, Madurai and Tiruvallur. “We have either carried out facility quarantine or home quarantine of those who started the journey from Koyambedu,” the official quoted above, said.Spread over 54 acres, Koyambedu market complex is one of the largest wholesale market complexes for perishable goods in India. It houses more than 1000 wholesalers and over 2000 retail shops. In non-pandemic times, Koyambedu receives nearly 1500 truckloads of horticultural produce and at least 100,000 visitors, daily. Usually bustling with customers, vendors and trucks ferrying goods from other parts of the state, the market complex often witnesses a rush before festival days. However, by the time that the Tamil New Year was celebrated on April 14, the second lockdown had been announced, and as the work had dwindled — barely 400 trucks now visited the market daily — several labourers returned to their home districts. By then, however, the virus had spread among workers. Now, it began to leave Chennai.On May 4, 300 of the 527 new cases reported were found to be linked to the market. Within hours, it was shut down. According to S Ram Mohan, a core committee member of the Joint Action Committee of vegetable vendors’ associations at Koyambedu market, the district administration had shut down the flower and fruit sales at the market complex well before May 4. By then, even the vegetable retailers had stopped operations from the complex. On April 28, retail traders and fruit sellers from Koyambedu had been relocated to the bus terminus at Madhavaram, a suburb in the city’s northwest. Expecting wholesalers to do likewise would have been difficult as few open spaces in the city have the capacity to handle 3000 tonnes of vegetables each day, GD Rajasekaran, president, Koyambedu Periyar Market Association, said. Mohan added that in the last week of April, administration officials also issued e-passes to wholesalers, their staff and truck labourers who were still entering the market for work. “We were already operating at 50% capacity, but even that amounted to at least 40,000 persons,” he said. However, the district issued far fewer passes, he claimed. When the announcement was made to shut down the market, Mohan said, there was at least Rs 10 crore worth of vegetables making their way to Koyambedu, and Rs 3 crore vegetables waiting to be sold inside the complex. The committee managed to extend the time of the shut down to the following morning. By 9 am on May 5, “almost 85% of the vegetables were sold, in a distress sale,” he added.Panic buyingOn April 24, the state government announced a hard lockdown for four days, between April 26 and 29. This led to a spate in panic buying. Mohan recounted scenes of utter chaos in Koyambedu in the two days before the hard lockdown was enforced. On April 30, another round of panic buying ensued after people realized that the second leg of the national lockdown, which was expected to end on May 3, would likely be extended. By this time, however, the first case of Covid-19 had been detected from the market complex. “We had rushed to the market hours after the announcement [of the hard lockdown] thinking we would stock up for our own homes and for sales, as all stores would be shut for three days. But there was already a crazy rush at the market even though it was late. I could see people jostling. My partner later said the crowd was at least four times the normal amount,” a wholesale trader who refused to be named, said.Last week, chief minister Edappadi Panaiswami blamed the traders for not vacating the market when asked in March itself. He said that despite several pleas since March they were adamant on staying put citing losses that would be incurred by them. “Now, because many from Koyambedu had travelled to other districts, the number of infected there has gone up. This is the reason for the spike in cases in Chennai also,” he said. However, Mohan countered this and said that no official meeting was held between the wholesale vendors and the authorities in March or April. “We had decided to declare a holiday on March 27 and 28, after the lockdown was announced and everyone was prepared for it. On March 26, we were called by the officials who were furious that we had announced the holiday. The president of our association informed us after the meeting that we had been instructed by the government to continue to remain open. The concern was that there should be no stoppage of essential commodities,” he said. The state has now relocated the Koyambedu market complex to Thirumazhisai, 20 km away, in a large vacant plot in a satellite township located between Poonamallee and Sriperumbudur on the Bangalore highway. At 198 licensed wholesale shops have been opened, and the market now opens at 9pm every night. By 6 am, the sales of the day are completed. Watch towers, with policemen, overlook the shops; ever so often, a patrol car would pass by. On Thursday, the district collector of Thiruvallur district held a meeting with the shop owners, stressing on them the need to wear masks, use sanitisers and practice physical distancing, Mohan said. Pushing up the numbersSuper-spreading events have played a much bigger role in the virus spread in Tamil Nadu than in Maharashtra and Gujarat — two other states that have seen huge numbers of Covid-19 cases, experts said.The spike in numbers due to the Koyambedu cluster is immediately noticeable. Between April 24 and May 3, the average daily new cases reported in Tamil Nadu were 134; from May 4 to May 13, the average grew to 620 a day.Persons linked to the market have spread the virus the neighbouring states of Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. At least 70 personnel linked to the Manathavady police station in Kerala’s Wayanad have gone into quarantine as a precautionary measure after three of their colleagues tested positive. The trio is believed to have contracted the virus from a man who was called to the station in connection with a case on April 28 and May 2; he later tested positive for Covid-19. This man is suspected to be a contact of a truck driver, who returned from Koyambedu market, and who has already infected at least 10 persons, including his wife, mother and grandchild. In Andhra Pradesh, eight cases are believed to be linked to the Koyambedu market.T Jacob John, a former professor of Virology, Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore blamed ad-hoc decisions and panic among people because of the total lockdown. “A lack of imagination and understanding of ground realities had allowed opportunities for the virus to spread rapidly,” he said, adding that to contain the disease, all people must wear masks outside their home and maintain hand hygiene. “It is a simple solution that should be strictly enforced. It should have done long ago,” he said.As the state prepares to come out of the lockdown in a phased manner starting May 17, it must also direct its resources towards cases that will arise from the Shramik Special trains, ferrying migrant workers as well as the return of residents from other countries via flights. Since Friday, the daily bulletin issued by the state government has begun to keep track of the Covid-19 positive cases of passengers returning from other countries and states: six from Maldives, 40 from Maharashtra, among others. In such a scenario, the day-by-day rise of cases linked to the market will add to the pressure on the state’s health infrastructure. The good news is that the state is testing much more than it was even last month. Some other experts pointed out that Tamil Nadu’s high case load was paired with a high testing rate. The state had conducted the highest total number of tests as per the HT dashboard at 280,023 as of Thursday night, which translates into 4179 tests per million people, far higher than the national average of 1540 per million people.“The more you test, the more you find. Tamil Nadu is finding more cases because they are testing more. The state has a strong public health infrastructure,” said Dr V Ramana Dhara, professor at Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad. “These cases are probably occurring in other states too, but they are not testing more. When testing increases, numbers will also increase,” he added.On Thursday, a group of public health experts met the chief minister and urged him to step up testing and said there was no need to panic with the high numbers. Speaking to reporters, Prabhdeep Kaur of the National Institute of Epidemiology scientists pointed out that Tamil Nadu’s testing rate was better than many countries and that increased testing was the bedrock to create successful containment strategies.“The increase in number of cases is something to be expected especially as the most stringent components of the lockdown are relaxed. We are seeing the residual of a couple of major clusters, for instance, the Koyambedu cluster,” Dr Ram Gopalakrishnan, an infectious disease specialist at Apollo Hospital who is a committee of healthcare and medical experts that consults with the government told HT. “The incubation period of this disease is between 2 to 14 days, so whatever happened 2-14 days ago, we are seeing it now. And obviously there was some relaxation in lockdown between the second and third lockdowns, we are seeing the effects of that too now.”With inputs from Sowmiya Ashok||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-in-chennai-s-koyambedu-market-leads-to-surge-in-cases-in-andhra-s-chittoor/story-QtcM97qFIJ6o4yM44ewh7K.html
