31-05-2020||India||Video shows brawl at border, clip not authentic, says army||NEW DELHI An undated video and a photograph that purportedly capture violent scraps between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh surfaced on social media on Sunday, bringing the border feud along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) into sharp focus.The army said the visuals were “not authenticated” and linking them with the border situation was “mala fide.”While the two-minute-45 second video, seen by Hindustan Times, ostensibly shows a brawl between troops of the two countries on the banks of Pangong Tso in which the Indian side is dominant, the photograph shows injured and bleeding Indian soldiers at the receiving end of Chinese aggression.The photograph, which also appears to be taken on the banks of Pangong Tso lake, shows Indian soldiers bound with ropes by the Chinese. It found its way into the social media after the video came out — a clear indication, analyst said, of wanting to own the narrative. Pangong Tso has been at the centre of a weeks-long border standoff between India and China that threatens to plunge the bilateral relationship to a new low.The Indian Army on Sunday said the contents of the video (and the photograph itself), were “not authenticated”, and any attempt to link it with the situation on the northern borders was “mala fide.”The video and photograph have come out at a time when India and China are talking to each other at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the standoff. Experts said the visuals had surfaced at a critical juncture and could potentially complicate the discussions.In a statement issued on Sunday morning, army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said, “It has been brought to our notice that a video is doing the rounds in social media on an incident on the borders…Currently, no violence is happening”.He said differences were being addressed through interaction between military commanders, guided by established protocols on management of borders between the two countries.The video shows furious Indian soldiers and Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel chasing away Chinese troops who appear to have left their vehicle, a Humvee knockoff, behind. In the video, a Chinese soldier is seen lying on the ground bleeding from his head, while an Indian soldier covers him with a shield to avoid further injuries in the midst of the violent confrontation.“It is important for local commanders on both sides to ensure passions do not run out of control. Things can’t be allowed to go from bad to worse,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).Military commanders have been talking almost daily to break the stalemate. Soldiers of the two countries are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh including Pangong Tso.Anand said the army strongly condemned attempts to sensationalise issues impacting national security. “The media is requested not to air visuals that are likely to vitiate the current situation on the borders,” he added.China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery guns on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements and matched the neighbour’s military moves, as reported by Hindustan Times on May 26.Several rounds of talks between local military commanders have failed to end the standoff that began with a confrontation between rival patrols on May 5-6 near Pangong Tso that left scores of soldiers from both sides injured. China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days.Chinese troops are holding positions on their side of the border in north Sikkim where soldiers of the two countries were involved in a tense confrontation on May 9 that left seven Chinese and four Indian soldiers injured, as first reported by Hindustan Times.This is not the first time such a video has come out. A video had surfaced in August 2017 purportedly showing Indian and Chinese soldiers throwing stones at each other and exchanging blows near Pangong Tso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-shows-brawl-at-border-clip-not-authentic-says-army/story-hInySSdHouNuElBNj3CrVM.html
31-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM in self-quarantine after attending meeting with Covid-19 positive minister||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday went into self-quarantine as a precaution after his Cabinet colleague and state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19. The CM, some of his ministers and top bureaucrats had attended a Cabinet meeting on Friday in which Maharaj was also present.Apart from Maharaj, his two sons, two daughters-in-law and 17 of his staff also tested positive for coronavirus infection on Sunday, a day after the minister’s wife was found positive for the virus.In a late evening development, the state health secretary Amit Singh Negi said that a decision on putting the other ministers and officials in quarantine would be taken by Dehradun district magistrate on Monday since as per the Centre’s guidelines that distinguish between high-risk and low-risk contacts of a Covid-19 positive patient, the ministers come under low-risk category. Therefore, they can continue to work normally and need not be quarantined as of now.“All the ministers come under low-risk category as they maintained distance and wore masks during the meeting despite being in the same room. The district magistrate will be taking a final decision on this and decide who will be home quarantined and who can continue working normally. As a precautionary measure, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has already quarantined himself,” said Negi.He explained that if some one lives in the same house, travels in the same car, comes in contact with a positive person with less than one metre distance, interacts without a mask with a Covid-19 positive person, then they are considered to be high risk.In the case of high-risk contact, the person will be home quarantined for 14 days and the test will be done according to the protocol of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Low-risk contacts can do their work as before but their health status will be monitored for 14 days.Earlier, confirming the test report of Satpal Maharaj, Abhishek Sharma, officer on special duty to the tourism minister said, “Maharaj, his two sons and two daughters-in-law tested positive on Sunday along with 17 of his staff members. A total of 41 people including Maharaj and others who came in contact with his wife, were put in quarantine and tested for the virus infection as per the health norm on Saturday itself. The remaining have tested negative.”He added that the minister and his four family members had been admitted at AIIMS, Rishikesh, where his wife is already undergoing treatment. “The other infected people have been admitted to a city-based hospital in Dehradun,” Sharma said. Uttarakhand has reported 907 Covid-19 cases so far including 158 cases which came out on Sunday. Of the total cases, 102 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-in-self-quarantine-after-attending-meeting-with-covid-19-positive-minister/story-APkmnSvgibGLkbo8HctRgI.html
31-05-2020||India||Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, Bengal’s testing matches up to national level||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases, the state recorded 1,685 new cases in the past seven days, taking the tally to 5,501 coronavirus cases since March 17, Bengal’s testing parameters have improved and the state is finally catching up with the national average and some other major states.Criticised for being one of the worst-performing states in terms of testing, West Bengal tested about 2,000 samples per day in the first week of May and the testing per million population stood at only 279 on May 4. Bengal has been testing more than 9,000 samples per day over the past few days. This has finally brought Bengal close to some other major states. Tamil Nadu tested 12,807 samples on May 31, while Maharashtra said on May 24 that they were testing between 10,000 and 14,000 samples per day.Its testing per million population has also risen to 2,264, as on May 31. The national average has been around 2,500 tests per million over the past week. There has also been significant improvement in the positive confirmation rate – number of persons testing positive for 100 tests – from 4.87% on May 5 to 2.7% on May 31. This is better than the national average of 3.56%.“The testing per day will further increase and go beyond 10,000 samples per day soon. We are not stepping up the speed for a few days because of backlog in reports from laboratories,” said a senior health department official.However, being India’s fourth most-populous state, even 9,000 tests per day keeps the state behind some other states in tests per million population. For example, Maharashtra’s testing per million stood at 3,349 as of May 30, and Karnataka’s at 4,124 per million, while Delhi has been testing 9,689 samples per million. Gujarat conducted 2,790 tests per million, as on May 26.According to Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha MP Santanu Sen, who has been one of the key people in chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Covid-19 management team, “Our policy is to test, identify, and isolate. Testing has improved significantly and will increase further.”Bengal on May 31, reported 371 new Covid-19 cases, mostly from the different districts where migrant workers recently returned. Public health expert Rezaul Karim, too, lauded the state government’s role in increasing testing. “It feels very good to see that the state has made such a significant improvement in a short time,” Karim said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-bengal-s-testing-matches-up-to-national-level/story-15HVgpT4gdtUmvwJBgYRYP.html
31-05-2020||India||22-yr-old who ran robbery school in Delhi nabbed: Cops||New Delhi: A 22-year-old man who ran a “robbery training school” from his house in outer Delhi’s Bawana was arrested after an encounter, police said on Sunday.The police said the suspect, Manish, started the “school” in his house in the area’s JJ Colony after getting bail from prison in a snatching case earlier this year.“He has 17 known snatching cases registered against him. After his release from jail in February, he decided he would not be directly involved in robberies and would instead make money by training young snatchers and robbers, and from taking a cut on their earnings,” said Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north).So, Manish allegedly scouted for youngsters — minors and adults — who were keen to enter the trade.“He would bring them to his house in Bawana’s JJ Colony and train them to identity targets like pedestrians and cyclists and snatch from them without getting caught. He also trained them on what neighbourhoods to choose and getaway routes strategically,” Sharma said.It remained unclear how many robberies were allegedly carried out by Manish’s trainees, but the police said they were alerted of the presence of Manish’s school by one of his trainees, Kuldeep, who was arrested on May 24 for a snatching in Bawana.“In the early hours of Friday, on the basis of a tip-off, we set up a trap in Bawana. When Manish and his two associates driving a van were signalled to stop, they rammed the police barricades and tried to get away,” Sharma said. Once intercepted, Manish allegedly fired at the police team, who fired back in response. No one was hurt in the brief exchange. The police went on to recover two guns and 20 allegedly stolen mobile phones from the gang.Another investigator not authorised to speak to the media said Manish charged between 20% and 50% as commission on the after-sale value of the robbed items.“While we caught Manish’s associates, Hazibul Sheikh and a minor, Manish ran down a drain to escape. But he hurt his foot in the process, and we caught him,” said the other investigator.Sharma said Manish would also train them on how to cover their faces and avoid having any signs on themselves and their motorcycles that could lead to them being identified.“He would also provide them motorcycles to carry out the robberies and take care of their legal needs in case anyone got caught,” the officer said.In return, his apprentices would pay him a share of their earnings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-yr-old-who-ran-robbery-school-in-delhi-nabbed-cops/story-PvVdSs3ZxUsJuu984g7aGI.html
31-05-2020||India||Haryana releases Unlock 1 guidelines: Interstate movement of people allowed||The Haryana government has allowed interstate and inter-district movement of people and goods starting Monday to facilitate a three-phased exit from lockdown as directed by the centre. As per the guidelines released for the first phase of unlock-1, the state transport department will issue a time table of interstate and inter-district bus routes which may be revised from time to time. The permission for interstate movement is likely to provide big relief to daily commuters from satellite towns of Gurgaon and Faridabad, who travel to Delhi for work. The guidelines state that taxis and cabs will continue to ply in accordance with the existing standard operating procedures (SOPs).Sporting activities can now be started from 5 am instead of earlier 7 am, as per the guidelines.In line with other relaxations offered by the Central notification released on Saturday, the state will allow reopening of religious places, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services apart from shopping malls from June 8, in accordance with the SoPs that will be released by the Central ministry of health and family welfare.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19State has allowed weddings with a maximum of 50 guests and last rites with a maximum of 20 attendees. Other events necessitating large public gatherings or congregations continue to remain prohibited.District magistrates have the liberty to impose additional restrictions on the movement of individuals from 9 pm to 5 am except for essential services in their respective areas using powers under Section 144 of the CrPC.The public is advised to compulsorily wear face masks in public places, places of work and while using transport.The guidelines say that the state government will open the restricted areas in a phased manner in accordance with the provisions of the National Disaster Management Act.The lockdown will continue in the state’s containment zones till June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-releases-unlock-1-guidelines-interstate-movement-of-people-allowed/story-LonksN91FINBO2f5SooWAJ.html
31-05-2020||India||Man sexually harasses 25-yr-old girl alone at quarantine centre, arrested||Uttarakhand police arrested a man on Sunday for allegedly sexually harassing a girl who was alone at quarantine centre in Nainital district, police said. The accused was booked under under IPC (Indian Penal Code) section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty).“ A 25-year-old girl was quarantined alone at a primary school in Gusainpur village in Haldwani area after she returned from Dehradun on May 21,” said Bhagwan Singh Mehar, in-charge of Mukhani police station in Haldwani .Mehar said girl’s mother, brother and sister-in-law were staying with her at the quarantine centre during the nigh time to protect her.“She was alone at quarantine centre on Sunday as her family members had gone home after staying with her in quarantine centre during the night,” he said.Mehar said the accused entered the quarantine centre around 11.30 am on Sunday when her family members had gone home. The accused started obscene talk with her and then harassing her sexually. The girl screamed for help due to which a teacher and village development officer posted at the centre came rushing and caught the man.“Both teacher and the VDO took the man to the police station. He has been identified as Rinku, 28, resident of Haldwani,” Meher said. The school teacher Dayal Nath Goswami lodged a complaint with the local police station after the accused was handed over to the police. Kundan Singh Vohra, gram pradhan (village head) Anandpur gram sabha, where the incident took place, said, “The girl was quarantined alone in the school as there were no other such cases in the area. So her mother, brother and sister-in-law were also staying at the school in the night to protect her. We had made separate arrangements for the family members. We had demanded police protection for the girl but it was not granted”, he saidThis is not the first time a woman has been allegedly sexually harassed in a quarantine centre. Earlier, a police constable had allegedly sexually harassed a woman at a quarantine centre in Kichha area of in US Nagar district. The constable was suspended later by the state police department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-sexually-harasses-25-yr-old-girl-alone-at-quarantine-centre-arrested/story-1Njs79Gy3t2M6cB2SlE4OK.html
31-05-2020||India||Architect behind iconic Dilli Haat dies at 62||New Delhi: Pradeep Sachdeva, the architect of several iconic buildings and inclusive public spaces in the country, passed away on Sunday morning at the age of 62. Sachdeva is credited with conceptualising and designing Dilli Haat,which showcases ethnic food and handicrafts , near INA Market, which was later replicated at Pitampura and Janakpuri by the Delhi government, and the Garden of Five Senses, a public leisure space, at Said-ul-Azaib near Saket He has been involved in several projects related to riverfront development, public spaces and buildings across India.“Architect of Delhi’s iconic Dilli Haat & Garden of Five Senses Pradeep Sachdeva is no more. The spaces he created have become architectural landmarks for our city brought alive by his imaginative design. RIP,” tweeted deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia.According to friends of Sachdeva, he hadn’t been keeping well for the past few months and was admitted in a hospital recently for treatment.His friend and urban designer AGK Menon remembered him as an innovative focused on the “indigenous quality of design” in his work.“He tried to use the local construction techniques, indigenous designs in his work to create something extraordinary. This you will find in most of his work,” Menon said.Dilli Haat, Menon said, was one of his most important works. “It is an inclusive public space, which has been designed over a Nullah. The place is contemporary yet traditional,” said Menon.For the past few years, Sachdeva had been working on the Delhi government’s ambitious Chandni Chowk redevelopment project, work on which started in December 2018 after much delay.The project was close to him as it involved pedestrianisation of one of Delhi’s most congested markets without disturbing its heritage. Nitin Panigrahi, deputy general manager of Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), tweeted, “PradeepSachdeva ji shall be remembered for his passion for inclusive urbanism & architectural heritage revitalisation. Redevelopment Project of #ChandniChowk may inspire policy makers to recognise his impetus to make public streets inclusive for all #pedestrian or #cyclist alike....”He was also the main consultant for the Jama Masjid Precinct redevelopment project, work on which is yet to start.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/architect-behind-iconic-dilli-haat-dies-at-62/story-1MKTz7rllMlUSzSRt653SN.html
31-05-2020||India||Odisha warns farmers to be ready for locust attacks beginning June||With farmers in states like Rajasthan battling swarms of locusts invading their farmlands, the Odisha government on Sunday asked its farmers to get ready for a similar attack in June.“As informed by the Centre, the locust swarm will invade western Odisha districts like Bargarh and Sambalpur in June and cause extensive damage to trees and other vegetable plantations. Adequate steps will be taken to create awareness among farmers and soon a SOP will be issued. The movement of locusts will be monitored at district and block levels,” Dean of the Odisha University of Agriculture Technology, Lalit Mohan Gadnayak said.“It has been decided that a team of entomologists of the OUAT and the Central Rice Research Institute at Bidyadharpur in Cuttack will be formed. The team will issue the SOP for farmers to save their crops,” he said. Gadnayak, however, said the locusts will leave the state with the onset of rain.He said farmers residing close to Chhattisgarh, have been asked to remain alert and take immediate steps like spraying 5% Neem Seed Kernel Extract 200 litres per acre of crops and vegetation after sunset as a precautionary measure.If farmers spot locusts swarming towards their farmland, steps like beating utensils can be taken in order to stop the swarms. Since locusts stop movement and settle on vegetation after dusk, farmers can hit branches of trees and crops to remove the locusts, collect and dispose of them by setting fire to the pests at a safe place.India is currently, seeing the worst locust attack in over 7 decades as locust swarms from Pakistan now threaten to devastate crops and vegetables over thousands of hectares in states like Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. Rajasthan is now the most affected state.The desert locust is a species of locust, a swarming short-horned grasshopper that devour everything in their path. As per entomologists, the current swarm of locusts contains immature locusts that could gorge on the crops before getting ready for mating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-warns-farmers-to-be-ready-for-locust-attacks-beginning-june/story-puYMDsZvSwCxqYwDbvc2SN.html
31-05-2020||India||Unlock 1: Bengal prepares for new normal with restrictions, less public transport||After two months of lockdown, people in West Bengal are all set to step outdoors on Monday amid restriction and significantly less public vehicles.Long distance trains, government buses, ferry services, taxis and auto-rickshaws will operate with limited number of passengers, while private bus operators on Sunday said they will remain off the streets as carrying fewer passengers would lead to losses. Buses cannot ply if passengers exceed seating capacity and all people on board must wear masks and gloves.Local trains and metro services, which carry the maximum number of people in Kolkata and between the state capital and the suburbs, will not run. Taxis, radio taxis and auto-rickshaws have been allowed to ply with only two passengers.ALSO READ | Unlock 1: States allow shops, markets, offices to reopen with full capacityState government offices, which now operate with 50 per cent workforce, will have 70 per cent people from June 8. Private offices, too, can operate from June 8 with managements deciding the size of manpower, said a notification the state issued on Saturday. “However, work from home should be encouraged,” it added.The lockdown has been extended till June 15 in containment zones but the state has allowed tea and jute industries, along with medium, small and micro industries and construction activities to start from Monday with 100 per cent manpower.Shopping malls will open on June 8. Amitabh Taneja, chairman, Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI), said, “We welcome the announcement by the Union ministry of home affairs. SCAI has made a stringent set of standard operating procedure which has been submitted to the MHA as well as the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and other authorities.”ALSO READ | Lockdown 5.0: Bengal allows some relaxations; restaurants, malls can reopenHotels and restaurants have also been allowed to resume operation from June 8. Owners of restaurants that have bars are, however, in a dilemma as there is no official order to serve liquor. Also, the owners apprehend that few people will come in the evening since the curfew will be in force from 9 pm.“We welcome the decision. We are working on a standard operating procedure adhering to contactless dining and maintaining social distancing norms,” said Shiladitya Chaudhury, co-founder of Oudh 1590, Chapter 2 and Master Dimsum, three well-known restaurants of Kolkata.The Mamata Banerjee government had earlier divided the Red Zone into three sub-zones namely, A for affected zone, B for the buffer zone and C for the clean zone. The government has allowed relaxations in Zone–B and Zone-C in the red zones. Strict lockdown will be imposed in Zone–A.The state has allowed indoor and outdoor activities related to television and cinema production (except for reality shows) with no more than 35 people. People from the industry said they will not start shooting till a guideline is in place.Cinema halls and multiplexes, however, will remain closed. A prominent exhibitor, Arijit Dutta of Priya Cinema said, “We told the authorities that seats can be kept vacant between patrons to ensure social distancing. If people can travel in auto-rickshaws and buses why can’t cinema halls operate?” Mamata Banerjee has also announced that places of worship can open from June 1 but no more than 10 people can enter these places and there shall be no religious gatherings or festivals. Interestingly, some of the biggest and most visited temples such as the Kali temples at Dakshineswar and Tarapith will not open for at least 15 days, managing committees of these institutions said. The authorities at Belur Math, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited earlier this year, will also remain closed for at least 15 days till safety arrangements are beefed up.Mosques too are likely to see fewer people. The West Bengal Imams Association said opening places of worship is not the priority of a government. “Efforts should rather be made to open establishments that affect livelihood of people,” said Mohammad Yahiya, chairman of the association. A large section of entrepreneurs have, however, welcomed Unlock 1. Fashion designer Snehasish Bhattacharya said Darzee, his studio, will open on Monday. “We will request visitors to restrict their numbers to no more than three at any given time. They must seek appointment prior to a visit. Masks are an absolute must inside the studio,” he said.“Many hawkers who hail from other states have returned home. Some hawkers have already opened shops and some more will start business on Monday. But given the present scenario I doubt if customers will maintain health guidelines,” said Shaktiman Ghosh, general secretary, National Hawker Federation. Among the 200 long-distance trains that will start plying across the country, eight pairs will be run from Howrah and Sealdah stations. These include the Kolkata-Amritsar, Howrah-Jodhpur, Howrah-New Delhi and Sealdah-Bhubaneswar special trains. Passengers have to arrive at stations 90 minutes before departure and undergo screening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-bengal-prepares-for-new-normal-with-restrictions-less-public-transport/story-7C4mx1T77iGO0USIBC4zuK.html
31-05-2020||India||Sustained HCQ intake with PPE use helped prevent Covid-19 in healthcare workers: ICMR study||Sustained intake of anti-malarial drug hyrdoxychloroquine (HCQ) along with appropriate use of personal protective equipment (PPE) led to a significant decline in the odds of healthcare workers getting infected with the coronavirus infection, a study has indicated.According to the findings of a case-control study published online in the ICMR’s Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR) on Sunday, consumption of four or more maintenance doses was associated with a significant decline in the risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection among the study participants.“Biologically, it appears plausible that HCQ prophylaxis, before onset of infection, may inhibit the virus from gaining a foothold,” researchers said in the study.    The advantage of PPE usage was also independently indicated by the multivariate model, they said.    Healthcare workers (HCWs) are at an elevated risk of contracting COVID-19. While intense occupational exposure associated with aerosol-generating procedures underlines the necessity of using personal PPE by them, high-transmission efficiency of the causative agent [severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)] could also lead to infections beyond such settings, the study said.Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), a repurposed antimalarial drug, was empirically recommended as prophylaxis by the National COVID-19 Task Force in India to cover such added risk.  Against this background, the current investigation was carried out to identify the factors associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection among HCWs in the country, the researchers said.   The study highlighted that health care workers (HCWs) performing endotracheal intubation had higher odds of being SARS-CoV-2 infected.“It was identified that simply initiating HCQ prophylaxis did not reduce the odds of acquiring SARS-CoV-2 infection among HCWs. However, with the intake of four or more maintenance doses of HCQ, the protective effect started emerging, and in the adjusted multivariate model, a significant reduction (>80%) in the odds of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the HCWs was identified with the intake of six or more doses of HCQ prophylaxis.  “This dose-response relationship added strength to the study outcomes,” the study stated.It is worth mentioning in this context  that the National Task Force for COVID-19 in India recommended a once-a-week maintenance dose for seven weeks (400 mg once weekly), following the loading dose (400 mg bd) for HCWs.Adherence to this recommended regimen is underlined by the findings of the study, researchers said.“However, HCQ prophylaxis should be taken in tandem with PPE use as indicated by the multivariate model,” they said.  The study stated that a recent registry-based analysis highlighted that HCQ did not offer therapeutic benefits to severe COVID-19 cases, and was associated with increased mortality.  This apparent disparity with the findings of the current investigation could be explained by the two different application contexts, it said.  “While the observational study involving registry-analysis focussed on the treatment of hospitalized COVID-19 patients, our emphasis was on the prevention of infections among HCWs. In treatment settings, severe COVID-19 patients are likely to have a very high viral load and cytokine levels, which may not be improved by HCQ therapy,” the study said.The registry-based analysis further recorded higher frequencies of ventricular arrhythmias in patients receiving HCQ. The toxicities of HCQ are likely to be infrequent in healthy groups undergoing prophylactic therapy as observed in our study participants.“Biologically, it appears plausible that HCQ prophylaxis, before onset of infection, may inhibit the virus from gaining a foothold,” the study noted.     The three most common side effects of HCQ as reported by the cases and controls were nausea (8%), headache ( 5%)  and diarrhoea (4%). While none of the controls on HCQ complained of palpitations, only one case reported the same.  Gastrointestinal symptoms such as acidity and vomiting following HCQ intake ranged from 0.6 per cent in cases to about two per cent in controls. Very few cases (0.6%) and controls (1.4%) had skin rashes after consuming the drug.HCWs tested between the first week of April 2020 and the end of first week of May 2020 formed the sample pool, from which cases and controls were drawn. Symptomatic HCWs testing positive on RT-PCR for SARS-CoV-2 were defined as cases. Controls were symptomatic HCWs who tested negative on RT-PCR for the infection under similar considerations.As many as 624 and 549 individuals could be contacted in the case and control groups, respectively. Completed interview schedules of 60.58 per cent of cases (378/624) and 67.94 per cent of controls (373/549) were available for analysis   Compared to controls, cases were slightly older (34.7 years vs. 33.5 years) and had more males (58 vs. 50 per cent).  The World Health Organization (WHO) has temporarily suspended the testing of the drug as a potential treatment for COVID-19 among infected patients in its global clinical trials following safety concerns.   On Tuesday, DG ICMR Dr Balram Bhargava had said that no major side-effects of the anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) have been found in studies in India and its use can be continued as prophylaxis for COVID-19 under strict medical supervision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sustained-hcq-intake-with-ppe-use-helped-prevent-covid-19-in-healthcare-workers-icmr-study/story-5sRNkOq0zN05JiP7UJiVsK.html
31-05-2020||India||Covid-19 enters Uttarakhand jail, 5 inmates test positive, alarm bells ring||Five prisoners have tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand’s Sitarganj jail in Udham Singh Nagar district, ringing alarm bells among the jail authorities here. This is the first case of inmates getting infected with the virus in Uttarakhand“A medical team has been sent to the jail to find out the medical history of the inmates and trace the source of the virus. It is not known at present as to how the inmates contracted the virus,” said Dr Shailaja Bhatt, chief medical officer (CMO) Udham Singh Nagar district.Sitarganj jail in Udham Singh Nagar district has 666 inmates against a capacity of around 300, said jail authorities.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesDR Mourya, superintendent Sitarganj jail said they had taken random samples of 52 inmates for coronavirus testing and sent them to the health department on May 28.“On Sunday, health department officials told us that five jail inmates have tested positive. As these five jail inmates were living in different barracks, samples of other inmates will also be sent for testing,” said Dr Mourya.He added that fourteen other prisoners, who were in touch with the ones who have tested positive, have been put under quarantine in a ward and others including the jail guards and other jail authorities who came into contact with these prisoners will be tested for the disease.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19PVK Prasad, inspector general (IG Jail) said more precautionary measures will be taken to ensure the virus doesn’t spread further inside the jail. He said it will be investigated as to how these jail inmates got infected with the virus.“We are ensuring that social distancing is maintained in the jails. We will again take stock of the situation in the light of these positive cases from Sitarganj jail”, he added.The incident has rung alarm bells among the jail authorities especially due to the overcrowding in some jails of the state. Overall, the state has around 5000 prisoners lodged in its 11 jails that have a capacity of around 3,600, said senior officials in the police department.After first Coronavirus positive case was detected in the state on March 15, the jail authorities took measures like screening every visitor, sanitization of premises and use of masks and gloves by the jail staff.According to the jail authorities, they had also banned meetings of inmates with their relatives in jails to ensure social distancing. The facility of e-meetings was started later allowing inmates to call their family members through video calling. Not just that, prisoners were also getting produced before courts through video conferencing following the directions given by Uttarakhand high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-enters-uttarakhand-jail-5-inmates-test-positive-alarm-bells-ring/story-PguM3q9xKaqj39MsYbUO4I.html
31-05-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir evacuates 102,972 stranded residents till date||The Jammu and Kashmir government has evacuated about 102,972 residents of the Union Territory, who were stranded in other parts of the country due to Covid lockdown, through special trains and buses till date in accordance with guidelines and standard operating procedures.As per the official data, 30,383 people arrived on 38 special trains at Jammu and Udhampur railway stations while about 72,589 persons were evacuated by the government in buses till date.Of these, about 1,004 stranded residents entered the UT through Lakhanpur in the last 24 hours while 798 people reached Jammu station in a special train. So far, 18 trains have arrived in Jammu with a total of 14,743 stranded passengers while 20 trains have brought 15,640 passengers to Udhampur.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesA break up of the returnees evacuated through buses shows that most people have been brought back from Himachal Pardesh-21,897 followed by Punjab -18,144 and Delhi-6,835. 4613 were brought back from Uttar Pradesh, 4168 from Haryana, 3176 from Rajasthan, 3549 from Uttarakhand, 1386 from Gujrat, 1353 from Chandigarh, 1076 from Maharashtra, 1036 from Madhya Pradesh, 21 from Andhra Pardesh, 162 from Chattisgarh, 64 from Odisha, 267 from Assam, 88 from Dehradun, 693 from Telangana, 119 from Karnataka, 21 from Tamilnadu, 52 from Chennai, 324 from Bihar, 164 from West Bengal, 107 from Jharkhand, 3 from Nepal and 3271 from other states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-evacuates-102-972-stranded-residents-till-date/story-JvtBYGBSDeyhcbkaFX36sO.html
31-05-2020||India||India expels 2 Pak officials for involvement in spying, to leave country in 24 hrs||India on Sunday expelled two officials of the Pakistan high commission after they were apprehended by law enforcement authorities on charges of engaging in espionage, the external affairs ministry said.Officials of the special cell of Delhi Police, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said three officials of the Pakistani mission were detained at Bikanervala Chowk in Karol Bagh at 10.45 am on Sunday while allegedly trying to obtain classified materials on the Indian security establishment.The three men – identified as Abid Hussain Abid, 42, an assistant in the Pakistani mission, Mohammad Tahir Khan, 44, a clerk, and Javed Hussain, 36, a driver – had been under surveillance for the past few months, the officials said.“They were caught red-handed while obtaining documents on the Indian security establishment from an Indian national and handing over cash and an iPhone to him,” said one of the officials cited above.The three men initially claimed they were Indians and even produced fake Aadhar cards, the officials said. “Later, during interrogation, they confessed they were officials at the Pakistan high commission and worked for the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI),” a second official said. A case was registered against them under the Official Secrets Act, the officials said. The detentions were the result of an operation jointly mounted by Delhi Police and Military Intelligence, they added.Subsequently, the government ordered the expulsion of Abid and Khan, who both work for the visa section at the Pakistani mission. Abid had been posted in the mission since December 2018, while Khan was posted here in October 2015.A statement issued by the external affairs ministry, without naming the detained men, said: “Two officials of the high commission of Pakistan in New Delhi were apprehended today [Sunday] by Indian law enforcement authorities for indulging in espionage activities.”The government declared both these officials “persona non grata for indulging in activities incompatible with their status as members of a diplomatic mission and asked them to leave the country within twenty-four hours”, the statement said.Pakistan’s charge d’affaires was issued a demarche or formal diplomatic representation, in which a strong protest was lodged about the “activities of these officials of the high commission of Pakistan against India’s national security”.The charge d’affaires “was asked to ensure that no member of its diplomatic mission should indulge in activities inimical to India or behave in a manner incompatible with their diplomatic status”, the statement said.There was no response from the spokesman of the Pakistani mission despite attempts to reach him on phone.The development comes at a time when ties between India and Pakistan are at an all-time low. In October 2016, India had expelled an official of the Pakistani mission after he too was nabbed by Indian security agencies while receiving classified documents.The Pakistan Foreign Office’s statement, while condemning the Indian government’s decision to declare the two officials persona non grata, claimed the Indian action was accompanied by a “negative pre-planned and orchestrated media campaign”. It said the officials were detained by Indian authorities on “false and unsubstantiated charges” and released on the intervention of the high commission.The statement also condemned what it said was the “threatening and pressuring of the diplomatic officials to accept false charges”. It said the Indian action was a violation of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the norms of diplomatic conduct “especially in an already vitiated atmosphere”.Pakistan also sought to portray the incident as an attempt to divert attention from internal and external issues within India and the situation in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-pakistan-high-commission-officials-arrested-for-indulging-in-espionage/story-9Nt0CWd03jhyL7SeOn78ZN.html
31-05-2020||India||Will allow doorstep delivery of newspapers from June 7: Maharashtra CM Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said doorstep delivery of newspapers will be allowed in the state from June 7 as his government extended the lockdown in the entire state till June 30 to stop the spread of Covid-19.“We are permitting doorstep delivery of newspapers in Maharashtra from next Sunday,” Thackeray was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Delivery of newspapers was banned in Mumbai and Pune till now amid the Covid-19 outbreak.Named ‘Mission Begin Again’, the state most-affected by coronavirus pandemic in the country, on Sunday evening issued guidelines for lockdown 5.0 beginning June 1, a day after the Centre released revised rules for the shutdown in what is being billed as ‘Unlock 1’.In his televised address to the state, the CM said the “Mission Begin Again” is aimed at restarting our lives again.Among the other relaxations announced by the MVA government, all markets, market areas and shops, except malls and market complexes, will be allowed to open from June 5 on an odd-even basis between 9am and 5 pm. In another important step, from June 8, all private offices will be allowed to function with up to 10% strength as per need, with the remaining people working from home. Intra-district bus services will also be allowed while inter-district bus services will not be permitted.The activities that will continue to be prohibited include international air travel except that permitted by the Union home ministry; social, political, sport, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and large congregations; and continued closure of educational institutions, religious places and places of worship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-allow-doorstep-delivery-of-newspapers-from-june-7-maharashtra-cm-thackeray/story-gbY9bLuSWaTex9h0ixcBNJ.html
31-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand man dies in revenue police’s custody in Almora, kin allege murder||A 38-year-old Uttarakhand man died in revenue police’s custody in Almora on Saturday night leading to his family accusing the police of murder. They also refused to take his body, said officials.According to Manisha Markana, tehsildar of Almora, the man hailing from Palyu village in Dhaulcheena block was taken into custody on Saturday following his wife’s complaint accusing him of assault and domestic violence.“The revenue police then took the woman’s husband, Soban Singh, 38 in custody,” Markana said.The official added that Singh’s health condition deteriorated on Saturday night, following which the officials rushed him to the community health centre in Dhaulacheena area of the district, where he died during the treatment.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe family of the deceased was informed about his deteriorating health condition when the cops rushed him to the hospital. The family has refused to take Singh’s body alleging the presence of injury marks on the deceased and have demanded an inquiry into this matter. A post-mortem examination was done but its report was awaited till the filing of this copy.Singh had returned from Gujarat on May 12 after which he was home quarantined. The local tehsildar (revenue officer) further informed that the swab samples of the deceased were also taken and sent for testing as the real cause of death is not known yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-man-dies-in-revenue-police-s-custody-in-almora-kin-allege-murder/story-FHW7YfHJveHRbQbr2fUJgN.html
31-05-2020||India||Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 tally crosses 22,000-mark with record spike of 1,149 cases||Tamil Nadu reported 1,149 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, its highest single-day spike in coronavirus infections till date, taking the total count to 22,333. The earlier single-day surge was witnessed on Saturday when 938 new infections were reported. Of the new cases on Sunday, 95 were passengers who arrived in the state from outside, according to the state health department bulletin, news agency PTI reported. With 13 more deaths in the last 24 hours, the death toll in India’s second worst-affected state rose to 173. As on date, the number of active cases, including those in isolation, stood at 9,400 and 757 people were discharged on Sunday alone, taking the total number of those recovered to 12,757.Besides Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu is the only state in the country with over 20,000 coronavirus infections while its capital Chennai is among the worst-affected metros in the country. On Sunday, Chennai district recorded its highest ever increase among the state districts, reporting 804 cases, totalling 14,802 , according to PTI. With the Covid-19 cases rising rapidly, the state government on Sunday joined some other states in extending the lockdown till June 30, with a revised set of rules for relaxations. Chief Minister K Palaniswami said that the decision has been taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus. “To prevent the spread of coronavirus, the curfew is being extended till June 30 under the State Disaster Management Act and as per the Union Home Ministry’s notification,” he said in a statement.Under the revised guidelines, eight zones have been identified to allow people’s movement, allowing resumption of public transport from June 1 in all but the four worst-affected districts of Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur.The other relaxations announced by the government barring the containment zones include permitting showrooms and jewellery shops to re-open but not malls.Similarly, temples and other places of worship as well as parks, beaches, cinema halls, gyms and educational institutions will continue to remain closed. IT companies and IT-enabled services can function with 20% employees, up to a maximum of 40 people, reports LiveMint. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-22-000-with-record-spike-of-1-149-cases/story-wFzWRlqdU4udWMwhgZA4UP.html
31-05-2020||India||Unlock 1: States allow shops, markets, offices to reopen with full capacity; religious activity from June 8||In Unlock 1, starting from June 1, religious and political activity will remain out of bounds in almost all states except West Bengal, Telangana and Karnataka, according to state government notifications issued on Sunday, which also extended the lockdown till June 30, as the Centre’s guidelines issued on Saturday had suggested.The Centre’s new guidelines provide a roadmap for lifting of the lockdown and allows states to take a call on when educational institutions, public transport and other places of social gathering such as malls and cinema halls can open and under which conditions, 70 days after the lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 22. The relaxations announced by the state governments would not be applicable in the containment areas, including in 13 cities that account for the country’s 70% of Covid-19 cases. The Centre has asked the states to strictly enforce hard lockdown in containment areas and on Sunday most states went by the Centre’s broad unlock guidelines.ALSO READ | In Maharashtra’s Mission Begin Again, shops, markets allowed to open on odd-even basisUttar Pradesh and Haryana allowed inter-state transport except from Delhi, which has a high number of Covid-19 cases. “The DMs will take a call on when to open borders with Delhi depending on local conditions,” said an Uttar Pradesh government official. Haryana home minister Anil Vij said that Delhi was the reason for spurt in Covid-19 cases in Gurugram and Sonepat, the two districts bordering the national capital. Maharashtra also continued with allowing no inter-district traffic between highly infected districts of Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Aurangabad.Except Maharashtra, almost all states have allowed running of offices and industrial areas, outside containment zones, with full capacity from Monday. Although the resumption of metro will take some more time, most states relaxed norms for public transport for smoother transport within and outside the states. Unlike where only up to 50% passengers were allowed, the new norms allow buses to run with all seats filled and without any passengers standing. However, private buses have not been allowed in some cities such as Patna and Jaipur. ALSO READ | Lockdown 5.0: These 13 cities will see stricter rules, more monitoringAutos, e-rickshaws and taxis can now seat up to the permitted level of passengers in most states with proper sanitization, unlike the previous norm of maximum of two passengers. Most states on Sunday said that they would later take a call on opening of schools and colleges from July 1. Officials in several state governments such as Uttar Pradesh, Uttarkhand and Madhya Pradesh are planning to set up expert committees to decide on how to open educational institutions. In Rajasthan, the government may come up with special guidelines to allow running of coaching centers, especially in Kota and Sikar, hub of coaching centers in the state. “As of now, we have asked schools to continuing teaching online,” said a Punjab government official. In Himachal Pradesh, the government has decided to extend summer vacation till June 15. Normally, schools in Himachal Pradesh have a summer vacation for a week starting from June 1. Uttarkhand plans to open government schools from June 15.With a large number of migrants having returned, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand governments have ordered that all quarantine centers running in government schools would be closed by June 15, as by then most of the workers, expected to come in the next few days, would have completed 14 day quarantine. This, officials said, would help the state governments to decide on reopening of schools from July as suggested by the Central government. Bihar’s additional chief secretary (Home), Amir Subhani, said close to 1.8 million workers have returned and many of them are expected to finish quarantine by June 8. “We will abide by the Centre’s guidelines,” he said. Andhra Pradesh government on Sunday appointed seven official committees to prepare blueprints with regard to phase-wise lifting of lockdown in the state. While two committees would look into reopening of shops and establishments and revival of commercial activities in the urban and rural areas, one committee each was appointed to suggest measures for industries, agriculture, rural development, public transport, works pertaining to public sector undertakings and revival of activities in public and private offices. Neighbouring Telangana issued an order extending lockdown till June 30. Kerala is expected to announce it unlock norms on Monday after review of the Covid-19 situation in the state, officials said. West Bengal government on Saturday had allowed all economic activities except malls and big shopping complexes. Bengal is the only state to allow opening of religious places from Monday with a restriction of maximum of 10 people at a particular time.Most states announced that they will take a call on opening of all religious places, metro rail, cinema hall, gymnasiums, amusement parks, pools, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services school by June 8, as stated by the home ministry’s guidelines. Only essential activities will be allowed in the containment areas with strict curfew conditions, the state guidelines reiterated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-states-allow-shops-markets-offices-to-reopen-with-full-capacity-religious-activity-from-june-8/story-VLeWXvIEBJfpmTRsCbVX6M.html
31-05-2020||India||Covid-19: India now seventh worst-hit country in the world||India is now the seventh worst hit country by the Covid-19 pandemic with a tally of 1,82,143 cases including 5,164 casualties, according to the World health Organisation coronavirus tracker.On Sunday, the total number of Covid-19 cases across the world stood at 5,934,936 including 367,166 deaths, the WHO said.Despite India’s surging numbers it can take solace from the fact that it is still far behind the United States which leads the table with 1,818,983 cases. The US death toll is 101,567 but its casualties have fallen from a high of 5,475 on May 10 to 1,263 on Sunday (May 31).Brazil is in the second spot with 501,985 cases while Russia is third with 405,843 cases. UK, Spain and Italy are three other countries worse off than India.On Sunday, India recorded 8,380 positive cases of Covid-19 in the highest single day spike so far.India’s death rate has spiked on two days in May. It recorded 195 deaths on May 5 before it shot up to 265 casualties on May 30 for the highest single day death toll.India had become the 10th worst affected country on May 25 when the Covid-19 tally went past 138,000. India had then overtaken Iran which had 135,000 cases to enter the top 10 list.Maharashtra continues to be the state with the highest Covid-19 cases in India but now almost all states are reported a surge in positive cases of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-now-seventh-worst-hit-country-in-the-world/story-gZ3Nf3jvmeqOj5wVEfU44H.html
31-05-2020||India||Despite surge in numbers, Assam confident of tackling Covid-19 effectively||Despite a surge in cases in recent days taking Assam’s Covid-19 tally past 1,200 cases, the state government on Sunday expressed confidence that all measures are in place to tackle the disease effectively.Exactly two months since the first positive case was detected on March 31, the total cases reached 1,273 till Sunday evening. According to officials, as many as 1,124 cases are of people who returned to the state after May 4 when the ban on inter-state movement was lifted.“The sudden rise in cases is due to homecoming of people from other states. Of the 1,124 positive cases detected since the return of people after May 4, 333 were of people who came from Tamil Nadu, 312 from Maharashtra and 134 from Delhi,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told journalists on Sunday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.According to the minister 2.29 lakh people had returned to the state from other states across the country through roads, railways and air since the imposition of lockdown on March 25.“Almost all the patients detected recently are those who have been in quarantine after their return to Assam. These cases are of people who got infected either in the state from where they came back or during their return journey to Assam,” said Sarma.At present all the 33 districts in Assam have recorded Covid-19 cases. Hojai tops the list with 177 cases, followed by Golaghat with 160 and Kamrup (Metro) with 134. Majuli is at the bottom of the list with just one case.Due to ramping up of testing facilities, Assam had conducted tests of 104,083 samples in seven government-accredited laboratories in the state till Sunday. Efforts are underway to test 10,000 samples per day soon with the opening of three more laboratories.“Apart from ramping testing, we have been able to put 2.29 lakh returnees in institutional and home quarantine and now have facilities to treat nearly 5,000 Covid-19 patients. This has been possible due to coordinated efforts of all government departments,” said Sarma.The minister added that since testing capabilities have increased, the state government might decide to reduce mandatory institutional quarantine for all returnees from 7 days at present to 4 days sometime in June. Mandatory tests of all returnees will continue as before.“We will try and ensure that test results of all returnees are made available within 72 hours of their return so that they can leave institutional quarantine on the 5th day and spend the next 10 days of mandatory quarantine in their homes,” said Sarma.He added that soon highly symptomatic patients who need special care would be kept at the six medical college hospitals in the state, those considered vulnerable will be admitted at district hospitals and asymptomatic patients will be kept at the 50 Mahatma Gandhi model hospitals across Assam.“Though we are going from lockdown to unlocking, there is no cause for concern in Assam as we have not had community spread of Covid-19 yet. From now normalization will be the theme. We have to coexist with Covid-19 and bring back the economy on track,” Sarma, who also handles the finance portfolio, said.“From a stage when news about one positive patient used to worry people across the state, we have now reached a stage where we are handling nearly 170 new positive cases daily, effectively. Therefore, though there is a surge, there is no cause for panic,” he added.The state’s government’s community surveillance programme conducted in May had covered 29,771 villages and detected nearly 26,000 people with symptoms of fever. However, tests concluded that none of them were Covid-19 positive. The second round of surveillance will begin from next week.Till Sunday evening, 186 Covid-19 patients had recovered in the state and the number of fatalities stood at four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-surge-in-numbers-assam-confident-of-tackling-covid-19-effectively/story-Pp8OiN7yu7YEuiOm8kgubK.html
31-05-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s hilly areas lack containment zones despite spike in Covid-19 cases||With lockdown 5.0 being restricted to only containment zones now according to the latest guidelines issued by the Central government, hilly districts of Uttarakhand which have been reporting a significant number of Covid-19 cases in the last one-week, lack well-defined containment zones.Districts like Nainital which have the highest number of coronavirus cases with over 220 positive cases do not have a single containment zone.Savin Bansal, district magistrate of Nainital said that the district does not have any containment zone as all the Covid-19 cases from the sudden spike in the past one week includes migrant workers.“All the cases that have been reported in the past one week, which caused a sudden spike in the number of coronavirus cases from Nainital district, were migrants who mostly returned from Maharashtra, Gujarat or Delhi. All these people were immediately quarantined at institutional facilities and their samples were tested. These people did not interact with local residents giving a chance for the virus to spread in the community, which is why we have not declared any containment zones in the district,” Bansal said.The district magistrate added that all the patients testing positive in Nainital are not necessarily residents of the district and many belong to other districts like Almora, Bageshwar or Pithoragarh; “but as they have tested Covid-19 positive in Nainital, they are being counted in the district tally hence increasing the numbers.”Bansal also said that the district administration has started the process of sending Covid-19 positive cases from districts other than Nainital to their home districts for treatment at Covid Care Centres, so that there is no shortage of beds at designated Covid-19 hospitals in Nainital district.“Susheela Tiwari Hospital in Haldwani is basically meant for Tier-3 Covid-19 cases, but till now Tier-1 and Tier-2 cases which are mostly asymptomatic patients are being treated there. Now with increasing cases, we do not want to face a shortage of beds, so we have started the process of sending Covid-19 positive patients from other districts to Covid Care Centres where they can be treated till they are discharged,” added the district magistrate of Nainital.With strict lockdown being restricted to containment zones in Lockdown 5.0, officials say that the district magistrates have the power to decide upon containment zones.Uttarakhand has a total of 31 containment zones in districts like Dehradun (8), Haridwar (15), Udham Singh Nagar (4), Pauri Garhwal (2) and Tehri Garhwal (2).Officials from the state Covid-19 control room said that an area is declared as a containment zone if a lot of cases are reported from the same locality. An official from the Covid-19 control room, requesting anonymity, further said that district magistrates of the hilly districts are not willing to declare areas as containment zones as these areas are scattered. Only two hilly districts of Pauri Garhwal and Tehri have two containment zones each. Uttarakhand has so far reported almost 750 Covid-19 cases of which 102 people have successfully recovered. The infection rate in the state stands at 3.25% while the rate of recovery is 14.03%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-hilly-areas-lack-containment-zones-despite-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-5r9SHbaVUU7iBUyZFeWvaK.html
31-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Under Unlock 1, Rajasthan will not allow religious places to reopen and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Under Unlock 1, Rajasthan will not allow religious places to reopenRajasthan will not open religious places till June 30 despite the Centre’s new guidelines which allowed places of worship and religious places to reopen under Unlock 1. Read moreDhankhar seeks meeting with Press Club Kolkata to discuss move to curb press freedomIn yet another unprecedented move, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has sought an interaction with members of the Press Club, Kolkata, to discuss the alleged curtailing of press freedom by the Mamata Banerjee-led government in the state. Read moreDelhi records highest one-day spike of 1,295 Covid-19 cases, tally past 19kDelhi on Sunday recorded its highest single-day spike of 1,295 Covid-19 cases, taking its overall count of coronavirus infections to over 19,000. Read moreWorld No Tobacco Day 2020: 8 effective ways to ‘kick the butt’, live healthySmoking has become a part and parcel of daily life owing to the stress at work or any personal challenges, dealing with which might be a difficult task for most people. Read moreThis app claims to delete all Chinese apps on your phoneTension along the Indo-China border has been escalating in the past couple of weeks. Even as the two countries take the diplomatic route to end border brawl, they keep strengthening their military might along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. Amid the present circumstances, a Jaipur-based tech startup has launched an app that is aimed at helping users delete Chinese apps from their smartphones. Read moreRohit Sharma ‘honoured and humbled’ for Khel Ratna nominationIndia batsman Rohit Sharma, who on Saturday was nominated for the prestigious Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, expressed his gratitude for being shortlisted for the honour by the BCCI. Read moreBihar residents offer food to people on Mizoram-bound train, Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga tweets videoJust three days after tweeting a heartwarming video of passengers onboard a special Mizoram-bound train giving away their food to Assam floods victims, Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga shared another clip detailing a similar situation. And now many are suggesting that it shows the true ‘spirit of India.’ Read moreCovid: UP govt planning new tax? Watch CM Yogi Adityanath’s messageUttar Pradesh Chief Minister announced details of lockdown relaxations in the state from June 1, 2020. Yogi Adityanath’s announcements were largely in line with the Central government’s guidelines issued a day earlier. He ruled out the possibility of additional taxes, claiming that his administration was focused on giving concessions to the people. He also spoke against large public gatherings in the near future, stating that Covid-19 pandemic can be defeated if the administration continues to work in a united fashion. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-under-unlock-1-rajasthan-will-not-allow-religious-places-to-reopen-and-all-the-latest-news/story-TzUyLnTQ1APINJaSrfBoVI.html
31-05-2020||India||Kerala records 61 new Covid-19 cases, to decide on lockdown extension on Monday||Kerala reported 61 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday even as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan called a meeting on Monday to discuss relaxations for the fifth round of lockdown. Since the state is witnessing a steady increase in coronavirus cases after the return of expatriates and people stranded in other parts of the country, it is unlikely that all the restrictions will be lifted.Statistics show that the fourth phase of the lockdown which began on May 18 saw the maximum number of cases in the state. State Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said the state can’t dilute some of the provisions and it will insist on passes for those who come from other states. But, he said a final decision will be taken on Monday after the CM’s review meeting.Many religious bodies have asked the government to allow places of worship to open saying closure of shrines has created a spiritual vacuum among believers but the government is yet to heed their requests. Similarly, many restaurants have also asked the government to allow dining in their outlets. Among 61 new Covid-19 cases, 20 are expatriates, 37 have returned from other states and four transmitted through local contacts, said the CM’s office adding Palakkad reported the maximum number of cases of 12 infected people. At least 15 people have recovered-- among 1,269 cases 670 are in various hospitals and 1,34,654 people are under observation, his office said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-61-new-covid-19-cases-to-decide-on-lockdown-extension-on-monday/story-5FA7OJ72fT85aKcNaCtGcI.html
31-05-2020||India||Covid 19 update-Six ASHA, Anganwadi workers and sanitary staff in Odisha test positive||Six accredited social health activists (ASHA), Anganwadi workers, sanitary staff (sweeper) and some volunteers have tested positive for the coronavirus in Odisha underscoring the risk that the frontline workers in the fight against the pandemic face.The six ASHA workers were engaged at a quarantine centre functioning in Marshaghai block of Kendrapara district that is now emerging as a Covid-19 hotspot with 89 cases. Kendrapara district collector Samarth Verma said though they were asymptomatic, their swab samples were collected due to their exposure to Covid-19 patients.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe areas where they lived have been declared as containment zones as part of government SOPs for containing the spread of the disease. “Active surveillance in these areas has been completed,” said the district collector. On Saturday afternoon, millions of Odias in and outside the state sang “Bande Utkal Janani” in praise of these frontline workers, often called “Corona warriors” after chief minister Naveen Patnaik urged people to show their love and respect for the pandemic fighters. The Anganwadi and ASHA workers are the foot soldiers in the war against Covid-19 as they collect swab samples of the suspects. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The government has already announced a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to the next of kin of these Covid-19 warriors in case they succumb to the disease.On May 27, two nurses working in a Covid-19 hospital of Balasore district had tested positive. The same day, two police homeguards in Ganjam district, too, had tested positive. A paediatrician in a government hospital of Cuttack, too, had tested positive early this week. On May 17, a sarpanch in Balasore district who looked after a quarantine centre, too, had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-six-asha-anganwadi-workers-and-sanitary-staff-in-odisha-test-positive/story-nuD6vXGCqR2mNH2UbjCnLI.html
31-05-2020||India||New ITR forms make mandatory disclosure of cash deposits over Rs 1cr, foreign travel||The government has notified forms for filing income-tax returns (ITR) for assessment year 2020-21 for individual, professional and corporate assesses that allow taxpayers to benefits of investments in tax-saving instruments for an extended period up to June 30 granted by the government following the Covid-19 pandemic. The new ITR forms also require assesses to furnish details if their cash deposits exceed Rs 1 crore or if they have spent over Rs 2 lakh on foreign travel or their electricity bill is Rs 1 lakh or more in the fiscal, in case they are not otherwise required to file income tax returns. The income-tax (I-T) department on Sunday said in a tweet that CBDT notified ITR forms 1 to 7 for AY 2020-21, which captures income and investment details for financial year 2019-20 through an order dated May 29. CBDT notifies Income Tax Return forms 1 to 7 for AY 2020-21(FY 2019-20), vide G.S.R. 338(E) dated 29th May, 2020. pic.twitter.com/xp8m20dbp5The government has given four months additional time to the taxpayers to file returns for the financial year 2019-20 because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had extended the due date for all income-tax returns from July 31 to November 30, 2020 while announcing the first tranche of Rs 21 lakh crore Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan stimulus package on May 13. Accordingly, the time for making investment or payments for claiming deduction under Chapter-VIA-B of the I-T Act that include Section 80C (LIC, PPF, NSC etc.), 80D (Mediclaim) and 80G (Donations) for the financial year 2019-20 had also been extended to June 30, 2020.According to Saraswathi Kasturirangan, partner at consultancy firm Deloitte India, the ITR 1 form, which is also known as ‘Sahaj’ (easy), has been reissued with some changes. The form, earlier issued on January 3, 2020, had sought detailed information with respect to salary income as well as house property income such as tenant details. These details are no longer being sought in the new form, she said.“The ITR 1 also now captures information on whether the taxpayer has cash deposits exceeding Rs 1 crore, expenditure on foreign travel exceeding Rs 2 lakh or electricity expenses exceeding Rs 1 lakh since these trigger tax filing requirements even where the taxpayer does not have taxable income,” she added. ITR 1 is meant for individuals having salary, pension, family pension and interest income.Amarpal Chadha, tax partner and India mobility leader at consultancy firm EY India, said the government has taken necessary steps to “timely” notify the forms pursuant to the extension of return filing deadline to November 30.“To give relaxations due to Covid, CBDT had allowed claiming of deductions on investments made during the period April 2020 to June 2020 against income of tax year 2019-20. There were certain doubts about the modality to claim deduction for such investments. The notified forms provide for required mechanism to claim such deductions,” he said.Experts, however, await necessary changes in the online return filing portal.Naveen Wadhwa, DGM at tax consultant Taxmann said the income-tax department has notified the forms without the return filing utility. “Thus, a taxpayer, who is required to file the return, cannot do so until the return filing facility is made available on the e-filing portal,” he said.The new ITR form for corporate taxpayer provides the option for the company to opt for a low tax rate without any exemption.Ashok Shah, partner at NA Shah Associates LLP said in case of domestic companies, the new form -- ITR 6 -- asks the taxpayer whether the company would opted for concessional taxation. “Tax payers who opt for new concessional tax rate are required to pay tax at effective tax rate of 25.17% and in case of new manufacturing companies incorporated on or after 1.10.2019 and commenced the manufacture or production of an article or thing on or before 31st March, 2023 are required to pay tax at effective rate of 17.16%,” he said.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on September 20, 2019 had slashed corporate tax rates for domestic manufacturing firms from 30% to 22% and for newly incorporated companies from 25% to 15% provided they forgo all exemptions and incentives. Effectively, tax incidence on existing companies was reduced to 25.17%, inclusive of surcharge and cess and for new companies it turned out to be around 17.1%.Chartered accountant Kapil Rana said the new ITR forms show that the government is making all efforts to curb the tax leakages and also allowing law-abiding taxpayers to take benefit of the investments made during the difficult time even if they are done after the completion of the assessment year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-itr-forms-makes-mandatory-disclosure-of-cash-deposits-over-rs-1cr-foreign-travel/story-iylCNrT8ntMpKxgV4fllqJ.html
31-05-2020||India||Cop, chowkidar killed in Maoist ambush Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district||Maoists ambushed a joint patrol of the police and the CRPF in Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district on Sunday killing a policeman and a village chowkidar, officials said.Members of the banned left wing extremist outfit CPI (Maoist) squad led by area commander Lodhro Lohar suddenly came out from the houses at Jonua village onto the main road on which the patrol party was going to a nearby hillock following an intelligence input of Maoists gathering there, police said.“Bodyguard of additional superintendent of police (ASP) Nathu Singh Meena’s bodyguard Lakhindra Munda and a village chowkidar Sunder Mahato were shot dead when the patrol party was taken aback with Maoists ultras suddenly launching an attack from behind the thatched houses of the villagers. The forces retaliated but by then both Munda and Mahato had fallen and we had to take special care so as not to hit any innocent villagers,” Indranjit Mahatha, West Singhbhum superintendent of police (SP), said.The patrol party was led by ASP-Operation Paranab Anand Jha and Meena.Security personnel later seized five mats, Maoist caps, food items and empty bullet shells from the village, indicating that they were either at a meeting or having food before ambushing the police party.Both Lakhindra Munda, a resident of Jharjahar village, and Sunder Mahato, a resident of adjacent Oter village, were taken to Chakradharpur hospital where doctors declared them brought dead. A medical board has been set up for their post mortem.“This was the first time Maoists used villagers and fired upon us from behind the villagers. Earlier, it has been in juggles, hillocks or forested valleys. We have a very close relation with the villagers and try out best to avoid any operation inside villages. We now have to rethink our strategy. Some outsiders and villagers from other villagers were also in Jonua village. It could also be a heinous ploy to sow the seeds of mistrust between police and villagers,” said Mahatha.This was the first setback for police and CRPF in West Singhbhum after they killed three women Maoists in Gudri in West Singhbhum district on April 4 and three PLFI ultras at Manmadhubera and Kentai hillocks on May 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-chowkidar-killed-in-maoist-ambush-jharkhand-s-west-singhbhum-district/story-JEZBC8Huk0IAmJw1WOiTpK.html
31-05-2020||India||Dhankhar seeks meeting with Press Club Kolkata to discuss move to curb press freedom||In yet another unprecedented move, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has sought an interaction with members of the Press Club, Kolkata, to discuss the alleged curtailing of press freedom by the Mamata Banerjee-led government in the state.“Interacting with Press Club Executive tomorrow to consider several disturbing actions @MamataOfficial compromising freedom of media and implication of journalists in criminal cases. As watchdog, Press Club at state and national level needs to ensure independence of media,” Dhankhar wrote on Twitter on Sunday.A senior executive of the Press Club said that the governor had sought an interaction and they had agreed. “The governor seeking such an interaction is unprecedented in the history of Kolkata Press Club,” said a veteran journalist who is also an executive of the organisation.The Press Club had not raised any such issue but the governor and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have been alleging that the Mamata Banerjee government is threatening the media.Dhankhar’s move comes in the wake of allegations that some cable-based local news channels went off-air – cable operators had put them off air – and a few district-based journalists booked for allegedly spreading fake news.The governor recently sought information from the state’s chief secretary regarding the editor of a Bengali daily being summoned to the Hare Street police station. Several other journalists were also questioned by the police regarding publication of certain news. However, the respective organisations did not raise any issue or even report those interactions in their news outlets.“Freedom of the press is inviolable. It is the spine of our democracy and promised by the Constitution,” Dhankhar wrote on Twitter on May 28.Trinamool Congress spokespersons refused to comment. “We would rather ignore him. We would have responded if the Press Club had raised an issue,” said a senior minister of the state government. BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha justified Dhankhar’s move. “The government is trying to keep journalists and media houses at gunpoint. Several journalists and editors were questioned. The press has been gagged in Bengal. The governor has made a laudable move,” Sinha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhankhar-seeks-meeting-with-press-club-kolkata-to-discuss-move-to-curb-press-freedom/story-fkIe7frL8r21NurAHe30XJ.html
31-05-2020||India||Covid latest: AIIMS, Safdarjung accused of reporting deaths late, served show cause notice||Top Delhi hospitals including AIIMS, Safdarjung, RML were questioned by the Delhi government on Saturday for alleged delay in reporting Covid-19 deaths in the capital a day after 57 deaths, spread over 21 days since April 5 up to May 30, were reported in a bunch on Saturday. The Delhi government said that the delay in announcing virus-induced deaths amounted to a violation of government orders and the disaster management act.As per the Delhi government health bulletin issued on Sunday, four top hospitals including AIIMS, Lok Nayak, RML and Safdarjung were issued show cause notices to explain the reasons for delay in reporting Covid-19 death cases in violation of the directions issued by the health department as well as by the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) under the Disaster Management Act.The show cause notices have been issued after a total of 57 deaths due to coronavirus, with some even dating back to April 5, were released collectively on May 30. A detailed break-up of deaths reported on May 30 shows that only 4 casualties were recorded on the day and the remaining 53 deaths took place between April 5 and May 29.Apart from the four hospitals mentioned above, three other hospitals in the city-- Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospital—were issued memorandums to explain the reasons for delay in reporting death cases and for the alleged violation of the directions issued by the above mentioned authorities.The other major dedicated Covid hospital, the Lok Nayak hospital-- which was recently at the centre of a row over mismatch of reported casualty figures-- has been sent an advisory asking it to be careful in the future and to follow the orders or guidelines issued by the department in “true letter and spirit” so that there is no anomaly in the deaths being reported by the government.Facing criticism over alleged under reporting of Covid-19 deaths, the Delhi government had recently issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for hospitals and other health facilities in the city setting a template for reporting fatalities due to coronavirus.Delhi records highest single-day spike of 1,295 Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 19k-markThe notices to hospitals coincided with Delhi, on the last day of lockdown 4.0 on Sunday, recording the highest single-day spike with 1,295 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally of Covid-19 positive patients in the national capital to 19,844, a little shy of the 20,000-mark, which it is likely to cross on June 1, going by the current trend.The medical bulletin also listed 416 recoveries in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cured patients in the city-state to 8,478, which leaves nearly 10,893 active cases in the capital. The bulletin said that 13 patients detected with coronavirus had died in the last 24 hours in the city, driving the casualties figure up to 473.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Delhi has a total of 103 containment zones as on Sunday and 5,781 Covid-19 positive patients are at home isolation currently, as against 2,586 positive patients receiving medical attention in designated Covid hospitals, 624 positive patients admitted to dedicated Covid Care Centres (CCS) and another 158 patients under treatment at dedicated Covid Health Centres (CHCs). 208 of all active patients are currently under ICU care and 43 are on ventilator support, as per the bulletin.The Delhi administration also issued an order regarding additional guidelines for better management of dead bodies of Covid patients and suspected cases at the mortuaries of various hospitals under the government of Delhi.It also ordered the constitution of a five member advisory committee to examine and suggest various steps of the Homoeopathic system of medicine that could possibly be used as an immunity booster against Covid -19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-latest-aiims-safdarjung-accused-of-reporting-deaths-late-delhi-records-highest-single-day-spike/story-fQyugAtrSKYRFRcYuB0nbJ.html
31-05-2020||India||Lockdown exit: Surveillance cameras to speed up NH-58 work in Haridwar with eye on Mahakumbh-2021||Under pressure to complete construction work on the national highway 58 between Narsain and Haridwar before Mahakumbh in 2021, the authorities are installing internet protocol cameras for monitoring and reviewing the progress in an attempt to cut further delays in the project which was stalled for more than a month due to coronavirus triggered national lockdown.The authorities are mindful that more time is likely to be lost during the approaching monsoon season and therefore have sped up the broadening work on NH-58 stretch on a war footing to meet the revised deadline of November 2020.The high-end IP cameras will help the Haridwar district magistrate and senior National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officials to keep an eye on the progress of the work. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19IP cameras send image data via the internet but unlike analog CCTV cameras, they don’t require any local recording device and work on just internet connection.“IP cameras will aid in vital monitoring of the work which needs to be completed before Mahakumbh-2021. Directives have been given to the national highway officials and the nodal agency to ensure the NH broadening work gets completed by November end,” said C Ravi Shankar, district magistrate Haridwar.“Currently major works like Roorkee bypass junction, Patanjali Yogpeeth flyover, Jwalapur, Bahadrabad railway bridge, Singh Dwar flyover, Pawan Dham flyover and several underpasses are in progress. Directions regarding their timebound completion have also been given to the authorities concerned. To ensure the quality of works, I have sought a third party audit report from NH officials, as no compromise on quality will be allowed,” he said.Nodal information officer, NHAI, Atul Sharma said work has been going on at a fast pace and expressed confidence that all the related work will get completed by November end.“Administration has assured us that there will be no shortage of requisite construction and raw material so that the site work doesn’t get affected or delayed,” he said.Meanwhile, onsite measures are being taken to ensure site officials and construction workers involved in the project are protected from coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-exit-surveillance-cameras-to-speed-up-nh-58-work-in-haridwar-with-eye-on-mahakumbh-2021/story-lXiB0h3QHHmXTy1IogapLI.html
31-05-2020||India||Manipur Covid-19 tally increases to 71; 11 recovers||With four more tested Covid-19 negative, a total of 11 persons have discharged from hospitals in Manipur after recovery, state health official said on Sunday.Earlier, seven persons had already recovered and discharged from the hospitals after they had tested negative.“Today four female patients were discharged from RIMS (2) and JNIMS (2) after they were found Covid-19 negative on two consecutive tests,” says Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, Additional Director and spokesperson of the health department in a press release this afternoon.“Two of them are from Thoubal district and the remaining are from Churachandpur and Kamjong districts.”Stating that they will continue home quarantine for the next 14 days and they will remain under surveillance, the release said, “Five new positive cases (3 males & 2 females) were reported from VRDL (Virus Research & Diagnostic Laboratory) of RIMS.”Of the new five cases, three are from Ukhrul district, while the remaining two are from Noney and Imphal East districts.Informing that their conditions are stable and they will be shifted to the Covid care facility of RIMS, it said all necessary control measures like containment and contact tracing are in place.The total number of recovered cases of today is 11 while the active and confirmed Covid -9 positive cases have increased to 60 and 71 respectively, it said.Earlier, three females (aged 26,21 and 19 years) and one male (20-year) were also tested at VRDLs of JNIMS and RIMS on Saturday night and they were found Covid-19 positive.Of the three females, one is a returnee from Delhi and she belongs to Imphal East district, while the other two are returnees from Pune and belong to Kangpokpi district, according to another official release.On the other hand, the male is from Sekmai in Imphal West district and he had recently returned from Delhi.Meanwhile, the state health and family welfare minister L Jayentakumar Singh on Sunday visited some of the government quarantine centres in Imphal West and Imphal East districts and interacted with the officials working there.The minister accompanied by the health department officials also distributed the personnel protective equipments,sanitizer,N-95 masks and gloves for the health workers as supplementary protective back-ups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-covid-19-tally-increases-to-71-11-recovers/story-NQKFpCwtYZteJOkL5qrGvJ.html
31-05-2020||India||200 special trains to run from June 1; over 1.45 lakh passengers to travel on Day 1||The Railways on Sunday said it will begin operations of 200 special trains from June 1 and more than 1.45 lakh passengers will travel on the first day.It also said around 26 lakh passengers have booked for Advance Reservation Period (ARP) from June 1 to June 30.These services will be in addition to Shramik Special trains and 30 Special AC trains being run since May 12.Passengers will have to reach station at least 90 minutes before departure and only travellers with confirmed or RAC tickets will be allowed to enter railway station and board trains, the Railways said.According to MHA guidelines, all travellers will be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to enter or board a train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-special-trains-start-operations-from-june-1-over-1-45-lakh-passengers-to-travel-on-day-1/story-VEMe3kmkcHosGRtnXttlCK.html
31-05-2020||India||Telangana extends lockdown till June 30, opens up inter-state transport and travel||While extending the lockdown in Telangana till June 30, the state government on Sunday announced removal of restrictions on inter-state transport and travel.The government also decided to implement the guidelines issued by the Centre with regard to relaxations to the lockdown outside the containment zones with effect from June 8.A decision to this effect was taken by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao after holding discussions with senior officials including chief secretary Somesh Kumar and director general of police M Mahender Reddy in the afternoon.A government order (GO Ms No. 72) was issued later in the evening. According to an official release from the chief minister’s office, the state government would also extend lockdown in the state till June 30.“It was decided to implement the relaxations given to the guidelines by the Centre in all the areas except in the containment zones. The chief minister instructed the officials concerned to implement strictly the lockdown in the containment zones,” the official release said.KCR also ordered that the night curfew presently being implemented from 7 pm to 7 am, be implemented from 9 pm to 5 am daily. No shops, establishments, except hospitals and pharmacies, will be allowed to remain open after 8 pm.In respect of containment zones, provisions of lockdown order, which are currently in force will also stand extended till June 30.In his orders, the chief secretary said there would be no restrictions on inter-State movement of persons with immediate effect and no separate permission would be required for such inter-state movements.The Telangana government on May 18 had extended the lockdown in the state till May 31 with certain relaxations. However, on May 30, the Union Home Ministry issued guidelines extending lockdown in containment areas till June 30.On the other hand, the Andhra Pradesh government on Sunday appointed seven official committees to prepare blue prints with regard to phase-wise lifting of lockdown in the state.While two committees would look into reopening of shops and establishments and revival of commercial activities in the urban and rural areas, one committee each was appointed to suggest measures for lifting of lockdown in industrial sector, agriculture, allied sectors and rural development, public transport, works pertaining to public sector undertakings and revival of activities in public and private offices.These committees would comprise special chief secretaries, secretaries, commissioners and directors of the departments concerned, official sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-extends-lockdown-till-june-30-opens-up-inter-state-transport-and-travel/story-33tubemLR5Ya1XcLqZsGjI.html
31-05-2020||India||Terrorist camps, launch pads in PoK full, Army’s response to CFV swift and hard: Lt Gen Raju||All the terrorist camps and around 15 launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) “are full”, according to top army commander Lt Gen B S Raju, who anticipates an increase in infiltration attempts from across the border this summer to replenish the diminishing terrorist cadres in Jammu and Kashmir. In an interview to PTI, Lieutenant General Baggavalli Somashekar Raju asserted that the back of terrorism has been “virtually broken” and that Pakistan is unable to “digest” that Kashmiris are experiencing peace and an improved law and order situation. Lt Gen Raju took over the reins of strategically located XV Corps in Srinagar on March 1. “The back of terrorism is virtually broken. Because of the successes in eliminating terrorists operating in the hinterland, we expect cross-border infiltration to increase in the summer season to make up for the dead terrorists. I anticipate more and more attempts to replenish the depleting cadres, as the window for infiltration is also restricted to the summer season only,” Lt Gen Raju said in an e-mail interview. “All the terrorist camps and around 15 launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir are full. These terrorist cadres are desperate to infiltrate with the help of Pakistani Army.” Stating that Pakistan has consistently been aiding and abetting infiltration for more than 30 years now, the general said there have been several ceasefire violations (CFVs) by Pakistani army to support the infiltrating terrorist groups, but added such designs have been frustrated as “our befitting response to ceasefire violations has been swift, hard and punitive”. He also spoke about the Army’s counter-infiltration grid being fortified which, along with, “our effective response to ceasefire violations has left Pakistan helpless in furthering their agenda.” An NDA alumni from the 1984-batch, Lt Gen Raju, who earlier served as the Brigade commander along the Line of Control (LoC), and later led the “Victor Force”, a counter-insurgency group of the Army that looks after the militancy-hit south Kashmir region, also sent a clear message that those having any evil design “against our country” should shun such ambitions. “Anyone picking up weapon or harbouring ill intentions against the sovereignty of the nation will be dealt with more punitively,” he said, adding that the army with various stakeholders are fully prepared for any contingency and will continue to relentlessly pursue those people. To a question how the army is coping up with increased infiltration bids when the entire world is grappling with Covid-19, Lt Gen Raju said Pakistan is unable to “digest” that Kashmiris are experiencing peace and an improved law and order situation. “Even in times when the world is together in combating the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, Pakistan still indulges in furthering its inimical designs along the Line of Control. Our soldiers along the borders are well equipped and fully geared to take on any eventuality which arises.” The general said the army is fighting the coronavirus pandemic with utmost professionalism within India and in neighbouring regions, and also simultaneously defeating evil designs along the LoC and in the hinterland. On the recent killing of top militant leadership including Reyaz Naikoo and Junaid Ashraf Sherai, the self-styled commanders of banned Hizbul Mujahideen terror group, he said that for the past one year, the terrorist leadership of all terror tanzeems (terror groups) have been effectively targeted and eliminated. “There is now a definite leadership void and Pakistan’s persistence in pushing terrorists to carry out their agenda is losing hold on ground. After the loss of leadership...there is already a rift between various terror groups who are either vying for survival or gaining some prominence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-camps-launch-pads-in-pok-full-army-s-response-to-cfv-swift-and-hard-lt-gen-raju/story-PSl5UpzKA2Pn8LxFQ9wf8I.html
31-05-2020||India||MP govt moves 3 top Chambal officials after complaints of inaction against sand mafia||Madhya Pradesh government has transferred three top officers from Chambal region amid complaints of inaction and patronage to the sand mafia at the ground level in the administration and police department. The transfers follow a recent crackdown on the activities of the sand mafia which had continued despite the lockdown, revealing infighting among officials. Additional director general of police of Chambal zone DP Gupta, superintendent of police, Bhind, Nagendra Singh, and collector of Bhind district Chhote Singh were transferred on Saturday night and Ravindra Kumar Mishra was appointed the commissioner of Chambal division to take over from MB Ojha, commissioner, Gwalior division, who was holding the additional charge for the Chambal division so far. The transfers follow action against sand mafia on May 27—the second in a fortnight—when deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Morena range Rajesh Hingankar raided some illegally run mines in Bharauli and Lahar police circles in Bhind district and seized illegally-mined sand worth about Rs 60 lakh. The seizure spot was hardly 500 meters away from Bharauli police station.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The DIG police suspended officers in charge of Bharauli and Lahar police stations-Yatendra Bhadauria and Vijay Tomar along with two police constables who were posted in Sheopur district but were staying in Bhind to allegedly provide patronage to illegal sand miners. One of the above mentioned police constables, ran an office at his residence from where he monitored activities of illegal sand miners for obvious reasons, said a police official who didn’t want to be named. He said, the action against the sand mafia was taken at the instance of the state government following complaints of police patronage to the sand mafia.Earlier, Hingankar had raided illegally run sand mines at Indurkhi and Atarsuma on May 12 night in Bhind district. A machine being used in illegal mining at Indurkhi was seized along with two other machines called ‘pandubbi’ at Atarsuma.Two dumpers laden with illegally mined sand were also seized in the operation. The next day, officers in charge of Umari, Amayan and Raun police stations- Mahesh Sharma, Jitendra Tomar and Nayan Sharma - were suspended and attached with the police lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-moves-3-top-chambal-officials-after-complaints-of-inaction-against-sand-mafia/story-WSWne2T9twIGXLVYrhO4aO.html
31-05-2020||India||Jaipur police stops cremation of man who died under suspicious condition||The Jaipur Police stopped the cremation of the body of a person who died early Sunday morning after locals became suspicious that the family members took the body to the crematorium without performing any rituals and complained to the police.Additional deputy commissioner of police, (East), Manoj Choudhary said that the deceased has been identified as Ramavtar Jangid, 52, who used to live in the limits of Gandhi Nagar police station.“Jangid was a property dealer. His family members told police that around 3 am in the morning he suffered from severe chest pain and died of it. Around 9 am, the family members took the body to the crematorium located in Jyoti Nagar without carrying without performing any rituals and informed the police,” Choudhary said.Around 9.30 am, a police team reached the crematorium in Jyoti Nagar where the funeral pyre had already been lit. The policemen doused the fire and retrieved the half-burnt body. “The body has been kept in mortuary of a government hospital where the post-mortem would be done by a medical board to find out exact cause of death. Police is also investigating the other angles of the cases. The physical and technical history of the suspect is been traced,” Choudhary added.A police official related to this case said that neighbours and friends of the deceased told them that Jangid was fine till Saturday night and they had gotten together for a few drinks. Jangid’s relations with his two sons were not good, they said. “The family members told us that they tried to cremate the body quickly because they thought that carrying out formalities could entail a Covid-19 test and in case he tested positive then they would not be able to perform his last rites which they wanted to avoid,” the police official said.The police officer added that we are recording the statements of the family members, friends and also checking Jangid’s history to reach to any conclusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaipur-police-stops-cremation-of-man-who-died-under-suspicious-condition/story-xu2wPhViBIEFb8rapV0WdL.html
31-05-2020||India||Railway officers help 70-yr-old abandoned lady, book her ticket to get back home||Leelawati Kedarnath Dubey, a 70-year-old resident of Delhi’s Mayur Vihar, walked for 13 kilometres from Mumbai’s Mahul Gaon to Bandra Terminus on Saturday after being abandoned by her son, Dinesh Kumar Dubey. Leelavati arrived in the city in the beginning of the lockdown to look after her son who was not keeping well. Her son, who is an autorickshaw driver, gained his health and started abusing and hitting her, asking her to leave the house.“I used to pay my son for the food I ate. He abused me and used to hit me. For three months he constantly asked me to leave the house and then kicked me out,” said Leelawati. After being abandoned by her son and daughter-in-law, she walked from Mahul to Bandra Terminus. Leelawati did not have any money and survived on biscuits, rice and water provided by relief workers outside the terminus.Also read: IMD warns of cyclonic storm Nisarga over Maharashtra, Gujarat coast. All you need to know “I walked all the way. I had no option and I did not know where to go. I had no money. I was very hungry and thirsty. A truck provided me with some biscuits and water,” said Leelawati.  A video of Leelawati’s ordeal went viral following which senior Western Railway officers were alerted about her sitting outside the terminus. Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS) officer and senior divisional railway officer Suhani Mishra of Western Railway along with her team of sub-inspector protection force of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) Jeetendra Jat approached her.Also read: Mumbai Police helps lawyer with broken prosthetic leg Leelawati was taken to the waiting room of Bandra Terminus and provided with food and shelter on Saturday night.Mishra further went ahead and booked her a confirmed AC train ticket to Delhi for Sunday evening. The train will leave from Mumbai Central railway station on Sunday evening and reach Delhi on Monday.“Her voice was depicting the humiliation she went through,” said IRTS officer Suhani Mishra.The railway officers have also assured to take her to her residence in Delhi. Leelawati was all praise for the Western Railway staff, “I was provided with hot food and given shelter to sleep. All I can do is pray for the railway staff. They have assured me that an officer will accompany me to my house and speak to my son. The railway officers are now my family,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-officers-help-70-year-old-abandoned-lady-book-her-ticket-to-head-back-home/story-Pc4mJiH9NIFneKsSjyLzvN.html
31-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Andhra Pradesh registers 110 new Covid-19 cases in highest single-day spike, state count at 3,571 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Andhra Pradesh registers 110 new Covid-19 cases in highest single-day spike, state count at 3,571Andhra Pradesh on Sunday reported at least 110 new Covid-19 cases, the state’s highest single-day spike so far, taking the coronavirus count to 3,571. Two more deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours. Read moreIMD warns of cyclonic storm; likely to reach Gujarat, Maha coast by June 3India Meteorological Department (IMD) director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra on Sunday said that a low-pressure area formed near southeast Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep today and it is likely to transform into depression tomorrow and into a cyclonic storm the day after. Read moreNo money to pay salaries, Delhi has asked Rs 5,000 crore from Centre: Manish SisodiaThe Delhi government has sought an immediate assistance of Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre to pay salaries to its employees and meet its expenses as revenues have dried up during the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday. Read moreMumbai Police helps lawyer with broken prosthetic leg after a tweet. ‘Humanity still exists,’ say netizensIt all started with an SOS tweet by lawyer Carol Jagtiani who urged Mumbai Police to help her visit her prosthetist after her prosthetic leg broke. Read morePurvottanasana, Paschimottanasana and more: Practice Yoga to help reduce stress and stay fit during lockdownThe novel Coronavirus has led to shutting down of gyms and health clubs, leaving people confined to their homes. People are forced to isolate and stay indoors, thereby creating a great deal of stress and anxiety. Read moreGovt. makes changes to incentive rules in India, tries attracting Apple, others to make more iPhones in the countryIndia may see more iPhones and other handsets being manufactured in the coming months as the government has eased some rules for its PLI (Production Linked incentive) scheme, according to a report by the Economic Times. Read moreHe’s a bit like Sachin: Ian Gould on why the India batsman reminds him of TendulkarThe Sachin Tendulkar-Virat Kohli debate simply refuses to die down. After a host of former and current cricketers, the latest lot of drawing parallel between the two is that of umpires. Read moreBECIL Recruitment 2020: Apply for 464 MTS posts, 8th pass can applyBroadcast Engineering Consultants India Ltd. (BECIL) Noida has invited applications for the post of multi-tasking staff (MTS). Read moreStep inside Alia Bhatt’s cute and classy home, a house she bought with her ‘own money, own effort’Actor Alia Bhatt has the cosiest celebrity home ever. While most celebrities opt for the most luxurious options, Alia and her sister Shaheen have created the cutest home for themselves that looks lived-in, bright and full of life. Read more‘BJP does not know how to run a government’: Congress’ Kapil SibalCongress leader Kapil Sibal launched a scathing attack on the Modi government over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that the Centre was unaware about the sheer magnitude of the migrant worker crisis and added the BJP has no clue about running a government. Watch the full video for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-andhra-pradesh-registers-110-new-covid-19-cases-in-highest-single-day-spike-state-count-at-3-571-and-all-the-latest-news/story-7p7VRMT23aeILTvTnbtzsL.html
31-05-2020||India||IMD warns of cyclonic storm Nisarga over Maharashtra, Gujarat coast: All you need to know||The India Meteorological Department on Sunday warned of another cyclonic storm that is brewing in the Arabian sea near Lakshadweep and is likely to reach near Gujarat and north Maharashtra coast on June 3. The cyclonic storm called Nisarga follows super cyclonic storm Amphan that ravaged the West Bengal-Bangladesh coast this month on May 20.  Here’s all you need to know about cylone Nisarga:• India Meteorological Department (IMD) director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra on Sunday said that a low-pressure area formed near southeast Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep on Saturday. • This low-pressure area is likely to transform into depression tomorrow and into a cyclonic storm, Nisarga, the day after.• Cyclonic storm will move towards the north and reach near Gujarat and north Maharashtra coast by the evening of June 3. Maharashtra and Gujarat have been put on pre-cyclone alert.• The intensity and likely impact of Nisarga will be released by the IMD once the department obtains clearer pictures. A low-pressure area formed near southeast Arabian Sea & Lakshadweep today. We're expecting that it'll transform into depression tomorrow&into cyclonic storm day after. It'll move towards north&reach near Gujarat&north Maharashtra coast by evening of June 3: M Mohapatra, IMD Delhi pic.twitter.com/f7cgTAbhja• The cyclonic storm once formed is very likely to move nearly northwards till June 2 morning and then recurve north-northeastwards and reach near north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts around June 3 morning.• Under the influence of the storm, Lakshadweep, Kerala and coastal Karnataka are likely to receive rainfall today and tomorrow. Heavy and extremely heavy rainfall is also likely over south Gujarat, north Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra, Daman, Diu, Dadra & Nagar Haveli on June 3 and 4.How was ‘Nisarga’ named?After super cyclone Amphan, the next cyclonic storm in the region was supposed to be named ‘Nisarga’. The World Meteorological Organisation maintains rotating lists of names which are appropriate for each Tropical Cyclone basin. The group of 13 member countries, including Bangladesh, India, Iran, Maldives, Myanmar, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen, names cyclones in the region. ‘Nisarga’ was suggested by Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-warns-of-cyclonic-storm-nisarga-over-maharashtra-gujarat-coast-all-you-need-to-know/story-JZKjlxBPsQ0zxvhuQpY4XK.html
31-05-2020||India||Maharashtra, Gujarat on pre-cyclone alert as Nisarga likely to form over Arabian Sea||Maharashtra and Gujarat are on a pre-cyclone alert as a low pressure area over southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea is likely to concentrate into a depression during the next 24 hours and likely to intensify into cyclonic storm “Nisarga” in the subsequent 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.The low pressure area formed on Sunday morning around 5.30 am. All environmental conditions are favourable for intensification of the low pressure area into a cyclone but IMD will release the intensity and likely impact of Nisarga (if formed) once they have clearer pictures from the models.The cyclonic storm once formed is very likely to move nearly northwards till June 2 morning and then recurve north-northeastwards and reach near north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts around June 3 morning.ALSO READ| IMD warns of cyclonic storm; likely to reach near Gujarat, north Maharashtra coast by June 3Under the influence of the storm, light to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely over Lakshadweep area, Kerala and coastal Karnataka on May 31 and June 1. Heavy and extremely heavy rainfall is likely over south Gujarat, north Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra, Daman, Diu, Dadra & Nagar Haveli on June 3 and 4.“We are expecting rapid intensification of the cyclone, once formed because sea surface temperature is high, wind shear is low and ocean heat potential is also high. We want the state governments to be alert. But we cannot give the intensity of the cyclone now because models may not be able to simulate accurately immediately. We will give details as soon as possible,” Sunita Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD said.The sea surface temperature in parts of Arabian Sea is 31 degree C compared to a normal of 28 degree C expected during this season. “Maharashtra and Gujarat can expect very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy rainfall in some areas,” she added.Gale wind speed reaching 65-75 kmph gusting to 85 kmph over east-central Arabian Sea and along and off Karnataka- south Maharashtra coasts is likely from June 2 morning and further becoming 90-100 kmph gusting 110 kmph over east-central and northeast Arabian Sea along and off Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts from June 3 morning.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into southeast Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep area and along and off Kerala coast till June 2; east-central Arabian Sea and along and off Karnataka coast till June 3 ; east-central Arabian Sea along and off Maharashtra coast and northeast Arabian Sea along and off Gujarat coast during June 3 and 4. Fishermen out at sea are advised to return to coasts by today—May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-gujarat-on-pre-cyclone-alert-as-nisarga-likely-to-form-over-arabian-sea/story-5ZQIzNrFtUuNABRxCoyseK.html
31-05-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: Over 300% rise in Jharkhand cases since May 1, all districts invaded||Coronavirus has spread to all 24 districts of Jharkhand by Saturday, coinciding with the highest single-day spike in the state with the detection of 72 new positive cases including a migrant in a Sahibganj jail, the first for the district.The disease entered Jharkhand’s only green zone Sahibganj district after a 22-year-old migrant worker, who had returned from Punjab’s Jalandhar, tested positive Saturday late night.“The patient has been languishing at an isolation centre at Rajmahal sub-jail since May 14 and was found asymptomatic,” said Sahibganj deputy commissioner Varun Ranjan.He added, “The patient, along with his two friends, was put up in the district’s quarantine centre at Uddhwa after their return from Jalandhar on May 12. The very next day, they entered into a brawl and assaulted some police personnel guarding the quarantine centre. All the three were then arrested and sent to jail following registration of an FIR.”The deputy commissioner said that the patient was being shifted to Covid-19 prisoner ward, especially set up at the jail hospital and all measures were being taken to keep a strict vigil on this patient.Interestingly, a swab sample of the patient was taken on May 15 and the confirmatory test report came after a fortnight, a period in which many young asymptomatic Covid-19 patients recover from the disease.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Since the test samples were taken 15-day ago and the patient is still asymptomatic, we hope that he has recovered by this time and the report of his next sample test turns negative,” said the DC, who made an inspection of the jail premises on Sunday.He informed that all other 10 people, who were in contact with the accused patient in the isolation ward, including his two friends, have been separated and put in a different quarantine centre inside the jail.The state has seen a sharp rise in the number of cases since May 1, when Shramik special trains started ferrying stranded migrant workers. Jharkhand, then had only 113 Covid-19 cases spread over 12 out of 24 districts with Ranchi alone accounted for 83 cases.But as the month ends, the pandemic has now gripped the entire state and the number of positive cases has seen a 337% rise to reach 494 cases till Sunday morning. The state also reported 256 recoveries and five deaths.The state’s five districts--Deoghar, Jamtara, Godda, Dumka and Chatra-- have so far reported less than five Covid-19 cases and currently have no active patients.The worst affected districts due to influx of migrant workers are East Singhbhum, Hazaribag and Garhwa, which have reported 96, 69 and 59 positive cases respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-over-300-rise-in-jharkhand-cases-since-may-1-all-districts-invaded/story-6wmefydBn86kdV4GCrxm7H.html
31-05-2020||India||Drums, drones and DJ! Desperate measures across India to tackle the locust challenge||As swarms of locusts threaten vast expanse of agricultural land in the country, different strategies are been tried to fight off the insects. While in Pink City, Jaipur, officials resorted to drones to get rid of the locusts, farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi thought blasting off tunes through a DJ band could deter the insects in their resolve to destroy acres of farms. For the second time in a week, a drone was used to kill locusts in Jaipur’s Viratnagar on Saturday night and Sunday morning. The hilly area was inaccessible to tractor-mounted sprayers and a result the administration had to resort to drones to spray pesticides on locust swarms. “We got information about a 3km-by-1km swarm in three villages of Viratnagar on Saturday. We surveyed the area and found the pest present on 230 hectares but the area was difficult to access so we decided to use drone,” said BR Kadwa, deputy director of Jaipur’s agriculture department in Jaipur.The Uttar Pradesh government has put nearly 10 districts on alert in the wake of the locust attack. Jhansi is one of the most prominently affected areas in the country. Also read: PM Modi promises help to all states affected by locust attackडीजे सिर्फ़ नाच गाने के लिये ही नहीं बल्कि टिड्डी दल भगाने में भी कारगर होता है ।दिन सबके बदलते हैं !आप मुँह से आवाज़ निकाल सकते हैं या थाली भी पीट सकते हैं ।#DiscJockey #Locustswarm #locustswarms #Locusts #Locustsattack #LocustInvasion #LocustSwarmsAttack pic.twitter.com/zUcpYiJTGbDetermined to battle the crop-munching insects, farmers in Jhansi were seen playing loud music with the help of a ‘DJ vehicle’ used in marriage processions. A video was of the incident was posted by a police officer in Jhansi earlier this week.“DJ is not only effective during parties but for fighting off locusts as well. Days change everyone! You can make a noise or even beat the plate,” police officer Rahul Srivastav tweeted along with a short clip of the video. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh suggested something similar as asked people to burst firecrackers and beat drums to prevent attacks by locust swarms.“Whenever locust swarms attack, villagers should be alert. Locust attacks can be avoided by bursting firecrackers, the smoke of burning tires or if drums are played,” the minister told farmers while visiting his constituency Katol in Maharashtra.Besides Jhansi, Rajasthan’s Dausa and Chattarpur district of Madhya Pradesh are among the major regions in the country that have seen swarms of locusts attack. Locust swarms entered western India from Pakistan affecting states like Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. The crop munching insects can cause major damage to standing cotton crops and vegetables, posing a threat to food supply and livelihoods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drums-drones-and-dj-desperate-measures-to-tackle-the-locust-challenge/story-tVNO7xE59sPNaiJzgHzAZL.html
31-05-2020||India||In Unlock 1, Uttarakhand to resume Char Dham yatra and tourism activities||The Uttarakhand government is planning to resume tourism and start the Char Dham Yatra in a limited manner after June 8 in an effort to boost the economy, Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said on Sunday.In its latest guidelines on Saturday, the Centre allowed religious places to open after June 8 along with free inter-state travel of people in a bid to gradually open up the country after lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “We will implement the Centre’s guidelines after analysis. The Centre under its new guidelines has allowed the religious places to open after June 8, which is a commendable step as it will enable us to open our major religious places including the highly revered Char Dham, which attract many devotees across the country,” Kaushik said.“The government is planning to start the Char Dham Yatra but in a limited manner, allowing only limited people amid the pandemic. We will also gradually resume the tourism activities in the same manner as both Char Dham Yatra and tourism are basically the backbone of our economy.”The Char Dham Yatra is a religious tour circuit that draws a large number of pilgrims.The Cabinet minister said that the government had earlier suggested the Centre to allow the resumption of both aforementioned activities in the state as they are vital to boost the economy of the state which had been severely affected by the pandemic. He said, “We suggested the same before the latest guidelines were issued. And now when they have provided some more relaxations, we are hopeful to soon resume them after proper evaluation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-unlock-1-uttarakhand-to-resume-char-dham-yatra-and-tourism-activities/story-p6UxOxc64pmLTbK3jgLNQK.html
31-05-2020||India||UP extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 30 with phased relaxations outside containment zones||The Uttar Pradesh government has extended Covid-19 lockdown till June 30, while easing restrictions in a phased manner outside containment zones. The order issued by the state government on Sunday said that the guidelines for relaxations during this period will be as per the Centre’s advisory issued a day earlier billed as ‘Unlock 1’.In the first phase of relaxations, religious places, hotels, restaurants and shopping malls will reopen in the state from 8th June. In the second phase, educational institutions will be allowed to re-open in July depending on the guidelines of the central government in this regard. However, prohibition on entry of people from containment zones/hotspot areas in Delhi to Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad will remain. Following are the highlights of the guidelines issued by UP government for phased relaxations during lockdown 5.0 that comes into force from June 1: - All government offices will operate with 100% workforce. Staggered timings will be followed- 9 am to 5 pm, 10 am to 6 pm and 11 am to 7 pm to limit the spread of coronavirus.- All markets will remain open from 9 am to 9 pm on a rotational basis. Super markets are allowed to open with conditions of social distancing and other precautionary measures. Weekly markets allowed in rural areas. - Salons and beauty parlours are allowed to remain open with conditions of social distancing and other precautionary measures. Staff working at salons/beauty parlours should wear face shields and gloves while working.- Passes not required any more for inter-state travel. - State roadways buses will be allowed to operate on the condition that no passenger is allowed to travel while travelling.- All industrial activities allowed outside containment zones with the proviso that they follow measures such as thermal scanning, sanitisation, social distancing etc. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Uttar Pradesh have jumped to 7,445 as per the Union health ministry figures released at 8 am on Sunday. While 4,410 people have recovered from coronavirus in the state, 201 have died from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-30-with-phased-relaxations/story-ysqq4aW8d1GsMceFuPvXhI.html
31-05-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh registers 110 new Covid-19 cases in highest single-day spike, state count at 3,571||Andhra Pradesh on Sunday reported at least 110 new Covid-19 cases, the state’s highest single-day spike so far, taking the coronavirus count to 3,571. Two more deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours.The death toll due to the coronavirus disease in Andhra Pradesh now stands at 62.Among the new Covid-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours, as many as 98 were those who are residents of the Telugu state while 12 patients are from other states, according to a government bulletin.ALSO READ | Over 8,000 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours for first time; India’s tally at 182,143One Covid-19 death each was reported from Krishna and Chittoor districts, the bulletin read.At least 43 people in Andhra Pradesh and eight from other states have recovered and been discharged from hospitals. So far, a total of 2,332 patients have recovered from the infection.The number of active cases in the state stands at 1,177 (845 Andhra Pradesh residents, 111 foreign returnees and 221 from other states).According to government data, a total of 3,72,748 tests have been conducted in the state till date, with a positivity rate of 0.96% and a recovery rate of 65.30 per cent.Andhra Pradesh has till date carried out 6,980 coronavirus tests per million populationIndia on Sunday recorded more than 8,000 new coronavirus cases in a single day for the first time as the country’s tally surged to 1,82,143 while the death toll stood at 5,164, according to the Union health ministry.Government data showed there were 8,380 fresh Covid-19 cases, up from Saturday’s 7,964, and 193 deaths in the last 24 hours. The number of deaths went down from 265 reported on Saturday, a day before the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown was due to end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-registers-110-new-covid-19-cases-in-highest-single-day-spike-state-count-at-3-571/story-gzwPJ1bvSESZAq6di5QnmN.html
31-05-2020||India||Tripura records 280 Covid-19 positive cases with 11 fresh cases, all returnees from Chennai||Tripura registered 11 new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday taking the state tally to 280. All the newly detected patients had recently returned from Chennai.“810 samples have been tested for #Covid 19 in Tripura since last night, out of which, 11 people found #POSITIVE. All of them have returned from Chennai,” chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb wrote on his Twitter. The state has tested a total 26,376 samples so far and 172 out of 280 infected people have been cured of the disease so far. Deb recently said that his government is taking initiatives to test samples of all incoming persons from other states.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“The samples of all Bangladesh and Maharashtra returnees are being tested. Besides, samples of a good number of Chennai returnees have also been tested. More equipment is coming to the state and the government is planning to conduct Covid-19 tests for all coming from other states,” the chief minister had said.He added that the quarantine procedure is maintained at every level including villages and the Corona Monitoring Committees constituting local public representatives are actively monitoring the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-records-280-covid-19-positive-cases-with-11-fresh-cases-all-returnees-from-chennai/story-RS6LCz2nFbCRES9zyZsvzO.html
31-05-2020||India||Obliged, would continue to help others, says Pathankot’s Divyang beggar mentioned by PM Modi||A Divyang beggar from Pathankot in Punjab found a special mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address on Sunday. PM Modi talked about the good work being done by people across the country in fight against Covid-19 and mentioned the distribution of masks by Raju Bazigar.Raju, 40, was enthused by PM Modi’s words of appreciation and said that he would continue with his endeavour to help the needy people. “I am obliged and thank PM for this,” he said.Raju, a resident of Dhaki Road, was a special child but as he started begging near SMDRSD College Pathankot in 1984, his parents kicked him out for choosing this way of life. He used a wooden slab with tiny tyres to roll on the wheels whole day to beg from the students of the college but with this money, he started doing the charity by helping poor girls in their marriages.He was handed over a tricycle by some locals as he grew up. Raju then started covering the whole city and his income grew day after day.Though Raju did not tell the exact amount he spent in the recent days to help the poor, he said the figure could be somewhere around Rs 1 lakh. The amount was spent on arranging for food and masks for those in need. “My aim in life is nothing but to help others,” he said.His work is being appreciated by others too. “Pathankot is indebted to this special person and others who are helping as per their capacity in this difficult time,” said MLA Amit Vij.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obliged-would-continue-to-help-others-says-pathankot-s-divyang-beggar-mentioned-by-pm-modi/story-cvvjx8LVylQUGGtoyyJWhL.html
31-05-2020||India||IMD warns of cyclonic storm; likely to reach near Gujarat, north Maharashtra coast by June 3||India Meteorological Department (IMD) director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra on Sunday said that a low-pressure area formed near southeast Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep today and it is likely to transform into depression tomorrow and into a cyclonic storm the day after. Mohapatra said that the cyclonic storm will move towards the north and reach near Gujarat and north Maharashtra coast by the evening of June 3. This comes days after super cyclone Aphan ravaged parts of coastal Bengal and Odisha earlier this month. Amphan made landfall on the West Bengal-Bangladesh coast on the evening of May 20. Nearly 100 people lost their lives due to the super cyclone. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced a relief and reconstruction package of Rs 6,250 crore.Also read: In Amphan’s trail of destruction, Sunderbans turn red, yellowA low-pressure area formed near southeast Arabian Sea & Lakshadweep today. We're expecting that it'll transform into depression tomorrow&into cyclonic storm day after. It'll move towards north&reach near Gujarat&north Maharashtra coast by evening of June 3: M Mohapatra, IMD Delhi pic.twitter.com/f7cgTAbhja“The situation is extremely bad. Villagers don’t even have drinking water. Donate whatever you can. We will accept even one rupee from you. But please don’t donate your discarded clothes. You can even donate books, food and tarpaulin,” Banerjee said during a press conference at the state secretariat earlier this week.The centre had earlier announced a relief package of Rs 1,000 crore for Bengal after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an aerial survey of the two worst hit districts on May 23. The state too had earlier announced a package of Rs 1,000 crore. The package announced by Banerjee on Friday was over and above these.Meanwhile, the IMD has predicted spells of rainfall in parts Western Himalayan region and Southern peninsular India in the coming days. Delhi/NCR and parts of north India, reeling from the heatwave conditions, received relief over the weekend with much-awaited rainfall. The weather department has said that the heatwave conditions have abated for now and are unlikely to recur in Delhi until June 8. The maximum temperature is likely to remain under 40 degrees Celsius in the national capital this week, the IMD stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-warns-of-formation-of-cyclonic-storm-likely-to-reach-near-gujarat-and-north-maharashtra-coast-by-june-3/story-vmF2HBwyPN0UV0IKcsTu1J.html
31-05-2020||India||Covid-19 sparks unrest in Kolkata Police, Governor Dhankhar tweets concern||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar waded into the unrest in different establishments of the Kolkata Police this month with a tweet that the incidents have exposed chinks in the “historically impeccable” force.“Men in uniform so stanching @MamataOfficial worrisome. Chinks getting exposed in historically impeccable @KolkataPolice,” the governor wrote in a tweet on Saturday.Leader of the opposition in the Bengal Assembly and veteran Congress leader Abdul Mannan who met the governor on Saturday had also raised the issue.“Leader of opposition Abdul Mannan also expressed his serious concerns over the recent incidents @KolkataPolice Training School, Garfa police station & last night unfortunate event at 4th battalion of armed police Bidhanagar,” tweeted Dhankhar. Till Saturday, at least seven personnel of the Kolkata Police had been infected by Covid-19.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The unrest started on May 19, a day before Cyclone Amphan battered Kolkata and south Bengal districts. Around 500 personnel of the Kolkata Police Combat Force staged a demonstration at the Police Training School (PTS) alleging that they were being forced to share quarters with a colleague who had contracted the coronavirus disease. The men alleged that they were being sent to containment zones without adequate personal safety equipment.The commandos allegedly ransacked the vehicle of their deputy commissioner Col Nevendera Singh Paul when he tried to talk to them and even assaulted him. On May 20, chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited PTS and addressed the agitated men even as Kolkata was being ravaged by the cyclone. Senior Kolkata Police officials refused to speak on record on the incident. “The situation is now under control. That is more important,” said a deputy commissioner who is aware of the details.In the second incident, some constables at Garfa police station vandalized office property on May 25 after one of their colleagues died in hospital of respiratory disease. They alleged that he was suffering from Covid-19 but was not sent for treatment on time. They called off the protest after senior officials intervened. In the third incident, personnel of the fourth battalion of the Kolkata Armed Police force pelted stones and staged a demonstration inside their barrack at Salt Lake on Friday night, alleging that they were being forced to share the same rooms that had earlier been used by some infected colleagues. “This agitation, too, was tackled by senior officers,” said an officer who did not want to be identified.No Trinamool Congress leader was willing to comment on the incidents since Mamata Banerjee is also the state’s home minister.Unrest over infected people in Bengal is not limited to police barracks alone. On Saturday, there was a clash between two groups of villagers in the Uluberia area of Howrah district over allowing some migrant villagers, who recently returned from Maharashtra, to stay in the village. Police had to intervene and the migrants were shifted to a desolate building for quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-sparks-unrest-in-kolkata-police-governor-dhankhar-tweets-concern/story-sbpdsAdjoiayYtsekWzZiP.html
31-05-2020||India||Mizoram CM requests Tripura not to resettle Bru migrants in Mizo habitats||A day after Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga wrote to Tripura government to cancel the proposal for resettlement of the Bru families in the Zampui Hills and surrounding areas in North district of Tripura, the Tripura government said they are dealing with resettlement of the Bru migrants in accordance with the Centre’s instruction.“The Bru settlement was a long pending issue and finally it came to an end under the leadership of Modi ji. They will be resettled in the state very soon,” said Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb.“Anybody can write a letter but the state government will decide the place of their settlement,” he added.Zoramthanga wrote the letter to Tripura CM weeks after a North Tripura-based NGO, Mizo Convention, protested against Bru resettlement in Jampui Hills and its adjacent areas. Zoramthanga in the letter said Jampui Hills was the traditional habitat of the Mizos.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Earlier in January this year, the Centre announced a Rs 600 crore rehabilitation package for the Bru migrants who have been staying at six camps in North district of Tripura for more than two decades. Over 37,000 Bru people took refuge at six camps, three each at Kanchanpur and Panisagar sub divisions, nearly 200 kilometres from Agartala since 1997 after escaping an ethnic clash in Mizoram.Zoramthanga’s letter reminded Tripura CM that there has been ethnic tension between both the communities in the two northeastern states which had forced the Mizos to flee from four villages of Sakhan Hills. His letter added that any kind of strain between the Mizos and Brus in Tripura might have ‘ repercussions’ in Mizoram.“I would posit that re-consideration and cancellation of the proposed resettlement of displaced Brus amidst Mizo traditional settlers of Zampui hill area and arrangement of other appropriate locations is inevitable if the historic Agreement signed on 16.1.2020 is to be successfully implemented in letter and spirit,” Zoramthanga wrote.Mizoram Bru Displaced People’s Forum (MBDPF) general secretary Bruno Maha said, “The Mizoram government failed to solve our problems for the past 23 years. Now Mizoram should not interfere when our crisis is about to be resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-cm-requests-tripura-not-to-resettle-bru-migrants-in-mizo-habitats/story-VGBGykRDJXJNbWYtktgnsK.html
31-05-2020||India||AI makes it mandatory for crew to check pre-flight Covid-19 test results are negative||Air India has made it mandatory for its pilots and cabin crew members to check and confirm that their pre-flight Covid-19 test results are negative before they operate an aircraft, according to an official communication issued hours after the Delhi-Moscow flight incident involving a pilot on Saturday.An Air India flight from Delhi to Moscow with no passenger on-board was asked to return midway on Saturday after its ground staff realised that one of the pilots of the plane had tested positive for coronavirus but was assigned the duty following an oversight by a team checking pre-flight medical reports of the crew. “The Covid-19 test is being conducted by the airline at a substantial cost, with considerable effort. As it is a recent procedure and there is a shortage of staff in office, there is a possibility of an oversight in this matter,” said Captain R S Sandhu, Executive Director (Operations), Air India in a circular, which has been accessed by PTI. “The test is primarily designed to mitigate the risk of transmission among the crew. Every effort will be made by the personnel dealing with the testing and rostering of crew to ensure that the reports are checked before crew is being rostered for a flight,” he stated in the circular.However, it is imperative that the individual crew member also checks and reconfirms his or her test result, Sandhu said. “In case of any oversight in this matter, not only are there avoidable adverse operational issues, tarnishing the image of the airline, but also irresponsible exposure of a fellow crew member to this disease,” Sandhu mentioned.“Therefore, it is mandatory for every individual crew member to check and confirm a ‘negative’ report result, before undertaking a flight. Any laxity in this matter will be dealt with severity,” he added.About Saturday’s incident, two senior bureaucrats had said there was a “lapse” on the part of officials responsible to scrutinise the coronavirus test reports of the crew members and that aviation regulator DGCA has already begun an investigation into the case based on a preliminary report by the airline.The Airbus A320 plane departed around 7.15 am on Saturday for Moscow to bring back a group of stranded Indians under the Vande Bharat evacuation mission and it was back in Delhi by 12.30 pm following orders from the authorities, the officials said. They said the airline officials tasked to examine medical reports of the crew did not look at the pilot’s test results properly before assigning him the duty. According to standard operating procedure, pilots and other crew members of any flight are required to undergo mandatory testing for coronavirus and are assigned duties if the laboratory results are negative.The plane with registration number VT-EXR was in the airspace of Uzbekistan when it was told to return. All crew members including the Delhi-based pilot with coronavirus infection have been quarantined after they arrived in Delhi, the officials said, “In this case, the airline officials did not look at the pilot’s test results properly and deemed him fit to fly, assuming that he is Covid-19 negative, even when the test results stated otherwise,” said an official in the DGCA.In a statement, Air India had said on Saturday that it recalled the aircraft immediately when it was noticed that one of the cockpit crew had tested positive in the pre-flight Covid-19 test.“Immediately after landing all cockpit and cabin crew have been tested and all laid down medical precautions are being taken to ensure their health and safety. Another aircraft has taken off today to operate the Vande Bharat flight from Moscow to Delhi,” Air India said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-makes-it-mandatory-for-crew-to-check-pre-flight-covid-19-test-results-are-negative/story-P7JCfpoJJ4O2Elp2YhcePI.html
31-05-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt makes forest department as nodal agency for forest rights, activists describe move as ‘illegal’||After Chhattisgarh government made the forest department the nodal agency for Community Forest Resource Rights (CFRR) - under the Scheduled Tribes and the Traditional Forest Dwellers Act 2006 - state activists alleged that the step is ‘illegal’. Activists have said that as per the Act, only the Tribal Affairs Department or any other agency authorized by the Central government could be the nodal agency.A press release issued by the Chhattisgarh government on Saturday stated that “Community members will be given community forest rights for the conservation of forests, participation of the villagers in the management and proper use of trees via forest dwellers. The entire process for its rapid implementation has been chalked out by the state government. The Forest Department has been made the nodal department for the matter of community forest resource rights.”The press release further stated that forest minister Mohammad Akbar has said that under the sections of Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers Act 2006, CFRR have been given to Gram Sabha.It is worth mentioning that as per the Section 11 of the Forest Rights Act (FRA) Act, the Ministry of the Central government dealing with Tribal Affairs or any officer or authority authorized by the Central government in this behalf shall be the nodal agency for the implementation of the provisions of this Act.Also read: States flag missing details of returning migrant workers“Most of the implementation has been done by the tribal affairs department. Forest department has been the nodal agency for only community forest resource rights (CFRR) under the Act, said Manoj Pingua, Forest Secretary, Chhattisgarh government.“Forest department can never be made the nodal agency for any rights mentioned in the Act. The tribal department could be the only nodal agency. This is illegal and not in the act. The preamble to Forest Rights Recognition Act states that this law is being enacted for the recognition of forest rights while correcting the historical injustice done to tribals and other traditional forest dwellers. The forest department has never had a supportive attitude towards this law because it feels that if the forest resource is given into the hands of the community then it will not have control,” said Alok Shuka, an activist working on forest rights in Chhattisgarh.Shukla further said that the department has created a system to determine the role of the community in forest management, under which the Community Forest Management Committee (CFMC) has been formed in the village but their control is with the Forest Department. The Department wants these committees to be delegated the rights of community forest resources.Also read: Lockdown 4.0 deadliest, saw 247 new Covid-19 cases every hour“But this intention is not lawful because the law delegates all rights to the gram sabha which are constitutional and democratic system. With this order of the government, the forest department will be more powerful, so that tribals will get the resources of the forest in the same way as they want. Hundreds of community forest resource claims have been pending in the district level committee since the year 2013, but they are not being recognized only because the forest department does not want to,” Shukla said adding that there are 12 claims pending in his area of work in Korba district, Hasdeo Aranya region, but they are not being recognized.The government in a press release on Saturday claimed that a committee for community forest resource management will be formed by the Gram Sabhas. This committee will work for the conservation of forests, wildlife and biodiversity in community forest areas. Members of Gram Sabha will be included in this committee. Gram Sabha will have the right to nominate a Joint Forest Management Committee or its members of Gram Sabha. This committee will prepare a management plan in accordance with the work plan of the Forest Department and the Wild Wildlife Management Plan. Based on this management plan, the forest department will do the work of plantation, wood, bamboo wells, forest growing work and wildlife management, etc.“Forest Department should not be the nodal agency. It is unjustifiable that the agency responsible for eviction, atrocities, dislocation and exploitation of tribals and forest-dwelling communities will be entrusted with the responsibility of giving forest rights. The very preamble of the Forest Right Act 2006 talks about ending the historical injustices meted out to Adivasi. Even the intent of the government would be noble but the outcome of this decision would be devastating as forest department cannot win the trust of tribals and the forest-dependent community as they have been notorious for snatching entitlement and rights in the name of plantation, sanctuaries and forest diversion,” said Vijendra Ajnabi who is a member of Chattisgarh Van Adhikar Manch.He further said that there is an apprehension that forest department can misuse their influence on joint forest management committee, the sponsored wing of the forest department to take control of forest management from Gram Sabha and deliver the agenda set by the forest department.“I strongly believe that tribal department should remain the nodal agency for the implementation of the Forest Rights Act as it has been several time mentioned in official communication by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs and even in the order delivered by Supreme Court in the Niyamgiri judgement case,” Ajnabi said, adding that the Chhattisgarh government should first ensure to recognise the long-pending community forest rights claim duly submitted by Gram Sabha since 2012-13 across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-makes-forest-department-as-nodal-agency-for-forest-rights-activists-describe-move-as-illegal/story-DM13H76jZ8nUT90FT0ymJN.html
31-05-2020||India||Made in lockdown: Couples recast big fat Indian wedding, get back to simplicity||Their plans of tying the knot hopelessly tangled in a pandemic that shows no signs of abating, many wedding has been postponed but some couples are choosing to get married in simple, intimate ceremonies that are just about them. Recasting the idea of the big fat Indian wedding -- with guest lists running into many hundreds, sometimes up to 2,000, and lakhs of rupees spent on multiple functions and elaborate clothes – couples are going back to the basics on arguably the most important day of their lives.Retaining the essence of romance and maybe the gravitas that should go with a long-term commitment, they are saying “I do” on rooftops, homes, temples, churches, and sometimes even state borders, with only immediate family in attendance. Sans ‘band, baaja, baraat’ and other extra frills, but with masks, sanitisers and social distancing norms in place. “We didn’t have a grand procession, decorations, firecrackers, feasts and relatives, but this was indeed the most memorable experience of my life,” said a bride in Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur district who did not want to be named.“We had earlier arranged for a grand function. But the lockdown threw a spanner in the works. So we decided to donate a part of the money saved for the wedding to help the state combat the pandemic,” said Jyoti Ranjan Swain, the groom, a resident of Erasama block in the district. Apart from the parents, an inspector of the Erasama police station and the block development officer (BDO) attended the wedding. “This was no social gathering. The couple distributed sweets after the ceremony. It was a simple affair,” said the BDO Kartik Chandra Behera.   There have been many unlikely wedding venues over the years, but a checkpost on the Assam-West Bengal border is likely to be top amongst them.That’s where Om Prakash Sha from Jalpaiguri in West Bengal reportedly wed Kajol from Dhubri in Assam last week.     Given the restrictions on movement from one state to the other and mandatory quarantine, the families approached the administrations of both districts for permission.   After much discussion, officials decided the wedding would take place on the Dhubri-Jalpaiguri ‘boundary’.    The bride’s father Mahesh Sha said his family accepted the advice of the administration and the priest to go ahead with the wedding despite the odds because it was an auspicious day.  Taufiq Hussain and Abeda Begum also decided to go ahead with their wedding despite the lockdown. They got married at home in Goalpara, Assam, last month with only eight family members present.     “This is the way marriages should always be conducted… among close relatives and people who matter rather than the usual fanfare and large sums of money being spent,” said Hussain.     His words found resonance many hundred miles away in the Tamil Nadu capital Chennai where K Shakthivel got married last month on the terrace of his home.   “It resulted in a saving of at least 75 per cent of the originally planned expenditure of a few lakhs,” Shaktivel, an AC mechanic, said. Only 10 family members were present since the hall he had booked was shut in view of the lockdown. But Shaktivel was content.       And that’s how it was for Rebin Vincent Gralan and Cila Lona, too, in neighbouring Kerala. They got married on April 15 at the St. Joseph’s parish shrine in Pavaratty with only 10 family members in attendance.  “The date for the wedding was fixed earlier itself… we both convinced everyone to hold the marriage on the same date itself and it was conducted as a low-key function,” Gralan told PTI.       There is no point in waiting for the pandemic to end, agreed Alex Paul, a businessman in Ernakulam who is all set to get married on June 15.        “We got engaged almost a year ago and had elaborate plans for a major wedding. But then came coronavirus and the lockdown. Now the wedding date has been decided as it is almost sure that this pandemic scare is not going to end anytime soon,” he said. His grand wedding was downsized to a small affair at a temple in Karnataka’s Mandya district but 30-year-old Ravi Gowda is not complaining. He got married on April 20 as he had planned, and that’s all that matters.      “I had invited about 2,000-2,500 people for my wedding at a marriage hall in Bangalore’s Rajarajeshwari Nagar on April 20… We got married on the same date at our village temple in Mandya,” he said.  He said he spent about Rs 10 lakh for the arrangements in Bangalore, but hasn’t got the money back yet. Not everyone wants to get married without family and friends though. Shraddha Patel in Chhattisgarh’s Durg district, for instance, was supposed to get married on May 17 but has postponed the plans. “I don’t want a lavish wedding with hundreds of guests, but at least I want my close friends and relatives to be present there on the occasion. We are trying to figure out when to hold the wedding,” the 24-year-old teacher told PTI.        There are also those who got married with parents looking on – virtually.        Research analyst Chaitanya and IT professional Thanuj were going to get married on April 30 in Kannur in Kerala but could not because of the lockdown. They waited and finally tied the knot on May 24 in Bangalore at the bride’s uncle’s home with 12 relatives present. “The lockdown was getting extended and the virus cases were surging. There was no point in waiting as the uncertainty was continuing,” the bride’s father A K Sudhakaran told PTI.        Most of his daughter’s jewellery was in a bank locker at Kannur so a few gold ornaments were bought for the big day. Both sets of parents and other close relatives saw the event on Zoom.    A businessman in Patna also went ahead and got the eldest of his three daughters married at a temple rather than wait for the lockdown to end. “Everything was finalised. Even the engagement and ‘tilak’ functions were done before the lockdown, so I decided to get my daughter married at a temple,” the father told PTI on the condition of anonymity. Sneha Anil Mahajan, a mother in Nagpur whose daughter got married on May 8 said the family decided not to postpone the wedding because the date was an auspicious one. “Only about 45 to 50 guests attended. We had a guest list of over 1,000 people but it was not possible to invite them in such health crisis,” she said.“All the guests were given sanitisers and masks and we strictly followed social distancing norms. Each ritual was explained in detail which normally would not have been  possible. A marriage to remember for lifetime. We have no regrets,” said the mother, looking forward to a grand reception once the pandemic is behind everybody.  And sometimes, the young just overcome every obstacle on the way.  Like 19-year-old Goldie, who earlier this month walked 80 km from Kanpur to Kannauj in Uttar Pradesh to wed her fiance alone, unafraid and determined that the continuing lockdown would not interfere with their plans.When lockdown throws a hurdle on the way to matrimony, just jump it – that’s what young couple seem to be saying as the coronavirus continues its spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/made-in-lockdown-couples-recast-big-fat-indian-wedding-get-back-to-simplicity/story-twQAVpMZSFArrGqEUnMuHL.html
31-05-2020||India||Fourth phase of lockdown accounts for nearly half of total Covid cases in India||The fourth phase of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, which began on May 18, saw 85,974 COVID-19 cases till 8 am on Sunday, which is nearly half of the total cases reported in the country so far. Lockdown 4.0, which will end on May 31 midnight, has accounted for 47.20 per cent of the total coronavirus infection cases, number crunching from the Union Health Ministry data reveals.The lockdown, which was first clamped on March 25 and spanned for 21 days, had registered 10,877 cases, while the second phase of the curbs that began on April 15 and stretched for 19 days till May 3, saw 31,094 cases.The third phase of the lockdown that was in effect for 14 days ending on May 17, recorded 53,636 cases till 8 am of May 18.The country had registered 512 coronavirus infection cases till March 24.India is the ninth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic as of now.         The first case of COVID-19 in India was reported on January 30 from Kerala after a medical student of Wuhan university, who had returned to India, tested  positive for the virus.India registered its highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases on Sunday, with 8,380 new infections reported in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s tally to 1,82,143, while the death toll rose to 5,164, according to the Union Health Ministry.The number of active COVID-19 cases stood to 89,995, while 86,983 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said.“Thus, around 47.75 per cent patients have recovered so far,” a senior Health Ministry official said.  With the fourth phase of lockdown ending on Sunday, the Home Ministry on Saturday said ‘Unlock-1’ will be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide lockdown will be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country’s worst-hit areas.While announcing the extension of the lockdown in containment zones across the country, the Home Ministry said temples, mosques, churches and other religious places and shopping malls will be allowed to open in a phased manner from June 8, while a decision on opening of schools and colleges will be taken in July in consultation with states. PTI PLB DV DV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-phase-of-lockdown-accounts-for-nearly-half-of-total-covid-cases-in-india/story-BArq6GErIjSLtLp4qy2QGO.html
31-05-2020||India||Gujarat government eases curbs on shops, travel, banks starting Monday||The Gujarat government has announced relaxations in lockdown with effect from Monday and decided to allow shops and businesses located outside the COVID-19 containment zones to operate without any restriction of the odd-even formula.It also announced major relaxations in terms of mobility, with the state transport buses allowed to operate with 60 per cent passenger capacity, two-wheelers allowed to have a pillion rider, and four-wheelers with six or more seats to have three passengers along with the driver.Banks in both containment and non-containment zones will be allowed to open and government offices have been allowed to operate with full capacity.A government resolution (GR) to this effect was issued late Saturday night.Restrictions remain on single-screen cinema halls, multiplexes, educational institutes, large public gathering, cultural events, swimming pools, zoos, public gardens, tourist places and beaches, it said.According to the GR, the shops and business in non- containment zones will be allowed to remain open from 8 am to 7 pm.“The government will allow all shops, except those located in containment zones and placed under negative list, to open between 8 am to 7 pm in municipal areas and till 8 pm in areas outside the municipal limits. The odd-even formula for shops located in shopping complexes and markets will be done away with in the fifth phase of the lockdown or “Unlock- 1” starting Monday,” the GR said. During the previous fourth phase of the lockdown, the state government had allowed shops located in shopping complexes and market areas to resume as per the odd-even formula based on their numbers, which has been done away with in the fifth phase, the GR said.Under the odd-even formula, shops with numbers as 1, 3, 5, 7 etc were allowed to remain operational on one day and shops with numbers as 2, 4, 6, etc on the other day.According to the GR, shops located in malls and restaurants will be allowed from June 8 in accordance with the standard operating procedures (SOPs).“The state transport buses will be allowed to operate with 60 per cent passenger capacity, two-wheeler allowed to have a pillion rider, and four-wheeler with six or more seats to have three passengers and the driver. Auto rickshaw will also be allowed to operate with one passenger,” it said.City buses have been allowed to operate in non- containment zones with passenger limit of 50 per cent in Ahmedabad and Surat, and 60 per cent in other cities, it said.According to the order, the state government will also come up with a list of micro-containment areas, which will continue to remain under restrictions along with the containment zones, with only essential services allowed there between 7 am and 7 pm, and nobody living in these areas will be allowed to leave for work.“The government will announce micro-containment areas for all districts. The list of micro-containment zones will be dynamic in nature and will be updated periodically. Workers/ employees/shop owners, whose homes are in containment/micro- containment zones will not be allowed to leave containment/ non-containment zones,” it said.Street vendors will be allowed to operate only in areas designated by the urban local bodies starting June 8, in accordance with the SOP, it said.All economic activities will be allowed in Ahmedabad’s areas outside containment/micro containment zones, with industries allowed to operate with 100 per cent capacity with social distancing, it said.Liquor shops have been allowed to open for permit holders, while restaurants, gyms, malls, religious places, hotels and clubs will be allowed to operate from June 8 as per their SOP with limitations in seating arrangements and gatherings.Tea and coffee shops have also been allowed to open, it said adding that sports complexes and stadia will also be allowed to open, but no large gathering will be allowed, it said.Curfew will be followed across the state between 9 am and 5 pm, the state government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-government-eases-curbs-on-shops-travel-banks-starting-monday/story-RS6rqnuTKVFESdLHkKwYyN.html
31-05-2020||India||‘Looks delicious’: PM Modi responds to Australian counterpart’s ‘ScoMosa’ offer||Prime Minister Narendra Modi responded to his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison’s offer of sharing the ‘ScoMosas’ on Sunday, saying they look delicious.“Connected by the Indian Ocean, united by the Indian Samosa! Looks delicious, PM @ScottMorrisonMP! Once we achieve a decisive victory against COVID-19, we will enjoy the Samosas together. Looking forward to our video meet on the 4th,” PM Modi tweeted. Connected by the Indian Ocean, united by the Indian Samosa!Looks delicious, PM @ScottMorrisonMP! Once we achieve a decisive victory against COVID-19, we will enjoy the Samosas together. Looking forward to our video meet on the 4th. https://t.co/vbRLbVQuL1Morrison utilised the lockdown period to make an Indian snack - the popular samosa - and said he wants to share it with PM Modi.He shared the images of the snack, and mango chutney along with it, on his Twitter feed on Sunday and named it ScoMosas.“Sunday ScoMosas with mango chutney, all made from scratch - including the chutney! A pity my meeting with @narendramodi this week is by videolink. They’re vegetarian, I would have liked to share them with him,” Morrison posted on Twitter and tagged PM Modi.In a reply to Morrison’s tweet, BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi said: “Proposing your name for Michelin Star.”The two Prime Ministers are scheduled to hold a virtual meeting on June 4 that is expected to see an intensification of ties in the economic and strategic spheres.This will be Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first bilateral summit to take place virtually given the embargos on travel due to the covid-19 pandemic.Australian prime minister Scott Morrison who was to come to India in January for the summit had to put off his visit due to the devastating wildfires ravaging large parts of his country. The visit was being planned for May but now the summit is to happen on 4 June, Indian foreign ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday.The two countries are expected to sign an agreement for reciprocal access to military logistics facilities and other pacts aimed at developing alternative supply chains during the summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/looks-delicious-pm-modi-responds-to-australian-counterpart-s-scomosa-offer/story-rbWGOajHDz8woMkatvNv5L.html
31-05-2020||India||No money to pay salaries, Delhi has asked Rs 5,000 crore from Centre: Manish Sisodia||The Delhi government has sought an immediate assistance of Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre to pay salaries to its employees and meet its expenses as revenues have dried up during the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday.Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, said he has written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for help and added that the Delhi government has not received the fund sanctioned to states under the Disaster Relief Fund.“We reviewed the Delhi government’s revenue and its minimum expenses. We need around Rs 3,500 crore every month just to pay salaries and bear office expenses. In last two months, GST collection was Rs 500 crore each and combining that with other sources, the government has Rs 1,735 crore,” Sisodia said during a press conference. Watch | ‘Have sought 5000 cr from Centre to pay salaries’: Delhi Dy CM Manish Sisodia“We need Rs 7,000 crore for two months. The immediate issue before the Delhi government is how to pay salaries to its employees,” he added.The Aam Aadmi Party said he has asked for assistance from the Centre so that the Delhi government can pay salaries to its employees and everyone who is fighting the coronavirus pandemic.“Due to the corona and lockdown, the tax collection of the Delhi government is running low at about 85%. Delhi has not received any funds from the Disaster Relief Fund released by the Centre to the remaining states,” he also tweeted.Delhi, which is the third worst-hit area in India, has reported 18,549 infections, including 416 deaths, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-money-to-pay-salaries-delhi-has-asked-rs-5-000-crore-from-centre-manish-sisodia/story-i8uIlCLwxJHDGk8qPsYV8O.html
31-05-2020||India||Assam sees biggest single day surge in Covid-19 cases at 159, tally breaches 1200-mark||Two months after detection of the first case in the state, Assam recorded 159 new Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking total tally to 1,273. With this rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, Assam’s tally has breached 1,200-mark.In the fresh addition, 20 of the new cases were traced to people who had recently travelled to the state by flights.Even as cases have surged in the state despite lockdown, health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the state is fighting a spirited battle against the coronavirus disease.“Last 90 days we fought a spirited battle against Covid-19. Seen many setting up shining examples of public service,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted late on Saturday night.The state’s graph of recording Covid-19 cases reveals a rise, gradual for a month but sharp after a month.Assam had witnessed its first positive case on March 31 when a 52-year-old cancer patient was infected with coronavirus. It took over a month, 37 days to be exact, for the figure to reach the 50-mark in the state but the tally crossed the 100 mark in the next 10 days on May 17. The figure doubled again to reach 200 cases four days later on May 21 and it crossed 400 cases in another 4 days on May 25. It took just three days for that to double to 800 on May 28 and two days more to cross 1200 on May 30.On Saturday, the minister is expected to inform how Assam has ramped up facilities to conduct tests of over 1 lakh samples and taking care of over 1000 active at a time when nearly 2.5 lakh people have returned back to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-sees-biggest-single-day-surge-in-covid-19-cases-at-159-tally-breaches-1200-mark/story-VhrX16OB2N57p8DHgbGbEO.html
31-05-2020||India||Mindless forwarding of WhatsApp texts leading to fake news menace, says Justice Kaul||Mindless and incessant forwarding of WhatsApp messages without verifying the correctness of such messages is leading to spread of fake news and many a time such messages assume racial and religious overtones, Supreme Court judge Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said on Sunday.The top court judge also made a case for individual discretion and responsibility with respect to verifying and sharing fake news as regulation of social media could result in restricting free speech. “Regulating social media  to counter such fake news could amount to violation of free speech and it is up to people to verify the correctness of the content of the message before spreading the same,” Justice Kaul said. “Any regulation of social media may impinge on free speech and right to privacy. The struggle is to regulate social media without affecting free speech, so it is everybody’s responsibility to see that content is verified before it is sent,” he said.Justice Kaul was speaking on the topic ‘Fake News and Misinformation’ at an online lecture series organised by Madras Bar Association.“There are a lot of messages about Covid (coronavirus disease) including its ‘remedies’, the origin, people who are ‘helping spread of the virus’ and so on. These messages can take religious and racial undertones,” the SC judge warned.Such information, Justice Kaul said, is many times the basis for petitions before the Supreme Court.“Sometimes this misinformation leads people to believe in it so much so that there may be an Article 32 petition (petition filed directly in Supreme Court against violation of fundamental rights) to direct enforcement of a certain remedy for Covid,” Justice Kaul said. Distinguishing between responsibility shown by the press and social media in the times of fake news, Justice Kaul said that while the press can be held accountable for such incorrect news, the same may not be possible with social media.“When the press is writing, they are accountable. Writing news is their bread and butter, and they write with a certain sense of responsibility. But others may not have anything at stake and no accountability, no system of checks and balances,” he said. Justice Kaul also pointed out that people are becoming increasingly intolerant of opinions that do not correspond with theirs and that differing opinions have to be respected in a democratic society. “So people who hold opposing views may be called by each other as a ‘Modi Bhakt’ or an ‘Urban Naxal’ or other labels,” he said, adding that bedrock of any democracy is freedom of speech and it is important to respect others opinions in a democratic polity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mindless-forwarding-of-whatsapp-texts-leading-to-fake-news-menace-says-sc-judge-justice-sanjay-kishan-kaul/story-3UGy2Z14ynZnbT0wy1QE3I.html
31-05-2020||India||Army says contents of video showing India-China brawl ‘not authenticated’||The Indian Army on Sunday said that the contents of a violent video, purportedly showing a clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh, are “not authenticated”, and any attempt to link it with the situation on the northern borders is “malafide.” The video, which is slightly over two and a half minutes long, was seen by Hindustan Times and ostensibly shows a brawl between troops of the two countries on the banks of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of a weeks-long border standoff between India and China.In a statement issued on Sunday morning, army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said, “It has been brought to our notice that a video is doing the rounds in social media on an incident on the borders… Currently, no violence is happening. Differences are being addressed through interaction between military commanders, guided by established protocols on management of borders between the two countries.”Also read: As India moves into Covid-19’s Unlock 1.0, a word of caution from PM ModiSoldiers of the two countries are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Anand said the army strongly condemns attempts to sensationalise issues impacting national security. “The media is requested not to air visuals that are likely to vitiate the current situation on the borders,” he added. The video shows a clash between Chinese troopers, who arrived in a Humvee-type of a vehicle, and an Indian patrol consisting of army men and Indo-Tibetan Police Force personnel. China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery guns on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements and matched the neighbour’s military moves, as reported by Hindustan Times on May 26.Also read: PM Modi promises help to all states affected by locust attackSeveral rounds of talks between local military commanders have failed to end the standoff that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols on May 5-6 near Pangong Tso that left scores of soldiers from both sides injured. China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days.India and China are talking to each other at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the weeks-long Ladakh standoff, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday assuring the country that the government will not allow India’s dignity to be hurt under any circumstances.Chinese troops are also holding positions on their side of the border in North Sikkim where soldiers of the two countries were involved in a brawl on May 9 that left seven Chinese and four Indian soldiers injured, as first reported by Hindustan Times.This is not the first time when such a video has surfaced. A video had surfaced in August 2017 purportedly showing Indian and Chinese soldiers throwing stones at each other and exchanging blows near Pangong Lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-says-contents-of-video-showing-india-china-brawl-not-authenticated/story-TYPb9UkLnPPGrcRXn1ViBL.html
31-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Odisha reports highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Odisha reports highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases with 129 new infectionsOdisha on Sunday reported 129 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in the biggest spike in a single day so far, pushing the number of infected people near 2,000, officials of the health and family welfare department said. Read morePM Modi promises help to all states affected by locust attackPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that help will be extended to all those affected by locust attack. he made the announcement on his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’. Read moreIndia’s first national Artificial Intelligence Portal launched by IT minister Ravi Shankar PrasadOn the occasion of the first anniversary of the second tenure of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government, Union Minister for Electronics and IT, Law and Justice and Communications Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday launched India’s national Artificial Intelligence Portal called www.ai.gov.in. Read moreSony’s Jim Ryan talks about PlayStation 5 pricing, says it will be a ‘value proposition’Sony has been keeping its cards close to the chest when it comes to the design of its console, forget about the pricing. But in a recent interview, Jim Ryan, Sony Interactive Entertainment’s president and CEO, gave us a hint of what to expect at least in terms of PS5 (PlayStation 5) pricing. Read moreHe’s a bit like Sachin: Ian Gould on why the India batsman reminds him of TendulkarThe Sachin Tendulkar-Virat Kohli debate simply refuses to die down. After a host of former and current cricketers, the latest lot of drawing parallel between the two is that of umpires. Read moreLockdown 5 or Reopen 1? E-passes, curfew, malls, bars: New rules explainedAfter 4 phases of lockdown, the stage 1 of opening up is here. Will all offices open & work at full capacity? Which places are still locked down? Will malls & theatres reopen? Will schools & colleges resume classes? Are state borders open now? This quick guide will answer your questions on new rules. Read moreSpaceX launch: ‘Dinosaur’ hitches a ride to space along with astronauts, people can’t keep calmOn May 31, Falcon 9, a rocket ship by Elon Musk’s company SpaceX, thundered away from Earth with two veteran NASA astronauts, Doug Hurley and Robert Behnken. A video showing the duo preparing for the launch also made its way onto social media. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-odisha-reports-highest-single-day-surge-in-covid-19-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5spBurtVzWViCB6aonYbkO.html
31-05-2020||India||On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi talks about migrants, caution and Yoga||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday exhorted people not to lower their guard against the coronavirus pandemic and adhere to the protocols of social distancing, wearing masks and washing hands as the major chunk of the economy was opened up.The PM’s message, broadcast through his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, came a day after the government announced a phased exit from the lockdown imposed since March 25.Referring to India’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic, the PM said with its diverse challenges and population, the country has been able to contain the spread of infection and the death toll is comparatively lower.India on Sunday recorded more than 8,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day for the first time as the tally surged to 182,143 and death toll stood at 5,164. Union health ministry data showed there were 8,380 fresh Covid-19 cases, up from Saturday’s 7,964, and 193 fatalities in the last 24 hours.“Covid-19 is very much there and we cannot be complacent… The road ahead is a long one. We are fighting a pandemic about which little was previously known,” he said.Pain of the poorThe Prime Minister said though every section of society has been affected by the pandemic, the pain being felt by the poor cannot be measured in words.PM Modi appreciated the efforts being made by individuals and organisations in helping those in need and said there is no section in the country that is unaffected by the difficulties caused by the pandemic.“…However, the worst affected are the poor and the labourers. Their pain, their agony, and their ordeal can’t be expressed in words,” he said.Even as there has been concern over the movement of migrant workers back to their native states because of limited means of transportation, the PM appreciated the efforts being made by the Indian Railways in helping get workers home.He said the railway too has become a frontline worker in the fight against the pandemic.“The Centre, states, local bodies are all working day and night. The way our railway forces are making efforts round-the-clock they are in a way front line corona warriors transporting safely millions of migrant labourers to their homes; arranging for their food, managing quarantine centres in every district and arrangements for testing and treatment for everyone. All these efforts are going on continuously and at a large scale,” he said.Learn from the pastThe PM said the current situation should be a lesson to learn from the past and make provisions for the future. He cited the situation of workers in the eastern states as a case in point and said the problem suffered by the poor during the crisis has been exacerbated by the lack of development in the region.Self-relianceThe Prime Minister reiterated his message of Atmanirbhar Bharat or self-reliant India and said many problems being faced now would not have arisen if the villages and towns were self-reliant.“At some places work in skill mapping of the labourers is taking place, at some places start-ups are being encouraged, migration commission has been commissioned somewhere and the Centre will also help open up opportunities for employment self-employment and small scale industries in villages. These decisions are aimed at resolving the crisis and building a self-reliant India,” he said.Yoga and AyurvedaPM Modi urged people to explore the benefits of yoga and said several international leaders had shown interest in knowing more about Ayurveda and yoga.“During this corona crisis I had a chance to speak to many world leaders I want to share one secret today, they expressed great interest in Yoga and Ayurveda. Some leaders enquired how these can help in these times of Corona,” he said.“We have to explore yoga for community, immunity and unity,” the PM said.Pointing out that the International Yoga Day is around the corner, he said that during the lockdown people from Hollywood to Haridwar are paying attention to yoga.EnvironmentWith the World Environment Day coming up on June 5, the PM said it is imperative to pay attention to the biodiversity and conservation of water.“In some parts of eastern India, we witnessed the destruction caused by cyclone… I was in Odisha and West Bengal last week to take stock of the situation. The way people of West Bengal and Odisha showed courage in dealing with the situation is commendable. In this hour of crisis the country standing by the side of people of these two states” he said.He said the lockdown has given an opportunity to understand the rich biodiversity around us.“Clean environment is directly linked to our life and the future of our children and therefore we have to be concerned about it individually, I request you to plant some trees on this environment day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-talks-about-migrants-caution-and-yoga/story-aK9lEFC3k8mFALbAUzSocI.html
31-05-2020||India||In midnight operation, Jaipur officials use drone to kill locusts||A drone was used to kill locusts in Viratnagar in Jaipur district on Saturday night and Sunday morning because the area where the crop-munching pests settled was hilly and inaccessible for tractor-mounted sprayers, said officials.This was the second time in a week when drone was used to spray pesticides on locust swarms in Jaipur district. Earlier, drone was used in Samode, about 40 km north-west of Jaipur, on the night of May 26. Officials said the central government has sent this drone to Rajasthan for locust control operations.“We got information about a 3km-by-1km swarm in three villages of Viratnagar on Saturday. We surveyed the area and found the pest present on 230 hectares but the area was difficult to access so we decided to use drone,” said BR Kadwa, deputy director of agriculture department in Jaipur.Besides the terrain, what made the operation difficult was heavy rain in the area that continued until 10.30 pm. “We could launch the operation only around midnight,” he added. The operation ended around 8 am on Sunday.Kadwa said locust could be controlled only in 105 hectare; teams couldn’t reach the remaining areas. “We managed to kill only half the swarm,” he said.Three vehicles of Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), which is under union agriculture ministry, and three tractor-mounted sprayers were on standby. About 50 litres of pesticides was used in the operation, the officials said.In the second operation, a smaller swarm covering 80 hectare in Amer teshil was killed by 2 LWO vehicles and 3 tractor-mounted sprayers. “We used 20 litres of pesticides to control locust on 45 hectare,” said Danvir Verma, deputy director (horticulture), who supervised the operation.Kadwa said that so far, nine swarms have been detected in Jaipur district.Locust outbreak was reported in Rajasthan in May 2019 after a gap of 26 years. The attack continued till February this year and the pests devoured crops on at least 6,70,000 hectares across 12 districts, causing a loss of around Rs 1,000 crore, according to state agriculture department.This year’s outbreak began on April 11 when locust swarms entered Rajasthan from Hindumalkot in Sriganganagar and Babla in Jaisalmer. “The locusts spread to Jaisalmer, Barmer, Ganganagar and parts of Jodhpur until May 1. After that, the swarms began to wander farther, coming as far as Jaipur, which is about 700km from the international border,” said Dr Suwa Lal Jat, joint director (plant protection).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-midnight-operation-jaipur-officials-use-drone-to-kill-locusts/story-SUa82z8JgkCDd3mViICtUI.html
31-05-2020||India||Odisha reports highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases with 129 new infections||Odisha on Sunday reported 129 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in the biggest spike in a single day so far, pushing the number of infected people near 2,000, officials of the health and family welfare department said.They said the state’s tally of Covid-19 stood at 1948 after the new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours.Of the new cases, 18 are in Kendrapada, 16 in Gajapati, 12 in Nuapada, 11 in Balangir, 10 cases each in Ganjam and Jajpur, 7 in Khurda, 6 each in Balasore, Bargarh, Mayurbhanj and Sundergarh, 5 in Cuttack, 4 in Deogarh, 3 in Keonjhar, 2 in Jagatsinghpur, and one each in Malkangiri, Dhenkanal, and Sambalpur.Ganjam district continued to be the epicentre of Covid-19 cases with 414 patients, followed by Jajpur with 269 and Balasore with 152 infections.Officials said despite the rising Covid-19 infections, the number of fully recovered patients in Odisha now exceeds that of active cases. While there are 889 active cases of Covid-19, 1,050 people have recovered and seven have died in the state to date. There are more daily recoveries than persons testing positive for the last three days, officials said.However, Odisha has not been able to ramp up its daily testing capabilities to more than 5,000. On May 30, the 13 laboratories tested 4641 samples while on May 29 it was 3920. The last time the state had tested more than 5,000 samples was on May 23 when 5,388 samples were tested.Health department officials said that lack of trained manpower and technical constraints were limiting their testing capabilities even as more than four lakh migrant workers have arrived in Odisha. Though the samples need to be tested within 48 hours, in several cases they are being tested in four to five hours of collection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-reports-highest-single-day-surge-in-covid-19-cases-with-129-new-infections/story-DXKin5536DVbtuVIS3gu8I.html
31-05-2020||India||Pain of poor and migrants can’t be expressed in words: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that no section in the country is untouched by the coronavirus pandemic and acknowledged that migrant workers and poor are the worst hit by the outbreak as he said the government is making every effort to mitigate their problems. “There is no section in our country that has not faced difficulty and is not in trouble. And the worst-affected by this crisis are the poor and labourers. Their suffering and pain cannot be expressed in words,” he said.“Who among us would not have felt for their suffering. All of us along with the entire country are trying to share their pain and suffering,” he added. Millions of migrant workers were left jobless by the lockdown, which is aimed at curbing the spread of the coronavirus disease, and have walked thousands of miles home, many dying in accidents along the way.The government announced it will spend Rs 35 billion on food for nearly 80 million migrant workers over the next two months. The allocation is part of a Rs 20 lakh crore fiscal and monetary package to prop up the ailing economy. The Indian Railways started Shramik Special trains on May 1 to ferry the migrant workers stranded after the lockdown was announced on March 24 and extended further.The Prime Minister said the Indian Railways is working round the clock in their efforts to help the poor and the migrant labourers. So are the Centre, state governments and other local bodies, who are working day and night for the migrants and poor people, he added.PM Modi was addressing the 65th edition of his Mann Ki Baat on the final day of the fourth phase of nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24 as a precautionary measure to contain the infections. The lockdown was later extended thrice till May 31.The Centre has now further extended the lockdown till June 30 and issued new guidelines for phased re-opening of “all activities outside containment zones for the next one month beginning June 1”.PM Modi also stressed that people have to be more cautious after a major chunk of the economy has been opened up.“With all the precautions, aeroplanes have started flying and the industry has started running gradually, meaning a large part of the economy has opened up. In such a situation, we need to be more vigilant,” PM Modi said on Mann Ki Baat.“There should be a rule of two yards and people should use masks and as far as possible, stay inside. You must follow all these things and there should not be any slop in it,” PM Modi said.India recorded more than 8,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day for the first time as the tally surged to 182,143 and death toll stood at 5,164, according to the Union health ministry.Data showed there were 8,380 fresh Covid-19 cases, up from Saturday’s 7,964, and 193 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The number of deaths went down from 265 reported on Saturday, a day before the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown was scheduled to end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pain-of-poor-and-migrants-can-t-be-expressed-in-words-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-b7EDyeqTTERMLCzXQptVFI.html
31-05-2020||India||Man injured, 2 houses partially damaged in Jammu and Kashmir’s Mendhar in Pak shelling||A man suffered splinter injuries and two houses were partially damaged after Pakistan opened heavy fire and shot mortars along the Line of Control (LoC) in Mendhar sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Sunday.The injured person has been identified as Mohammad Yaseen of Gohlad village.“Pakistani troops opened heavy fire and shot mortars on Indian posts and villages around 3.10 am on Sunday. They even targeted villages in the fresh round of unprovoked firing,” said a police officer.“Exchange of fire continued for nearly four hours in which a man suffered splinter injuries in his leg and two houses were partially damaged. The injured was evacuated to a hospital for treatment,” he added.The Pakistani troops had violated the ceasefire on Saturday too by resorting to intense firing and shelling on forward areas in two sectors along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, news agency PTI quoted a defence spokesperson as saying.The intense firing from small arms across the border started around 10 am in Kirni sector, drawing befitting retaliation by the Indian Army, the spokesperson said.Later in the day, the spokesperson said the Pakistani troops also initiated unprovoked firing and mortar shelling in Khari Karmara sector around 7.45 pm.There was a strong retaliation by the Indian Army, he said, adding that there was no report of any casualty on the Indian side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-injured-2-houses-partially-damaged-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-mendhar-in-pak-shelling/story-UpOb1Ca4jiQUqaornrKmzI.html
31-05-2020||India||Unlock 1: Maharashtra govt may announce certain lockdown relaxations today. Here’s what to expect||Maharashtra government is expected to announce revised guidelines on lockdown relaxations and nature of the fifth phase of Covid-19 lockdown on Sunday. This comes a day after the Central government released guidelines on lockdown 5.0 which is being billed as ‘Unlock 1’. The phase will see a major cut in lockdown restrictions across the country, barring in Covid-19 containment zones. State governments have been allowed to come up with their respective guidelines on the same. Maharashtra has registered a recovery rate of 43.09 percent, wherein 28,081 patients have recovered from coronavirus. There are 34,881 active positive cases of coronavirus in the state out of the total 65,168 positive cases. ‘Gradual and calibrated’According to the Maharashtra government, the opening up of the state will happen in a “gradual and calibrated manner”, even as the cases will go up. The state government is considering moving “cautiously” and relaxations would be given on the degree of “contact” and “essential” nature of the service. Also Watch | Lockdown 5 or Reopen 1? E-passes, curfew, malls, bars: New rules explainedCovid-19 hotspot areas such as Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune are likely to remain under lockdown even as the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Saturday issued guidelines for the phased reopening of activities outside containment zones. Also read: Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till June 30. Here’s what you can and can’t do nowWhat to expectChief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has already indicated that he is not keen to lift curbs in Mumbai, Pune and MMR. On Saturday, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Thackeray also had a meeting discussing further on opening up of the lockdown. Following this, Thackeray is expected to announce the same after consultation with senior state government officials.The Ministry of Home Affairs, in its guidelines on Saturday, has allowed the opening up of religious places/places of worship, hotels, restaurants, and other hospitality services, shopping malls from June 8. The state government has not decided yet on this but is unlikely to allow the opening of malls, among others.Further, it is expected that the state government could remove some of the municipal corporations, excluding municipal corporations of Mumbai, Pune, from the red zone category. Other municipal corporations including Dhule, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur cities are in the red zone.For offices and workplacesSince more offices are likely to go operational in the near future, the state has issued guidelines for its employees. In a public health department order dated May 30, it has asked the employees to effectively use e-office regime, avoid travelling in groups, sanitise working places regularly.It has also mandated for the regular checking of the employees with an infrared thermal scanner, use of three-layer masks, etc.The order also stated that any employee found with a temperature more than 100.4 degrees should be institutionally quarantined and workplaces found with more than 5 positive patients to be fumigated and sealed.Meanwhile, Madhav Sathe, former microbiology professor at Nair Hospital said, “We should hope India has reached the peak of the coronavirus graph and cases will slowly decrease over the next 3 to 4 weeks. Recovery rate has also increased to around 41 to 42% This may improve if the best treatment strategy gets emerged in the next few weeks in India.”Sathe added, “By mid-July most cases will be milder.” On whether Mumbai can get ride of lockdown by July, Sathe said crowding still may have to be avoided. “With maximum precautions, mask, eye shield, washing hands after reaching office and maintaining good immunity is all that will be needed, and crowding still will have to be avoided,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-maharashtra-govt-may-announce-certain-lockdown-relaxations-today/story-1PuRTlUrQQ6qadHZ1dHxII.html
31-05-2020||India||PM Modi promises help to all states affected by locust attack||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that help will be extended to all those affected by locust attack. he made the announcement on his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’.“Many parts of the country are under locust attack. These attacks have reminded us that how much damage this small insect could cause. A huge area gets affected by this attack,” PM Modi said.“Adopting new innovations, I am confident that we will be able to deal with this crisis in agricultura sector,” he added.Locust swarms from Pakistan have entered Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh, threatening major damage to standing cotton crops and vegetables. Rajasthan is the worst-affected state.The swarms of locusts has now gone further inside with administration in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj (in eastern part of the state) preparing for a possible attack from the migratory pests.There are three major regions - Dausa in Rajasthan, Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh, Chattarpur district of Madhya Pradesh - where the locusts have attacked predominately.Meanwhile, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has asked people to burst firecrackers and beat drums to prevent attacks by locust swarms.The minister took stock of the situation out of locust attack in his Katol constituency.Speaking to farmers, he said: “Whenever locust swarms attack, villagers should be alert. Locust attacks can be avoided by bursting firecrackers, the smoke of burning tires or if drums are played.”The desert locust is a species of locust, a swarming short-horned grasshopper. They are known to devour everything in their path, posing an unprecedented threat to food supply and livelihoods of millions of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-promises-help-to-all-states-affected-by-locust-attack/story-WwfgCXO27guLkmXufCkBDO.html
31-05-2020||India||Fight against Covid-19 is being powered by citizen’s innovative spirit: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised the spirit of innovation among Indians during his 65th Mann Ki Baat radio programme and said it is helping the country fight the coronavirus pandemic.“One more thing, which has touched my mind, is innovation in this hour of crisis. All the countrymen from villages to cities, from our small traders to startups, our labs are inventing new ways, innovating in the fight against corona,” he said on Mann Ki Baat programme.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“In addition to the will to change any situation, a lot depends on innovation. Thousands of years of mankind’s journey have reached such a modern era by continuous, innovation, therefore, these special innovations are also a great foundation for our victory over this epidemic,” he said.PM Modi gave the “very interesting” example of Rajendra Yadav from Nashik in Maharashtra. He said Yadav, a farmer in Satna, has built a sanitation machine by connecting it to his tractor to save his village from coronavirus infection. “And this innovative machine is working very effectively,” the Prime Minister added.The Prime Minister’s Mann Ki Baat address came on the final day of the fourth phase of nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).His address came a day after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued new guidelines for phased re-opening of “all activities outside containment zones for the next one month beginning June 1”.PM Modi also said people have to be more cautious after a major chunk of the economy has been opened up.“With all the precautions, aeroplanes have started flying and the industry has started running gradually, meaning a large part of the economy has opened up. In such a situation, we need to be more vigilant,” PM Modi said on Mann Ki Baat.“There should be a rule of two yards and people should use masks and as far as possible, stay inside. You must follow all these things and there should not be any slop in it,” he said.The Prime Minister had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24 as a precautionary measure to contain the infections. The lockdown was later extended thrice till May 31.India recorded more than 8,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day for the first time as the tally surged to 182,143 and death toll stood at 5,164, according to the Union health ministry.Data showed there were 8,380 fresh Covid-19 cases, up from Saturday’s 7,964, and 193 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The number of deaths went down from 265 reported on Saturday, a day before the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown was scheduled to end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fight-against-covid-19-is-being-powered-by-citizen-s-innovative-spirit-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-RkDRpPHQEYYifj1UvU88RK.html
31-05-2020||India||From Hollywood to Haridwar, people taking Yoga seriously: PM on ‘Mann Ki Baat’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that people are realising the true potential of Yoga and Ayurveda as they battle the coronavirus pandemic.“During the coronavirus crisis, I had a chance to speak to many world leaders. In their conversation, they expressed great interest in Yoga and Ayurveda. Some leaders enquired how Yoga and Ayurveda can help in these times,” PM Modi said during the 65th ‘Mann ki Baat’, his monthly radio address.“People are becoming more health conscious as Yoga is getting associated with their lives. During coronavirus crisis too, from Hollywood to Haridwar, people re paying serious attention to Yoga while being at home,” he said.“Everywhere, people are willing to know more and adopt Yoga and Ayurveda. Many people who have never practiced Yoga are either taking classes online or learning it through online videos,” the Prime Minister said.He added that in true terms, Yoga is good for community, immunity and unity.He also gave details about how Yoga can help in battling Covid-19. “This virus affects our respiratory system the most. In Yoga, there are many pranayams (breathing exercises) to strengthen the respiratory system. We have been seeing their effects for a long time. These are time-tested techniques which have their own significance,” PM Modi said.He also asked the people to stay vigilant as a major part of the country’s economy will now open up after four phases of lockdown.“With all due precautions, passenger flights have resumed. Gradually industrial activities are rebooting. It means a large chunk of the economy has now opened up. Now, we need to be even more vigilant,” PM Modi said.On Saturday, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued new guidelines for phased re-opening of “all activities outside containment zones for the next one month beginning June 1”.The Prime Minister had on March 24 announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of COVID-19. The lockdown was later extended, in phases, till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-hollywood-to-haridwar-people-taking-yoga-seriously-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-mCOLvUeBAtSv8G6UsfAkVI.html
31-05-2020||India||Low-pressure area off Mumbai coast brewing into a cyclonic storm: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday a low-pressure area building on the country’s western coast in the Arabian Sea will develop into a cyclonic storm in the subsequent 24 hours.The build-up of a cyclonic storm in Maharashtra and Gujarat comes after Cyclone Amphan battered West Bengal and Odisha just a week ago. “A low-pressure area formed over South East & adjoining East Central Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area. To concentrate into a Depression over East-central and adjoining Southeast Arabian Sea during next 24 hours and into a Cyclonic Storm during the subsequent 24 hours,” IMD tweeted. The low pressure is formed over the Arabian Sea is likely to move towards Maharashtra and Gujarat and may bring heavy rains in these two states. Another storm is building over the Arabian Sea and is close to the African coast and likely to bring rain and strong winds in Oman and Yemen, the weather bureau has forecast.IMD had on Thursday the monsoon was likely to arrive in Kerala, which marks the beginning of the four-month rainy season when India receives 70% of its annual rainfall, around its normal onset date of June 1.It said there were new developing patterns that could speed up the progress of the rain system. IMD on May 15 said the onset was likely to be delayed by four days and the monsoon was expected to arrive on June 5.The monsoon normally sets in over Kerala around June 1 and advances northwards, usually in surges, and covers the entire country around July 15.IMD said conditions were becoming favourable for further advance of the monsoon into some more parts of south Arabian Sea, Maldives-Comorin area, south-west and the south-east Bay of Bengal during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-pressure-area-off-mumbai-coast-brewing-into-a-cyclonic-storm-imd/story-LH0ymDLMnpWGhziF7D1EPL.html
31-05-2020||India||PM Modi addresses Mann Ki Baat, says more caution needed after lockdown ease||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday India needs to be more cautious after a major chunk of the economy has been opened up as he addressed his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat.The Prime Minister’s address came on the final day of the fourth phase of nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“With all the precautions, aeroplanes have started flying and the industry has started running gradually, meaning a large part of the economy has opened up. In such a situation, we need to be more vigilant,” PM Modi said on Mann Ki Baat.“There should be a rule of two yards and people should use masks and as far as possible, stay inside. You must follow all these things and there should not be any slop in it,” PM Modi said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHis address came a day after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued new guidelines for phased re-opening of “all activities outside containment zones for the next one month beginning June 1”.The Prime Minister had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24 as a precautionary measure to contain the infections. The lockdown was later extended thrice till May 31.The 65th edition of Mann Ki Baat also comes a day after the one-year anniversary of the second term of the Modi government.India recorded more than 8,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day for the first time as the tally surged to 182,143 and death toll stood at 5,164, according to the Union health ministry.Data showed there were 8,380 fresh Covid-19 cases, up from Saturday’s 7,964, and 193 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The number of deaths went down from 265 reported on Saturday, a day before the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown was scheduled to end.The Prime Minister had focused on the situation prevailing in the country due to the coronavirus pandemic in his last Mann Ki Baat programme and urged people to help the poor, migrants and needy during the lockdown.PM Modi had said that India’s fight against the coronavirus disease is “people-driven” and is being fought by the masses and the administration hand in hand.And, he repeated his comment on Sunday’s Mann Ki Baat episode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-mann-ki-baat-says-more-caution-needed-after-lockdown-ease/story-lAqw1BLhyVdve7Sx8BfKRP.html
31-05-2020||India||As India moves into Covid-19’s Unlock 1.0, a word of caution from PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that it is important to be even more vigilant as major chunk of economy has opened up.In his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’, he said that people of the country must follow all the precautions without any laxity.“India is valiantly fighting the battle against coronavirus with collective efforts. Looking at the world, we realise how big is the achievement of Indians,” PM Modi said.“Whatever we lost, we all regret but whatever we could save is definitely the result of the collective will power,” he added.He also said that the entire movement if people driven and hailed various initiatives launched by people to serve people during this period of crisis.“There is a saying in our country ‘Seva Parmo Dharmah’ - service is pleasure in itself. People who serve others have ample confidence, positivity and vitality,” said the Prime Minister.PM Modi further said that the road ahead is a long one. “We are fighting a pandemic about which little was previously known.”He said that the fight against Covid-19 “is being powered by innovative spirit of our citizens”.On Saturday, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued new guidelines for phased re-opening of “all activities outside containment zones for the next one month beginning June 1”.Incidentally, the ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address comes a day after the one-year anniversary of the second term of the Modi government.In the previous episode of ‘Mann Ki Baat’, the Prime Minister had focused on the situation prevailing in the country due to Covid-19 and urged people to help the poor, migrants and needy during the lockdown.The Prime Minister had on March 24 announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown was later extended, in phases, till May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/important-to-be-more-vigilant-as-economy-opens-up-pm-modi-in-mann-ki-baat/story-SIiJhplfRN1wJ1qTmV0WEM.html
31-05-2020||India||Surge in coronavirus cases in West Bengal, tally crosses 5,000: A look at Covid-19 situation across India||On Sunday, India touched a grim milestone after registering the highest single-day spike of 8,380 Covid-19 cases, the Ministry of Health stated. With this, the country’s coronavirus tally has jumped to 182,143 cases. Covid-19 death toll in the country stands at 5,164 while 86,983 people have been cured or discharged from hospitals. As states gradually prepare to unlock the lockdown, the challenge is to keep the rising the number of coronavirus cases in check. Most state governments are expected to issue their respective guidelines on ‘Unlock 1’ phase announced by the Centre which will most of the activities resume across the country from June 1.Amid such developments, here’s taking a look at the prevailing Covid-19 situation in various states. States with over 20,000 casesMaharashtra and Tamil Nadu are struggling with a rapid rise in the number of coronavirus infections. Maharashtra on Sunday reported a total of 65,168 coronavirus cases, in Tamil Nadu the figure stands at 21,184. As many as 2,197 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra - highest in the country, while Tamil Nadu has seen 160 fatalities. Mumbai and Chennai are the two most affected cities in the respective states. Also read: 6,000, 7,000, 8,000 - How the final week of lockdown 4.0 saw spike in Covid-19 casesStates with over 15,000 casesThe national capital and PM Modi’s native place are two such states in the country where the Covid-19 cases have crossed the 15,000-mark. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally rose to 18,549 on Sunday, 8,075 patients have recovered here while 416 died due to Covid-19. In Gujarat, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 16,343 on Saturday. The state has seen 9,230 people recover from coronavirus while 1,007 people have died. Ahmedabad is the worst-hit district in Gujarat. States with over 5,000 casesRajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have reported more than 5,000 coronavirus cases so far. In Rajasthan, Covid-19 cases reached 8,617 on Sunday. The state has reported 193 fatalities while 5,739 patients have recovered from the infection here.Madhya Pradesh, on the other hand, has registered 7,891 infections till date. Three hundred and forty-three people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 4,444 have recovered.The number of Covid-19 positive cases have jumped to 7,445 in Uttar Pradesh. While 4,410 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 201 have died from the infection here. The number of infected cases in West Bengal reached crossed the 5,000-mark on Sunday. There have been 5,130 Covid-19 cases and 309 deaths. As many as 1,970 patients have recovered from coronavirus in the state till date. States with under 5,000 casesBihar is rapidly inching toward the 5,000-mark. Covid-19 cases in the state stand at 3,636; death toll has jumped to 20. Andhra Pradesh has seen 3,569 Covid-19 cases, 60 people have died in the state. Situation in other statesTelangana, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Assam and Haryana are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark.In Kerala, the Covid-19 tally stands at 1,208. The southern state has seen 575 coronavirus recoveries while nine people have died. Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura have reported around 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Nagaland and Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli has reported two cases of Covid-19, Sikkim has one. Arunachal Pradesh has four Covid-19 patients and one of them has recovered.All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Mizoram have recovered. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surge-in-coronavirus-cases-in-west-bengal-tally-crosses-5-000-a-look-at-covid-19-situation-across-india/story-tNxkC2h5A5evHEVr5iO24J.html
31-05-2020||India||Watch Live: ‘India’s fight against Covid-19 is people driven,’ says PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation in his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’ and said that every Indian has played a crucial part in the battle against Covid-19. The prime minister said that India’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic is a “people-driven” one. PM Modi said that the citizens have shown immense determination during the coronavirus crisis and have also shown that “sacrifice” and “service” are not just our ideals but also part of our lifestyle. “Now is the time to be more careful,” the prime minister cautioned as a host of economic activities resume operation in the fifth phase of lockdown from June 1. Also read: As India moves into Covid-19’s Unlock 1.0, a word of caution from PM ModiIndia's Seva Shakti is visible in the fight against COVID-19. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/hVGETo0XJO“With many precautions, domestic flights have resumed operations. Industries will also resume gradually. This means a chunk of our economy has started again and we need to be more careful now,” the prime minister said reiterating the significance of maintaining “do gaj ki doori” and social distancing norms. PM Modi said that no carelessness should occur when it comes to wearing masks in public. “Stay indoors as much as possible,” he said during the address.  It is important to be even more careful now. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/VAaqoyaG5VTalking about Covid-19 fatalities in the country, PM Modi said that the rate of coronavirus deaths in the country is fairly low, although “the loss of even one life is heartbreaking,” he said. “Whatever we could save is an achievement in itself and that could only be possible due to the strong resolution, determination of all citizens,” PM Modi said. PM Modi’s 64th edition of ‘Mann Ki Baat’ comes in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown 5.0, which will begin on Monday. Listen to the Prime Minister Live here:  Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann ki Baat address comes a day before India is set to enter the fifth phase of nationwide coronavirus lockdown from June 1. Billed as ‘Unlock 1’, the phase will be marked by the lifting of most lockdown restrictions across the country barring Covid-19 containment zones. Metro services, international flights, gyms, swimming pools, bars, amusement parks will remain closed amid this phase. Various state governments are likely to issue their respective guidelines today that are to be followed from tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-begins-his-address-to-the-nation-on-mann-ki-baat/story-ELfl7gtqt8P79hB8kkOtXM.html
31-05-2020||India||Senior IAS officer in Jammu and Kashmir tests positive for Covid-19, hospitalised||A senior officer in Jammu and Kashmir tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19 on Saturday. This comes a few days after the wife and son of an advisor to the Lieutenant Governor contracted Covid-19.The officer has been hospitalised at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana super-specialty hospital in Kakryal in Reasi district on Sunday morning.The IAS officer, who came back from Srinagar on Saturday, had attended a high-level meeting in Jammu that was chaired by a top bureaucrat, a financial commissioner, a principal secretary, a senior bureaucrat in the disaster management authority and officials from health and medical education department, said a top bureaucrat on the condition of anonymity.While the senior IAS officer, who is holding rank of commissioner secretary, was hospitalised at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana super-specialty hospital in Kakryal in Reasi district on Sunday morning, top bureaucrats have been either sent to hotel or home quarantines and their samples are being taken, he added.A senior official from government medical college and hospital, who attended the meeting said, “I have gone into home quarantine as soon as I came to know that the IAS official has tested positive.”The sample of the senior IAS officer was taken for testing last evening after he came back to Jammu from Srinagar.The meeting was held around 4.30 pm on Saturday as a pre-cursor to discuss lifting of lockdown restrictions in the union territory from June 8.“Other senior officials include a divisional commissioner, heads of health and medical education department, principal of GMC Jammu, directors of national health mission, health services, medical supplies corporation, microbiologist and epidemiologist,” said the official.A senior doctor said, “The senior IAS officer, who had given his sample for Covid-19 test, should not have attended the meeting. He behaved carelessly and has put others into risk.”When contacted, authorities concerned refused to comment on the entire issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-ias-officer-in-jammu-and-kashmir-tests-positive-for-covid-19-hospitalised/story-K4IrBKTYyzOhRLmlM3fS3O.html
31-05-2020||India||Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till June 30: Here’s what you can and can’t do now||Tamil Nadu on Sunday extended the lockdown till June 30, a day after the Centre announced a graded exit plan, with more relaxations that included opening up public transport partially and allowing more employees at workplaces.The southern state is among the worst affected by the coronavirus pandemic with 21,184 Covid-19 cases and 160 deaths. It witnessed the biggest single-day spike of 938 new coronavirus cases on Saturday.“To prevent the spread of coronavirus, the curfew is being extended till June 30 under the State Disaster Management Act and as per the Union Home Ministry’s notification,” chief minister K Palaniswami said in a statement.The state government also announced a number of other relaxations, barring containment zones, and these include permitting showrooms and jewellery shops to re-open but not malls.Pubic transport will resume with reduced services from June 1 but buses will not be allowed in Chennai, Kancheepurm, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet districts. They have the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state.Private stage carriers will be allowed to operate on authorised routes.The curbs on religious places, inter-state bus transport, and Metro and suburban rails would continue.Here is what will remain closed:* Temples and other places of worship will not be opened* Parks, beaches, cinema halls, gyms and educational institutions will also continue to be closed* There will be no change in lockdown norms in containment areas* Ban on inter-state transport will remain in place.In non-containment areas of greater Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram and Chengalpet, the following are allowed:* All private companies can work with 50% staff* IT companies have been permitted to ferry up to 40 employees in their own transport to work* Big showrooms, except malls and barring in containment zones can open with 50% staff but without air conditioners. This includes textiles and jewellery shops. Five customers have been permitted to enter these places* Hotels can operate with 50% seats from June 8 and people can sit and eat. But AC shouldn’t be operated. Earlier only takeaways were allowed. Seating arrangements should be according to physical distancing norms* Salons and beauty parlours can function without AC. The government has said it will issue separate guidelines later.* In taxis, only three people, excluding the driver, can travel* In auto-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws, only two people are allowed, excluding the driver* E-pass will not be required if someone is travelling within Chennai* Tea shops in the state will also be allowed to open from June 8 with 50% occupancy.Here is what will happen in the rest of Tamil Nadu:* Private companies can function with 100% strength but work from home should be encouraged* Shops of the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) can function from 10am to 8pm* Non-essential e-commerce delivery has been allowed.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-lockdown-till-june-30-here-s-what-you-can-and-can-t-do-now/story-Ib0mUAemlzQuJk2ozG9QMN.html
31-05-2020||India||From Rajasthan, locust swarms cover a distance of nearly 1,000 km, threaten Prayagraj in UP||The swarms of locusts, which entered western India from Pakistan, has gone further inside with administration in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj (in eastern part of the state) preparing for a possible attack from the migratory pests.“The swarm of locust flying from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, has reached Uttar Pradesh. District authority and state government are prepared to control the attack of locust and have warned people. We have also trained the farmers about how to save their crops,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Singh, district agriculture officer, Prayagraj.There are three major regions - Dausa in Rajasthan, Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh, Chattarpur district of Madhya Pradesh - where the locusts have attacked predominately.“The swarm of the locust is expected to spoil the crops and trees of the region to a great extent. In the wake of possible locust attack in the city, we have tested the machines and now we are prepared to deal with it,” said Ajay Kumar Sharma, member of the team preparing to fight the locust attack in Prayagraj.Meanwhile, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has asked people to burst firecrackers and beat drums to prevent attacks by locust swarms.The minister took stock of the situation out of locust attack in his Katol constituency.Speaking to farmers, he said: “Whenever locust swarms attack, villagers should be alert. Locust attacks can be avoided by bursting firecrackers, the smoke of burning tires or if drums are played.”Earlier, Maharashtra Agriculture Minister Dada Bhuse informed that around 50 per cent locust swarms were killed in the state by the Agriculture Department.Locust swarms from Pakistan have entered Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh, threatening major damage to standing cotton crops and vegetables, said a spokesperson of Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, adding that Rajasthan is the most affected state.The desert locust is a species of locust, a swarming short-horned grasshopper. They are known to devour everything in their path, posing an unprecedented threat to food supply and livelihoods of millions of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-rajasthan-locust-swarms-cover-a-distance-of-nearly-1-000-km-threaten-prayagraj/story-k10nIFMRT5rWkpxUKpnHvM.html
31-05-2020||India||Over 8,000 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours for first time; India’s tally at 182,143||India recorded more than 8,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day for the first time as the tally surged to 182,143 and death toll stood at 5,164, according to the Union health ministry.Data showed there were 8,380 fresh Covid-19 cases, up from Saturday’s 7,964, and 193 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The number of deaths went down from 265 reported on Saturday, a day before the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown was scheduled to end.India went under a sweeping, unprecedented lockdown on March 25 when people were banned from stepping out of their homes for any purpose except for a handful of essential or emergency reasons. At the time, the number of cases in the country was 602, and deaths, 12. The curbs have slowly been relaxed in the months since with the government announcing on Saturday a phased Unlock 1 plan from June onwards.There were 86,983 people who have been cured and with this, the recovery rate in the country has gone slightly up to 47.75% from 47.40% on Saturday.Most of India’s 182,143 Covid-19 cases and 5,164 deaths have been reported from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh as the Centre extended the nationwide lockdown to June 30 but also allowed the resumption of some activities that had remained shut till now.Maharastra continues to be the worst-affected state and has the highest number of infections at 65,168, including 2,197 fatalities. There are 21,184 Covid-19 cases and 160 deaths in Tamil Nadu, which extended the lockdown till June 30.Delhi, which will decide on the lockdown extension on Sunday, has 18,549 infections, including 416 deaths and Gujarat with 16,343 Covid-19 patients has recorded more deaths than the national capital at 1,007.Globally, more than 6 million people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, and 369,126 have succumbed, according to the Johns Hopkins Covid-19 tracker.Better ratesIndia’s fatality rate at 2.8% till Saturday was much lower than the global 6%, data shows. India took 79 days to record these many deaths, while some of the major Covid-19 hotspot – such the United States, the United Kingdom, Spain and Italy – took less than a third of this duration to rack up similar counts. Countries like Spain and Italy, and New York city, where hospitals were overwhelmed after a sudden spike in infections, have recorded a sharp increase in fatalities. Most of these regions enforced varying degrees of lockdowns after cases began to spike, compared to India that adopted such restrictions early on.The country’s top experts said keeping fatalities down by focussing on health care facilities will now be the most crucial strategy to deal with the pandemic across the country, where the outbreak has largely taken hold and a rise in the number of infections is inevitable.According to the Union health ministry on Saturday, the doubling time of coronavirus cases in India over the last fortnight has improved to 15.4 days from 13.3 days.“Two things worked in our favour: the young demographic and early implementation of lockdown before cases exploded, helping flatten the curve and prevent deaths,” said Dr Ambarish Dutta, associate professor of epidemiology and public health, Indian Institute of Public Health-Bhubaneswar.According to an analysis of laboratory-surveillance data by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the attack rate of Covid-19 in India is 0.00332%, which means that only 33.2 people per million population are infected.It is considerably lower than the attack rates in other countries; in the US it is 0.2523%, in France 0.3364%, in the UK 0.1962% and in Canada 0.0899%, according to the US National Library of Medicine.The health ministry reiterated on Saturday that all precautions, including physical distancing at public places and workplaces, frequent hand washing and use of masks or face covers, must be taken while “living with the new normal” of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-8-000-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-for-first-time-india-s-tally-at-182-143/story-IZvMIMqgqr4iExD4U4vznJ.html
31-05-2020||India||6,000, 7,000, 8,000: How the final week of lockdown 4.0 saw spike in Covid-19 cases||India on Sunday registered its highest single-day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. According to the Union health ministry update at 8 am, the number of cases in the country rose by 8,380 in the last 24 hours (between Saturday and Sunday).The death toll climbed to 5,164 after 193 fatalities in the last 24 hours, the health ministry data further showed.The final week of the end of lockdown 4.0 has been the deadliest, with India registering record Covid-19 cases and fatalities. On May 24, the number of new cases were 6,767, it increased to 6,977 on May 25. The number dipped to 6,560 on May 28, but again rose to 7,466 the next day.On May 30 (Saturday), India saw another big single-day spike with 7,965 new Covid-19 cases. And Sunday’s numbers showed the biggest single-day spike with more that 8,300 cases.India is the ninth worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of active Covid-19 cases stood to 89,995 while 86,983 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the Union health ministry said.Maharastra continues to be the worst-affected state and has the highest number of infections at 65,168, including 2,197 fatalities. There are 21,184 Covid-19 cases and 160 deaths in Tamil Nadu, which extended the lockdown till June 30.Delhi, which will decide on the lockdown extension on Sunday, has 18,549 infections, including 416 deaths and Gujarat with 16,343 Covid-19 patients has recorded more deaths than the national capital at 1,007.However, India has a fatality rate of 2.8 per cent, which is much lower than the global six per cent. It has given experts hope that the outbreak in India may not be as deadly as it has been in many countries, perhaps highlighting some of the gains from the nationwide lockdown. Meanwhile, the recovery rate in India improved to 47 per cent on Saturday, up five percentage points from just a week ago.The country’s top experts said keeping fatalities down by focussing on health care facilities will now be the most crucial strategy to deal with the pandemic across the country, where the outbreak has largely taken hold and a rise in the number of infections is inevitable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-000-7-000-8-000-how-the-final-week-of-lockdown-4-0-saw-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-ofYldK8PxzCkHjzVZR5uNL.html
31-05-2020||India||Rain, thunderstorm bring relief to Delhi and parts of North India; ‘heatwave conditions unlikely for a week’: IMD||Spells of showers in the national capital and parts of North India have brought a much-needed relief from the heatwave conditions prevailing in the region. The India Meteorological Department has stated that the heatwave conditions in Delhi have abated and are unlikely to surface until June 8.  Thunderstorm and rainfall lashed the national capital over the weekend. Delhi is predicted to receive light showers on Sunday as well. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 35 degrees Celsius and 22 degrees Celsius respectively.On Saturday, a partly cloudy sky kept the mercury in check in the national capital and similar conditions are expected over the next 24 hours. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the India Meteorological Department’s regional forecasting centre here, said the effect of the current western disturbance and easterly winds will reduce significantly by Sunday evening.Also read: 2020 could be the hottest year since records began, experts warn He said, the maximum temperature in Delhi-NCR is likely to increase by two to four degrees Celsius from June 1 to June 3, “However, the mercury will remain below 40 degrees Celsius over most places and heatwave conditions will not return,” Srivastava said.According to the IMD, the maximum temperature in the national capital is likely to remain under 40 degrees Celsius in the coming week with occurrences of rainfall and partly cloudy skies. Thunderstorm, lightning and rainfall is very likely at a few places over Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Budaun, Sambhal, Amroha, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Etah, Kasganj, Farrukhabad, Shahjahanpur, Lakhimpur Kheri districts and adjoining areas on Sunday, the weather department stated.  Under the influence of a current Western Disturbance and an east-west trough in lower tropospheric levels, the Western Himalayan region and adjoining plains are likely to receive rainfall, accompanied by thunderstorm, in the next 24 hours, the IMD stated in its weather bulletin. Southern peninsular India and states like Kerala are predicted to receive heavy to very rainfall between May 30 to June 1, the Met department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorm-bring-relief-to-delhi-parts-of-north-india-heatwave-conditions-unlikely-for-a-week-imd/story-Z3Pag0jSINt6LUynSdwTHL.html
31-05-2020||India||Unlock 1: Most states to release guidelines on Sunday, Maharashtra not keen to lift curbs||Most of the state governments have said that they will issue state specific guidelines on Sunday in pursuant of the Centre’s directions that allow resumption of almost all activities, except a few such as running of metros and opening of cinemas and gymnasiums, from June 1.The Centre’s new guidelines provide a roadmap for lifting of the lockdown and allows states to take a call on when the educational institutions, public transport and other social gathering places can open and under which conditions. It also gives powers to the states to take strict measures as per their needs and have to follow the ones issued by the Centre. The nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for three weeks to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease. It has been extended thrice since then.However, the relaxations would not be applicable in many areas in 13 cities that account for 70% of the Covid-19 cases, which have been declared as containment areas. The Centre has asked the states to identify the containment centres on high-risk factors such as confirmation rate, fatality rate, doubling rate, tests per million people etc. The Centre has already shared its parametres with the state governments asking them to search for Covid-19 cases through house-to-house surveillance, contact tracing, testing protocol and clinical management of active cases.The Centre’s announcement comes days after several chief ministers requested lockdown exit guidelines during their discussion with Home Minister Amit Shah and Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba. “We cannot permanently remain in the lockdown,” West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday. On Saturday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal backed her saying that the country needs to learn to live with Covid-19.Banerjee has already announced all activities will be allowed in West Bengal from June 1 as the state was reeling under huge financial crisis. States such as Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have also citied financial crunch as a reason for allowing all economic activities saying sustaining lockdown financially will not be possible anymore. Many of the state government had already started working on reopening of hospitability industry, gymnasiums and malls. Karnataka, Goa and Uttarakhand have already announced that they would open hotels and restaurants from June 1 and have urged the Centre to allow opening of gymnasiums and malls also.State governments such as Rajasthan, Goa and Uttarakhand have also announced opening of all tourism places from June 1, including wildlife areas. These state governments have issued standard operating procedures for sanitising hotels and resorts and allowing guests with social distancing norms. Restaurants in these states would be allowed with 50 per cent of the existing seating capacity. Goa will also be opening up activities along the beaches from June 1 with social distancing norms. Uttarakhand government will open Chardham Yatra from June 1 for pilgrims under the new home ministry order, state government officials said.As inter-state travel without permit has been allowed, the state governments will have to come up with new policy on quarantine. “No more we would be able to provide institutional quarantine to all,” said a UP government official. Echoing his sentiments, a Bihar government official said the state has already relaxed institutional quarantine rules to seven days for migrant workers and may further reduce it as more trains will resume operations from Monday.An official in Himachal Pradesh government said that they were proposing quarantine of only symptomatic residents of the state who want to return back. However, the bigger challenge for hill states like Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand is how to prevent huge tourism inflow expected due to rising mercury levels in the plains. “We are discussing this issue and very soon guidelines for tourists will be issued,” said Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj. Reacting to the MHA order, Odisha Special Relief Commissioner Pradip Jena said relaxation in night curfew for two more hours (till 9 pm from earlier 7 pm) is a welcome step. “Much of the things described in the guidelines, we have little role to play as the central ministries would issue standard operating procedures such as opening of gyms, temples and schools. We would declare Odisha guidelines tomorrow following all that the MHA guidelines have said,” Jena said on Saturday.A senior Uttar Pradesh government official said they would issue the lockdown 5.0 guidelines in the next few days. “We will examine the guidelines and issue the state government’s guidelines soon,” said chief secretary RK Tiwari. Officials said the state government was considering opening of all states borders for free movement of people even though migrant workers have been a cause of concern as they contributed in large numbers to the surge in Covid cases in recent past. However, Maharashtra is expected to continue with most of the lockdown 4 restrictions as the number of Covid-19 cases doubled in the state in the past fortnight. The officials said more relaxations can be offered in allowing opening of standalone shops in urban areas. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has already indicated that he is not keen to lift curbs in Mumbai, Pune and Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) as Covid-19 cases could spike if restrictions are lifted.The Maharashtra government is expected to issue its revised guidelines for the state by Sunday. An official said that the government is going to provide further restrictions in a “gradual and calibrated manner” but Covid-19 cases are bound to go up as this happens. The official added that the state government is moving “cautiously” and relaxations would be given on the degree of “contact” and “essential” nature of the service.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-0-most-states-to-release-guidelines-on-sunday-maharashtra-not-keen-to-lift-curbs/story-aWvXw8uFDdEU5CCIs5RnpI.html
31-05-2020||India||Amid Centre’s Unlock 1.0, these states will have their own lockdown rules||At least four states of Punjab, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, and Mizoram have announced they will extend the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) even as the Centre issued guidelines to ease the restrictions.The Union home ministry said on Saturday places of worship, shopping malls, and hotels and restaurants can open from June 8 as it released details of the first of a three-phase plan aimed at lifting stringent restrictions imposed over two months ago to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The plan, called Unlock 1.0, also removes restrictions on inter- and intra-state travel. Lockdown 4.0 ends on Sunday.The Centre has empowered states and Union territories to identify containment zones in accordance with the health ministry’s guidelines. Local authorities can also identify buffer zones, which are areas adjoining containment zones, and impose restrictions.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHere’s what has been allowed and restricted by these four states and others:PunjabPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced a four-week extension of the lockdown till June 30. Amarinder Singh said his government will take into account the Centre’s guidelines for lockdown 5.0.West BengalThe West Bengal government on Saturday decided to extend the Covid-19 lockdown until June 15 only in containment zones, allowing greater relaxation in all other areas.The order said a strict lockdown will be imposed in the affected areas, with no relaxations. Relaxations will be allowed in containment zones B and C from June 1, with the resumption of work in tea gardens, jute mills, micro, small, medium & large industries, and the construction industry.Intra-state movement of government and private buses has also been allowed with passengers not exceeding the seating capacity of the vehicle. No passengers will be allowed to travel standing and all passengers must wear masks and gloves.Bengal has allowed the opening of religious places from June 1 with not more than 10 persons gathering at a time. The state has also allowed all offices and industries to resume work with 100% workforce beyond the “affected areas”.Restaurants and shopping malls have been allowed to open on June 1. Government offices will function with 70% of the workforce on a rotational basis. While the government said it encouraged private offices to adopt a work-from-home policy, the number of staff in offices will be decided by the companies.Madhya Pradesh Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that schools in the state would open after June 13 while speaking to students from 10 districts through video conference on Saturday.“But the final decision on this would be taken after some days because we are going to extend lockdown till June 15,” Chouhan said.Mizoram The state’s health minister, R Lalthangliana, said the state was extending the lockdown in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring states and the return of stranded people.GujaratThe government said curfew will remain in place from 9 am to 5 am from June 1. It also removed the policy of odd-even and said all the shops can be opened till 7pm.Tamil NaduThe Tamil Nadu government has given further relaxation in the restrictions placed on the shooting of TV serials. A maximum of 60 artists and technicians can visit the shooting set from May 31. RajasthanMonuments and museums run by the state government will be opened from Monday. Entry will be free for tourists for the first two weeks. These monuments will open from 9am to 2am on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays in the first week starting June 1. For the next week, they will open on four days from 9am to 1pm and from 3pm to 5pm.KarnatakaThe Karnataka government has relaxed the curfew rules on Sunday, upholding the lockdown order from 7pm to 7am.GoaDistrict magistrates will issue travel passes once again. Considering the arrival of a large number of people in Goa in the last two days, the Pramod Sawant-led government is considering terminating the self-issued e-pass facility started recently and reimplement the previous system.Himachal Pradesh Government and private passenger buses will operate from June 1 in Himachal Pradesh. Buses will be able to ply from 7am to 7pm after a gap of 70 days. Buses will carry 60% of the total capacity but air conditioners will not run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-centre-s-unlock-1-0-these-states-will-have-their-own-lockdown-rules/story-mwroa9PaqrkLzEo9H3nsCO.html
31-05-2020||India||Railing of Taj Mahal’s main mausoleum damaged in thunderstorm||The iconic Taj Mahal was damaged due to thunderstorm on Friday night in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra district, officials said.The marble railing of the main mausoleum and red sandstone railings suffered damage due to thunderstorm, officials said on Saturday.ASI Superintending Archaeologist Basant Kumar Swarnkar said some trees on the premises were uprooted and one door was damaged.The false ceiling in the mausoleum was also uprooted, he said.Besides, a tree fell in Mehtab Bagh and Mariam’s Maqbara, officials said.In a statement issued in Lucknow on Saturday, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over loss of lives due to lightning and thunderstorm in Mainpuri, Agra, Lakhimpur Khiri and Muzaffarnagar districts.Officials have been directed to provide Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased and adequate medical treatment for the injured, the statement said. The Weather department has warned of thunderstorm accompanied with lightening and squall at isolated places over the state in the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railing-of-taj-mahal-s-main-mausoleum-damaged-in-thunderstorm/story-iyfDRM1hOmxNPGKKZzwBSO.html
31-05-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: New ICMR plan for states to expand antibody tests and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.New ICMR plan for states to expand antibody testsAfter completing a pilot sero-survey (a test of the blood serum of a group of individuals) last week to check the level of exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 in the community using Elisa-based antibody testing, the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) on Saturday sent an advisory to all states to expand the survey. Read moreElon Musk’s SpaceX ship blasts off with 2 US astronauts. Here’s what makes it specialFalcon 9, a rocket ship built by billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk’s SpaceX, blasted off with two Americans on Saturday, ushering in a new era in commercial space travel. Read moreWatch: 80-year-old coolie at Lucknow station helping migrants for freeAn 80-year-old coolie is helping migrants in Lucknow. Mujibullah is providing free services to migrants at railway station by working 8-10 hours daily. He said that it is his ‘duty’ and it is ‘important’. Read moreLife Hacks: All you who sleep tonight…Even as authorities across the country make up their minds on whether to lift lockdown restrictions, most people remain confined to their homes. Our professional and personal lives are now taxing affairs. Read moreSara Ali Khan shows how she became ‘Sara Ka Adha’ in funny transformation video. WatchSara Ali Khan worked hard for her weight loss transformation and she loves to show it off. In her latest IGTV video, Sara has shared her journey from ‘Sara ka sara’ to ‘Sara ka aadha’. Read moreSound of silence, the stadium cutWhen the most influential career in Indian sport ended in 2013 – which momentarily felt like all of sport itself had come to a halt, like it has today – the retiree was unequivocal about what he would miss most. Read moreHow to schedule tweets on Twitter’s web appTwitter earlier this week introduced the ability to schedule tweets from its web app. This feature was previously required using other tools like Tweetdeck and Buffer. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-new-icmr-plan-for-states-to-expand-antibody-tests-and-all-the-latest-news/story-H9irQcf5LTUstqlH6KXeDJ.html
31-05-2020||India||Lockdown 4.0 deadliest, saw 247 new Covid-19 cases every hour: Report||The fourth phase of the lockdown is going to end on Sunday. The phase has been more dangerous than the first three phases, as per the number of Covid-19 cases recorded in lockdown 4.0.According to data analysis done by Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan, the country recorded 247 new Covid-19 cases every hour during the current phase of lockdown. When lockdown 3.0 ended on May 16, the number of Covid-19 cases in the country stood at 90,927. This has now increased to 1,73,763 - this means 86,422 people contracted the disease during this period.The five days towards the end of lockdown 4.0 were the deadliest, when India saw record Covid-19 cases and fatalities. On May 24, the number of new cases were 6,767, it increased to 6,977 on May 25. The number dipped to 6,560 on May 28, but again rose to 7,466 the next day.On May 30 (Saturday), India saw its highest single-day spike with 7,965 new Covid-19 cases. The number of deaths due to the Covid-19 also crossed the 5,000-mark on Saturday, reaching a grim milestone. It recorded 265 coronavirus-linked deaths on Saturday.According to a compilation of data reported by state governments, there have been 1,81,791 infections and 5,106 fatalities in the country as of Saturday. India is the ninth worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of active Covid-19 cases stood to 86,422 while 82,369 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the Union health ministry said.Of the 265 deaths reported on Saturday, 116 were in Maharashtra, 82 in Delhi, 20 in Gujarat, 13 in Madhya Pradesh, nine in Tamil Nadu, seven in West Bengal, four each in Telangana and Rajasthan, two in Punjab and one each in Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.Maharashtra tops the tally with 2,098 deaths followed by Gujarat (980), Delhi (398,) Madhya Pradesh (334), West Bengal (302), Uttar Pradesh (198), Rajasthan (184), Tamil Nadu (154), Telangana (71) and Andhra Pradesh (60).Meanwhile, the health ministry said that there has been improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the country sicne the lockdown began on March 25. The ministry said that on Saturday, the doubling time of Covid-19 cases in India over the last fortnight has improved to 15.4 days from 13.3 days.“During the last 24 hours, a total of 11,264 Covid-19 patients have been cured. This is the highest number of recoveries recorded in a day,” the health ministry said in a statement on Saturday.Cumulatively, 3,612,242 tests have been done so far for Covid-19 and 126,842 samples were tested on Friday, the ministry said.There are now 942 dedicated Covid hospitals with 158,908 isolation beds, 20,608 ICU beds and 69,384 oxygen supported beds are available, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-4-0-deadliest-saw-247-new-covid-19-cases-every-hour-report/story-wFddMsp3WLFSneAoXQdc1M.html
31-05-2020||India||Highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, tally rises to 594||Jharkhand on Saturday recorded its highest single-day spike with 72 cases of Covid-19. With this, the total number of cases have risen to 594, news agency ANI quoted state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni as saying.According to a bulletin released by the state health department on Saturday, five people have died of the disease in Jharkhand so far. The fatalities had been two from Ranchi, and one each from Koderma, Giridih and Bokaro.Altogether 5,415 travellers are under surveillance and asymptomatic while 4,027 travellers completed observation of 28 days.While 98,355 people are in various quarantine centres, 2,81,178 people are in home quarantine, the bulletin said.The recovery rate of patients in Jharkhand is 45.5 as against the national rate of 47.40 per cent. The mortality rate is 0.89 per cent as against the national rate of 2.86 per cent, the bulletin stated.So far, nearly 4.5 lakh out of nearly 7 lakh migrants have returned home in Jharkhand following the nationwide lockdown.Jharkhand Labour Minister Satyanand Bhokta on Saturday said that plans are there to employ migrant workers in loading work in colliery areas in Latehar district.He said that instead of pressing machines in the loading of coal in rakes and trucks in colliery areas, migrant workers returning from different parts of the country would be given work.He assured proper food for migrant workers staying at different quarantine centres.The Jharkhand government also hired a plane to bring back its workers from the remote Andaman and Nicobar Islands. As many as 180 migrant workers took the flight to reach Jharkhand.Migrants were flown back home from Andaman & Nicobar a day after 60 stranded workers returned to the state from Leh by a service flight arranged by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-tally-rises-to-594/story-Yl3p12xtOiGJepbIwYI4tO.html
31-05-2020||India||International flight operations to remain suspended till June 30: DGCA||Indian aviation regulator DGCA on Saturday said the suspension of scheduled international commercial passenger flights will continue till midnight on June 30, hours after the Home Ministry announced fresh guidelines pertaining to the countrywide lockdown to contain the coronavirus pandemic.“It is once again reiterated that foreign airlines shall be suitably informed about the opening of their operations to or from India in due course,” the circular issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said. Also read: Air India pilot tests Covid-19 positive, rescue flight to Moscow turned aroundDomestic passenger flight services resumed in the country from Monday after a hiatus of two months since the lockdown was announced on March 25, when all scheduled commercial passenger flights were suspended in India. International flights continue to remain suspended even now. The Home Ministry on Saturday said ‘Unlock-1’ will be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide lockdown effectuated on March 25 will be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country’s worst pandemic-hit areas. International air travel shall remain suspended, the MHA order said, adding that a decision on when to resume it would be taken after making an assessment of the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-flight-operations-to-remain-suspended-till-june-30-dgca/story-fHdt6OE8P8bShIO6Re19QM.html
31-05-2020||India||Encounter breaks out between security forces, terrorists in J-K’s Anantnag||A gun battle erupted early on Sunday between the security forces and terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag district, the police said.Kashmir Zone police said in a tweet that a joint team of police and security forces are carrying out the operation in Poshekreeri village of Anantnag. #Encounter has started at #Poshkreeri area of #Anantnag. Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPoliceAccording to the police, two to three terrorists are trapped. The latest encounter comes a day after two terrorists were killed in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district after security forces launched a joint operation in the area. The police have not revealed the identity of the terrorists, however, sources said that both the terrorists killed in the encounter were locals. Soon after the encounter began mobile internet was suspended in the district.Last Monday, two terrorists were killed in an encounter in the Khurd-Hanjipora area of Manzgam.Two terrorists, including Hizb-ul-Mujahedeen so-called divisional commander Junaid Sehrai, were also killed in an encounter at Nawakadal in Srinagar, while over 12 houses were damaged in the encounter. Three civilians, who were injured after a house collapsed, also died in a hospital due to burn injuries.Thirty-nine terrorists and two associates have been killed and 24 security forces personnel, including two in ceasefire violations, have also died since the lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was clamped in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-terrorists-in-j-k-s-anantnag/story-MTBXO1z6bsilXyW9UY1gDJ.html
31-05-2020||India||PM Modi reaches out to people to mark 1 year of NDA 2.0||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance completed one year of its second term on Saturday, with senior party leaders such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda listing the central government’s “achievements” during the period.Marking the day, Modi addressed a letter to the citizens of the country, thanking them for their blessings, which he said helped the nation “take historic decisions and progress rapidly in the last one year”.“In 2019, the people of India voted not merely for continuity but also with a dream— of taking India to new heights. A dream of making India a global leader. The decisions taken in the last one year are directed at fulfilling this dream,” he said in the letter.Modi also shared a document on his official Twitter handle detailing the steps taken by the government for the progress and development of the country. “Have a look at the Vikas Yatra, that gives glimpses of our collective journey of development, empowerment and service,” Modi tweeted along with the document.“Responding to this massive support from the people, PM Modi and the government have started delivering on big reforms, big decisions and big ideas from day one,” the document said. “From ensuring a new dawn for Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh to historic corporate tax cuts, from empowering farmers and traders with pensions to aiding a peaceful resolution to the Ayodhya issue, Modi 2.0 has begun on a high note,” it said.Hailing Modi’s leadership, Shah said that with pro-people measures and infrastructure development, the prime minister has not only prepared a blueprint for making a strong “new India” but also a self-reliant one for the country’s “golden future”. The home minister said that during its tenure, the NDA government corrected many “historic wrongs”.“I heartily congratulate the country’s popular Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the successful one year of Modi 2.0. It has been full of historic achievements,” Shah tweetedBJP chief JP Nadda said that in the last one year, their government turned challenges into opportunities and took steps for the holistic development of the country.“This has been a year of accomplishments and we have also faced unimaginable challenges. The Prime Minister led from the front to give a vision to the country and managed the coronavirus crisis well. Starting from testing facility to developing PPE kits and ventilators in the fight against Covid-19, the country under Prime Minister Modi’s leadership is heading towards indigenous and self-reliant India. A holistic package was also announced by our government,” Nadda said at a press conference.While crediting Prime Minister Modi with bringing about a “cultural change in the political arena”, Nadda said: “What is right will be implemented and the ‘chalta hai (whatever goes)’ attitude will not be tolerated by the Modi government.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reaches-out-to-people-to-mark-1-year-of-nda-2-0/story-BxMzcffo4S6jhQX78PxG6H.html
31-05-2020||India||PM Modi’s Mann Ki Baat shortly, focus likely on Unlock 1||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address his monthly radio programme ‘Mann ki Baat’ at 11am on Sunday on the final day of the fourth phase of nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Prime Minister’s address may focus on the relaxations being given from June 1, after more than two months of lockdown. He had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24 as a precautionary measure to contain the infections. The lockdown was later extended thrice till May 31.The 65th edition of ‘Mann ki Baat’ comes a day after the one-year anniversary of the second term of the Modi government.The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has issued new guidelines for phased re-opening of “all activities outside containment zones for the next one month beginning June 1”.India had witnessed the highest-ever single day spike of 7,964 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the country’s tally to 173,763, according to the Union health ministry. With as many as 265 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll due to the virus now stands at 4,971. Out of the total number of Covid-19 infections, 86,422 are active cases and 82,370 have been cured or discharged.The Prime Minister had focused on the situation prevailing in the country due to the coronavirus pandemic in his last ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme and urged people to help the poor, migrants and needy during the lockdown.PM Modi had said that India’s fight against the coronavirus disease is “people-driven” and is being fought by the masses and the administration hand in hand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-mann-ki-baat-at-11am-today-focus-likely-on-unlock-1/story-a0ytGAY1I4dG3F9BSe6KGN.html
31-05-2020||India||Over 40k Indians repatriated: Foreign Ministry lists achievements||The external affairs ministry has facilitated the return of more than 40,000 Indians stranded around the globe due to the Covid-19 pandemic and overseen the provision of coronavirus-related medical supplies to more than 150 countries.The stranded Indians were repatriated in more than 230 flights and on naval warships, while Indian medical rapid response teams were also deployed to several countries to help in the fight against Covid-19.These were among the achievements listed by the external affairs ministry during the first year of the second term of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government.The advent of coronavirus-era diplomacy saw India taking the lead to organise a video conference of leaders of South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation states and the creation of the Covid-19 Emergency Fund. More than 100 virtual diplomatic meetings have been held to share perspectives on combating the virus and tackling the post-pandemic challenges, while India has also organised Covid-19-related healthcare courses through its e-Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (e-ITEC) programme under ministry’s development partnership initiative.Before normal diplomatic engagements were hit by the pandemic, India helped launch several projects under its “Neighbourhood First” policy, including the 720-MW Mangdechhu hydropower project in Bhutan, the Motihari-Amlekhgunj cross-border petroleum products pipeline and an integrated check post at Biratnagar for Nepal and an emergency ambulance service and cultural centre in Jaffna for Sri Lanka, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-40k-indians-repatriated-foreign-ministry-lists-achievements/story-f4uiKNrmVCa63NCyNzp8UI.html
31-05-2020||India||In Assam, blowout of natural gas well still to be controlled, over 700 evacuated||The natural gas well operated by Oil India Limited (OIL) in Assam’s Tinsukia district that witnessed a blowout on Wednesday continued to spill out gas and condensate matter for the fourth day on Saturday as authorities continued efforts to bring it under control.Over 700 people residing within 1.5 km radius of the well located in Baghjan area have been shifted to three camps amid concerns that the continuous spilling of gas and condensate matter containing oil could affect residents as well as the area located near the Dibru Saikhowa National Park.A blowout is uncontrolled release of crude oil or gas from a well when the pressure control systems fail. Condensate is a low density high gravity hydrocarbon phase that is generally found along with natural gas.ALSO READ | Oil India reports blow out at well in Assam, at least 25 families evacuated“My house is located around 1.5 km from the well. Condensate from the blowout which is carried by air is falling on trees and homes of people in the area including my house. In addition, the sound produced by the blowout, which is like a huge storm, is also affecting residents,” Madhab Moran, a resident of Baghjan said. According to a statement by OIL on May 27, the blowout happened at the Baghjan 5 well at 10:30 am while work was underway to produce gas from a new oil and gas bearing reservoir at a depth of 3729 metres. OIL officials say that it could take more than two days to start work on controlling the well.There’s fear among residents and environment enthusiasts that the blowout if not controlled soon could have lasting effect on the area and its residents. The carcass of a Gangetic dolphin, an endangered species, was found in Maguri wetland close to the OIL well.“The dolphin didn’t have any injury marks and its skin had peeled off. People have noticed oil in Maguri wetlands, which could have spilled from the OIL well. Because of the blowout there’s a layer of oil like substance dripping from trees and roofs of houses in the area,” said Binanda Hatibarua, a bird enthusiast who stays close to the well and visited the site.OIL officials said though the process to contain the blowout is underway several measures have to be put in place before the actual operation can be started. They include ensuring adequate supply of water, proper lighting and transportation of heavy equipment to the site.“A lot of preliminary work needs to be done to enter the well site. We are doing that and it would take at least another two days to reach the well and try and contain it,” said OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika.On Friday, Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal called union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and urged him to take immediate remedial measures to bring the situation under control.OIL had issued a statement on Friday that food and logistic support is being provided to the residents who have been shifted to camps and that continuous monitoring is underway to minimize any environmental impact.Earlier, on May 11, the union forest, environment and climate change ministry had given environmental clearance for extension drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations by OIL under the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park area in Tinsukia district of Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-assam-blowout-of-natural-gas-well-still-to-be-controlled-over-700-evacuated/story-DOCrUaEqgNqfHgrpRvcX5L.html
31-05-2020||India||IMD, Skymet Weather differ on monsoon arrival||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday reiterated the monsoon is likely to arrive in Kerala only around June 1 after private weather forecaster Skymet Weather announced it has already arrived in the state earlier than expected. It called the forecaster’s information incorrect. Skymet maintained the criteria including for the rainfall has been met. IMD director general M Mohapatra said the criteria is yet to be met. “We have a very objective way of assessing monsoon onset and we stand by our forecast of monsoon onset around June 1. It could be June 1 or 2 depending on the parameters... Even the rainfall criteria have not been met today [Saturday].”IMD on Thursday said the monsoon was likely to arrive in Kerala, which marks the beginning of the four-month rainy season when India receives 70% of its annual rainfall, around its normal onset date of June 1. It said there were new developing patterns that could speed up the progress of the rain system. IMD on May 15 said the onset was likely to be delayed by four days and the monsoon was expected to arrive on June 5.The monsoon normally sets in over Kerala around June 1 and advances northwards, usually in surges, and covers the entire country around July 15.IMD criteria specifies the onset is determined if, after May 10, 60% of 14 weather stations in Lakshadweep, Kerala and Coastal Karnataka report rainfall of 2.5 mm or more for two consecutive days, high wind speed, low outgoing longwave radiation (OLR), etc. It also specifies a wind depth parameter. Skymet Weather’s vice president (climate and meteorology) Mahesh Palawat said they have over a hundred automatic weather stations in Kerala. “...we are seeing that the rainfall criteria has been met. The wind profile is westerly and OLR criteria have also been met. IMD may declare monsoon onset later but we announced today [Saturday] because all parameters are fulfilled.”Union earth sciences ministry secretary M Rajeevan echoed Mohapatra. “The news about monsoon onset over Kerala in social media is not correct. Monsoon has not arrived over Kerala. Follow Indiametdept for authentic information. The greatest enemy of knowledge is not ignorance, it is illusion of knowledge—Stephen Hawking,” he tweeted.National Weather Forecasting Centre head K Sathi Devi said it is not only rainfall, even the wind depth parameter has to be met. “The wind speed should be very high and there should be a lot of clouding. We are expecting a low-pressure area to form over the south-east Arabian Sea which will lead to all parameters being met. Currently, what we are seeing in Kerala are pre-monsoon showers.”IMD said conditions were becoming favourable for further advance of the monsoon into some more parts of south Arabian Sea, Maldives-Comorin area, south-west and the south-east Bay of Bengal during the next 24 hours. A low-pressure area was very likely to form over south-east and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea during the next 48 hours. It is very likely to move northwestwards and concentrate into a depression over east-central and adjoining south-east the Arabian Sea during subsequent 48 hours. Under its influence, conditions are likely to become favourable for onset of the monsoon over Kerala around June 1, IMD said in its Saturday bulletin.IMD’s forecasts provide information to at least 700 million people in India, who are dependent on agriculture for livelihood. The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-skymet-differ-on-monsoon/story-p1YpeHYKKlPobT1x0u6LnI.html
31-05-2020||India||Dialogue on with China over LAC, no compromise on dignity: Rajnath Singh||India and China are talking to each other at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the weeks-long Ladakh standoff, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday assuring the country that the government will not allow India’s dignity to be hurt under any circumstances.“India’s policy has been very clear that we should have good relations with all neighbours. This has been a long-standing effort. But sometimes, circumstances arise with China and things like this happen,” he told news channel Aaj Tak in an interview.Singh’s statement is the first from a senior central minister on the standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that threatens to plunge the bilateral relationship to a new low.China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery guns on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements and matched the neighbour’s military moves, as reported by Hindustan Times on May 26.Chinese troops are also holding positions on their side of the border in north Sikkim where soldiers of the two countries were involved in a nasty brawl on May 9 that left seven Chinese and four Indian soldiers injured, as first reported by Hindustan Times.“The Chinese troops are camping on their side and have been carrying out patrols. Some air activity has also been observed. We are on our side but there is no face-off,” officials said.Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and several rounds of talks between local military commanders have failed to end the standoff that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols on May 5-6 near Pangong Tso.China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days.The defence minister also referred to the 2017 Doklam face-off in the interview. “It appeared at that time that the situation was very tense. But we did not step back… Ultimately, we were able to resolve the situation,” he said.Singh said both countries had made it clear that they wanted to resolve the problem. He also underlined that there was no need for the United States to meditate since the two countries already had a mechanism to resolve problems and it had been set in motion.China has also rejected the US offer to mediate between the two sides to break the stalemate.Former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd) said, “It’s a positive that things haven’t escalated in the past few days. But I think we are in for a period of intense negotiation. I see it as a little more complicated than Doklam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dialogue-on-with-china-over-lac-no-compromise-on-dignity-rajnath/story-jWCf7hoyNcMRjsGGG2XPrN.html
31-05-2020||India||Amid Ladakh standoff, 12,000 workers to be moved to complete projects near China border||The defence ministry has sought 11 special trains to move workers from Jharkhand to Jammu and Chandigarh from where they will be taken to areas close to the China border for building roads, three officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The move comes even as Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball to eyeball at four locations along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. “There is no question of halting work on the road projects because of the standoff that could go on for weeks. The working season has begun and we cannot waste time,” said one of the officials cited above. He said some work has already started on the strategic Darbuk-Shyok-Daulet Beg Oldie road in Ladakh.A second official said 11,815 workers will be transported on the 11 trains, and then be ferried to border areas in Ladakh and Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, where the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is constructing important roads. The Union home ministry asked the railway ministry on May 22 to arrange the special trains from Jharkhand to Jammu and Chandigarh, said the second official.This person said Union home minister Amit Shah discussed the issue of workers with Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday when he spoke to chief ministers about the next phase of India’s exit from the ongoing lockdown. “Most of the workers are from Dumka. The state government will let the Centre know when they can go and work in the border areas.”Home ministry officials said the trains will be operated as per the standard operating procedures dated May 19 on the movement of stranded workers during the lockdown. China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery guns on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements.HT on April 28 reported BRO’s plans to induct up to 40,000 workers to carry out the construction of key roads and tunnels in far-flung areas in the forward areas along the China border despite the Covid-19 pandemic.“Infrastructure development along the border areas is an important requirement for both military and civilian purposes. Infrastructure building in our areas will continue as per the plan,” said Lt Gen SL Narasimhan (retd), a top China expert and a National Security Advisory Board member.The Ladakh administration wrote to BRO on May 15 saying it has no objection to the labour force being inducted for work in the forward areas. It said the workers will be quarantined for 14 days after they arrive in Ladakh and social distancing norms will be strictly followed during the construction work. BRO’s peak working season extends from May to November. Migrant workers are a key part of the organisation’s workforce involved in building strategic roads in Ladakh, Jammu & Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. It plans to complete all 61 strategic roads assigned to it along the China border by December 2022 to allow swifter mobilisation of troops and stores to forward areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/labourers-from-j-khand-to-lay-roads-on-china-border/story-1Hyh3KBaBwgEZ9eK5KhuFM.html
31-05-2020||India||Govt at war with its own people, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday called Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first year of his second term in office as a period of “disappointment, disastrous management, and diabolical pain”. It said that at the end of its six years in power, it appears that the Modi government is “at war with its people, inflicting wounds instead of healing them”. “Over the last six years, India witnessed a steady increase in the politics of distraction and false noise,” said Congress general secretary KC Venugopal. “Never before has a government been so at odds with itself and its own people. India was the beacon of democracy in the region but now under the Modi government, we risk becoming a cautionary tale.”The Congress called it somewhat surprising that the Bharatiya Janata Party still has not grasped the most fundamental lesson of governance in a democracy. “We are elected to serve, listen, protect and uplift. Not to divide, mislead and distract,” said Venugopal as the Modi government completed the first year of his second term in office on Saturday.The Congress said Modi came to power promising 20 million jobs annually in 2014, but India has witnessed the highest unemployment rate in the last 45 years in 2017-18. It added after Covid-19 wrecked the Indian economy, the unemployment rate has soared to an unprecedented 27.11%.The Congress said the GDP under the Modi government has become synonymous with “Grossly Declining Performance” and alleged that the economy had been mismanaged to the point of ruin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-at-war-with-its-own-people-cong/story-dDYMeB2gdCoEjOcB2hcufO.html
31-05-2020||India||Vulnerable neglected in Covid-19 lockdown: Study||Many marginalised groups have been neglected during the Covid-19 lockdown in India, a Delhi based non-profit organisation has said in a report based on its analysis of around 700 orders, circulars and advisories issued by the Centre and states on policies for informal sector workers. The report cited their timeline and said it reveals an “ad-hoc” and “unplanned implementation” of the lockdown” imposed in March to check the pandemic’s spread.The National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), which comes under the Union home ministry, has endorsed the report by the Indo-Global Social Service Society (IGSSS). The ministry is the country’s nodal agency for disaster management.MHA officials were not immediately available for a response.The report is based on the Centre’s 175 orders/circulars as well as 500 orders by 28 states and Delhi until May 1. It said out of the 175 orders, only 27 were directly related to urban poor and marginal groups. The report added only 12 of them were relevant to the informal sector workers.The report said not a single order of states or the Centre had any provision for “waste pickers” while only Kerala sought to provide assistance to “transgenders”. It added Meghalaya was the only state to make special provisions for domestic workers, saying they should be given their wages and not laid off.The report said only 12 states like Arunachal Pradesh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Tripura had specific provisions for the homeless. Just 11 states talked about street vendors in their communications, it added.The report referred to “unplanned implementation of the lockdown” based on analysis of these orders/circulars. “From the first case on January 30 that was reported in Kerala to the March 24 [when the lockdown was announced], there were not many circulars or guidelines that were released not just for informal sector workers and marginal population but for the whole country, suggesting a limbo in planning and forethought at the then-impending crisis,” the report said.It said the Janata Curfew on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call on March 22 for social isolation to curb the Covid-19 spread and the announcement for the lockdown two days later surprised the urban poor and migrants. The reports said they were not warned of the restrictions and thus triggered a wave of migration to shelter and transit points.The report said some states--Delhi, Arunachal Pradesh, Kerala, Meghalaya and Rajasthan--did better vis-a-vis groups like street vendors, domestic workers, construction workers, the homeless and transgenders than the Centre.It added certain ministries dealing with problems related to food, jobs and shelter for urban poor directly like ministries of labour and housing were “mostly quiet”. It added the Union home and health ministries did most of the work. The report said central labour and housing ministries issued just two orders each till May 1.“The orders have been particularly silent on the issue of inclusion. Though ministry of social justice has come forth with many notifications, there could have been a more concerted focus on the marginal groups that might fail to get their benefits in the times of crisis,” the report said. “There has been no mention of transgenders, Dalits and minorities in any of the circulars specifically.”Aravind Unni, who manages IGSSS’s team that studied the circulars/orders, said the first two stages of the lockdown showed a huge gap in the understanding of informal sector livelihoods. “All the orders/notifications came after a major crisis had already erupted.”Unni added domestic workers, waste pickers, homeless, street vendors and transgenders especially were completely ignored. “For example, street vendors were not given safety shields and police harassed them while kirana [grocery] stores’ sales were streamlined through repeated orders. Similarly, e-commerce websites were allowed to deliver essential items and others. This is in contradiction with Prime Minister’s ‘vocal for local’ call because street vendors are the most local source [of products] in India.”Shalini Sinha – India Country Director of WIEGO (Women in Informal Employment: Globalizing and Organizing), said – “The waste pickers are the frontline of defense against spread of Covid-19 as they are managing the city’s waste while exposing themselves to disease and infection. Many have lost their livelihood as they are not allowed to work during lockdown. They should get benefits of government schemes but they are almost invisible in the system. Governments, while creating any SOPs (standard operating protocols) should integrate them”. Sinha, as part of Delhi Roundtable, a network of activists and organisations, wrote to Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal asking government to take care of waste pickers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vulnerable-neglected-in-lockdown-study/story-LIlBDfdKQDzyscX983MfOJ.html
31-05-2020||India||States flag missing details of returning migrant workers||The missing details of many homebound migrant workers -- their age, gender, home address and mobile phone numbers -- has emerged an area of concern for states receiving them in the midst of the coronavirus disease pandemic. The issue has been flagged in recent meetings between the central and state governments.As millions of daily-wage workers who lost their livelihoods in the aftermath of the Covid-19 lockdown travel by Shramik Special trains to their states of domicile, a protocol has been put in place for transporting and handling the workers. Among many aspects of the protocol is one that pertains to making a special chart of all such passengers.The chart is required to contain the names of all passengers and other details, and when a train arrives at its destination, it is handed over to authorities of the state receiving them. But amid the pressure of handling the teeming number of homebound workers, these details, vital for keeping tabs on the health of the returnees, sometimes go missing.At recent meetings between the Centre and the states on the migrant workers, at least three states flagged the problem, officials aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.“The majority of the workers are sent back to their villages and only those who show visible symptoms of Covid-19 are immediately sent to quarantine centres. As millions of migrant workers spread out across the states, it is important to maintain a database and know their coordinates,” said one official who was present in a few of the Centre-state meetings by video conferencing.Apart from the health concerns, the preparation of any plan for the welfare of the migrant workers also hinges on their whereabouts. The Centre is mapping districts that have received a large number of migrant workers to make any future plans for targeted welfare and employments programmes.“Whenever these coordinates or manifestations are insufficient, the states are making noise. The preparation of chart is not just the responsibility of Indian Railways, but also requires an active role of the despatching states,” said a second official.Until Thursday, 3,840 Shramik Specials had brought back 4.71 million migrant labourers to their states of domicile.In a meeting between cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and the states on Thursday, the Centre told states that are major recipients of homebound migrant workers to be extra cautious in monitoring the health of the returnees, officials said. All states were told to ensure strict enforcement of containment zones amid growing worries about the spread of the virus.Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi and Tamil Nadu are the key states from where the migrants are setting out. The major recipients are Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-flag-missing-details-of-returning-migrant-workers/story-xnNQi1H7LfXmhTz9pPUhGJ.html
31-05-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 deaths cross 5,000, but rate lower than elsewhere||The number of deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India crossed the 5,000 mark on Saturday, reaching a grim milestone, but with a fatality rate, which at 2.8% is much lower than the global 6%, there is hope that the outbreak in the country may not be as deadly as it has been in many countries, perhaps highlighting some of the gains from the nationwide lockdown. Meanwhile, the recovery rate in India improved to 47% on Saturday, up 5 percentage points from just a week ago. The country’s top experts said keeping fatalities down by focussing on health care facilities will now be the most crucial strategy to deal with the pandemic across the country, where the outbreak has largely taken hold and a rise in the number of infections is inevitable. According to a compilation of data reported by state governments, there have been 181,791 infections and 5,106 fatalities in the country as of Saturday. India took 79 days to record these many deaths, while some of the major Covid-19 hotspot – such United States, United Kingdom, Spain and Italy – took less than a third of this duration to rack up similar counts.“My concern is more about mortality than the cases. Our population is such that we will have more cases than other countries, but if our hospitals don’t get completely overrun and mortality remains low, as is happening in Tamil Nadu, then we’re in a good place,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences. The mortality ratio in Tamil Nadu is less than 1% due to what experts say is an aggressive containment strategy by the state which has always had high quality public health care. “The number of cases will definitely increase, given our large population, and high mobility. Even if we touch a large number, if we are able to save the health system and isolate the majority of people with mild symptoms at home or in Covid Care Facilities, and the mortality is not high, we are fine,” added Dr Guleria.According to the Union health ministry on Saturday, the doubling time of coronavirus cases in India over the last fortnight has improved to 15.4 days from 13.3 days. “During the last 24 hours, a total of 11,264 Covid-19 patients have been cured. This is the highest number of recoveries recorded in a day,” the Union health ministry said in a statement. The move comes after the government changed its discharge policy. “When we realised that our patients are recovering sooner, then after looking at the data we decided that we can discharge the mild cases sooner. Our discharges have accelerated after the new discharge policy,” said Dr VK Paul, member of NITI Aayog, in a press briefing on Thursday.Cumulatively, 3,612,242 tests have been done so far for Covid-19 and 126,842 samples were tested on Friday, the ministry said.There are now 942 dedicated Covid hospitals with 158,908 isolation beds, 20,608 ICU beds and 69,384 oxygen supported beds are available, it added. Fatalities recorded a sharp increase in countries like Spain and Italy, and New York city, where hospitals were overwhelmed after a sudden spike in infections. Most of these regions enforced varying degrees of lockdowns after cases began to spike, compared to India that adopted such restrictions early on. “Two things worked in our favour: the young demographic and early implementation of lockdown before cases exploded, helping flatten the curve and prevent deaths,” said Dr Ambarish Dutta, associate professor of epidemiology and public health, Indian Institute of Public Health-Bhubaneswar.India went under a sweeping, unprecedented lockdown on March 25 when people were banned from stepping out of their homes for any purpose except for a handful of essential or emergency reasons. At the time, the number of cases in the country was 602, and deaths, 12. The curbs have slowly been relaxed in the months since, with the government announcing on Saturday a phased unlock plan from June.“Around 9% of India’s population is over the age of 60, compared to 28% in Italy, which recorded a high number of deaths. In most countries, 40% deaths happened in care homes, which have a concentration of older persons, who are most vulnerable. Young people get less severe disease and are also less likely to get infected but when coronavirus spreads to a cluster of older people living together, it’s dangerous,” Dr Dutta added.But India’s population patterns are also what add to risks in the country, he added. “What is working against us is unimaginably high urban density, which has led to clusters in Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, and Chennai. In urban slums and transport, social distancing is not possible and cases will go up, but most of the migrant population in slums is young and able to fight the virus,” he said.In other countries where infections have peaked, deaths could have come down because of the “harvesting effect”, which is an epidemiological term used to describe the vulnerable dying very quickly and making the death rate peak, after which it goes down, Dutta added.The health ministry reiterated on Saturday that all precautions must be taken while “living with the new normal” of Covid-19. These include physical distancing at public places and workplaces, frequent hand washing and use of masks or face covers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-deaths-cross-5-000-but-rate-lower-than-elsewhere/story-lSppquenUOXjoBnaoCQ6eL.html
31-05-2020||India||After Covid-19 lockdown, plan to unlock India in phases||Places of worship, shopping malls, and hotels and restaurants can open from June 8, the Union home ministry said on Saturday, releasing details of the first of a three-phase plan aimed at lifting stringent restrictions imposed over two months ago to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The plan, called Unlock 1.0, also removes restrictions on inter- and intra-state travel. After spending almost a fifth of the year (68 days) locked down, India and Indians can resume normal activities again — albeit with significant safeguards. The coronavirus disease has gathered momentum in May. India ended Saturday with 181,791 cases and 5,106 deaths. The fatality rate in India remains much lower than the global fatality rate, and experts agree that the lockdown has pushed back the peak of infections, giving the country time to strengthen its health care infrastructure. “All activities that were prohibited earlier will be opened up in areas outside Containment Zones in a phased manner, with the stipulation of following Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), to be prescribed by the Health Ministry,” a government statement said. It said the plan will have an “economic focus”, as the government looks to bring stalled businesses and activities back on track and revive the third largest economy in Asia that is in the grip of a slowdown due to the impact of Covid-19 and the lockdown prompted by the pandemic.Though the new guidelines will come into effect from Monday, places of worship (large religious gatherings are still not allowed), shopping malls, and hotels and restaurants (but not bars) will resume operations beginning June 8. In the second phase, the government plans to reopen all educational institutes including schools and colleges, after holding discussions with states and Union Territories (UTs), who can hold further talks with parents and other stakeholders. A decision is likely in July.International air travel, metro rail services, cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, bars, entertainment parks, and auditoriums will remain closed and open only in the third phase. Large gatherings, including social, political, religious, and sporting events are also banned for now. The third phase of the un-lockdown plan will focus on the resumption of these activities. No date, however, has been set for this. All activities mentioned in the three phases of the plan have been banned since March 25, when a nationwide lockdown was imposed for the first time.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has called a meeting of top officials on Sunday to finalise the Capital’s lockdown rules. “The central government has issued a basic framework for unlocking more services and utilities...A call will be taken on Sunday on issues such as opening of malls on an alternate basis or entirely, allowing dine-in service in restaurants, and opening of hotels, salons and spas, among others,” a state government spokesperson said. In another significant step, the Union government has relaxed the night curfew prohibiting non-essential travel. The ban on such movement will be between 9pm and 5am. Previously, it was between 7pm and 7am.Containment zones, which can be termed the epicentre of an infection, will continue to be under a hard lockdown at least till June 30, the home ministry guidelines said. Only essential activities will be allowed in these areas and strict perimeter control will ensure that people cannot move in or out except for medical emergencies and essential supplies. The Centre has empowered states/UTs to identify containment zones in accordance with health ministry guidelines. Local authorities can also identify buffer zones, which are areas adjoining containment zones, and impose restrictions.The guidelines said there shall be no restriction on the movement of persons and goods between two states and within a state, and that no special permission is required for such transport. However, states/UTs may prohibit certain activities outside containment zones based on their assessment, but they are not allowed to dilute the federal guidelines.“I would urge you to ensure compliance of the new guidelines, and direct all concerned authorities for their strict implementation,” Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said in a letter to states. He drew their attention specifically to the second phase that deals with the opening of schools and colleges, and asked them to send their feedback.Like the previous guidelines, the fresh one too advises people above 65, children below 10, pregnant women and those with underlying health conditions to stay indoors. The government has reiterated its advice for downloading the contact-tracing Aarogya Setu app, saying it “enables early identification of potential risk of infection”. In a section termed “National Directives for Covid-19 Management”, the guidelines said face covers are mandatory in public places, asked people to maintain a distance of at least six feet, and reiterated that spitting and the consumption of paan, gutkha, tobacco and liquor in public places are not allowed. Weddings can be held with a maximum 50 guests and funerals with 20 people in attendance, according to the guidelines. Though there are no restrictions on offices, they have been asked to promote the idea of working from home as far as possible and put emphasis on staggered work hours.“With a view on ensuring safety in offices and work places, employers on best effort basis should ensure that Aarogya Setu is installed by all employees having compatible mobile phones,” the guidelines said. The fresh rules have been drafted after telephonic conversations between home minister Amit Shah and chief ministers. On Friday, Shah met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the suggestions by states.The nationwide lockdown — the first phase was imposed on March 25 for 21 days — has been extended thrice. The second and the third phases of the curbs — beginning April 15 and May 4 — lasted 19 days and 14 days, respectively. The fourth phase, which began on May 18, ends on Sunday. That works out to a total of 68 days of being locked down. The government has so far allowed the functioning of public and private offices in a graded manner, resumed limited passenger train services and domestic air travel, and also allowed the conditional reopening of shops and marketplaces except those in malls. Restrictions on public transport too have been considerably eased.“We welcome the announcement by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to allow shopping centres, malls to open starting 8th of June,” Amitabh Taneja, chairman, Shopping Centres Association of India, said in a statement.Shiladitya and Debaditya Chaudhury, co-founders of Oudh 1590, Chapter 2 and Master Dimsum — three popular Kolkata restaurants, said: “We welcome the decision of the MHA regarding opening of restaurants. We are working on a stringent SOP adhering to contact less dining and maintaining social distancing norms, which we will be announced soon...”(With inputs from HTC in Kolkata)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-lockdown-plan-to-unlock-india-in-phases/story-vsK1wGQ7moLTMjlKkUelHP.html
31-05-2020||India||Covid: Only masks, distancing and isolation can prevent a July-August surge||With coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases projected to rise through June and July, enforcing the use of masks and social distancing norms and isolating everyone with cough and fever is the only protection against infection. Community participation in the enforcement of masks, self-quarantine and isolation of everyone with symptoms of Covid-19 even without testing is the way forward, experts say.Increasing mobility and more cases being identified outside large clusters is making contact tracing and containment a challenge, which calls for an urgent change in strategy. “The numbers will spike. The only way you can decrease the numbers from spiking is by aggressive isolation, community participation in terms of very strict wearing of masks, social distancing and hand-washing. There’s lockdown fatigue now, people have got fed up, they don’t seem to be bothered (about infection spreading), and my fear is that people don’t realise what we are headed for. There are still people who are dying, and the pandemic is yet to peak,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, professor of pulmonology, and director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi.Also read| N-95 masks protect users, not those around: Experts“My concern is more about mortality than the cases. Our population is such that we will have more cases than other countries, but if our hospitals don’t get completely overrun and mortality remains low, as is happening in Tamil Nadu, then we’re in a good place,” said Guleria. Despite a high number of cases, Tamil Nadu has a death rate of less than 1% because of the state’s aggressive testing and containment programme. All states have to scale up testing and widen community surveillance. “When there are large numbers, along with mobility, containment is difficult. We can do symptom-based syndromic surveillance of households for community testing using community volunteers, but stigma has to be removed,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India. Technology can help amplify the coverage and accelerate contact tracing where physical visits are not possible.“In my mind, we have reached a stage where we will not be able to sustain the lockdown in its current form for a long period of time. People will now not be able to stay cooped up indoors. We will need measures like malls and restaurants still being shut, but gradually opening up for businesses. I don’t see schools opening in the next four to six weeks. Schools usually open in the first week of July, so most likely in the first week of August,” said Dr Guleria.The biggest concern is what happens when things open up. “We need to aggressively work on asking people with even mild symptoms of cough and fever to quarantine and isolate themselves even if they don’t get tested. Of course, testing must be expanded because it gives you an idea of how things are and whether new clusters are emerging, but even if testing is low, the strategy must be that people self-quarantine if they have symptoms,” said Dr Guleria.With most modelling studies saying the pandemic will peak in India in late July or mid August, protection measures must be closely followed for protection. “I think it’ll (pandemic peak) probably be a little earlier, I would say July, but most of the mathematical predictors have pushed it to August,” said Dr Guleria.Experts say it’s tough to predict how cases on average will be recorded every day when the pandemic peaks. “Mathematical modelling is hard, but with Covid-19, it is even harder. There are too many unknowns and evolving parameters,” tweeted professor Madhukar Pai, Canada research chair in epidemiology and global health at McGill University, Montreal, Canada. Among the challenges Pai has listed are Covid-19 being an unknown novel disease, the R-0 (R-nought is the basic reproductive ratio or the number of infections from a single case) not being static, changing testing rates, no clarity on natural protective immunity or percentage of population infected, varied durations of infectiveness, asymptomatic transmission, and other unknowns including the number of people who come in contact with a case, human behaviour and effectiveness of lockdowns and restrictions, among others.“The number of cases will definitely increase, given our large population, and high mobility. Even if we touch a large number, if we are able to save the health system and isolate the majority of people with mild symptoms at home or in Covid care facilities, and the mortality is not high, we are fine,” said Dr Guleria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-masks-distancing-and-isolation-can-prevent-a-july-august-surge/story-OUP4bBoo7rTDIfju5H1tQI.html
31-05-2020||India||1,000 shifted amid Assam OIL well blowout||Around 1,000 people have been evacuated from the vicinity of an Oil India Limited (OIL)-operated well at Baghjan in Assam’s Tinsukia as natural gas and condensate matter continued to leak from it for the fourth day on Saturday following a blowout on Wednesday even as authorities continued efforts to bring the situation under control. The well is located near the Dibru Saikhowa National Park, which is home to endangered species like Gangetic dolphin.Residents said the blowout could have long term consequences for the area, its residents as well as flora and fauna. The recovery of a Gangetic dolphin’s carcass in the Maguri wetland close to the well has heightened these fears.“The dolphin did not have any injury marks and its skin was peeled off. People have noticed oil in Maguri wetland, which could have spilled from the well. Because of the blowout, there is a layer of oil like substance dripping from trees and roofs of houses in the area,” said Binanda Hatibarua, who lives near the well and visited the site.Tinsukia deputy commissioner Bhaskar Pegu said the Park’s core area is located around 1 km from the well and there is no threat to it. “But the eco-sensitive zone outside the park is located around 300 metres away from the site of the blowout and we have got reports that oil condensate have fallen on the wetlands in that area,” he said. The evacuees have been shifted to three camps from an area spread over a 1.5 km radius. Madhab Moran, a Baghjan resident, said his house is located around 1.5 km from the well and the condensate has been falling on trees and homes in the area including his. He said the blowout produced a storm-like sound. Officials said a blowout means uncontrolled release of crude oil or gas from a well when pressure control systems fail. Condensate is a low density, high gravity hydrocarbon generally found with natural gas.In a statement, OIL said the blowout happened while work was underway to produce gas from new oil and gas-bearing reservoir at a depth of 3,729 metres. It said food and other support was being provided to the evacuees and that continuous monitoring is underway to minimise any environmental impact.OIL officials said the process to contain the leakage was underway and measures like adequate water supply, proper lighting, and transportation of heavy equipment to the site have to be put in place before the actual operation to control it can be started. “A lot of preliminary work needs to be done to enter the well site. We are doing that and it would take at least another two days to reach the well and try and contain it,” said OIL spokesman Tridiv Hazarika.Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Friday called Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and urged him to take immediate remedial measures to bring the situation under control.On May 11, the union forest, environment and climate change ministry had given environmental clearance for extension drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations by OIL under Dibru-Saikhowa National Park area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1k-shifted-amid-assam-well-blowout/story-ZPjqgbwDkzOQa4KjKqsqWL.html
31-05-2020||India||Detailed guidelines being readied for reopening schools, colleges, says HRD||The Union human resource development (HRD) ministry is readying elaborate guidelines to be followed when schools and universities reopen and are likely to include tie-ups with health facilities, screening mechanisms and protocols in case a student reports even a mild symptom, officials aware of the matter said. The guidelines are also likely to seek blended learning with some students attending classes from home and will also relate to issues like hygiene in hostels, kitchens, and common areas.The Centre on Saturday said educational institutions, which were closed in March when the lockdown to check the Covid-19 pandemic was imposed, will be opened only after discussions with states and Union Territories. A decision in this regard is expected to be taken in July after consultations with parents and teachers as well.The Centre said the educational institutes will be reopened in a “phased” manner outside containment zones.HRD ministry officials said they will finalise the guidelines after discussions with the health and home ministries. According to the Home Ministry order, the health ministry will prepare standard operating procedures in this regard.“It is an issue involving the safety of children and other students. Protocols have to be set. What should be a school’s response, say if a child reports a mild headache or a fever. What should be the guidelines for residential schools? Transport mechanism, regular school activities, each and every aspect has to be examined before a comprehensive framework is ready,” said an official on condition of anonymity.Officials said there will be an emphasis on ensuring tie-ups with hospitals as well as adequate quarantine facilities, especially in boarding schools. The National Council for Education, Research and Training has suggested shifts for students, curtailing group activities involving use of common instruments or equipment.Officials said social distancing will have to be maintained when students return to schools. For hostels, there will be a greater distance in dormitories and only two students may share a room, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/detailed-guidelines-being-readied-for-reopening-schools-colleges-says-hrd/story-XIa3Sii0EzPIXj99TdSFeO.html
31-05-2020||India||Math model may help map Covid-19 trajectory in India||India will soon have a so-called super (mathematical) model for Covid-19 that can shed light on the likely trajectory of the pandemic in India, including details of when and where it is most likely to spread; its crests and troughs; and the number of ICU beds and ventilators that may be needed. The Department of Science and Technology (DST) has started work on a Covid-19 “Indian National Supermodel” to help monitor the future transmission of infection, thus aiding decisions involving the readiness of the health system and other mitigation measures, the ministry of science and technology said on Saturday. Numerous mathematical models for Covid-19 forecasting and surveillance are being worked out by investigators funded by DST-SERB (Science and Engineering Research Board) and other agencies.Professor M Vidyasagar, fellow of SERB and national professor at IIT Hyderabad said “We have been asked to deliver on four things—fine grained spatio-temporal progression of Covid 19; medical inventory prediction which includes how many PPE (kits), how many ventilators, are needed ; policies like non pharmaceutical interventions and economic optimization such as working with a reduced workforce.”The team is likely to present its initial findings based on the super model by end of June. Professor Vidyasagar said the team will be looking at models used in Europe, US and other countries and validate them . “The model will entirely rely only on the data that is relevant to Covid 19, and also have an adaptive built-in component to learn from the newer trends in the data. It will aggregate successful evidence-based mathematical and statistical forecasting models and include the best predictive analytics for robust forecasting of infectious disease spread. The supermodel could be used by the policymakers in India and around the world to overcome difficulties in predicting the rate of spread of infection and how it would burden the healthcare sector, thereby curbing the epidemic,” the statement by ministry of science and technology said.As part of this initiative, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) and the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore will co-ordinate to connect and work with all Covid-19 modelling projects and programs in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/math-model-may-help-map-trajectory-in-india/story-1lLUUZ967yJguzA7eeptUM.html
31-05-2020||India||N-95 masks protect users, not those around: Experts||People using N-95 masks with respiratory valves may be protecting themselves, but those around them could be at high risk of contracting an infection, according to experts who recommend the use of face covers without valves in a viral outbreak such as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Using N-95 masks with valves is recommended when pollution levels are high because they do not allow carbon dioxide to accumulate inside the face cover, experts said. But the same valve — used for exhalation — could act as an easy passage for germs and endanger those in close proximity if the user has an infection. “If you’re using N-95 masks, use the ones without a valve,” said GC Khilnani, a member of the Delhi chief minister’s advisory committee on Covid-19 preparedness and the chairman of PSRI Hospital in New Delhi. While all masks filter the air users are inhaling, the ones without valves also trap most of the germs coming out with exhalation, protecting people around those wearing them. Also read| Covid: Only masks, distancing and isolation can prevent a July-August surgeThe Union health ministry has been issuing regular advisories, asking people to avoid wearing N-95 masks, which are used as part of personal protection equipment (PPE) kit for health care and other frontline workers dealing with Covid-19 cases. Harsh Mahajan, the owner of Mahajan Imaging, a diagnostic centre, said N-95 masks should be prohibited even for health care workers. “In fact, in Covid times, N-95 masks with valve should be banned as these are meant to be used during high pollution levels...the valve meant to breathe out air will also let germs (viruses and bacteria) pass, making it unsafe for others in close proximity. The purpose of wearing a mask to protect others will get defeated in the time of Covid-19,” he said. Khilnani said it is important to wear a mask in way that it covers the face snugly from the upper part of the nose to the chin. “If you use washable masks, wash, dry and reuse after five days...Surgical masks should be disposed of after every use,” he said.Surgical masks are recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) for health care and sanitation workers who are not directly involved in dealing with Covid-19 patients. These masks create a barrier around the nose and the mouth, but such face covers should be discarded after each use. Another option is a homemade face cover (preferably made of cotton fabric) that can be reused after washing.SK Chhabra, a senior pulmonologist at Primus Hospital in New Delhi, said: “For healthy persons stepping out, face covers should provide some protection as these will stop exposure to bigger droplets. However, the use of handkerchiefs or stoles should be avoided as there will be too many leak points. These will only provide psychological relief that the person is aware about the need for precaution.”Only cotton should be used to make masks, he said. “Apart from not being virus-friendly, cotton is also a breathable fabric that doesn’t trap heat and humidity so much. Chances of the face cover not getting wet easily are higher in cotton-made covers. Once the mask gets wet you have to replace it; otherwise, it is not effective. Nylon ones will serve no purpose at all,” Chhabra added. Cotton-made face covers are recommended for healthy people or those with flu-like symptoms who are stepping out of their houses.However face masks don’t provide 100% protection and should be used while maintaining hand hygiene, cough etiquettes and physical distancing by staying at least six feet (2 metres approximately) away from others, according to experts. Gloves too are important, and need to be regularly disinfected with a sanitizer even while a user is wearing them.“One should properly discard the gloves after use. Gloves are usually disposable and must be discarded after single use,” said Srikant Sharma, a senior consultant at the department of medicine, Moolchand Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/n-95-masks-protect-users-not-those-around-experts/story-3jDIEWz4LQfaPcNsz9CFJK.html
31-05-2020||India||Two terrorists killed in encounter in Kashmir’s Kulgam district||Two terrorists were killed in South Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Saturday after security forces launched a joint operation in the area.The police have not revealed the identity of the terrorists however sources said that both the terrorists killed in the encounter were locals. Soon after the encounter began mobile internet was suspended in the district. A senior police officer said that some parents had claimed the bodies and if they identify it, they will be allowed to participate in the funeral which is being held at an isolated place in Baramulla district. For more than a month, the bodies of local terrorists killed in encounters are not being given to their families and buried either in Ganderbal of Baramulla district due to restrictions imposed in the wake of coronavirus pandemic.A J&K police spokesperson said that on the intervening night of May 29/30, a specific input was received by the police about the presence of terrorists hiding in Wanpora Khudwani village.“Acting on this input a joint search operation was launched by Kulgam Police, 1RR, and CRPF. As search parties drew closer to the suspected house, hiding terrorists fired indiscriminately upon the search party. The fire was effectively retaliated in which two unidentified terrorists were neutralised,” he said adding that incriminating material including arms and ammunition has been recovered from the site of encounter. A case has been registered at Qaimoh police station and investigations taken up, the spokesperson said.This is the second encounter in Kulgam district this week. On Monday, two terrorists were killed in an encounter in the Khurd-Hanjipora area of Manzgam.Last week, two militants, including Hizb-ul-Mujahedeen divisional commander Junaid Sehrai, were killed in an encounter at Nawakadal in Srinagar, while over 12 houses were damaged in the encounter. Three civilians who got injured in the house collapse also died in the hospital due to burn injuries.Since the lockdown, 39 terrorists and two militant associates have been killed while 24 security forces personnel, including two in ceasefire violations, were martyred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-district/story-hrJhB79RikcTU6DYcJiOjN.html
31-05-2020||India||Darbha valley attack: AK-47 looted from Congress leader Mahendra Karma’s security officer recovered||An AK-47 assault rifle looted from late Congress leader Mahendra Karma’s personal bodyguard during a Maoist attack in 2013 was recovered from Rajandgaon district on May 8, police said on Friday.Karma and 26 others, including 12 Congress leaders and workers and eight policemen, were killed in the attack in Darbha valley seven years ago.On May 8, a sub-inspector of police and four Maoists, including a divisional committee member of the CPI-Maoist, were killed during a gun battle in the jungles of Rajnandgaon district.“Police recovered two automatic rifles from the spot – an AK-47 and a SLR (self-loading rifle). We seized the weapons and started investigating where they had got these weapons,” Rajnandgaon’s superintendent of police Jitendra Shukla said.“As per the number inscribed on the AK-47, the gun was allotted to Karma’s personal security guard Siyaram Singh. The SLR was looted in 2006 in Kirandul area of Dantewada.”Siyaram Singh, who was severely injured in the 2013 attack, had died of multiple organ failure in Raipur hospital a few days later.A charge-sheet filed by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) in 2014 regarding the attack had said the Maoists looted nine AK-47 rifles, seven INSAS rifles, two SLRs, four 9mm pistols, magazines and ammunitions from dead and injured police personnel.Shukla said that police had gunned down Ashok, the divisional committee member who used to carry Siyaram Singh’s AK-47, and Krishna, the area committee member of CPI-Maoist, who was using the SLR, during the May 8 gun battle.Rajnandgaon comes under a newly formed zone of Maoists. The insurgents have built a so-called “red corridor” at the tri-junction of the states of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh (MMC).Many documents recovered by security agencies suggest the Maoists are constantly moving in this area to strengthen the new zone and recruiting new members.Senior officers of Chhattisgarh believe there are about 180 armed Maoists in Vistaar Dalam of this new zone, who are trying to establish their grip on the area. The new zone is said to be a refuge for hardcore Maoists of Bastar and other regions, and most cadres in this region were recruited from South Bastar.“ The looted weapons are always sent to the places where it is needed. It could be possible that the weapons are distributed in other states and zones. Since MMC is a new zone, Maoists are definitely concentrating on it,” said Badranna, a surrendered Maoist commander while speaking to HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darbha-valley-attack-ak-47-looted-from-congress-leader-mahendra-karma-s-security-officer-recovered/story-r9l54EkGCK6nX6HGoXtZiK.html
