19-04-2020||News||Overcoming structural constraints||In the course of history, bacteria and viruses have played a crucial part in changing the course of events, and contributed significantly to the rise and fall of civilisations. This is the not the first time humanity has been threatened by an invisible enemy; from the Spanish flu a century ago to the more recent global outbreaks of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), public health crises have shaken the very foundation of societies and countries. Yet, the fact that we were caught largely unawares says a lot about our research and preparedness against biological threats, priorities, and the fragility of economic and financial systems.As a percentage of GDP, India’s health budget has hovered below 1.5% for several years now. India’s per capita public expenditure on health has increased from ~621 per person in 2009-10 to ~1,657 in 2017-18, which is still far too low. By comparison, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries spent, on an average, 8.8% of GDP on health in 2017, the latest year for which figures are available. Only a fraction of India’s health care budget goes towards battling communicable diseases. This chronic underfunding is responsible for inadequate infrastructure. It is common knowledge that in-patient facilities in India are poor. However, some numbers can place the problem in perspective. According to a paper published by Brookings India last month, we have just 0.55 beds per 1,000 people. Twelve states, with 70% of the population, are below the national average. These include states in central, northern and western India, where the maximum number of the coronavirus disease cases (Covid-19) have been reported. When rural-urban and economic disparities are taken into account, the threat of any serious pandemic overwhelming the health care system is real. The health outlay for the current financial year is grossly inadequate. As a first step, budget allocations need to be scaled up. The pandemic has accelerated the recent decline of various sectors of the economy. The International Labour Organization has warned that over 400 million Indians in the informal sector may fall into a vicious cycle of poverty. This demands long-term planning to support businesses through loan moratoriums, lower interest rates, greater State contributions for employee benefits, a transition to no-contagion workplaces, and institutional support for their participation in the no-touch economy. Agriculture must be supported through liberal and assured procurement, lower input costs and forbearance in agricultural lending and loan recoveries till the crisis blows over. The Goods and Services Tax and income tax administration must be steered towards lower rates and lighter burdens of compliance.Social distancing and personal hygiene have become watchwords as effective strategies to prevent the spread of the disease. They are indeed effective. Staying at home assumes that everybody has a home right where they are. Sadly, the large-scale internal exodus from cities to rural areas suggests otherwise. Nearly half our population cannot store food and essentials beyond a few days, after which they must step out or have these delivered to them. The postal department and select courier companies should be roped in to ensure door-to-door coverage wherever needed.Health care personnel are scarce. They are precious resources at any time, but even more so now. They need appropriate protective gear, machinery and medicines to help Covid-19 patients. There is no evidence that India lacks the raw materials, the technical know-how or the entrepreneurial spirit to plug the gaps. However, access to capital, standardisation and testing facilities, and protracted procurement procedures remain limiting factors. A transparent emergency procurement policy must be implemented to cut red-tape. Several promising low-cost ventilator designs have become available and should be taken into production. Hundreds of doctors embedded in non-medical streams, such as the civil service, armed forces, and the pharmaceutical industry must be marshalled to support the frontline care providers. Thousands of recently-retired doctors and nurses can be marshalled to support patients with other health concerns. Pooled testing, where samples are pooled to run Covid-19 tests, should be implemented to identify and isolate high-risk clusters. This can significantly make up for the short supply of testing kits. None of the National Disaster Management Authority’s four members has experience in biological disasters. This institutional defect should be rectified quickly, possibly by expanding the body to include the director- general of health services. A separate body with adequate resources and expertise can also be considered on the lines of Taiwan, where a flexible command structure, a comprehensive epidemic prevention strategy, medical big data, and proactive public information disclosure, all through a central epidemic situation command centre and other institutions and collaborations, have made the country a model for coronavirus response.The provision of authentic information and the debunking of fake news need special attention in today’s networked world. State governments have risen to the challenge and instituted practices sensitive to local requirements. Successful handling of the crisis is likely to strengthen people’s faith in democratic institutions and good governance. Marginalised people become even more vulnerable in emergencies. We must maintain the robustness of our plural country to ensure a unified response to the challenge, for acknowledgement of interdependence would enable us to better leverage our strengths. As a learning from this crisis, we must implement long-range policies and programmes to meet such challenges in the future. It is everybody’s battle, and credit is due to all those who are making great and small sacrifices to achieve this collective goal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/overcoming-structural-constraints/story-BJxyGSlqb7uyrJcZxc6AnO.html
19-04-2020||News||Sewage testing can help track the spread of Covid-19 infection||The fight against the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic is at a critical juncture. To gauge the extent of the infection, the Government of India now plans to expand random testing in areas with no reported cases. It will use a combination of the Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, also known as RT-PCR, on pooled samples and antibody detection tests. Another strategy that can help delineate the areas with silent transmission is testing sewage samples for the coronavirus (Sars-CoV2). By now, we know that the Covid-19 disease is caused by Sars-CoV2, and that only in 20% of the cases, the severity of the infection requires hospitalisation. In 30% of the hospitalised patients, the virus has been detected in samples from the respiratory tract as well as from faeces. We also know that about 80% of the infections are mild and do not require hospitalisation. Among mild infections, the symptoms are mainly low-grade fever, slight cough, sore throat, running nose, but some also a few gastrointestinal symptoms such as diarrhoea, loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting. These symptoms may occur alone or in combination with cough and sore throat. Patients with gastrointestinal symptoms have a longer duration of illness and shed virus in stools. In nearly 25% of patients, nucleic acid particles are detected in stool as early as within three days of the infection – even before it appears in the respiratory tract. (However, the virus is detected in stools even in those who have only respiratory symptoms.) These findings suggest the importance of testing sewage samples to detect Sars-CoV2.In past, sewage or waste-water monitoring has been used successfully to detect the outbreaks of norovirus, antibiotic-resistant bacteria, measles and polioviruses. Similarly, a few countries have already started monitoring sewage/waste-water for Covid-19. In Amsterdam, the virus was detected in waste-water at Schiphol airport, just four days after the Netherlands confirmed its first case, well before the infection was reported in the community. Its samples have been found in raw sewage in Tucson (Arizona). Sweden and Germany are also doing sewage analysis.Sewage surveillance can be an effective method to ascertain the presence of the virus a community even if individuals are asymptomatic for Covid-19. Moreover, the density of the viral particles can give us an idea of the infection’s spread. This can also help us verify if the interventions such as physical distancing reduce the transmission. Regular and periodic sewage surveillance can be an early warning tool to alert public health authorities of the likelihood of a rise in cases, giving them crucial headway for preparation. As it is not possible to test everyone in a community, sewage surveillance has the potential to unearth the positive cases within it. Such monitoring can also provide a better estimation of the infection’s spread as it can account for those who have not been tested, or show only mild symptoms, or are asymptomatic. Sewage sampling could also serve as an early warning about the emergence of clusters. It can also act as a sensitive indicator for the reappearance of the virus. The sewage surveillance for Covid-19 in India is possible and feasible.India has, however, domestic examples to emulate. It is one of the first countries to use the sewage surveillance (also known as the environmental surveillance) to detect the silent transmission for the poliovirus through shedding in the community sewage system. India used to rely on acute flaccid paralysis (lameness survey). But it is a well-known fact that the paralysis happens only in severe cases; many infected children shed the virus without having the illness as well. In 2001, the environmental surveillance was initiated, with sewage sampling conducted weekly from three sites in Mumbai, and by 2017, there were 42 sewage sampling sites spread over Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Punjab, Telangana and Delhi. We have trained human resource to carry out the sewage surveillance for Covid-19. It can be an effective tool, especially in states with a large number of cases. Since the infection was reported in December in China last year, we know some of the critical information about the virus, but there are still a large number of unknowns. One such unknown is if the virus particles are detected in stool, can they transmit through faeces? Scientists have detected high concentrations of viral particles in stool, but have so far not observed replication in the virus in it. Though, current evidence does not support faecal transmission of Covid-19 through stool, sewage surveillance can act as an infection-related marker of many things. It is worth giving it a try. Dr Lalit Kant is an infectious disease epidemiologist. He is the former head of the Division of Epidemiology & Communicable Diseases and senior adviser, Infectious Diseases, PHFIThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/sewage-testing-can-help-track-the-spread-of-covid-19-infection/story-oJiFypPtfHCDJm1ItuqrAO.html
19-04-2020||News||Can convalescent plasma therapy help treat the coronavirus disease?||The coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) has spread across the world with no solution in immediate sight. The first case was reported on December 30, 2019, in China, but until now, no country in the world has been able to develop any vaccine that prevents the disease, or anti-viral drug that cures it. There is, however, an inexpensive and readily-available antiviral agent that has got little attention: The virus-neutralising antibody found in people having fully recovered from SARS-CoV2 infection. To give a bit of background, the human blood contains a yellow fluid known as plasma in which the red and white cells are suspended. The plasma contains albumin, globulins and hundreds of other proteins that are essential for physiologic functions of the body. Those deficient in these proteins undergo plasma replacement, which is not uncommon any more. The process requires a plasmapheresis machine, which takes blood from the donor (healthy and free of HIV and hepatitis B and C viruses) and, after extracting the plasma, returns the rest of the blood cells to her body. The extracted plasma is then frozen in the blood bank for later use – such as in the case of haemophilia, a well-known bleeding disorder with a deficient protein, Factor VIII. The disorder requires plasma infusion into the body, a standard treatment for haemophilia until purified Factor VIII became commercially available. Besides, there are many “autoimmune” disorders affecting multiple organs that require “immunoglobulins” derived from plasma.Blood also contains red blood cells, which has different antigens in different people and act as a marker of the blood groups. For transfusion, blood is matched for compatibility, which, in case of mismatch, can result in a fatal transfusion reaction. But devoid of cells, plasma is safe from transfusion reaction.Plasma-derived immunoglobulins are commonly used to prevent serious viral infections. To treat dog bite, for instance, anti-rabies immunoglobulin is the first medical treatment administered after first aid. Or the needle-stick injury in hospitals that carries the risk for hepatitis B virus infection, hepatitis B immunoglobulin from antibody-positive donors is the first treatment. In both instances, antibodies neutralise the virus that has just entered the body through the dog-bite or needle-stick injury. When exposed to measles or chicken-pox, immunoglobulins derived from persons with antibodies is the standard treatment to protect children undergoing cancer chemotherapy. Covid-19 is particularly dangerous for senior citizens, as they have a relatively weak immune system, and younger people with chronic lung disease, a heart condition, hypertension, diabetes, and those on therapies that affect the immune system. Critical Covid-19 pneumonia affects both the lungs simultaneously, leading to severe oxygen deficiency (hypoxemia), affecting body organs and tissues. If not corrected immediately, this may result in death. Hypoxemia’s treatment requires putting the patient on a mechanical ventilator under the intensive care unit. But in spite of aggressive oxygen therapy, many patients die. So, to come to the original question, why do physicians not employ or recommend the potentially life-saving therapy using antibody-containing plasma to treat the Covid-19 pneumonia? Because the world over, physicians are taught to practice “evidence-based medicine”. This treatment has a paucity of evidence, but it is not because the plasma method was tried and failed, but because doctors are waiting for the concrete evidence to emerge. The evidence, however, can emerge from the cumulative experience of plasma therapy, or, simply, research studies. In an emergency situation, the wiser approach is to employ the empirical application on a number of severely-ill patients not recovering with aggressive oxygen therapy. The data accumulated will give statisticians the opportunity to derive evidence of efficacy, if that is truly the case.Research, on the other hand, will entail a drug trial involving a treatment arm and a control arm, both given standard treatment with ventilators. The cases have to be randomised into two groups, one given plasma therapy, and the other placebo. After the trial is over, the treatment’s efficacy can be quantified by statistical comparison of outcomes in both the arms.One wonders if the research approach is a wise idea in the current context, since the convalescent plasma is known to contain ant-viral immunoglobulins and are reasonably safe. We don’t have any reason to justify its denial to a control group only because the dice of randomisation fell against their favour while others are offered the plasma. Chinese physicians have published two reports of convalescent plasma therapy in very severe cases of Covid-19 pneumonia cases on ventilators: Five patients in one report, and 10 in the other. All the 15 showed rapid improvement. The fever came down and viral loads decreased. We urge physicians working in Covid-19 hospitals to gain experience in plasma therapy, with careful observation and documentation of all details. In the case of plasma therapy for other conditions, adverse reactions have rarely been reported, but for the very ill Covid-19 patients not recovering despite administering aggressive standard treatment, the benefit far outweighs the risk. This approach requires testing for Immunoglobulin G, or IgG, antibodies against SARS-CoV2 in recovered convalescent persons and healthy ones in the community with previous Covid-19 infections. For every positive case, four to five persons would be silently infected. Health authorities must design antibody surveys with the dual purpose of identifying antibody-positive individuals: One, this will enable them to safely return to work; and, two, if healthy and willing, they could donate plasma. Dr T Jacob John is retired professor and head, department of clinical virology and Dr MS Seshadri is retired professor and head, department of endocrinology at Christian Medical College, VelloreThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/can-convalescent-plasma-therapy-help-treat-the-coronavirus-disease/story-ngrmoDH5oAJoSGHbboBOhL.html
