24-04-2020||News||Covid-19: India needs a green economic stimulus | Opinion||The economic impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is likely to be steep. This comes on the heels of a broader economic slowdown in the country over the last three years. Reviving growth will require an unprecedented stimulus package to address the collapse in aggregate household demand and resulting shocks to supply. In India, this stimulus should be “green” — addressing the risks of the climate crisis while also tackling the economic fallout of the virus. Continuing with business-as-usual at this juncture will compromise future economic growth, as we fall behind in cheaper and cleaner technologies, investors divest from fossil fuels, and countries consider climate-related trade barriers. The government can start with steps in three key areas — electricity, transport, and the urban economy — to deliver broad-based growth and improve environmental outcomes.Even before Covid-19 struck, power demand, a good proxy for economic activity, grew at its slowest pace in six years. The fall in electricity consumption due to the shutdown will further stress distribution companies (discoms), which remain in precarious financial shape and contribute to systemic risks across the financial ecosystem. The government’s move to allow discoms to suspend payments as temporary relief will create downstream problems of lower renewable energy deployment and worsening the financial health of coal plants. For the latter, a long suggested path should be considered seriously with the creation of a power-sector specific “bad bank”, a dedicated holding agency to own and manage the problematic coal fleet. This move would free up ~2.5 trillion from the books and accelerate lending to the post-Covid-19 economy. It also allows the government to set the pace to phase out older and more polluting coal power plants. With power demand stagnant, there is also no economic justification for new coal plants, particularly as the government encourages ambitious capacity targets of renewable energy (RE), which is increasingly dispatchable (with storage) and competitive. Instead, the focus ought to be on improving the utilisation of the stranded lower carbon and more flexible gas fleet, that can help integrate higher shares of renewables on the grid. Overall, improving the finances of discoms will also require creating new forms of electricity demand in urban areas, through related sectors such as transport.The lockdown has led to clean air and clear skies in cities, highlighting how much vehicles contribute to air quality. Electrification of transport is yet to take off as the Government of India’s electric vehicle (EV) policy has been inconsistent. India’s EV trajectory need not replicate the rest of the world — most of the potential lies with two- and three-wheelers which make up a sizeable chunk of transportation in cities. An analysis by Carnegie Mellon with NITI Aayog shows how high upfront costs for electric two-wheelers due to the cost of battery packs can be reduced by domestic manufacturing of lithium-ion batteries, under the Make in India initiative. Electrification of transport can be a positive for discoms with an increase in revenue and potential to manage charging infrastructure. Utilities and discoms should proactively strategise on how urban electric mobility can help diversify ancillary sources of revenues and integrate charging infrastructure development with urban planning.Future urban planning in India will contend with choices to grow outwardly or vertically with a collective memory of the pandemic in the background. Indian cities fare poorly on all metrics of resiliency — be it as a response to climate, public health, or economic shocks, which often share common stressors. We will reach, if we haven’t already, decreasing returns on the expansion of megacities, and should instead focus on tier-2 cities with investments in human and physical infrastructure. New Indian cities should adopt transit-oriented, mixed-use urban planning with accessible public transit and EVs that expand the economic radius, free up productive hours stuck in worsening traffic, and reduce emissions and criteria pollutants. Services are easier to supply and monitor as opposed to the ad hoc development that usually takes place. Top-down projects pushed by the Centre and states remain short-term, narrowly-focused, five-year spurts rather than holistic plans with immediate accountability in the local government. Public-private partnerships (PPP) will be strained, especially in the post-Covid-19 economy with public spending having to do the heavy lifting. Once the economy stabilises, a concerted push is needed to clean up the bad debts of banks, redesign PPP, and create a robust municipal bond market.As governments around the world move to restart economies, capital adequacy requirements — which became more stringent in the aftermath of the financial crises and hurt developing countries like India — are being relaxed and guidelines suspended. A wave of new capital is expected. The pandemic exposed many of the world’s faultlines, but this can also be a fresh start for decarbonisation. Tools exist; technologies have not only broken even, but have become cheaper; and people around the world appreciate the importance of resilience needed to tackle this complex crises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-india-needs-a-green-economic-stimulus-opinion/story-MnFm3MdzRWWv1pD5COFKzJ.html
24-04-2020||News||West Asia is staring at an economic crisis. India has to be prepared | Opinion||Often jocularly called “India’s fifth metropolis” or “India’s cleanest city”, Dubai is the economic power centre of not just West Asia but increasingly the global financial system as well. There are over 300 weekly passenger flights between Dubai and various Indian cities, showcasing its importance, and of the larger region, to the Indian economy and society. Of the 3,336 coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-positive Indians currently abroad, 2,061 are reportedly in the Gulf.However, larger problems await New Delhi in the extended Gulf region with the global economy heading towards a critical downturn. Some analysts suggest that the crisis will be bigger than the Great Depression.Fractures have already started to show in the Gulf economies, as markets crash, lockdowns are imposed, businesses stall, and an oil price war plays out in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec) and beyond. Over eight million Indians work in the larger West Asian region, with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia taking the bulk of those numbers. These eight million-plus workers are also responsible for sending more than $50 billion in remittances back to India annually. Now, the World Bank predicts a 23% overall drop in remittances this year.Estimates suggest that the Gulf economies may need in excess of $40 billion in this fiscal infused into the regional financial ecosystem to cushion the Covid-19 blow. The Indian skilled and semi-skilled workers in the region will feel the significant fallout of this, as they lose contracts with major events in the region such as DubaiExpo 2020 and others being postponed till next year.Kerala, which has over 1.5 million of its citizens working in the Gulf, is expecting a return of up to 400,000 of its people soon after the lockdowns are removed due to the pandemic fallout. Migration figures had started to slow down over the past few years, with a record number of semi-skilled labour returning. The reasons behind this trend have varied, from wage stagnation, cost of living, inflation, oil prices, migration policies of the Indian government and a shift towards the requirement of more skilled labour than semi-skilled. Even in Dubai, once synonymous with general Indian labour, the Indian chief executive officer and the Indian engineer are now more sought after.Beyond the immediate crisis, the pandemic is also certain to put a spanner in the process of regional reforms. For example, Saudi Arabia — with its king-in-waiting, Mohammed bin Salman (MBS)’s grand plans of opening up the Saudi economy in efforts to wean the kingdom away from its reliance on oil — will certainly experience turbulence, putting the country’s “Vision 2030” plan under duress and possibly draining foreign exchange reserves.With oil prices stunningly falling below $25 per barrel in the recent past due to both a crash in global demand reeling from the pandemic and disagreements between Saudi Arabia, the United States and Russia over crude production, the political and economic faultlines in an already conflict-ridden neighbourhood will deepen. While it is true that these low oil prices are good news for New Delhi, it will come as a bounty for the Indian government only if the economy is thriving, and consumption is robust. The latest GDP data from the International Monetary Fund for India’s growth over the next year puts the figure at 1.9% in the current fiscal. For now, the biggest boon of these low prices is only in topping up the country’s strategic crude reserves cheaply.It is also imperative to remember that while the UAE and Saudi Arabia take a lot of the spotlight when it comes to trade and migration issues between India and West Asia, smaller Gulf nations such as Kuwait, Oman and Bahrain also hold a significant stake. Kuwait, where New Delhi recently sent medical teams to help fight the pandemic, is home to nearly one million Indians. Together, these three small countries alone have around 1.5 million Indians as residents and workers. Beyond this, even conflict-ridden states like Iraq have Indians working as oil workers, truck drivers and logistics handlers — there were over 17,000 working in the country as of last year.A significant reverse-migration in the post-Covid-19 era will add extra strain on the Indian economy, as the returning workers will add pressure on an already faltering job market along with the exchequer losing out on remittances that could go into billions of dollars.India’s outreach during the pandemic towards West Asia, from Saudi Arabia to Israel to Iran has been robust. However, the government should also use this crisis to empower states to have a larger say on migration and economic resettlement issues as part of the Centre’s foreign policy. The time is opportune to prepare and act collectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/west-asia-is-staring-at-an-economic-crisis-india-has-to-be-prepared-opinion/story-07fRmWgoMkYS6dKGEMnuEP.html
24-04-2020||News||Positioning panchayats as India’s agents of change||Panchayats have always been an integral part of India since ancient times. There are many references about it in the shastras like the Manusmriti, Arthasastra and the Mahabharata. In the pre-Independence era, Mahatma Gandhi emphasised on village-level self-governance to improve the local economy and ensure overall development. He believed in the bottom-up approach. After Independence, nearly one-third of India’s villages had traditional panchayats, but their functioning was below par. One of the landmark efforts was setting up a committee in 1957, to study Community Projects and National Extension Service. It recommended, among other points, the three-tier system. But the watershed year for the Panchayati Raj system was 1992-93, when the 73rd Amendment Act gave constitutional status to the gram sabha.In keeping with the bottom-up tradition, the current government has gone all out in improving the functioning of panchayats. On National Panchayati Raj Day, 2015, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, talked about women’s empowerment, and called for ending the “sarpanchpati” practice, which is the husband acting in place of the woman sarpanch. In April 2016, the ministry of Panchayati Raj celebrated National Panchayat Day by organising the “Gramodaya Se Bharat Uday Abhiyan” in the panchayats across the country to sensitise the masses and other stakeholders of the programmes and activities carried out under the Abhiyan.Nationwide efforts have been made to strengthen the Panchayati Raj system, and, through it, promote social harmony, foster farmers’ welfare, support livelihoods of the poor, and enhance rural development. In April 2016, a conference meant for panchayat representatives resolved to bring urban amenities to villages, strive for open-defecation-free villages, and ensure enough toilets for women in villages.The 14th Finance Commission (FFC) had recommended assured transfers to rural local bodies for delivery of basic services. It advised that the expenditures incurred by panchayats on basic services should follow the rules and regulations. It proposed that elected representatives should utilise the rural body funds according to the FCC recommendations – on planning and provisioning basic services such as water supply, sanitation, waste management, and maintenance of roads and footpaths. It also emphasised on the need to have Gram Panchayat Development Plans (GPDP).Other initiatives taken by the government include monitoring the outcomes such as prevention of malnutrition among children, making available proper diet for pregnant women below the poverty line, and ensuring zero casualties during delivery. It also includes ensuring regular panchayat committee and gram sabha meetings.Besides, people living in villagers and elected representatives were encouraged to work for solid waste management. They were asked to have close and regular interaction with school authorities to ensure punctuality in attendance. To ensure children’s health in villages, immunisation campaigns have been launched. Steps have been taken to empower villages economically and improve their purchasing capacity, which in turn will help the economic empowerment. Programmes like the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, 2005, have helped create durable assets. The e-NAM Yojana has also been planned to realise Bhartodaya through Gramodaya.In 2018, the People’s Plan Campaign (PPC) was conceived to institutionalise the GPDP. Sabki Yojana Sabka Vikas (PPC-I), from October 2 to December 31, 2018, was meant for planning at the gram sabha level, through a convergence between Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) and line departments. The second PPC (PPC-II) was initiated on October 2, 2019, which aims to prepare GPDP for all the panchayat by 2020-21. The preparatory activities include a central portal, appointment of nodal officers at the state, district and block levels, deputation of frontline workers, the establishment of a dedicated Project Monitoring Unit, and organising special gram sabhas. Also, it lays down the roles and responsibilities of ministries, departments, and facilitators, stipulates timelines, arranges effective communication system, and helps in environment creation.Each state has its initiatives on, for example, capacity building refresher training and joint training programmes for elected representatives and officials. Thematic training is given to make the panchs (the leader of the panchayat) the “agents of change”. Details of state and central schemes have also been prepared as booklets for general awareness on various schemes for convergence. Resource teams, including Gram Panchayat Planning Facilitation Team, were also engaged to ensure training up to the grassroots level. The National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj has also played a central role in the capacity building and training initiatives during both the campaigns.A Mission Antyodaya (MA) Survey was conducted, which measured 146 parameters, covering gaps spanning infrastructure, human development, and economic development across 29 states. The survey provided the baseline data for the GPDP preparation by the gram panchayats (GPs). PRI-self help group convergence was given prominence, and livelihood action plan was prepared with the support of the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM).A few states have set up help desk systems at the district level. States have also created social media tools like WhatsApp and e-mail groups to clarify doubts. Wide publicity has been given to include as many schemes converging with the schemes of the ministry of rural development, ministry of health, ministry of women and child development. Notably, PPC-I focused on capacity building for gender-mainstreaming activities, convergence with NRLM, and constituting working groups for preparing schemes for the economic development of women. PPC-II went a step ahead by including Women Component Programme (WCP) in GPDP (as in the case of Manipur and Kerala). The intent and vision for panchayats to play a proactive role in nation-building are in place. All that the country needs now is maximum implementation.Anushree Sinha is a professor and Rajesh Jaiswal is a fellow at the National Council of Applied Economic ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/position-panchayats-as-india-s-agents-of-change/story-6qBRbyPSsEn2r2dYH7exjP.html
