27-04-2020||News||India should enforce media regulation on big tech||Are leading Internet firms such as Facebook, Twitter and Google, as operators of social media platforms, publishers of editorialised content (much like the Hindustan Times is), or are they indiscriminate platforms that offer open access to anything that you might wish to see?The debate sounds nerdy at first — a sort of philosophical enquiry that should only concern professors and legal scholars as a matter of business regulation. But this seemingly narrow intellectual question is increasingly becoming a central matter of urgent concern in the context of Indian democracy — and, indeed, democracy and the free flow of information around the world. Foreign governments are moving to impose new responsibilities on dominant tech firms. Australia, for instance, is forcing Facebook and Google to pay news companies for displaying their stories; French antitrust officials have ordered Google to negotiate with local media firms to pay for displaying their content; and in the United States, a fierce political war rages on between liberals and conservatives on this very issue.Let’s go back to that philosophical question for a moment, though. Publishers have always held a vaunted position in society. Traditional media formats — daily newspapers, broadcast television networks and radio stations — once consumed the public’s attention. My grandfather would comb through newspapers and news magazines every day, while my grandmother listened to the radio all day, every day — not uncommon for those of their generation. The result was that we came to know not only the voices and faces that graced these outlets, but the publishing houses and media personalities behind the businesses. This intense aura about the media ecosystem — a world that could make someone famous — gave news organisations great power. They had the power to convey the news — and with that power, came great responsibility.As with any line of business, news organisations cannot be expected to necessarily and voluntarily demonstrate that responsibility — by, for instance, not spreading political falsehoods, hateful messaging, and other vitriol. To put it differently: Absent meaningful regulation, businesses operating in a free market economy, including media outlets, will do whatever they wish to maximise shareholder returns. Profit displaces social considerations. So to ensure they would act responsibly, the government created a policy framework. In India, the contours of media regulation have become sophisticatedly diverse, with laws such as the Press Council Act, 1978, the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954, the Newspaper (Price and Page) Act, 1956, and the Cinematograph Act, 1952. To quote from an example, the last of these — a reform of the Indian film industry enacted 70 years ago — notes that a “film shall not be certified for public exhibition if, in the opinion of the authority competent to grant the certificate, the film or any part of it is against the interests of 1 (the sovereignty and integrity of India) the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality, or involves defamation or contempt of court or is likely to incite the commission of any offence.” Without the law, the government couldn’t be sure that an intrepid director might just slip offending content into mass-market films every now and then.Some might argue that Facebook and Google should be treated like publishers, too; they now dominate the media sector in India and often facilitate the dissemination of offending content. They have, until now, been regarded as open platforms, which allow any and all speech (different kinds of views/all shades of opinion) but can remove whatever they wish — a conceptualisation originally stemming from Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, a 1996 US law that simultaneously affirms that Internet companies won’t “be treated as the publisher or speaker of any information” and won’t “be held liable on account of any action voluntarily taken in good faith to restrict access to or availability of material”. The idea was simple: Let the Internet grow and develop its own commercial standards as necessary.Here is the problem. This benevolent regulatory framework has enabled Facebook to claim it acts as a publisher and reap the censorship rights thereof, but turn around and also claim it is an undiscerning platform to reap the benefits of free speech leniency. A more just regime might, instead of giving the firm a free pass on both ends, hold its feet to the fire on both counts. There can be no doubt the company acts as some novel form of entity in between; even the company’s lawyers have suggested that the company possesses a “quintessential publisher function” over the “protected” practice of determining “what to publish and the decision of what not to publish” — while Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has also contended the company “should err on the side of greater expression.”So, if it is true that Internet firms have editorial power — and it is, so long as they decide what specific news stories, search results, and social media posts to show us among the billions of possibilities — then let us treat them as such. The responsibility must now lie with the national government to do right by its citizens — many of whom have been targeted, misled, and pilloried, which has been enabled by Internet platforms. The time has come for the imposition of decency in exchange for continued participation in the Indian consumer market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-should-enforce-media-regulation-on-big-tech/story-gJJrXzbhDKWLj70g73gNoL.html
27-04-2020||News||India must stick to its strategic orientation||India has completed one month of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-triggered national lockdown and the scale of the socioeconomic disruption and human deprivation has been considerable. Millions are now destitute. The quantum and quality of the damage and mayhem that will ensue before closure/success can be declared is yet to be estimated. Thus, any reference to a post-Covid-19 world will be more of in the form of an aspiration and one can only hope that the pandemic subsides soon.However, the impact of the pandemic on politics — both domestic and global — has been the subject of animated discussion and various formulations have been advanced. It is akin to the five blind men and the elephant but in this case, the contour of the pachyderm (virus) is insidiously dynamic. One school avers that this is the beginning of the end of globalisation and multilateralism and that the world has entered a period of extended confrontation. Exhibit A to prove this point is the current United States (US)-China tension and the acrimonious exchanges between Washington and Beijing.The extension of this formulation is that cooperation, to the extent it obtained in post-9/11 global geopolitics, is now a thing of the past and bipolarity is back (US-China), and may soon turn into a Sinicised world where China overtakes the US to become the world’s number one in GDP. In the pre-Covid-19 period, this date was assumed to be around 2030. Does this mean Chinese unipolarity is on the anvil? Unlikely. Such binaries are invalid in the current Covid-19-triggered turbulence.In an earlier context (2012), while envisioning global trends in 2030, I had advanced the proposition that the US-led international order was under stress. This was illustrated in the trade dependencies engendered by globalisation and the strategic-security dissonance among the major powers — the more visible manifestations of this were the US-China; China-Japan; and India-China rifts. Thus, it was assumed that the emerging global geopolitical landscape in 2030 would probably be a contra-polar world, wherein managing contradictory policy pursuits and contrarian impulses would be the norm — barring any black swan events.The coronavirus pandemic is that black swan event. The question now is whether polarity itself is a valid referent in the current geopolitical and strategic flux. The direct impact on human security due to the pandemic has been high and there have been over 200,000 deaths globally. Among the major powers, the US, the Eurozone and China, where the virus originated, have witnessed fatalities in the thousands and this number may grow.Consequently, the domestic politics of these nations will see a significant churn driven by emotive nationalism. The shrill focus on this issue in the US election campaign is a case in point. China, the European Union, Russia and Japan will follow a similar trajectory, where the credibility of the current leadership will be on the test.India is no exception and managing the pandemic and its fallout will be the single most complex challenge for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The macroeconomic scene is grim and experts aver the Indian economy will shrink in 2020, before recovering in 2021.However, one macro-economic trend is unlikely to change. In a pre-Covid-19 world, it was the received wisdom that by 2030, the single State global GDP hierarchy would be China, the US and India. Despite the economic downturn that will unfold due to the pandemic, the resultant GDP matrix post-Covid-19 will be the same, all other factors being normal. This means India, notwithstanding current challenges, will be in the top tier of the global economy.Thus, despite the current turbulence and negative sentiment about China in particular, the more prudent strategic orientation for India will be to create the necessary politico-diplomatic and economic space to remain engaged with the major powers and trading blocs, however insular they may become in the short-term.India’s immediate priority is to manage the pandemic and save its more vulnerable citizens. The long-term strategic objective remains the same — the elimination of mass poverty and ensuring a more equitable distribution of its prosperity, while remaining committed to the liberal democratic path.Hence the review and recalibration of India’s strategic orientation must correspond with the realisation of these objectives — the immediate in relation to saving the lives of its citizens affected by the pandemic; and the long-term improvement of human security indicators. This is what Chanakya identified as yogakshema (well-being) for 1.3 billion people.India’s external orientation after the end of the Cold War has been to remain engaged with all the major global nodes but stay unaligned, particularly in the military domain. Pursuing this path would be more prudent in a post-pandemic context, despite domestic opinion being advanced that Delhi ought to join hands with a US-led cluster that will lean on China to atone for its many omissions that range from creating the Covid-19 crisis to Doklam, support to Pakistan, and blocking India’s admission to the nuclear order.The post-Covid-19 recalibration for India is in the domestic arena. It must remain focused on emerging as a credible and equitable socioeconomic power that recognises the principle of power, but adheres to the power of normative principle.C Uday Bhaskar is director, Society for Policy Studies, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-must-stick-to-its-strategic-orientation/story-yGZlfeoUDh7Ex4P0dnCaUO.html
27-04-2020||News||In dealing with Covid-19, the crisis of leadership||We are in the midst of a calamity that the world has rarely seen before. Given the helplessness of ordinary people in the face of the coronavirus pandemic, we can only ask if those in authority are doing enough to deal with the crisis, and if they are capable of dealing with it. Disasters such as the coronavirus pandemic are not confined to specific geographies territories, and thus, dealing with it requires a holistic and global approach. Sadly, there is a dearth of leaders who have an influence on the world today and can provide global direction. In the past, when the world faced a crisis, it was the American leadership that took charge. But, today, the United States (US) appears weak in the face of the onslaught of the virus. In fact, many other countries are doing far better at containing the virus than the US. The problem seems to be a lack of leadership on the part of President Donald Trump. Faced with a situation that requires calm, reasoned science-based responses, Trump has behaved irresponsibly. He did not respond to the crisis in time, and has given mixed signals, and on some occasions, even come up with dangerous prescriptions on how to fight the virus. And he has, for domestic political considerations, consistently blamed China for the crisis. China does deserve blame though, and suspicion and anger against Beijing is widely shared. Many countries believe that Beijing’s tardiness in informing the world of the threat in time has caused irreparable damage. Some organisations and governments are planning to approach international legal bodies, terming China’s lapse as an assault on international human rights. But Beijing is in no mood to blink. It has, in response, stepped up its diplomatic efforts against what it terms are absurd allegations. In order to counter the US onslaught, it has begun to help Latin American and African countries with money and material to counter the spread. As a result, it has won over some of these countries. China is also making substantial inroads in influencing some eastern European countries. It has continued with its belligerent geopolitical activities and increased its naval activities in the South China Sea. China’s biggest asset is, of course, its economic prowess. It holds hundreds of patents — from essential commodities, tech products, even herbal medicines. In order to cash in on China’s cheap labour, western countries have large production bases in the country. And they cannot afford to antagonise China beyond a point, or terminate their operations there. Developing countries such as India are also unhappy with China. But we are dependent on it too. The fact that some of the raw materials for hydroxychloroquine, which we are now exporting to other countries, come from China is just an obvious example of this dependence. There is, therefore, a peculiar mix of both dependence on, and conflict with, China. But this confrontation between the West and China could not have come at a worse time. Irrespective of the substance of the allegations, this war of words and perceptions hampers a global response to the crisis. And it doesn’t help that across the world, there are several ultra-nationalists in power. Could the situation have been different if the world had leaders such as Nelson Mandela or Mahatma Gandhi? Probably, but we will never know. There is, however, some cause for cheer. And this comes from the leadership displayed by women in their own countries. As soon as Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen was informed of a mysterious virus that was spreading in Wuhan, she took stern measures. As a result, the spread of the infection was controlled. Similarly, the prime minister of New Zealand, Jacinda Ardern, sealed the borders of her country on March 19. She not only declared a one-month nationwide lockdown, but also demoted a minister who violated the curbs. In Germany, Angela Merkel, who has a background in science, has evolved a coherent policy response and communicated directly and effectively with citizens. In India, Kerala successfully defended itself after the initial shocks, thanks to the efforts of its woman health minister, KK Shailaja.The world should look at the way these women leaders have dealt with the virus. They have shown that actions based on the advice of medical experts, coupled with a humane approach towards people is the way forward. Anger and mud-slinging will get us nowhere. Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-dealing-with-covid-19-the-crisis-of-leadership/story-ALsSOUlwDZOlxfrIPZHc1I.html
