30-04-2020||News||Viruses don’t respect borders. Come together||Global efforts to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have come to a critical point. Solidarity and cooperation are the most powerful weapons against the disease. The ferocity of this highly infectious, fast-spreading pandemic has rarely been seen in the past. Facing this unprecedented challenge, no country has the perfect solution. Countries are striving to explore the most effective measures based on their national situations. What is needed most in this process is mutual respect, understanding and cooperation.China was the first to report the outbreak and stand up to this challenge. We established a centralised and efficient command system, undertook comprehensive and thorough control and lockdown measures, and tried our best to prevent the epidemic from spreading. Medical and community workers, volunteers and others made great sacrifices in the fight against the epidemic. China has been releasing information and sharing the viral genome sequences. Since the outbreak, we have updated information daily and held nearly 200 press conferences to disseminate information about the government’s efforts.Meanwhile, China offered proposals for global cooperation to overcome the challenge. At the extraordinary G20 leaders’ summit on Covid-19, President Xi Jinping set out four proposals for a global war against the virus, forging a collective response for control and treatment, supporting international organisations in playing active roles, and strengthening macroeconomic policy coordination.China has provided support to the international community, working closely with the United Nations, the World Health Organization and other organisations. We have had 83 medical experts on video conferences with 153 countries, and sent 14 medical teams to 12 countries that were facing a difficult situation. We have also provided over 140 countries and international organisations with medical supplies, and signed commercial procurement contracts with more than 60 countries and organisations. What we have done is based on the belief of building a community with a shared future for humankind in keeping with China’s tradition of reciprocation.China and India have maintained communication and cooperation on epidemic prevention and control. Prime Minister Narendra Modi sent a letter of condolence to President Xi. The leaders attended the G20 summit on Covid-19. State councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi had conversations with external affairs minister S Jaishankar twice, exchanging views on anti-epidemic cooperation.This reminds me of the touching stories of Dr DS Kotnis, who went to China to support the war of resistance against Japanese aggression and died there. This year marks the 110th birth anniversary of Dr Kotnis. We must carry forward his spirit of internationalism and cooperate in fighting the epidemic. At a critical moment in China’s battle against the pandemic, the Indian government provided medical supplies to China. Indians have shown their support in various ways.Since the outbreak in India, China shared its experiences in epidemic prevention, control and treatment with India through video conferences. As sister provinces and cities, Guangdong Province and Chongqing city have, respectively, donated medical materials to Gujarat and Chennai. Alibaba, Fosun and other Chinese enterprises and charities have assisted India with medical supplies such as protective masks, suits, medical gloves and ventilators. China has provided India with assistance for its commercial procurement in China. The civil aviation administration of China has opened a “green channel” and approved 35 new Indian cargo flights to deliver medical supplies.Viruses respect no borders, and epidemics do not distinguish between races. Only by working together can we win this battle. Finger-pointing or scapegoating is not the way. Such moves will divide the international community, lead to prejudice against specific ethnic groups and hurt the shared interests of the world. We must reject all ideological biases and attempts at labelling the virus, politicising the response, and stigmatising any specific country.India is fighting the pandemic under the leadership of PM Modi. The Indian government has taken a series of decisive and strict prevention and control measures which have delivered positive outcomes. India’s victory in this is of great significance to the global fight against Covid-19.As a friend, neighbour and partner, we sincerely wish India success. China and India are ancient civilisations with populations accounting for nearly 40% of the world. China is willing to work together with India to win this battle, safeguard global and regional public health security, and contribute to greater care for our common homeland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/viruses-don-t-respect-borders-come-together/story-dVVMKCOhnXnZtP38JfbB9I.html
30-04-2020||News||A knockout punch to the economy, writes Kapil Sibal||Any number of Sonny Liston punches will not knock out the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). It is here to stay. Nineteen deaths in one day and 67 in a week in Ahmedabad do not augur well. Health care workers around the country, in the absence of personal protective equipment, have been infected. Doctors, without protective gear, having risked their lives to protect people, have succumbed. Over time, the curve will flatten. Infection will increase with herd immunity setting in. By then, familiar with the precautionary measures, India will be ready to deal with those infected. The ultimate remedy is a vaccine which is at least a year-and-a-half away.But the knockout punch to the Indian economy has serious long-term consequences. The 40-day economic freeze will take several quarters to revive. A global recession may well be round the corner. The estimated loss caused to the global economy is about $11 trillion. The United States (US) economy will have a negative rate of growth. India’s, too, will witness a negative growth rate this year. The fact that this virus originated in Wuhan, China, has geopolitical implications. In these changing global equations, the developed world will want China to lose its primacy as a global supplier of goods. Factories may have to relocate from the country. India may not be the most attractive destination for such relocations. Our tortuous regulations, illiberal mindset and a divisive environment, coupled with the lack of quality infrastructure and human resources, are serious impediments to attracting investments for manufacturing.Our service sector may find it difficult to exploit global opportunities given the mood in the US to reduce its global dependence on goods and services. The nature of the labour market will change. The impact on modes of production will need rebooting. The self-reliance that Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi talks of is easier said than done. Any shift away from globalisation, which is likely, will impact us.The government’s policy response to the pandemic has been wanting. North Block must realise that any advisory issued cannot be uniformly applied across the country. The lockdown has dealt a lethal blow to our economic revival. Had this been thoughtfully planned — and there was time enough to do that between January 28 and March 24 — India would not be facing an economic crisis of this magnitude. Migrant workers, stuck at shelter homes with inadequate food, water, sanitation and other essentials, are not willing to go back to work. They have unduly suffered during this period.The directions issued to industry to start operations do not take into account realities on the ground. A seamless manufacturing unit cannot operate at 25% capacity. The cost of running the unit will not be economical. In the absence of demand, and an already full unsold inventory, there is no logic in running a unit. This applies to the automobile, steel, and some other sectors. The textile industry, which survives on exports, has been badly singed. The Chinese are willing to fill the vacuum. Buyers in Europe and the US, if not serviced, will move to other suppliers. The real estate sector needs special attention and a separate package. Its revival creates demand for steel, cement and sanitaryware. Besides, this sector generates employment. Micro, small and medium enterprises, the hardest hit, need immediate financial support to stave off massive closures and bankruptcy. This pandemic is unique for it disrupts our economy both on the supply and demand side. The demand side sectors bearing the brunt include trade, transport, travel and tourism, hotels, sports and entertainment. Financial services are also badly hit. On the supply side, India is witnessing supply chain breakdowns in respect of both imports and exports, with China, South Korea, Italy, Spain, France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the US. The pandemic has dealt a devastating blow to the economies of these countries affecting India’s global trade as well.Domestically, with subdued revenue collections, India will have to rely on expanded borrowings and non-tax revenue sources. Postpone adhering to fiscal deficit targets and work out a substantial stimulus package to kickstart demand. States, apart from scaling up health care facilities and ensuring food security, must also provide income support to those who have been deprived of their means of livelihood. Along with falling Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue shares, the excise earnings of states from the sale of alcohol and fuel have also dried up. With the near shutdown of industrial and commercial activity, the demand for electricity has fallen. Real estate transactions are also frozen. All this has put the finances of the states under real strain. The Union still owes about Rs 34,000 crore to states as GST compensation for December 2019 and January 2020. The Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2003, which limits state borrowing, will further hamper state governments in their attempts to revive the economy.The frequent, often confusing, advisories issued by North Block are evidence of the government’s inept handling of the pandemic. The directive to employers to bear the burden of paying employees’ salaries during the lockdown, apart from being illegal, is blind to their differential financial capacities. We need plans of action, mandatory under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005. Decisions should be taken after consultations with stakeholder representatives. We need coordination between the Union, state and district authorities allowing for monitoring. Different sectors of the economy need separate bailouts.The road to economic revival is to create demand to whet the appetite of supply chains. Demand can only be created by putting money in the hands of the 800 million poor whose capacity to earn has been impacted. This daunting challenge requires a national response. The government must display both transparency and the willingness to make decisions based on ground realities. The sensitivities of each section of society in formulating a policy framework must be considered. That alone will help us get back on track.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-knock-out-punch-to-the-economy-writes-kapil-sibal/story-95lHayXMJDgP0Ew7AITZTM.html
30-04-2020||News||A road map for India’s exit from the lockdown | HT Analysis||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi is in an unenviable position. Many state governments and most commentators want the lockdown to continue as new cases mount, including in areas hitherto free from the coronavirus pandemic. Mathematically, even with the rate of doubling going up to over 11 days, because of the large numbers, or base effect in statistics, new cases will continue to increase substantially. At the same time, there is the issue of the livelihoods of over 400 million persons; many above the poverty line are liable to slip back due to the income shock of lost earnings.Approximately 65% of the Indian economy is in the unorganised sector. What makes the situation worse is that over 90% of the workforce is informal with limited welfare entitlements. In fact, but for the Jan Dhan Yojana (cash transfer measures that have benefitted around 350 million people, including farmers, rural workers, poor pensioners, construction workers, low-income widows) and Ayushman Bharat (free medical cover up to Rs 500,000 for 40% of the population), India would have been facing a catastrophic situation. However, in the absence of a universal basic income or unemployment benefits, the economy, which is now operating at around 40%, must be restarted to provide income for the vulnerable population, and prevent millions of others from falling between the cracks.The key question that PM Modi faces is how to unwind the lockdown without endangering the lives of millions of Indians. One of the co-authors of this piece (Maurice Kugler), along with a colleague, developed six options for the United States (US), and we attempt to apply these to India.The surest way of controlling the pandemic is to keep the shutdown going till a vaccine is developed and the entire population immunised. The second option is for it to be eased off gradually, and as the curve flattens, its health and economic trade-offs both fall in the mid-range. The third option is a more aggressive version of the second, allowing for greater opening, but retaining the possibility of reintroducing a complete lockdown if the infection rate picks up. Under the fourth option, antibody tests are to be carried out and those who are immune can be allowed to move around freely. Under the fifth option, the entire population is to be tested once every two weeks. The sixth option requires contact tracing and widespread testing where cases are detected.The first is not an option that India can afford as it would likely take 12-18 months for the vaccine to be available. Similarly, the fourth and fifth options can be ruled out for financial and logistical reasons and non-availability of enough test kits.The trouble with the third option is that while its health costs are probably lower than the second, economic recovery would be more uncertain and distant. The outcomes could be volatile. It could leave policymakers with little room to manoeuvre and lessen their credibility with the people.The only viable route for India would be to roll out a modified second option, allowing for greater opening faster, but with strict protection measures, along with the sixth option. Since the virus has a demographic preference (infants and the aged), an alternative is to keep these age-groups locked down. This is not possible in the Indian context, and the best way is to use geography as a determinant. This approach has already started in India with the identification of hotspot localities — the district is too large a geographical area to be a viable unit of disaggregation and would unnecessarily penalise millions.The other is contact tracing backed by mass testing, if any positive case is identified. In reality, hotspots, as a concept, have limitations and we should be looking for “hot” persons. Therefore, the use of Aarogya Setu, and the procurement of adequate testing kits, personal protective equipment, and ventilators (including from domestic sources) has to be stepped up by an order of magnitude. Contact tracing is not going to be easy with even Singapore failing to get 20% of its population enrolled. But India has no option.However, India’s imminent emergence from the lockdown will only be meaningful if the government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) adopt extraordinary and unorthodox policies. India should not worry about a one-time large fiscal deficit, and instead, carry out structural reforms in agriculture (open up markets, bring in forward trading) and industry (make acquiring land easier, encourage hiring, simplify taxation systems).Similarly, despite the RBI loosening up monetary policy, banks will not be able to step up lending because of existing high-levels of non-performing assets. Learning from the US Federal Reserve, which is directly buying below-investment level corporate bonds, the RBI, with the government, should create a public sector entity that can pick up part of the equity of micro, small and medium enterprises that are otherwise sound, deploying their capital to reduce their term loans. Once companies recover, the equity held can be sold and costs recovered, where feasible.The joint roll-out of the second and sixth options and the adoption of aggressive fiscal and monetary policies should enable India to ride out the worst of the pandemic, setting the stage for economic recovery later in the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-road-map-for-india-s-exit-from-the-lockdown-ht-analysis/story-tzGHsHFChVbcscjqtEBkhO.html
