05-06-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports another COVID-19 case; son of diagnosed patient tests positive||A 19-yearold man tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, taking the district tally to 28.District officials said the 19-year-old’s swab samples were taken for testing after his father was diagnosed with COVID-19. They both live in Panchkula’s Sector 12-A."The report of son (19) and wife (48) of the infected person from Sector 12A has been received. While the son is positive, wife's negative," Dr Rajiv Narwal, covid nodal officer for the district, said.The patient has now been moved to an isolation ward in the civil hospital in Sector 6.Panchkula has only two active cases now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-reports-another-covid-19-case-son-of-diagnosed-patient-tests-positive-95022
05-06-2020||New Delhi||Maximum temperatures hover below normal in Haryana, Punjab and Delhi||The maximum temperature in Haryana, Punjab and Delhi continued to hover below the normal limits on Friday.The national capital witnessed more rains on Saturday which kept the mercury several notches below normal, the weather department said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, which received rains in the evening, recorded a maximum temperature of 33.2 degrees Celsius, six notches below the normal, the meteorological department said.In Haryana, Ambala’s maximum settled at 33.2 degrees Celsius, six notches below the normal, while Karnal recorded a high of 33 degrees Celsius, six degrees below the season’s average.Hisar’s maximum settled at 37.1 degrees Celsius, five notches below the normal, while Narnaul registered a high of 34.8 degrees Celsius, eight notches below the normal.Amritsar in Punjab recorded the maximum temperature at 35.8 degrees Celsius, down five notches against normal limits.Ludhiana registered a maximum of 35.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees below the normal, while Patiala’s maximum settled at 34 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal limits, the MeT office said.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for Delhi, recorded 1.2 mm rainfall.The weather stations at Ayanagar and Lodhi Road gauged 21.7 mm and 0.6 mm precipitation.Winds gusting up to 50 kilometres per hour swept across the city.             Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department, said an active western disturbance affecting northwest India and moisture incursion due to Cyclone Nisarga led to rains.He also said the region is not likely to witness a heat wave till June 15.Cloudy weather and light rain is expected on the weekend too. The maximum temperature is expected to remain below the 40 degrees Celsius-mark till June 10, Srivastava said.Thereafter, moisture-laden easterly winds due to probable low pressure area in the Bay of Bengal will bring rains in Delhi-NCR on June 12 and June 13, he said.The MeT department said the minimum and maximum  temperatures will hover around 36 and 25 degrees Celsius in the city on Saturday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/maximum-temperatures-hover-below-normal-in-haryana-punjab-and-delhi-94994
05-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Staff crunch at PGIMS as 160 doctors, staffers quarantined||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 5The Rohtak PGIMS is facing an acute shortage of doctors, paramedics, technicians and other healthcare professionals with the number of sharply increasing COVID-19 patients. A number of doctors and other staffers have also been quarantined after performing their duties for a stipulated period or getting accidental exposure.As per official sources, as many as 160 healthcare providers, including doctors, nurses and members of the support staff at the PGIMS are under quarantine as of now.In all, nearly 400 staffers of the institute have remained quarantined after performing their duties for the stipulated period as a precautionary measure, while around 200 had to be quarantined following accidental exposure to date.“Yes, we are facing a staff crunch due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We have pooled our doctors who were earlier working in separate units to tide over the critical phase. The process to recruit doctors, research scientists, laboratory technicians and other staffers is also under way,” said Dr VK Katyal, head, Department of Medicine at PGIMS, and Nodal Officer for COVID-19, while talking to The Tribune on Friday.He pointed out that the testing of COVID samples was going on round the clock and more manpower was required to ensure that the testing process goes on smoothly in view of the increasing number of samples being received.“Dental surgeons from the PGIDS and the HCDS have been deployed for collecting samples and managing COVID-related administrative works at the PGIMS,” Dr Katyal maintained.It may be pertinent to mention here that as many as 11 staff members of the PGIMS, including a senior professor serving as the State Nodal Officer for COVID-19, have tested positive for COVID-19 in the recent days.“There are several instances in which the patients getting treatment for ailments unrelated to COVID-19 later test positive for it. Thus, the doctors, paramedics and members of the support staff, who have been taking care of them get exposed to COVID risk,” observed Dr Katyal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/staff-crunch-at-pgims-as-160-doctors-staffers-quarantined-94974
05-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Don’t ignore other ailments amid Covid pandemic, caution experts||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 5Medical experts have cautioned people against ignoring chronic ailments like diabetes, thyroid, heart, kidney and other diseases amidst the prevalence of Covid pandemic.“Many elderly people as well as patients suffering from chronic disorders have discontinued their morning and evening walks and missed the routine consultations with their doctors during the lockdown, which may have adverse implications,” points out Dr KS Khokhar, central representative and immediate past president of the Haryana chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA).He says that following the latest guidelines, OPD services at the government as well as private hospitals have resumed and patients should consult doctors while adhering to the social-distancing norms and other preventive measures.Dr Sameer Aggarwal, consultant endocrinologist and former professor at Rohtak PGIMS, advises the patients and people in general to continue their physical workouts and stay connected with their doctors through telemedicine (phone/video-calls, text messaging and WhatsApp, etc) in order to maintain good health and immunity in the Covid era.“Patients should do physical workout and take prescribed medicines on a regular basis in order to avoid having any health-related complications. They should also get their health parameters checked and share the test reports with their doctors through smartphones,” says Dr Aggarwal.Dr Varun Arora, the Public Relations Officer at the Rohtak PGIMS, meanwhile, informed that OPDs of different specialties and super-specialties were going on at the institute.“Patients should visit the OPDs if they have any pressing health concern,” said Dr Arora. He, however, insisted that patients should take all precautionary measures to avoid contracting Covid or any other infection.Rohtak Civil Surgeon Dr Anil Birla said apart from OPD services, mobile health vans were also touring different parts of the district to provide medical consultation and medicines at the doorstep of patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-ignore-other-ailments-amid-covid-pandemic-caution-experts-94965
05-06-2020||Hisar||Video of BJP leader Sonali Phogat beating up man in Hisar goes viral||A video of Bharatiya Janata Party leader Sonali Phogat beating up a member of Balsamand market secretary went viral on Friday, drawing criticism from opposition Congress.Balsamand is a village in Hisar district.The video, which Congress leader Randeep Surjewala shared on Twitter, shows Phogat---who, after shooting to fame on the back of her viral Tiktok videos, had unsuccessfully contested last year’s assembly elections from Adampur---beating up Market Committee Secretary Sultan Singh.She can be heard saying in the video, “Am I working to hear abuses from people like you? Do I not have the right to a dignified life. You (abusive work)…you have no right to live”, as she uses her slipper to hit Sultan Singh.Sources in the village said Phogat, accompanied by 5-6 of her associates, came to the grain market’s purchase centre and spoke to Singh about some issues they were facing. The sources said things got heated as the group made its way towards the purchase centre and soon they saw Phogat beating Singh.Phogat told police in her complaint that Singh used “indecent, derrogatory language” directed at her.However Zonal Marketing enforcement officer Saheb Ram said the assault appeared “pre-planned and seemed to be a political stunt".Sultan Singh said he noted down everything that Phogat had told. “She asked me to construct a shed and I have noted it down,” he said. Sources said Singh had also lodged a complaint with the police.Congress demands actionSurjewala shared a video of the incident and demanded to know what action Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar would take against Phogat.  “Exploits of the leaders of the Khattar government,” Surjewala’s tweet, which was in Hindi, said.“The BJP committee of Adampur, Hisar, is beating the market committee secretary like animals. Is it a crime to do a government job? Will Khattar Saheb take action? Will the media still remain silent?”   खट्टर सरकार के नेताओं के घटिया कारनामे!मार्किट कमेटी सचिव को जानवरों की तरह पीट रही हैं आदमपुर, हिसार की भाजपा नेत्री।क्या सरकारी नौकरी करना अब अपराध है?क्या खट्टर साहेब कार्यवाही करेंगे?क्या मीडिया अब भी चुप रहेगा? pic.twitter.com/2K1aHbFo5l||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/video-of-bjp-leader-sonali-phogat-beating-up-man-in-hisar-goes-viral-94949
05-06-2020||Bathinda||Haryana officials conduct sting operation at private hospital in Bathinda over sex determination test||A raid was conducted at Indrani Hospital, Bathinda, over a complaint on sex determination test on Friday.The raid was conducted by a health team of Sirsa, Haryana, along with the police and another health team from Bathinda Civil Hospital.After the officials received a complaint, a trap was set up, where a woman was sent in as a patient for the test.The raid is in progress, and officials are checking the records.Dr Rajesh Chowdhary, a health official from Sirsa, said: "Civil surgeon, Sirsa, got a complaint, that a gang is active in the region, which conducts sex determination test, after which a team was constituted and a trap was laid and the deal was fixed with an agent at Rs 42,000 and today agent took them to Indrani Hospital in Bathinda, where the doctor told them about sex after conducting the test".Dr Atin Gupta, the owner of Indrani Hospital, refuted the charges said that it was an attempt to "tarnish their image" as no such illegal test has been done in the hospital.Further, he claimed that on Friday morning he got a call from his hospital that police official from Haryana had come, after which he arrived and talked to the officials. The CCTV footage was also shown to the officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-officials-conduct-sting-operation-at-private-hospital-in-bathinda-over-sex-determination-test-94931
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 67 new cases, tally rises to 3,296||Haryana on Friday reported 67 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s case tally to 3,348.Palwal reported eight new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 99.Karnal reported seven fresh cases of the contagion, taking the total in the district to 81. The new cases include two men from Taraori and one each from Shiv Colony, Bhukhapuri village, Bhenikhurd village, Preetam Nagar and Banso Gate.Sonepat reported 52 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 313.On Thursday, for the fourth consecutive day, Haryana set a new record in the total number of cases in a day, recording 327 cases. Gurugram recorded 215, Faridabad (35), Rohtak (13) and Jhajjar (2) contributed 81 per cent of the cases today. Positive cases were also recorded from Bhiwani (12), Rewari (11), Hisar and Karnal (8 each), Palwal (7), Nuh (4), Mahendragarh and Kaithal (3 each), Fatehabad (2) and Ambala, Panipat, Jind and Sirsa (1 each).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-haryana-reports-67%C2%A0new-cases-tally-rises-to-3-296-94899
05-06-2020||Karnal||Juvenile kills self at place of safety||A 16-year-old inmate committed suicide at the place of safety at Madhuban in the district yesterday. He belonged to Bindroli village in Sonepat district.He hanged himself from a ceiling fan using a bedsheet, said Krishan Mann, Superintendent of the place of safety. The reason for the juvenile taking the extreme step was yet to be ascertained.The juvenile had been booked and arrested under Section 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and was brought here on June 1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/juvenile-kills-self-at-place-of-safety-94723
05-06-2020||Gurugram||27-yr-old held for rape in Gurugram||The police have nabbed a farm house gardener for allegedly raping the wife of the watchman of the same farm house located on Sohna road.The accused, identified as 27-year-old Lokesh, was produced in a city court today and sent to judicial custody. According to the complaint, the incident happened on Wednesday afternoon when the victim was alone in her room at the farm house.“The accused is a native of Barabanki in Bihar. He has confessed to the crime,” said inspector Kuldeep Singh, SHO of Badshahpur police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/27-yr-old-held-for-rape-in-gurugram-94724
05-06-2020||New Delhi||Supreme Court: Plan smooth NCR  movement||As lakhs of commuters face problems in crossing the Delhi borders adjoining Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram, Sonepat and Faridabad, the Supreme Court on Thursday asked the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to consider having a common pass system for the NCR for smooth inter-state movement.A Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan asked them to hold a meeting with the Centre’s help to explore the possibility of “one policy, one portal” for movement within the Delhi-NCR.It asked them to take a decision in a week after the Centre submitted that it was for the states concerned to decide on inter-state movement.The direction came on a petition by Gurugram resident Rohit Bhalla, highlighting the plight of commuters. He said the NCR should be considered as a single region and Delhi’s borders should be opened.Terming the Uttar Pradesh and Haryana decisions to restrict movement for permissible activities in the NCR through “blanket orders of sealing borders without reasonable exceptions” as illegal, he said it violated citizens’ rights.The top court asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to take instructions as to how to resolve the difficulties faced by commuters in the NCR due to restrictions on inter-state movement.The Bench said there was a recommendation for a common pass for the entire NCR region. The restrictions violated the MHA’s May 1 guidelines, which allowed traffic movement for permissible activities, Bhalla claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/supreme-court-plan-smooth-ncr-movement-94725
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Adopt case management: High Court to lower courts||In a judgment that could change the way cases are heard and decided, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the subordinate judiciary in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to adopt case management procedure.Proactive approachReferring to a plethora of Supreme Court judgments, Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi asserted: “It is the need of the hour that the court adopts sound methods of court and case management, including the method of verifying the presence of witnesses for the date of hearing fixed and accommodating them by giving further dates if so required by communication with them through some nodal officer of the court/office of the Public Prosecutor”.Dubbed as a proactive approach of processing legal matters, case management encompasses techniques and innovative ways to effectively manage cases and empowers the judges to cut down on unnecessary delays in hearing matters, including the ones involving life and liberty. It is aimed at enhancing public confidence in the justice delivery mechanism and improving access to justice through a collaborative effort of the judiciary, prosecution, counsel and law enforcement agencies.Elaborating upon the aspect, Justice Tyagi asserted that calling upon the prosecution or the accused under the provisions of the CrPC to admit or deny genuineness of documents might obviate the necessity of summoning witnesses to prove them in case of admission.Recording of evidence of formal character on affidavits may also ease the burden. Justice Tyagi asserted: “The court has to take steps for protection of the witness in case of their intimidation by the accused, reimbursement of the expenses incurred by them in attending court and prosecution of the witnesses turning hostile for illegal gratification.“The court must prepare at the time of framing of charges the schedule of dates for all stages in the criminal case in the similar manner as is to be done for civil suits under the direction of the Supreme Court...”Justice Tyagi also asked the subordinate judiciary to avoid giving liberal adjournments and give “block of dates” for evidence as directed by the Supreme Court in ‘Thana Singh versus Central Bureau of Narcotics’.The courts below were also asked to examine witnesses on consecutive dates and not to defer their cross-examination for long period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/adopt-case-management-high-court-to-lower-courts-94726
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Schools open for teachers in Haryana||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has accorded approval to a proposal regarding allowing the teachers of both government and private schools to attend school, essentially for non-teaching and administrative purposes.An official spokesman said the distribution of new books would also start in the first week of June. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schools-open-for-teachers-in-haryana-94727
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mahendragarh district may be renamed Narnaul||After changing the names of Gurugram and Nuh districts, Haryana is contemplating renaming Mahendragarh as Narnaul district and carving out two more districts in the state.Sources said a reconstituted committee for reorganisation, chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, met earlier this week and deliberated on the change of name of the district and the creation of new districts.According to information available, the committee is considering Hansi, Gohana and Assandh for the creation of new districts. Two out of the three are likely to get the nod.However, the change of name of Mahendragarh to Narnaul, where its headquarters are located, is being opposed by locals. Congress MLA from Mahendragarh Rao Dan Singh said the government should drop the idea of change of name of the district since it had “heritage status”. “Mahendragarh district existed even in undivided Punjab, before Haryana was carved out. We want the name to remain unchanged. The government can consider making Narnaul a new district while retaining district status for Mahendragarh. We will be happy in case Narnaul is a new district,” he said.The MLA pointed out that 145 villages were needed to create a district and Mahendragarh had 370 villages, which could easily be divided into two. He suggested that Ateli and Nangal Chaudhry could be included in Narnaul while Satnali and Kanina in Mahendragarh.“I have spoken to the committee chairman and apprised him of the local sentiment. He assured me that our point of view would be taken into consideration and no decision had been taken so far. We are hopeful of being heard,” he said.Two other ministers are part of the committee, which has held its first meeting and the next meeting is likely soon. Sources said the creation of new tehsils and subdivisions was being considered by the committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mahendragarh-district-may-be-renamed-narnaul-94728
05-06-2020||Karnal||Waiters jobless, wander in search of work||Thirtyfive-year-old Rahul Kumar, a resident of Basant Vihar, working as a waiter in a Sector 12 restaurant, has been rendered jobless due to the lockdown.He goes from one door to another to get a job of any kind for the survival of his family of three, but it seems destiny has shut all doors for him, owing to the slowdown due to the Covid-induced lockdown. “I have been sitting idle since March 21, the day of ‘Janata Curfew’. I have no job as my employer dismissed me by giving 20-day salary in March,” Rahul said.“I have been struggling to earn a livelihood. I go to a photostat shop daily, where advertisements for jobs are displayed on the notice board,” he added.Like Rahul, 40-year-old Rajesh of the same colony has become jobless in the lockdown. He was a waiter at a dhaba on the National Highway 44, but is without a job and has been going from pillar to post looking for work.“I can do any work to arrange food for my family of four. I visit 10-15 places daily, but to no avail. I live in a rented accommodation and my landlord has asked me to vacate the building from June,” Rajesh said. “I have yet to purchase books for my daughter and son. We have even been forced to borrow food from our neighbours,” he added.As per sources associated with banquet, marriage palaces, hotels, restaurants and dhabas, there are around 4,500 waiters in the district and most of them either have become jobless or are going to be due to the ongoing crisis. They have the same story to narrate.Twentythree-year-old Arman, who resides in a rented room in Model Town, also became jobless as the restaurant owner quit his business. The restaurant owner, who quit the business, said it was very difficult to meet the daily expenses in the lockdown.“In the lockdown, my restaurant owner winded up the business due to which I along with two others have lost our jobs. We came from Bihar around two years back, but now we have no job and are struggling for a livelihood,” Arman stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waiters-jobless-wander-in-search-of-work-94729
05-06-2020||Gurugram||Sarpanch booked for attacking cops||A village sarpanch and his acquaintances have been booked for allegedly attacking a police team late last night.They also tried to run their car over a policeman and later held him hostage. They left two more policemen injured and their PCR van damaged. The incident was reported from near Berka village where the sarpanch is allegedly trying to grab some land. On Wednesday, the guard at the site called the police claiming the sarpanch was trying to grab the land.A four-member police team reached the spot. The sarpanch and others allegedly attacked the police team.Two policemen were injured but they somehow managed to flee. Then, the accused caught hold of head constable Harbir.“First, the sarpanch and his men tried to crush me under their car. After that, I was held hostage in a room,” head constable Harbir said in his complaint. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sarpanch-booked-for-attacking-cops-94730
05-06-2020||Hisar||Produce under-weighed, allege farmers in Hisar||Farmers bringing the black gram crop have accused procurement agencies of cheating while weighing their produce. Vinod Kumar of Kharia village got his bags reweighed after procurement.He reportedly found that a bag supposed to weigh 50 kg weighed 55.5 kg during reweighing. He lodged a complaint with the district administration and police.Vinod had brought about seven quintals. After procurement, he was told that his produce weighed 6.5 quintals. He said he got suspicious as he had got his produce weighed before entering the grain market.Other farmers got their procured produce reweighed and found a similar discrepancy. They said they were being cheated by arhtiyas, who were hand in glove with procurement officials.Ramesh Kumar of Chaudhariwali village said his produce was rejected by Hafed officials. He alleged that had to pay Rs 300 per quintal as bribe to get his produce cleared for procurement.“After my produce was rejected, a person approached me with the offer. I accepted it as I had no other option,” he said. Kisan Sabha activists raised slogans and demanded action against officials and arhtiyas.Mahavir Jangra, chairperson of the market committee, said corrupt elements were duping farmers during procurement. “I will take up the issue with the Chief Minister,” he said.Hisar City SHO Vinod Kumar said he had received the complaint of a farmer and would take action as per the law. The district administration directed SDM Rajender Singh to probe the incident.Under the price protection scheme, Hafed had been procuring the black gram produce from farmers at the rate of Rs 4,875 per quintal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/produce-under-weighed-allege-farmers-in-hisar-94731
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Another record, tally crosses 3K in Haryana||For the fourth consecutive day, Haryana set a new record in the total number of cases in a day, recording 327 cases today.State nodal officer for Covid Dr Dhruv Chaudhary and his daughter, also a doctor, tested positive today. Dr Chaudhary is based in Rohtak.Dr VK Katyal, head of the department of medicine at the Rohtak PGIMS, was given charge as the state nodal officer for Covid.On June 1, the state recorded 265 cases, which was the highest figure till then. On June 2, 296 cases were registered. On June 3, 302 cases were reported.Since June 1, when Unlock 1.0 began, the state had reported 1,190 cases, which was 36.3 per cent of the total cases recorded so far — 3,281.Gurugram (215), Faridabad (35), Rohtak (13) and Jhajjar (2) contributed 81 per cent of the cases today. Positive cases were also recorded from Bhiwani (12), Rewari (11), Hisar and Karnal (8 each), Palwal (7), Nuh (4), Mahendragarh and Kaithal (3 each), Fatehabad (2) and Ambala, Panipat, Jind and Sirsa (1 each).A 61-year-old man who was suffering from kidney ailment succumbed to the viral disease at the PGIMS in Rohtak. He was from Jind. This was the 24th death in the state. Two deaths were reported today, one each from Faridabad and Karnal, but were yet to be included in the state bulletin.A 65-year-old man hailing from Adarsh Colony in Faridabad was suffering from co-morbidities like pulmonary tuberculosis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Health officials said he died in hospital on Wednesday night.A 49-year-old man of Karan Vihar in Karnal was brought to Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College on Wednesday evening with stomach and lung infection. He died during treatment. His sample was taken, which turned out to be positive.The fresh cases in Faridabad included those from Sanjay Colony (4), Sector 82 and Surajkund (3 each) and Basanpur, Mahavir Colony and Adarsh Nagar (2 each).An elderly man from Bhuravaas village and a 10-year-old girl from Madana village in Jhajjar tested positive. The elderly man was getting treatment from a Gurugram hospital while the girl had gone to Rohtak recently.Three persons were found positive in Mahendragarh villages. In Rewari, an ambulance driver, a theft accused and an employee of a pharmaceutical company were among the 11 confirmed Covid cases.In Kaithal, a runaway couple living in a safe house tested positive. In Panipat, a woman who had come from Delhi by train and a 24-year-old woman of Katal village confirmed for the infection. Three of the 12 fresh cases in Bhiwani are undertrials.Meanwhile, 34 patients got cured in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of recoveries to 1,123. However, nine patients are on oxygen support and three on ventilator. Yamunanagar is Covid-free again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/another-record-tally-crosses-3k-in-haryana-94732
05-06-2020||Rohtak||Found dead in toilet, Covid victim’s autopsy done after 2 days||The postmortem of a 39-year-old Covid patient was performed by a board of doctors at the PGIMS here on Thursday, two days after he died at an isolation centre in Charkhi Dadri.The patient who worked at a private Gurugram firm was found dead in a bathroom of the isolation centre on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The body was brought to the PGIMS on Wednesday afternoon.Body kept in ambulance for 24 hrsThe victim was found dead in the bathroom of an isolation centre in Charkhi Dadri on the intervening night of Monday and TuesdayThe body was brought to the PGIMS, Rohtak, on Wednesday afternoon. It remained in ambulance for 24 hours as cops from Dadri did not come to complete paperwork till Thursday evening“The body remained in the ambulance for 24 hours. Doctors at the PGIMS were ready to conduct the autopsy, but policemen from Dadri came this evening to complete the paperwork,” said Krishan Phogat, cousin of the deceased. Phogat maintained they had filed a police complaint against the doctors on duty of “negligence”, but to no avail.Dr Manju, Civil Surgeon, Dadri, said postmortem of Covid patients was generally not performed, but in this case the autopsy had been recommended to find out the exact cause of death.Sources said Charkhi Dadri DC Shri Prasad Sharma had issued the orders for the postmortem by the PGIMS and deputed Tehsildar Ajay Kumar as duty magistrate for the cremation of the deceased. Kumar said the delay happened due to a technical reason. The exact cause of death would be ascertained tomorrow, said Dr SK Dhattarwal, Head of Forensic Department, PGIMS.Meanwhile, a video showing a youth at the centre alleging negligence has gone viral. “A Covid patient was lying in the washroom. I informed the staff but no doctor came,” he is heard saying.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/found-dead-in-toilet-covid-victims-autopsy-done-after-2-days-94561
05-06-2020||Karnal||Distress coupons given to affluent, allege Karnal BJP councillors||BJP councillors of the Karnal Municipal Corporation have alleged that more than 1,000 distress ration coupons have been issued to well-to-do families while the needy have been denied the benefit. They blame some BJP leaders for it.The councillors say some of the affluent beneficiaries are government employees and ex-servicemen. They want the CM to order an inquiry.The government had started a scheme to provide ration to the needy. The authorities distributed 23,000 coupons. Of these, the BJP councillors alleged, over 1,000 coupons were issued to affluent people. Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC, promised action after holding an inquiry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/distress-coupons-given-to-affluent-allege-karnal-bjp-councillors-94562
