09-06-2020||Ambala||Haryana minister Anil Vij suffers thigh bone fracture after slipping in bathroom||Haryana’s Home Minister Anil Vij fractured his left thigh bone when he slipped in the bathroom of his Ambala Cantonment residence while taking a bath on Tuesday.Vij (67), who also holds the health and urban local bodies portfolios in the state, was initially taken to a private hospital in Ambala Cantonment, where a team of senior doctors examined him.Later, he was taken to a private hospital in Mohali, where he will undergo a surgery on Thursday.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and state Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta visited the Mohali hospital and enquired about Vij’s health.The minister is admitted in a private ward of the hospital.Earlier, Vij was taken to a private hospital in Ambala. Dr Prabhakar Sharma, who attended to the senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, said an X-ray revealed that the fracture was a major one and may require surgery.Ambala Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma and Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh also reached the hospital when the minister was being examined.According to sources, after attending to the people who had come to meet him at his residence in the morning, the six-time MLA from Ambala Cantonment went to the bathroom on the first floor of the house, where he slipped and fell down.He was rushed to the hospital in an ambulance.A number of BJP workers reached the minister’s residence as soon as they got to know about the incident.This was the second such incident involving Vij in the recent past. A few months ago, the minister had slipped in the bathroom and sustained minor injuries on the chest. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-minister-anil-vij-suffers-thigh-bone-fracture-after-slipping-in-bathroom-96792
09-06-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram cops crack down on bikers performing stunts on highways, impound 19 high-end motorcycles||Gurugram, June 9Cracking down on illegal superbike racing and stunts in Gurugram, the local police on Tuesday impounded 19 high-end motorcycles and challaned bikers for Rs 17,000 each. Among the impounded bikes are the likes of Hayabusa, Harley Davidson, Ninja and Kawasaki Ducati, costing an average Rs 8 lakh each.According to the police, a Delhi-based biker group came to Gold Course Road for racing and stunts on Tuesday. The bikers not only drove around rashly but also created panic and ruckus on the roads during peak office hours, said a police official. A call was made to the police and a team headed by DCP (east and traffic) Chander Mohan reached the spot. The bikers were apprehended and challaned  for rash driving as per the Motor Vehicle Act.   The bikers were all around  30, residents of Delhi and belonged to high-profile Delhi business families. "We have been facing a major issue with brats on bike. Be it expressway or KMP or Golf Course Road, these bikers from NCR come for illegal betting and racing. There have been numerous accidents in the past. The vehicles have been impounded as per norms," said a senior traffic official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-cops-crack-down-on-bikers-performing-stunts-on-highways-impound-19-high-end-motorcycles-96785
09-06-2020||---||Woman, daughter burnt to death; husband arrested||Rohtak, June 9A 22-year-old woman, Manju, and her 3-year-old daughter were burnt to death, while Manju’s 2-year-old daughter sustained burn injuries at their home in Salara Mohalla of Rohtak on Monday night.The police have registered a case against Manju’s husband Rajesh, his sister Kiran and brother-in-law Ashok under Sections 302, 304-B, 323, 34 and 436 of the IPC on the basis of a complaint lodged by Manju’s father Mahender.SHO (Old Sabzi Mandi) Kuldeep Singh said Rajesh had been arrested.The complainant has alleged that Rajesh had burnt Manju and her daughter Bharti to death, set their room on fire and ran away leaving Manju’s younger daughter Rafika in an injured condition.“He used to threaten to kill my daughter,” said Manju’s father Mahender in the complaint lodged with the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-daughter-burnt-to-death-husband-arrested-96777
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||'Candy Baba', accused of Rs 100 crore fraud, arrested in Haryana||Haryana Police on Tuesday arrested Kurukshetra's 'Candy Baba', who is accused of cheating people by 'black magic'.Candy Baba, alias Rajesh, had established his 'dera' in the state by defrauding his devotees. He was on the run for one year. He allegedly cheated his devotees on the pretext of doubling their money in no time.He was arrested from Faridabad.As per the police, he had duped people of nearly Rs 100 crore by offering them candies as 'parsad'.Thirty-first information reports (FIRs) have been registered against him.He was produced in a local court that sent him to 10 days' police remand. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/candy-baba-accused-of-rs-100-crore-fraud-arrested-in-haryana-96764
09-06-2020||Ravinder Saini||Chancellor terms relieving of Haryana University Registrar ‘unjustified’||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, June 9In a significant development, Chancellor of the Central University of Haryana, Purushottam Chaturvedi, has termed the relieving of Registrar Ram Dutt from his post as “unjustified” and urged Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank to take cognisance of the issue.  On May 15, Dutt had given one-and-half month resignation notice to Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad, requesting him to relieve him on June 30. However, the VC after accepting the resignation relieved the Registrar on May 19.Dutt objected the move, describing it in violation of rules and demanded withdrawal of his relieving order.“As per rules of voluntary retirement, Ram Dutt cannot be relieved before July 1. As per verdicts of various courts and customs, the applicant (Ram Dutt) has the option to withdraw the VRS letter any time before June 30. Hence the relieving of Ram Dutt on May 19 does not seem to be justified,” Chaturvedi wrote in his letter to the HRD Minister.  “As per the appointment letter, the tenure of Kuhad as VC of the Central University of Haryana ended on April 15,” Chaturvedi pointed out in the letter and added that Kuhad was working as acting VC as per the standing orders of the HRD Ministry. “He has no statutory power.”  The Chancellor, in his letter, also mentioned bitter relationship between the VC and teachers while referring to show-cause notices issued to several teachers by the university authorities for their unavailability at their departments during surprise inspections and the letter written by the Central University of Haryana Teachers’ Association against the notices.Chaturvedi has also sent a copy of the letter to former Education Minister Ram Bilas Sharma, who is also from Mahendragarh.“On receiving the letter from the Chancellor, I talked to the HRD Minister who has assured me of taking appropriate action into the matter soon,” said Sharma, adding that Kuhad while working as acting VC had no Constitutional power to relieve Registrar Ram Dutt before the date of his voluntary retirement.Meanwhile, Kuhad said Dutt was relieved in accordance with the rules. “He himself put in the papers, hence there was nothing wrong in relieving him of his duties,” he said.When contacted, the Chancellor refused to comment on the issue.Notably, Ram Dutt had cited health/family reasons for his resignation but his differences with the VC are believed to be the reason behind the development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chancellor-terms-relieving-of-haryana-university-registrar-unjustified-96745
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||In a major reshuffle, 18 IAS, 7 HCS officers transferred in Haryana||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Haryana government on Tuesday issued transfer and posting orders of 18 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and seven Haryana Civil Services (HCS) officers with immediate effect.Among the IAS officers who have been shuffled include Amneet P Kumar, Director General, Secondary Education and Secretary, School Education Department, who has been posted as Director General, Medical Education & Research, an official statement said here.Sumedha Kataria, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Panchkula has been posted as Chief Administrator, Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board.J Ganesan, Chief Administrator, Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board has been posted as Director, Secondary Education and Secretary School Education Department.Dusmanta Kumar Behera, Director, Medical Education & Research, and Special Secretary, Medical Education & Research Department has been posted as Managing Director, HAFED.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, Karnal and Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, has also been given charge of Chief Executive Officer, Karnal Smart City Ltd., Karnal.Jagdish Sharma, Deputy Commissioner, Mahendragarh has been posted as Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Sonipat.Rahul Hooda, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Rewari has been posted as Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Karnal.Among the HCS officers who have been shuffled include Dinesh Singh Yadav, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Sonipat, who has been posted as Additional Director (Administration) Higher Education, Haryana.Vivek Padam Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Hisar has been posted as Additional Director (Administration), Social Justice and Empowerment. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-a-major-reshuffle-18-ias-7-hcs-officers-transferred-in-haryana-96739
09-06-2020||New Delhi||Coronavirus: Centre sends teams to four municipalities in Haryana among 50 nationwide||As COVID-19 cases reach for a peak with record daily spikes in infections, the government on Tuesday deployed central teams in the 50 most affected municipalities of India that are contributing more than half the national burden of disease.The teams were deployed after a decision was taken to ramp up containment, testing and tracing efforts at a meeting of the group of ministers chaired by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar joined the meeting virtually.The Ministry of Health latest said it has deployed high level multi-disciplinary teams to 15 states/UTs with more than 50 districts/municipal bodies that are witnessing high case load and high spurt of cases to assist the State Governments by providing technical support for containment and facilitate management of COVID-19 outbreak.These states/UTs are: Maharashtra (7 districts/municipalities), Telangana (4), Tamil Nadu (7), Rajasthan (5), Assam (6), Haryana (4), Gujarat (3), Karnataka (4), Uttarakhand (3), Madhya Pradesh (5), West Bengal(3), Delhi (3), Bihar (4), Uttar Pradesh (4), and Odisha (5).Four Haryana municipalities where Central teams have been stationed for COVID management are Gurugram, Faridabad, Panipat and Jind.The three-member teams consist of two public health experts/epidemiologists/clinician and a senior Joint Secretary level nodal officer for administrative handholding and improving governance.“These teams are working in the field and visiting health care facilities to support the State health department in implementation of containment measures and efficient treatment/clinical management of cases within the districts/cities,” said ministry.The government has asked the affected districts/municipalities to regularly remain in touch with central teams which are already coordinating with the states.The deployment comes as India’s COVID-19 cases reached 2,66,598 with 9,987 new cases reported on Tuesday, 12,9214 recoveries and 7,466 deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-centre-sends-teams-to-four-municipalities-in-haryana-among-50-nationwide-96726
09-06-2020||---||3 of Sector 21 family among 9 tested coronavirus positive in Panchkula||Panchkula, June 9Nine new cases of coronavirus positive surfaced in Panchkula district on Tuesday taking the tally to 44.According to authorities, two cases were reported on Monday night, while nine cases were confirmed on Tuesday morning.Four cases have been reported from Kalka, one each from Sector 17 and Sector 6, while three cases from a family were reported from Sector 21.The wife of the lawyer, a resident of Army society in Sector 20, who had tested positive after returning from Delhi, has also tested positive.Sector 12-A’s 46-year-old resident had come in contact with a coronavirus-affected person from Dhakoli in Zirakpur.All of them have been admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. Their family members have been home-quarantined.Health teams have started tracing the contacts of the affected people.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja announced Sector 20’s Army society, Friends Colony in Kalka and Abdulpur as containment zones while the adjoining areas have been declared buffer zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-of-sector-21-family-among-9-tested-coronavirus-positive-in-panchkula-96691
09-06-2020||Karnal/Palwal||14 new coronavirus cases take Haryana tally to 2,863||Haryana reported 14 new coronavirus cases since Monday night, officials said on Tuesday---developments that take the state's COVID-19 tally to 4,868 infections.This figure is likely to rise as the day progresses and more districts report infections.Karnal reported three COVID-19 cases---a 35-year-old man from Nigdhu village, a 48-year-old man from Kalandari Gate and a 55-year-old man from Bajida.Six people tested positive in Palwal, taking the district tally to 133.Five people tested positive in Yamunanagar, taking the district's COVID-19 to 25.Haryana reported 11 COVID-19 deaths and 406 new cases on Monday as infection tally continues to peak in the state. Haryana’s death toll now stands at 39.The central government despatched a team to four municpalities in Haryana as India braces itself for a COVID-19 peak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/14-new-coronavirus-cases-take-haryana-tally-to-2-863-96683
09-06-2020||Karnal||Burglary in Covid patients’ house causes alarm in Karnal||Burglars last night broke into a house whose all five family members were in hospital after having tested positive for Covid-19. Now, the police have to trace the burglars not only to retrieve the stolen valuables, including gold ornaments and a TV set, but also to ascertain if they too have been infected.An angry relative said the administration and the police had failed to effectively seal the infected area. “Only barricades were raised in front of the house. No police personnel was stationed there.The entire lane should have been declared a ‘containment zone’ and security deployed there,” he said.Ward councillor Megha Bhandari too accused the police of negligence. “In the absence of adequate security at their homes, people will stop venturing out for testing,” she warned.The Sector 4 police station incharge denied the charge, claiming that a police team patrolled the area during the night. “The police have registered a case and efforts are on to nab the burglars,” Surinder Singh Bhoria, Superintendent of Police, said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/burglary-in-covid-patients-house-causes-alarm-in-karnal-96494
09-06-2020||---||Karnal gym owners, trainers stage protest||Karnal, June 8Gym owners and trainers protested here today against the ban on reopening gyms though most business establishments were permitted to restart operations.They demanded reopening of gyms and said they would ensure safety protocols. They demanded a financial package if they were not allowed to resume operations.“Gyms and fitness centres were the first to be closed, but were not allowed to restart operations. The government is allowing liquor shops to open, but not gyms,” said Pawan, a gym trainer.“We will ensure thermal screening of customers and sanitise the premises regularly,” said Sonu, a gym owner. He said they would follow all instructions, including allowing only five persons at a time.“We have to pay exorbitant rent for gyms and several trainers have become jobless. I request the government to allow reopening gyms or provide a relief package,” said Sheru, another gym trainer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-gym-owners-trainers-stage-protest-96410
09-06-2020||---||SCW starts investigation into Sonali’s complaint||Hisar, June 8State Commission for Women (SCW) chairperson Pratibha Suman today started investigation into the complaint by BJP leader Sonali Phogat against market committee secretary Sultan Singh of indecent language and misbehaviour during her visit to the purchase centre in Balsamand on Friday.The SCW chairperson said Sonali had submitted an audio, which indicated that the MC secretary used indecent language for women in politics. The matter was under investigation and they were collecting evidence further, she said.Suman said a person who made vulgar and indecent comments about women would be thrashed every time and such behaviour would not be tolerated. She said the audio clip was with Sonali and she would urge the Hisar SP to listen to it during the course of investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scw-starts-investigation-into-sonalis-complaint-96411
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Congress ex-MLA joins INLD||Naresh Sharma, a former Congress MLA, today joined the INLD in the presence of Ellenabad constituency MLA Abhay Chautala.  Sharma, a two-time MLA from Badli, said his father and grandfather were followers of Devi Lal and joining the INLD was homecoming for him. Chautala appointed Naresh Sharma as the state spokesperson of the party. Shiv Sena Haryana Youth president Naveen Dalal, who has contested from the Bahadurgarh Assembly, joined the INLD along with his supporters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-ex-mla-joins-inld-96412
09-06-2020||---||Vendors protest odd-even system, dump veggies in Jhajjar||Jhajjar, June 8 Retail vendors dumped vegetables on the road here on Monday in protest against the odd-even system for opening of shops imposed in view of the Covid pandemic. “Vegetable sellers are on the brink of starvation following the odd-even system. As vegetables perish within a day or two in summer, we cannot store them for long. The government should allow all vegetable shops to remain open all days,” said Surender Kumar, president, Retail Vegetable Sellers’ Association. He added that when the authorities could allow other shops to open every day, why not vegetable shops. Naveen, another vegetable vendor, said only those sellers having a pass issued by the Jhajjar Marketing Committee were allowed to enter the vegetable market. “The demand for vegetables has shrunk because of low footfall to the vegetable market. The protest was organised to attract the attention of the district administration towards our plight,” he added.  On getting information about the protest, Jhajjar SDM Shikha reached the spot and persuaded the protesters to call off the protest. She assured them of taking up their demand with the higher authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vendors-protest-odd-even-system-dump-veggies-in-jhajjar-96413
09-06-2020||---||Science exam pending, Class X result postponed by Board of School Education Haryana||Hisar, June 8Need not sit for paperThe science exam will not be mandatory for all Class X studentsOnly those willing to opt for medical or non-medical stream in Class XI will have to pass the paperThe rest of the students will be exempted from giving the examThe Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH), Bhiwani, has held back the result of Class X examinations, which was to be declared today. Now, the result will be declared after the science exam, which could not be conducted because of the Covid-induced lockdown.Jagbir Singh, BSEH chairperson, said the board decided to postpone the announcement of the result on the instructions from the Education Department.The date for the science exam has not been announced yet.Whenever it is conducted, it will not be mandatory for all Class X students to sit for the exam. Only those who want to opt for medical or non-medical stream in Class XI or take up science courses will have to pass the science exam. The board has sought lists of such students from all schools. The rest of the students will be exempted from giving the exam.“The result of the rest of the students will be prepared on the basis of four papers (which they have already given). The marks for the fifth and the sixth papers will be assessed on the basis of their average marks in four papers,” Singh said.The Haryana School Lecturers’ Association has termed the BSEH’s decision impractical.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/science-exam-pending-class-x-result-postponed-by-board-of-school-education-haryana-96414
09-06-2020||---||Power tariff hike ruled out in Haryana||Chandigarh, June 8The Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) on Monday ruled out any increase in the power tariff in the state. The power bill of domestic consumers consuming up to 800 units per month is however set to be lower by about 10 per cent.The HERC, in its order on annual revenue requirement (ARR) of the power discoms for the year 2020-21 has provided relief to agro industry effecting nearly Rs2 per unit reduction in power tariff.The order, issued by Chairman Deepinder Singh Dhesi and members Pravindra Singh Chauhan and Naresh Sardana, will be effective from June 1.“The subsidy of the state government and the reduction in the applicable tariff from Rs4.50 to Rs2.50 per unit by the HERC for 0-150 unit category will have a telescopic impact on consumers consuming up to 800 units,” the order said.According to sources, with 42 per unit reduction in tariff in this category (0-150 units), a 10 per cent overall reduction in the electricity is expected for domestic consumers. Now, for domestic consumers, the lowest tariff will be Rs2 per unit for consumers consuming up to 50 units.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/power-tariff-hike-ruled-out-in-haryana-96415
09-06-2020||---||SC junks PIL against use of Hindi in subordinate courts of Haryana||New Delhi, June 8The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a petition challenging the Haryana Government’s decision to enforce the use of Hindi in all subordinate courts and tribunals across the state.‘80% don’t understand English’There is nothing wrong in Hindi as the official language of subordinate courts in some states. Eighty per cent of people do not understand court proceedings in English. — Bench“There is nothing wrong in Hindi as the official language of subordinate courts in some states. Eighty per cent of people do not understand court proceedings in English,” a Bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said, while asking the petitioners to approach the Punjab and Haryana High Court.During the British rule, for recording of evidence, the language used in subordinate courts was the vernacular language, the CJI said, adding that Hindi was being used in Madhya Pradesh, where he had served as Chief Justice of the High Court.Petitioner Sameer Jain contended, “We practise in courts of the Delhi-NCR and making Hindi mandatory will make it difficult for us to argue cases.” Jain said he was not against Hindi, but making it mandatory would make things difficult for lawyers who argued their cases in English.The CJI clarified that English be used with the permission of the court. Initially, the top court was ready to issue a notice to the state government on the petition.However, it changed its mind and asked the petitioners to go to the High Court after Haryana Additional Advocate General Arun Bhardwaj pointed out that the law under challenge was a state law and it would be better if the Punjab and Haryana High Court dealt with it.Five lawyers had challenged the validity of the Haryana Official Language (Amendment) Act, terming it “arbitrary” on the grounds that it created an unreasonable classification between Hindi and non-Hindi speaking advocates.They contended that the amendment was with the assumption that everyone practising law in Haryana not only knew Hindi, but was also fluent in it. To say that imposition of Hindi was for people of the state and necessary to get justice was “wholly irrational”, they added.Contending that the amendment precluded the use of English, which was used widely to conduct legal proceedings, the petitioners said, “This has impinged upon the right to freely practise the legal profession and earn a livelihood, as guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution.”They said imposition of Hindi was not fit for the state as it was an industrial hub and home to multi-national companies, where people from every strata of society resided, a majority of whom were not fluent in Hindi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-junks-pil-against-use-of-hindi-in-subordinate-courts-of-haryana-96416
09-06-2020||Saurabh Malik---||Court upholds use of biometrics for essential items in Haryana||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 8 “There is a lot of improvement in the situation as far as the pandemic is concerned,” the High Court has asserted, while making it clear that “life has to move forward”. The observations came as the HC upheld Haryana’s decision to reintroduce biometrics authentication for distributing essential commodities, including ration. The Bench asserted that discontinuing biometrics authentication was one of the precautionary steps taken in March, when the pandemic threat was at its highest. Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi asserted: “The facts go to show that the threat is not at the same level now as it was in March, when the decision was taken to stop use of biometrics authentication for the distribution of essential commodities, including ration.” Justice Sethi noted that the petitioners’ plea was required to be examined in the present scenario, which was different compared to March. Justice Sethi observed that policy decisions, in view of the prevalent situation, were to be taken by the government and the court’s role under Article 226 was limited. Justice Sethi asserted that judicial interference was only called for when policy decisions were without jurisdiction or contrary to public policy. Justice Sethi stated that the decision was taken in larger interest and with particular motive to eliminate the chances of misappropriation and ensure the reaching of essential supplies and ration to those entitled. Holding that the decision could not be dubbed as “arbitrary or illegal in any manner”, Justice Sethi observed  that apprehension could be taken care by undertaking essential precautions while using biometrics. “No interference is called for by this court. No ground is made out. Dismissed,” Justice Sethi concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-upholds-use-of-biometrics-for-essential-items-in-haryana-96417
09-06-2020||---||49,000 farmers agree to give up paddy cultivation||Chandigarh, June 8‘Mera Paani, Meri Virasat’In response to the Haryana Government’s efforts to decrease acreage of paddy in view of the depleting water table, 49,674 farmers have agreed to sow alternative crops like maize, bajra, cotton and pulses on 54,881 hectares.Of these, 6,838 farmers with 6,934 hectares are from the eight blocks where the water table has gone below 40 metres. “The figure is likely to go up to 60,000 hectares by the time sowing begins,” said Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare.The scheme launched by the government this year had three components. The first component was for eight blocks, where the water table had dropped to 40 metres or more.Paddy is grown on 1,79,951 hectares in these blocks. The government had a target of persuading farmers to diversify at least 50 per cent of this land.The second component was for 12 blocks, where the water table had fallen below 35 metres. Here, sowing of paddy was not allowed on panchayat land. This is spread over 7,200 hectares. The third component of the scheme was for the rest of the state.Under the scheme, paddy farmers diversifying to other crops were to get cash incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre, free seeds, government procurement of alternative crops, 85 per cent subsidy for installation of drip irrigation and payment of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana premium by the government.The state government had assigned the eight blocks with poor water table to as many director-level IAS officers for the success of the scheme. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had been touring these blocks to interact with farmers.Among the eight blocks where the water table had gone down to more than 40 metres, the scheme evoked the best response in Sirsa, where 3,366 farmers had agreed to diversify on 3,853 hectares. The poorest response was in Siwan block of Kaithal, where merely 137 farmers agreed to diversify on 178 hectares.In the rest of Haryana, the best response was in Jind, where 5,147 farmers with 6,846 hectares gave their consent to diversify. In Mahendragarh, only 57 farmers with 59 hectares opted for the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/49-000-farmers-agree-to-give-up-paddy-cultivation-96418
09-06-2020||---||Dabwali MLA urgess CM to make mandi functional||Hisar, June 8Dabwali MLA Amit Sihag took up the long pending demand of a new vegetable market at Dabwali in Sirsa district with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.The Congress MLA called upon the CM, requesting him to get the new vegetable mandi started by allocating shops to the vegetable merchants at the earliest. The legislator also highlighted the point that the market was inaugurated two years ago.However, due to non-allotment of shops, the market was yet to become functional. On being asked by the CM about the reason because of which the shops were yet to be allotted, Sihag said while the vegetable merchants have been requesting to allot the shops on reserve price, the marketing board has been in favour of auctioning. Due to a lack of consensus, the matter has been lying in abeyance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dabwali-mla-urgess-cm-to-make-mandi-functional-96419
09-06-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Human rights body serves notice on HSVP, Gurugram MC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 8‘Cremation ground in residential area’The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has issued a notice to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram and the Chief Administrator, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) for submitting a report on the status of a cremation ground operating illegally from within a residential area in Gurugram.The directions were issued by Justice KC Puri, a member of the Haryana Human Rights Commission, following a complaint received by the commission. The complainants, residents of Sector 28, Gurugram, had maintained that the illegal cremation ground was operating despite court orders for its shifting.The complainant alleged that three plots were allotted by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran to individual allottees but the same were being used as a cremation ground. The residents of the locality, through the Residents’ Welfare Association, approached the High Court. The court, in its order on January 23, 2013, directed the administration to shift the cremation ground, which was illegally operative on the three plots.The complaint said despite the court order, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram and the HSVP did not implement the order and said the ground was a health hazard for the residents.Stating that though some steps were initiated to shift the ground to a new location, the complainant alleged “lack of will of authorities”.The Haryana Human Rights Commission, taking cognisance of the report, issued a notice to the municipal corporation and the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran to submit a report within six weeks of the direction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/human-rights-body-serves-notice-on-hsvp-gurugram-mc-96420
09-06-2020||---||Spurious soft drink case under SIT lens||Panipat, June 8 A special investigation team (SIT) has been set up to probe the manufacturing of spurious soft drinks at a factory here. The SIT raided three godowns in Kurukshetra today and recovered 289 cartons of the spurious soft drink. Superintendent of Police (SP) Manisha Chaudhary said the SIT, comprising Inspectors Yogesh Kataria and Anil Chhillar and Sub-Inspectors Satpal and Hari Singh, would inquire the case under the supervision of Satish Vats, DSP (Headquarters). She said the team would probe the supply of raw material, people involved and product supply chain. The SIT was on the lookout for six partners in the factory and the main distributor, who fled after the police raid, she added. Vats said the plant was worth was over Rs4 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/spurious-soft-drink-case-under-sit-lens-96421
09-06-2020||Hisar||3 of family die in road mishap in Hisar||Three members of a family died when their motorcycle collided with a car near Franci village in the district on Monday.  The deceased identified as Chhoto Devi with his son Ajay and niece Pooja was going on a motorcycle when their bike collided with a car. The car driver, Abhinav, also suffered injuries and was admitted to the hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-of-family-die-in-road-mishap-in-hisar-96422
09-06-2020||Rewari||2 youths gunned down in gang war in Rewari||Two youths, identified as Amit and Govind, were gunned down by three assailants on the Garhi Bolni road here on Monday following the gang war. The assailants fled the spot after perpetrating the crime while the police have started investigation after booking a case of murder against the accused. The incident took place when Amit and Govind were coming towards Rewari from the Delhi-Jaipur Highwary in their car. As they reached near Modawali turn, another car intercepted them and three armed youths opened round of fires upon the duo and the duo died on the spot. DSP Mohammad Jamal along with police personnel rushed to the spot and sent the bodies to civil hospital for postmortem examination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-youths-gunned-down-in-gang-war-in-rewari-96423
09-06-2020||Karnal||Gharaunda couple held in honeytrap case||The police have arrested a 26-year-old woman, her husband and brother for allegedly threatening a Pundri resident to implicate him in a rape case and demanding Rs50,000 from him. The accused have been identified as Khusboo, her husband Vision and brother Rahul, all residents of Gharaunda, the police have said. Her father-in-law and an unidentified accomplice are absconding. Gharaunda police station SHO Manoj Kumar said the accused allegedly blackmailed Pundri resident Sohan Lal on the basis of a video, in which he could be seen talking to Khusboo in her house. On Lal’s complaint, the police laid a trap after the accused called him to hand over Rs50,000. “The police arrested the accused while accepting Rs10,000,” Kumar said. The accused have been booked under Section 389 of the IPC for extortion and produced them in court, the SHO said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gharaunda-couple-held-in-honeytrap-case-96424
09-06-2020||---||11 deaths in a day, Haryana records steepest spike||Chandigarh, June 8The state on Monday reported 11 deaths related to Covid, the highest toll in a single day so far taking the number of casualties to 39. Besides, 406 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 4,854.State trackerTotal persons under surveillance 79,631Currently under surveillance 31,136Persons completing surveillance 48,495Samples for testing 1,50,220Negative samples 1,40,081Results awaited 5,285Positive cases 4,854Cured 1,700Total deaths 39The state bulletin stated that of the 11 deaths, five were reported from Gurugram, two from Sonepat, and one each from Jind, Karnal, Rohtak and Rewari. The state’s fatality rate is 0.8 per cent.In Gurugram, five persons died in the past three days. One of them succumbed to the viral disease in Delhi, while others breathed their last in Paras Hospital in the district. A 66-year-old woman from Kamla Nagar suffering from breast cancer and kidney ailment died while she was under home quarantine on Monday. A 42-year-old man from Hansi passed away in Agroha medical college.The one death reported from Karnal was of June 3. In Sonepat, a 64-year-old woman of Kheri Gurjar had died on May 30. The second death reported from Sonepat was that of a 33-year-old man from Nathupur village; he died on June 5.In all, 226 persons recovered from Covid on Monday, the highest in a day so far. In Gurugram, 128 patients got cured. It is followed by Mahendragarh (27) and Rohtak (26). So far, 1,700 patients have recovered; the recovery rate is 35.02 per cent.Of the 406 new cases, 243 were reported from Gurugram, 97 from Faridabad, 15 from Rohtak, 13 from Sonepat, eight from Ambala, six from Karnal, five each from Sirsa and Palwal, three from Jind, two each from Panipat, Bhiwani and Hisar, and one each from Fatehabad, Panchkula and Kaithal.Gurugram and Faridabad alone contributed 83.7 per cent of the fresh cases.The new cases in Faridabad came from Old Faridabad, Ballabgarh, NIT, Dabua Colony, Tigaon, AC Nagar, Bharat Colony, Friends Colony, SGM Nagar, Nangla Enclave, Panher Khurd village, Kheri Kalan village and Chhainsa village.Six persons, including a head constable posted at the Police Control Room in Faridabad and four family members of a Covid-positive patient from Sector 5, tested positive on Monday. Besides, a 29-year-old man from Daniyalpur village was among the positive patients.A 21-year-old Kaithal youth, who returned from Nigeria recently, tested positive on Monday.In Panipat, a 31-year-old man of Thermal Colony working as an electrician in Gurugram and a 23-year-old youth of Hari Nagar working at a call centre in Noida were among the new cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-deaths-in-a-day-haryana-records-steepest-spike-96425
