16-06-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Cap on Covid treatment charges in Gurugram hospitals soon||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 16Following repeated complaints of private hospitals in Gurugram allegedly fleecing Covid patients, the Haryana Government has decided to rein in the hospitals and private labs.The health department has now proceeded towards putting a cap on treatment charges following the Ahmedabad model. From the current charges of as high as 70, 000 per day for an ICU with ventilator, residents may soon get it at around 23000 per day. While the authorities are officially tight lipped on issue a senior official revealed that the process was underway.``There is huge disparity in prices and we had been getting numerous complaints about the same. We are looking at the Ahmedabad model of Covid Management and will try to work out ICU bed charges with ventilator for around 23000 per day. We have already moved a proposal to government, “ said a senior health official.It may be noted that CM Manohar Lal Khattar visited Gurugram yesterday amidst a spike in Covid cases and took stock of the situation. Following a meeting with 12 key officials involved in Pandemic management, the civil surgeon Virender Yadav has designated 14 medical nodal officers with special monitoring duties in private hospitals for proper coordination and follow up with hospitals on number of beds.The Health authorities have also been asked to rein in the private labs. A highly placed official revealed that following reports of fake positive cases in UP labs, Haryana government wants strict check on sampling and even diagnostic credentials of the private labs to ensure the results have the best possible accuracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cap-on-covid-treatment-charges-in-gurugram-hospitals-soon-100064
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 18 deaths, 550 new cases; total count 8,272||Eighteen more people died of coronavirus in Haryana on Tuesday as the state reported another record daily rise in infections, according to a health bulletin.On Monday, the state had reported 514 cases.So far, 118 people have succumbed to the virus in the state while the number of total cases rose to 8,272 with 550 fresh infections on Tuesday.Nine of the 18 people died in the worst-hit Gurgaon district, which has so far recorded 3,692 cases.The situation in Gurgaon has worsened over the past fortnight. The district, which borders New Delhi, till now has reported 46 deaths.Faridabad reported five deaths, taking the total fatalities in the district to 38, the state bulletin said.Bhiwani reported first two deaths while one person each died in Sonipat and Jind, where total fatalities are seven and four, respectively, the bulletin said.Eighteen is the highest number of COVID fatalities in a single day in Haryana, previous being 12 reported earlier this month.According to the bulletin, among the 118 deceased, 80 were men while 38 women.Among the total positive cases, 5,656 are men, 2,615 women while one is a transgender, it said. On Tuesday, Gurgaon recorded the maximum 205 cases, followed by 174 from Faridabad; 32 from Sonipat; 25 from Rohtak, 21 each from Ambala and Rewari; 13 from Karnal; eight each from Jhajjar and Panipat; seven from Bhiwani; six each from Palwal, Mahendragarh and Charkhi Dadri; five from Hisar; four from Fatehabad; three each from Sirsa and Kurukshetra; and one each from Jind, Panchkula and Nuh.Active cases in the state currently are 4,406 while 3,748 people have been discharged.Meanwhile, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij said appointment letters have been issued to 642 medical officers in the state, which will help fulfil the shortage of doctors.Vij informed that 312 doctors were appointed in the month of March this year. So far, a total of 954 medical officers have been appointed in the Health Department during this year.Vij, according to a state government release, said these medical officers include 166 specialists and 788 MBBS doctors.“After the appointment of these doctors, the patients will get efficient treatment facilities during the coronavirus pandemic,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-haryana-reports-18-deaths-550-new-cases-total-count-8-272-99987
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||PM Modi enquires about Health Minister Vij||Prime Minister Narendra Modi today telephonically enquired about the health of Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij, who is undergoing treatment for a fractured thigh at Max Hospital in Mohali.While expressing his gratitude through a tweet message, Vij wrote, “When I received a call from the Prime Minister..., all my pain vanished. You take care of an ordinary worker like me. Thank you so much.” During the conversation, the PM wished Vij a speedy recovery. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pm-modi-enquires-about-health-minister-vij-99651
16-06-2020||---||Centre okays Rs 290 cr for Jal Jeevan Mission in Haryana||New Delhi, June 15The Centre has approved allocation of about Rs 290 crore for the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) in Haryana for the financial year 2020-21, an increase of about Rs 140 crore over and above the last year’s allocation. In effect, with the obligatory matching contributions by the state under the JJM, a sum of Rs 760 crore in 2020-21 will be available for the implementation of the mission.Besides, the state is eligible for the additional allocation based on physical and financial performance.The allocation was approved following the Haryana Government’s presentation of its annual action plan regarding the JJM for 2020-21 before the Department of Sanitation and Drinking Water (DWS) on May 12.The DWS is under the Union Jal Shakti Ministry, which implements the JJM for potable water supply to all rural households.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-okays-rs-290-cr-for-jal-jeevan-mission-in-haryana-99624
16-06-2020||---||Woman shot dead, son booked||Hisar, June 15A 60-year-old woman was shot dead by two assailants in the Urban Estate on Sunday night. The victim, Satbiri Devi, was taking a walk near her house when two youths who came on a motorcycle, shot and attacked the victim with knives.Complainant Ramesh Kumar, who is the elder son of the victim, accused his younger brother, Rajesh Kumar, of murdering his mother.The complainant said the family has agriculture land in Tokas village, besides an industrial plot and a house in Hisar. He said Rajesh used to quarrel with his mother over the property.The police said the victim had stab and gunshot injuries, which resulted in her death during the treatment.The police have booked Rajesh and his aide under relevant sections of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-shot-dead-son-booked-99625
16-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Marriage violating age limit norm not void: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 15Deepak Kumar has been looking forward to get his marriage registered for the past six months and the wait is finally over. Married almost five years back, the father of two was told that he was less than 21 years old when his wedding was arranged.Taking up his case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court now ruled that a marriage solemnised in violation of age restriction was legal and there was no bar to its registration. The Bench reiterated that such marriage was voidable, but not void. Voidable is capable of being voided. The term denotes a valid and binding contract unless avoided or declared void by a party. Void, on the other hand, is not valid or legally binding.In their petition for registration of marriage, Deepak and his wife had contended that they tied the knot in November 2015 after their marriage was arranged by their families. Two children were also born. An application for registration of marriage was filed in November 2019, but it was not registered till date.Appearing before Justice Sudhir Mittal’s Bench, the petitioners’ counsel submitted that Deepak was less than 21 years old at that time. As such, there was a violation of Section 5 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. Referring to other provisions of the Act, he contended that the marriage was only voidable. Neither of the parties had sought to avoid their marriage. As such, there was no legal bar to its registration.Justice Mittal observed that the matter was adjourned from time to time to enable the state counsel to get instructions, but he was seeking time once again without valid reason for acceptance of his request.“A perusal of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, shows that in case a marriage has been solemnised in violation of the age restriction laid down therein, the marriage is only voidable. However, neither of the parties has sought annulment of the marriage. In fact, the parties are seeking to register their marriage. In law, the marriage is legal and there is no bar to its registration,” Justice Mittal asserted.Allowing the petition, Justice Mittal directed the respondents to ensure that the marriage was registered in two weeks. The High Court, in a judgement on a similar issue, had earlier asserted that the mere fact that the groom was not of marriageable age would not deprive the petitioners of their fundamental right to seek protection.Referring to Section 5, the High Court had asserted that the bridegroom must be aged above 21 years and the bride above 18 years. But Section 11 precluded a marriage solemnised in contravention of sub-section (iii) of Section 5 from the purview of being regarded as void or invalid.‘No bar on registration’According to Justice Sudhir Mittal of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, “A perusal of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, shows that in case a marriage has been solemnised in violation of the age restriction laid down therein, the marriage is only voidable. However, neither of the parties has sought annulment of the marriage. In fact, the parties are seeking to register their marriage. In law, the marriage is legal and there is no bar to its registration.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/marriage-violating-age-limit-norm-not-void-high-court-99619
16-06-2020||---||Khap demands arrest of BJP leader Sonali Phogat||Hisar, June 15The Binain khap has come out in support of market committee secretary Sultan Singh as its panchayat has demanded the arrest of BJP leader Sonali Phogat. The panchayat, which was held in Sacha Khera village of Jind today, has threatened to start an indefinite dharna from next Monday if she is not arrested.BJP leader Phogat had thrashed Sultan Singh during a visit to a purchase centre in Balsamand village in Hisar on June 5. The police had registered cross cases against both. Phogat had accused Singh of mishaving with her.Singh, who denied the charge, took up the matter before the khap panchayat of which he too is a member.Raghubir Singh Nain, a khap spokesperson, said the khap concluded that Sonali Phogat was guilty as she had been seen thrashing Singh in videos which went viral.“The khap has served an ultimatum to the state governemnt to arrest Phogat by June 21. A delegation will meet CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala regarding their demand,” Nain said.Meanwhile, Sonali Phogat stated in a facebook post that she was ready to take the fight as she was “nowhere wrong”. In an emotional video, she said that she was prepared for the consequences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khap-demands-arrest-of-bjp-leader-sonali-phogat-99620
16-06-2020||---||Sacked employees hold protest in Rohtak||Rohtak, June 15Sacked physical training instructors launched a dharna by pitching tent outside mini-secretariat here on Monday. Ten of the protesters also sat on relay fast. They were demanding restoration of their services.“The Supreme Court had directed the state government to conduct recruitment on 1,983 posts of the physical training instructors afresh within next five months but the state government relieved all the physical training instructors even before completion of the recruitment process, which is legally unjustified,” said Satbir Singh, district president, Haryana PTI Sangharsh Samiti.Samiti president said the dharna would continue until the government accepted their demand. “We are paying the price without any fault,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sacked-employees-hold-protest-in-rohtak-99621
16-06-2020||---||Reinstate 1,983 PTIs , Surjewala urges Khattar||Chandigarh, June 15AICC chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala on Monday urged CM Manohar Lal Khattar to reinstate the retrenched physical training instructors (PTIs) by issuing an ordinance and ratifying it through a Bill passed by the Haryana Vidhan Sabha.In a letter addressed to the CM, Surjewala suggested a draft Bill for providing security of service to physical training instructors.“I urge upon you to take immediate steps to ensure that these 1,983 physical training instructors and their families are not abandoned to the vagaries of unemployment for an irregularity, if any, on the part of the recruiting authority. They and their families will suffer disproportionately given the circumstances that Covid and the lockdown have created as also the fact that all of them are overage and unlikely to secure any other employment,” said Surjewala.Addressing the media, he said the retrenched physical training instructors had played no role in the selection process and had participated in good faith and a bona fide manner.To penalise them for no fault and for any ‘infirmities’ caused by the recruiting authority would amount to a dereliction of duty and gross injustice on the part of the state government, he said.The Supreme Court’s decision found neither corruption in the physical training instructors’ selection process nor any malicious act was found to be done by any of the selected physical training instructors, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/reinstate-1-983-ptis-surjewala-urges-khattar-99622
16-06-2020||---||Sample collection halts after hospital staffer tests positive in Haryana||Faridabad, June 15The collection of samples for Covid test at the Civil Hospital was halted this morning after an employee tested positive for the virus. The lab collects 150 to 200 samples on a daily basis and the test is free of charge.“We were asked to report at the Government Hospital in Ballabgarh or the ESIC Hospital in NIT for the test, as we were told that the lab has been closed for an indefinite period due to an employee testing positive last night,’’ said an attendant of a patient who had come from Dabua Colony. The lab of the Civil Hospital here collects the samples of all those patients who cannot afford to get their test done in the designated private laboratories that charge Rs 4,500 for a single test. “While all patients from poor financial background report at the facility provided at the Civil or the ESIC hospital, there are many others, who approach the Civil Hospital to confirm the reports of the tests done at the private labs or hospitals, as sometimes their report can be doubtful,” said an official of the Health Department on condition of anonymity.The lab at the Civil Hospital is operated under the integrated disease surveillance programme, Haryana (IDSP), an initiative of the state Health Department. The samples collected here are sent to various laboratories, including the ESIC Hospital and the laboratory at the Transitional Health Science Technology Institute (THSTI) located on the Faridabad-Gurugram road. The report of the samples is made available within 36 to 48 hours.Confirming that the sample collection has been stopped since this morning, the CMO, Dr Krishan Kumar, said the laboratory here was being sanitised after one of the employee was found positive. He said the work was likely to be started as soon as the sanitisation was over. However, Covid testing at ESIC Hospital, which had been halted in a similar manner last week, has been resumed, according to the officials concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sample-collection-halts-after-hospital-staffer-tests-positive-in-haryana-99626
16-06-2020||---||Twelve more deaths; 514 fresh cases set new record in Haryana||Chandigarh, June 15Twelve deaths took the death toll due to Covid to 100 today. With 514 fresh cases, the highest so far, Haryana’s tally jumped to 7,722 today.The deaths took place in Gurugram (6), Faridabad (5) and Jhajjar (1). Among the fatalities in the state, 68 were men and 32 women, with fatality rate of 1.3 per cent.In Faridabad, a 67-year-old woman and 50-year-old man, hailing from the NIT area, and a 70-year-old woman from Dabua Colony succumbed to the infection. The other casualties were a 36-year-old man from Sector 18 and a 45-year-old resident of Sector 31.A person from Sulodha village in Jhajjar died at the PGIMS in Rohtak. He worked at Mother Dairy in Delhi and was admitted to a private hospital in Bahadurgarh on June 11 following Covid symptoms. He was referred to the PGIMS the next day.Fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (183), Faridabad (128), Sonepat (63), Rohtak (21), Bhiwani (20), Rewari and Karnal (18 each), Mahendragarh (13), Fatehabad (10), Jhajjar (9), Hisar (8), Sirsa (5), Kurukshetra and Ambala (4 each), Panipat (3), Jind, Kaithal and Nuh (2 each) and Panchkula (1). Three districts — Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat — accounted for 72.8 per cent of today’s cases.In Kaithal, a 64-year-old man who had history of travel to Delhi and a 22-year-old youth who had visited Delhi and Panipat in the recent past, were among the positive cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/twelve-more-deaths-514-fresh-cases-set-new-record-in-haryana-99627
16-06-2020||Nitish Sharma||Haryana farmers want government to purchase maize crop||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, June 15As farmers are forced to sell their maize crop at cheaper rates being offered by private players, they have decided to hold a kisan panchayat on Tuesday in Ambala and want the government to purchase the maize crop. The commission agents claim that following poor demand in the maize market, the farmers are being offered lower prices.At present, the farmers are getting Rs 1,050-1,275 a quintal, depending on the quality of the produce, while last year, they were getting Rs 1,650-1,750 a quintal.Ombir Rana, a farmer from Toba village, said, “The cost of production increases every year, but there is no stability in the market. I had 100-quintal stock and was offered Rs 1,200 a quintal for my produce. The government should ensure procurement of every crop on the MSP.”Rajiv Sharma, another farmer from Hasanpur village, said, “I have a stock of 160-quintal maize and I took it to the Talheri grain market three days ago, but there are no buyers. The commission agents have been making excuses regarding the quality of the crop and lower prices this year.”Rajpal, a commission agent said, “Poultry farms are the major buyers, but due to the Covid pandemic, the poultry business has seen a decline and as a result, the demand for maize has gone down drastically.”Rakesh Bains, spokesman Bhartiya Kisan Union, said, “At a time when the government wants the farmers to adopt crop diversification and replace paddy with maize, the farmers are not getting even the remunerative prices of the produce in the market. The government must ensure that the entire produce is purchased on the MSP. A kisan panchayat has been called in Saha on this issue on Tuesday and we will ask the government to start the purchase of maize too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-farmers-want-government-to-purchase-maize-crop-99628
16-06-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram administration urges RWAs to set up isolation centres||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 15Taking a cue from Delhi societies, the Gurugram administration has urged local RWAs to set up isolation centres in community centres and banquet halls.“In areas with many patients going in for home isolation, such centres can be a big help. There are many societies with small flats where isolation and quarantine is an issue. These centres will add to infrastructure,” said Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri.Godrej Summit Society in Sector 104 set up a centre with the help of the municipal corporation. “The centre has been started in association with a local charitable hospital. It has two wards with two beds each. I want others to step up and start this,” said Municipal Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh.Many RWAs are on loggerheads with administration over Covid isolation rooms at hotels in residential areas. They have moved the administration, expressing resentment over the recent order, allowing private hospitals to tie up with local hotels.“We are trying to provide medical facility to all those affected. These are not normal times. We will have to take decisions and make changes for greater good which will not please all. Hospitals need this facility in hotels nearby for better Covid management,” said Sonal Goel, nodal officer for healthcare and Covid bed management in Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-administration-urges-rwas-to-set-up-isolation-centres-99629
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi AAP govt delaying my release, says Om Prakash Chautala||Former CM and INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala today alleged that the AAP government in Delhi was dilly-dallying on releasing him despite “completion” of his sentence in the JBT teachers’ recruitment scam.“The jail manual specifies that the prisoners above 65 years and those having physical disabilities should be released, yet I have not been released even though I am above 85 years”, he asserted.At an event in which BSP leaders Prakash Bharti and Naresh Saran joined the INLD, he alleged that people were fed up with the BJP-JJP government. He exuded confidence that the INLD would win the Baroda Assembly byelection. Senior INLD leader Abhay Chautala said the INLD was getting stronger with each passing day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-aap-govt-delaying-my-release-says-om-prakash-chautala-99630
16-06-2020||Faridabad||MLA’s unique protest against sacking by firm||Neeraj Sharma, Congress MLA from the NIT Assembly here, launched a Ramayana recitation programme outside the gate of a construction equipment manufacturing company in protest against retrenchment of 104 employees recently. He wrote to the Prime Minister about it.Sharma, who recited a chapter of the holy book of Ramayana in a tented space outside the factory located at the National Highway-19 (Mathura Road) for about two and a half hours, said the recitation process would go on till the affected persons got relief and the management and the authorities concerned realised the employees’ concerns amid the Covid crisis.He also flayed the firm’s process to sack 400 more employees, besides condemning the “failure” of the government to prevent such a move. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mlas-unique-protest-against-sacking-by-firm-99631
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala railway division sends 100 Covid-care coaches to Delhi||The Ambala Division of the Northern Railways has sent 100 coaches, which were refurbished as Covid isolation coaches earlier in May, to Delhi. The division swung into action after the Centre called for 500 Covid-care railway coaches in the view of soaring cases in the Capital and shortage of beds reportedly.“More than 150 sleeper-class coaches, around 90 per cent of the total Covid care coaches of the division, have been refurbished at the Jagadhri workshop. Some have been modified in Chandigarh too. For now, around 100 such coaches have been sent to Delhi and more will be dispatched, depending on the requirement,” said the division’s DRM GM Singh.Sharing that one coach will accommodate around 16 people, the chief of public relations, Indian Railways, explained, “One coach comprises nine coupes. The middle berth has been removed and one coupe has been reserved for paramedics. Each of the eight coupes will accommodate two patients at a time.”Inside coachesA source from the Chandigarh railway station said modification of Integral Coach Factory (ICF) coaches began in the first week of May. Around eight such coaches were modified in the city, the source added. “In regular cubicles, we had to increase the number of coat hooks, dustbins and water bottle holders. However, in the cubicle reserved for paramedics, we had to add a bracket for oxygen cylinders. The paramedics coupe had to be separated from other cubicles with an AC curtain,” the source said. The coaches were identified by the Railway Traffic Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-railway-division-sends-100-covid-care-coaches-to-delhi-99750
16-06-2020||Ravinder Saini||In Haryana, over one lakh kids leave private schools||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 15The lockdown necessitated by the Covid-19 outbreak has forced many parents to get the names of their children struck off from costly private schools to have them admitted in cheaper government schools.In Rohtak, over 5,500 students have sought school leaving certificates (SLCs) from private schools while the figure of such pupils across the state is over one lakh, said sources.Sonu, a driver, said his autorickshaw remained off road for the past three months. He was arranging two square meals by selling vegetables, hence couldn’t afford the hefty private school fee of his children. He got their names struck off from the private school.Ramesh, who lost his job as a clerk in a private firm, said: “Facing financial crisis, I am left with no option but to shift my son to a government school where the fee is nominal and books, uniform provided free of cost.” Ashok Kumar, a school owner, said he had issued SLCs to 22 students during the past two months while many more applications were pending. “Most of these children belong to families facing financial problems,” he added.Ravinder Nandal, District President, Haryana Private School Sangh, said private schools had been hit hard as over one lakh children across the state had so far applied for SLCs.Admission facilitated in govt institutionsAmid complaints that private schools are either refusing or delaying the issuance of school leaving certificates (SLCs), the Director, School Education, on Monday issued an order saying that in case schools fail to issue an SLC in 14 days, it will be presumed to have been issued. All such affected students should be given admission immediately, the order said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-haryana-over-one-lakh-kids-leave-private-schools-99709
