23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana takes U-turn, students of final semester to be promoted without examinations||Bowing under pressure from teachers as well as students, the Haryana government on Tuesday has "retracted its earlier decision" that said the terminal examinations of all final semesters of all classes under higher and technical examinations will be held from July 1st.The fresh orders—which would be applied to all colleges, universities and technical institutions in the state—said that "there will be no examinations even for the final semester".This is for other semesters which had already been exempted due to the ongoing pandemic.Modifying his orders from June 12, Ankur Gupta, Principal Secretary, Higher Education Department, Haryana, said that the terminal examinations (final semester) and intermediate semester examinations would not be conducted and all the students shall be promoted to the next semester with 50 per cent weightage of marks of internal assessment, plus 50 per cent weightage of the marks in previous examinations.The students will have the chance to improve their grades later.The orders have authorised the universities to hold online examinations—if they are equipped, and can ensure the participation of all students.Students with academic arrears in previous examinations have also been exempted, and they will be promoted to the next semester by giving marks on the average basis of the previous examinations.This order comes on the day when Punjab and Haryana High Court issued a notice to the government for June 25 on a plea filed by students from NSUI.“We had challenged the June 12 orders violating Article 14 of the Constitution of India (Right to Equality), because the government had exempted examination for students residing out of Haryana, but made it compulsory for the state residents,” said state president of the NSUI, Divyanshu Budhiraja.Narender Siwach, president of Haryana Government Teachers Association said that they were opposing the exams because this could have led to community spread of Covid-19.Welcoming the orders, Siwach said that the government should have taken this decision much earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-takes-u-turn-students-of-final-semester-to-be-promoted-without-examinations-103237
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Maximum temps hover below normal in Haryana, Punjab||The maximum temperatures on Tuesday remained below normal limits in Haryana and Punjab.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 35.8 degrees Celsius, two notches below the normal, according to the Meteorological Department here.Ambala in Haryana recorded a high of 36.4 degrees Celsius, one notch below the normal for this time of the year. Hisar recorded a high of 37.2 degrees Celsius, three notches below the normal while the maximum temperature in Karnal settled at 34 degrees Celsius, three notches below the normal.Narnaul registered a high of 38 degrees Celsius, which is three notches below the normal.Amritsar in Punjab registered a maximum of 37.3 degrees Celsius, one notch below the normal.Ludhiana and Patiala also recorded below normal maximum temperatures at 36.6 and 36.7 degrees Celsius, respectively. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/maximum-temps-hover-below-normal-in-haryana-punjab-103224
23-06-2020||Rohtak||Rohtak PGIMS doctor found working for NBA booked||A PGIMS resident doctor in Rohtak, who was found guilty of working for National Boxing Academy (NBA) simultaneously, was booked under section 420 (punishment for cheating) of the IPC on Tuesday.The doctor went on foreign tours along with boxing teams several times without obtaining permission from the PGIMS authorities. Even during these visits, his attendance was allegedly marked present in the hospital record. The tour expenses, including boarding and lodging, were borne by the NBA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-pgims-doctor-found-working-for-nba-booked-103191
23-06-2020||Vibha Sharma||Monsoon expected to reach Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh in next 48 hours||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 23The Southwest Monsoon has arrived over the hill state of Uttarakhand and is expected to reach Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and Chandigarh in next 48 hours, the IMD said on Tuesday.Conditions are becoming favourable for its further advance into the remaining parts of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, entire Western Himalayan Region, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, most parts of Punjab and some parts of Rajasthan during the next 48 hours, the weather office said.In the past few days, it further advanced into the remaining parts of north Arabian Sea, most parts of Kutch, some more parts of Gujarat region, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Uttarakhand.The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) now passes through Ahmedabad, Shajapur, Fatehpur and Rudrapraya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monsoon-expected-to-reach-punjab-haryana-and-chandigarh-in-next-48-hours-103181
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Nine more COVID-19 deaths in Haryana, 495 new cases||Haryana reported nine new coronavirus deaths and 495 new cases, taking the state tally to 11,520 with 178 fatalities.Faridabad and Gurgaon each reported three deaths, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin issued late evening here. Sonipat, Rohtak and Jind districts each reported one.The new fatalities pushed the COVID-19 death toll in Haryana to 178.Gurgugram and Faridabad districts, which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), now have 69 and 64 fatalities, respectively, the bulletin said.As many as 7,241 of the total infections in the state come from Gurgaon and Faridabad districts alone.A total of 6,498 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection, leaving 4,844 active cases in the state.The state’s recovery rate on Tuesday was 56.41 per cent.Faridabad reported 183 fresh cases, followed by Gurgaon (133), Sonipat (59), Bhiwani (53) and Nuh district (19). PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nine-more-covid-19-deaths-in-haryana-495-new-cases-103137
23-06-2020||Gurugram||Luxury car-jacking gang busted in Gurugram||A special task force of the Haryana Police claims to have busted an inter-state gang of automobile thieves who stole high-end vehicles and got these registered at regional transport authorities across the state in alleged connivance with government staff.Three employees of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) at Meham — Anil Kumar, Krishan Kumar and Sombir — and a key member of the gang, Praveen Kumar, have been arrested. Fourteen premium-segment cars worth Rs 5 crore have been recovered. Two members of the gang were nabbed recently in Chandigarh and a large number of premium-segment cars recovered.The task force officials said the gang would get the stolen cars registered against the registration number of vehicles destroyed in accidents before selling these as second-hand cars.Around 200 cars were registered before the scam was exposed, they said. Satish Deshwal, task force IO, said: More than 10 members of the gang are absconding. We will soon seek production warrant of the two members held in Chandigarh.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/luxury-car-jacking-gang-busted-in-gurugram-103017
23-06-2020||Ambala||One held with 2 stolen bikes||Gautam of Ambala City has been arrested for vehicle theft, the police said. Two stolen bikes have been seized. The bikes were stolen on June 8 and 18, the police said.The accused were sent for 14-day judicial remand by a local court, the police said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-held-with-2-stolen-bikes-103015
23-06-2020||Ambala||Three arrested  for assault||The district police have arrested three persons – Jacky, Vishal and Rishi Pal of Ambala City – for assault, officials said here on Monday.According to the police, Kuchband of Ambala City complained that the accused assaulted him and his family members and damaged his household items on June 13. The accused were produced before a local court, after which they were released on bail, said the police.In another case, one Ariman of Ambala Cantonment, was held with 11-gm heroin. He was caught on a tip-off. The accused will be produced before a local court on Tuesday, said police officials. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-arrested-for-assault-103014
23-06-2020||---||Deputy CM: Alternative must to counter Chinese goods||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 22Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Monday emphasised on strengthening the research and development along with focusing on alternative arrangements to counter Chinese products.“Boycotting of Chinese products is not a solution. We have to make some other alternative arrangements along with strengthening research and development,” he said while reacting to a question related to the boycott of Chinese products by the people.Citing the example of defence, he said, “We are not dependent externally for defence sector, as we have our own DRDO. We have to find an alternative and it can take time,” he said.He was here at Shree Atma Manohar Jain Sthanak on Indri road to participate in a blood donation camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deputy-cm-alternative-must-to-counter-chinese-goods-103012
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Focus on all-round development, teachers told||While highlighting the importance of role of teachers in self-reliant India, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today urged them not to limit basic school education to reading, writing and arithmetic, rather focus on the all-round development of students. He urged the teachers to make education job-oriented and instill values in them so that students could become cultured and self-reliant.The CM addressed the valedictory session of 'Faculty Development Programme on MOOCs and MOODLE-Based Learning Management System' at Indira Gandhi University, Meerpur, Rewari, held digitally. He shared his views on the topic 'Role of teachers in Atamnirbhar Bharat'. “... it is a matter of great pride that keeping aside the adverse effect of the Covid crisis, teachers, through various online platforms, have effectively ensured that the students do not suffer academically,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/focus-on-all-round-development-teachers-told-103004
23-06-2020||---||Haryana CM launches portal for sanitation workers||Chandigarh, June 22Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today launched a new portal for resolving the grievances of safai karamcharis (sanitation workers). He did so while presiding over the 53rd meeting of the Water Supply and Sewerage Board of Public Health Engineering Department here.Krishan Kumar, Vice Chairperson, Haryana State Commission for Safai Karamcharis, informed that the portal (https://hscsk.org.in/) had been designed and developed by the Department of Information Technology, Electronics and Communication for registering grievances of safai karamcharis.Earlier, the sanitation workers had to submit their grievances to the department head office. The process took a lot of time due to paperwork.Among those present were CM’s Principal Secretary Rajesh Khullar, Additional Chief Secretary (Power) TC Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary (Urban Local Bodies) SN Roy, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) TVSN Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary (Public Health Engineering Department) Devender Singh, Principal Secretary (Development and Panchayats) Sudhir Rajpal and CM’s Deputy Principal Secretary Ashima Brar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-launches-portal-for-sanitation-workers-102995
23-06-2020||---||IMA seeks facilities for students on Covid duty||Ambala, June 22After, the state government deployed final-year students of MBBS course studying in government and private medical colleges of the state in the districts for management of Covid pandemic, the Indian Medical Association’s Haryana branch has stated that proper planning should had been done for such a move and raised demands in interest of the students.In a letter to Health Minister Anil Vij, it stated that, “Medical students have been deployed for duties in various civil hospitals amid the Covid pandemic. Proper planning and thorough assessments for such a move should had been done because protection of students is at stake since they have not been given any preliminary training for it.”The IMA has demanded that the government should look after the accommodation, food and other essential necessities assuring safe transportation, stipend and medical cover for students and their family. Posting should be done at districts near their home and the duty period should be counted under the internship duration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ima-seeks-facilities-for-students-on-covid-duty-102992
23-06-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Poor Sanitary condition at vacant plot||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comPoor Sanitary condition at vacant plotTHE sanitary condition in vacant plots, allotted by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in Sector 12, Part 2, Urban Estate, Karnal, is in a poor state. A plot adjacent to my house is full of weeds, posing serious threat to the health of people living in the vicinity. Besides housing insects and reptiles, it is also a haven for anti-social elements. Rainwater often gets accumulated here, adding to the residents’ woes. Despite repeated requests, neither the plot owner nor the HSVP had taken a note of the issue. The HSVP should immediately look into the matter and get the grass cut and clean this plot. Shakti Singh, KarnalCleanliness ignored near dasehra ground in AmbalaTHE chunks of land near the Dasehra ground in Sector 8 and in front of a community centre in Sector 9 of Ambala City are devoid of cleanliness. Youngsters use these areas for sports activities and elderly come here for relaxation. Besides, the area is also used for social, political and religious events. Amid the Covid scare, cleanliness is negligible. Heaps of garbage and mounds of earth are a common sight, attracting stray animals. The authorities concerned should take cognisance and get the areas cleaned. Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityLivelihood affectedTHE Covid pandemic has affected the earnings of businessmen to a large extent. In Narwana, a single screen theatre was converted into a two-screen multiplex about five years ago. Due to the Covid spread, this multiplex too is closed. Last week, a computer centre began running coaching classes here which too are hit by the lockdown and the virus scare. There are two or three banquet halls nearby which too are facing existential crises. It's really heartbreaking to imagine how society will survive in future. Ramesh Gupta, Narwana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-sanitary-condition-at-vacant-plot-102987
23-06-2020||Panipat||Administration closes road in Panipat, residents protest||Enraged over the blocking of the main entrance to Sector 18, Panipat, from the National Highway (NH) 44, members of the Resident Welfare Association (RWA) staged a protest against the district administration today. They alleged that the administration had closed the road under the influence of L&T company, which maintains the toll plaza.Gurdeep Singh, former president of the RWA, said the blocking of the road was illegal as the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran had approved it as the single entry to the sector from the highway.RWA president Soorajbhan Rathi alleged officials of the district administration got placed boulders on the road in connivance with L&T officials on Friday evening.“We met ADC Preeti on Monday, but she directed us to file an application through the RWA,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/administration-closes-road-in-panipat-residents-protest-102801
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Prohibited drugs seized||In yet another crackdown, the Haryana Police have seized a huge cache of prohibited drugs, including 88,260 tablets, 4,200 capsules and 100 intoxicant injections during a raid at a house in Kaithal district. The police have also arrested two persons on the charges of stocking and selling these drugs.While stating this here today, a police spokesperson said the arrested accused were identified as Saleem Khan and Balwinder, alias Ballu, both residents of Manas. The accused were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prohibited-drugs-seized-102802
23-06-2020||Sonepat||Virtual international conference||Seven-day online workshopYamunanagar: Guru Nanak Girls College, Yamunanagar, in collaboration with PGDAV College, New Delhi, started a seven day online workshop for "Faculty development on research: Methodology and process". GNG College Principal Poonam Kaur Ahluwalia inaugurated the event and welcomed PGDAV College Principal Ravinder Gupta, Dr Sanjay Kumar from Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC), PGDAV College, and Dr Harish Arora from Hindi Department of PGDAV College, the key speakers of the workshop. "The objective of a researcher should not merely be to obtain a degree but to actually put forth new perspectives and bring novelty in the field of research," said Dr Harish Arora. Dr Lakshmi Gupta, convenor of the workshop, ended the Monday's event by thanking everyone.TIMT students shine in examsYamunanagar: Students of Tilak Raj Chadha Institute of Management and Technology (TIMT), here bagged eight out of the top 10 positions of MBA semester III exam and four out of the top 10 ranks in MBA semester I exams. The results for MBA semester I and III were released by the Kurukshetra University on June 19. TIMT director Vikas Daryal said Sanjana Goyal achieved first position (83.5 per cent), Gursimran Kaur and Himanshi bagged second position (79.7 per cent) and Mehak Batra got third position (79.1 per cent) in the university semester III exams. He said Navdeep Singh achieved fifth position (77.6 per cent), Neha Garg got sixth position (77.3 per cent) Bhawna Rani bagged eighth position (77.1 per cent), Navneet achieved ninth position (76.7 per cent) and Bhawna Jain got tenth position (76.1 per cent). "Salena achieved sixth position (78.53 per cent), Nishant and Prarthna achieved seventh position (78.4 per cent), Deepanshi bagged eighth position (78.27 per cent) and Ruchi Bagga and Aakshi got tenth university positions (77.86 per cent) in semester I exams.Art of script-writing discussedRohtak: "Script-writing is an art. Mastering the intricacies of script-writing, learning the craft, practising script-writing, and pitching the scripts to the production house in an effective manner are the steps to be a script writer," stated Dr Ujjaval Chandra Das, assistant professor of Amity University, Noida, and former script writer associated with Balaji Telefilms at a webinar 'Swayam Siddh' organised by the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU). Dr Ujjval Chandra Das delivered a special lecture on "How to be a script writer". Dr Das in his comprehensive lecture covered essential aspects of scripting for TV serials, web series and films. He gave illustrative examples from various TV and web serials and films to throw light on the art of script-writing. He urged upon the students to work on creative visualisation of the story. HoD Prof Harish Kumar in his presidential address said over-the-top (OTT) platforms were providing fresh career opportunities in the present scenario.Webinar on Mechanical EngineeringHisar: The Department of Mechanical Engineering and Training and Placement Cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised a webinar on "Mechanical Engineering and Multi physics simulation softwares" in collaboration with Techlabs, New Delhi. Dr Pankaj Khatak, Chairperson, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Partap Singh Malik, Director Placement, Pushkaraj Bhandari, associate technical manager and Col Venkat Rao, regional head of Techlabs, a New Delhi based company, were present in the event. Bhandari said as per the need of the industries, it was important to get skilled. "As the demand of expertise is increasing, softwares like SimulationX can cope up with this scenario," he said. He explained that with the use of such softwares, motion and balance of the part can be analysed leading to time saving and economical production.4-day webinar series by YMCAFaridabad: In order to provide counselling facility to students to make their career choice easy after doing twelfth and graduation, the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, here has decided to organise a webinar series on 'Career counselling' from June 23 to 26. It will be conducted by the faculty of Liberal Arts and Media Studies in collaboration with the Career and Counselling Cell of the university. Dr Atul Mishra, chairperson of Department of Liberal Arts and Media Studies, said this would be an interactive career counselling webinar series of four days with each day dedicated to skills that would be useful in all domains. "During the webinar, students will be provided with career guidance so as to help them in identification of their skills and interest areas. Also, students will be encouraged towards skill development. The career experts will address students' queries related to career avenues available to them and help them in choosing production-oriented courses," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/virtual-international-conference-102809
23-06-2020||Nitin Jain||Work resumes on cancer care centre||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, June 22Work on the state’s first government cancer care centre has resumed on the civil hospital campus in Ambala Cantonment. The state government-funded project, which will cost Rs 56 crore, is likely to benefit around 5 lakh patients.There is no government facility in the state to treat cancer patients barring a cancer ward at the PGIMS in Rohtak. No state-run civil hospital in the state has any special ward for cancer patients.Patients either approach private hospitals, where treatment is costly, or go to other states for government facilities. Most patients from Haryana are undergoing treatment at the PGI in Chandigarh or AIIMS in Delhi.Construction activity was at an advanced stage when it was stalled due to the lockdown in March. Work on the project had begun in July 2018 and was scheduled to be completed by February 2019.The facility had begun a trial run in March, which was halted due to the lockdown. Within days of the start of the trial run, almost 500 patients had reported at the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/work-resumes-on-cancer-care-centre-102797
23-06-2020||---||559 common service centres to shut in Karnal||Karnal, June 22As many as 559 common service centres (CSCs) out of the total 1,368 in the district will be closed allegedly for not working properly. They didn’t make even a single transaction in the last financial year.The CSC scheme is one of the projects of the Union Government under the Digital India programme, which are access points for delivery of essential public utility services, social welfare schemes, healthcare, financial, education and agriculture services in rural, remote and urban areas of the country.“We have reviewed the progress of all the CSCs and found 559 not working properly. We had issued them notices and most of them have not submitted their reply due to which we are going to close them,” said Vinod Sharma, District Manager of the CSCs.He maintained that it was mandatory to make 50 transactions by each CSC in the rural areas while 100 by those in urban and rural secretariat. Each CSC has to register all the services provided by it, but these 559 have not registered their services. Besides, they didn’t make mandatory transactions.He said that several other irregularities were also found. Some of the CSCs were being operated from places other than the areas allotted to them. Among the 559 CSCs, 380 are in rural areas.About the schemeThe CSC scheme is one of the projects of the Union Government under the Digital India programme, which are access points for delivery of essential public utility services, social welfare schemes, healthcare, financial, education and agriculture services in rural, remote and urban areas of the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/559-common-service-centres-to-shut-in-karnal-102798
23-06-2020||Gurugram||Imported liquor seized, two arrested in Gurugram||The crime unit of Sector 17 busted a consignment of illegal liquor being smuggled into city in a Canter carrying no licence or permit. The police intercepted the vehicle in Sector 31 area and seized 605 cartons of imported liquor bottles. The police have registered an FIR and are searching for smugglers while the driver and helper of the Canter have been arrested.According to the police, the liquor was being smuggled from Sector 18 to a wine shop in Sector 40 in a Canter which was coveted by tarpaulin. On a tip off, the police team stopped the vehicle in Sector 31 and found 605 cartoons, including bottles of imported liquor.The police arrested driver Rajiv and helper Likesh Kumar when they failed to produce any valid licence or permit. The police also seized the liquor along with the vehicle. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/imported-liquor-seized-two-arrested-in-gurugram-102799
23-06-2020||Mukesh Tandon||NHAI re-allots contract for  widening NH-44||Tribune News ServicePanipat, June 22The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has re-allotted the contract of widening NH-44 into 12 lanes, including eight main lanes and four service lanes, to a new company — Well Spun. The new company has to complete the project within 15 months.Earlier, the project of widening the 72-kilometer highway from Mukarba Chowk in Delhi to Panipat in Haryana was with Essel Infraprojects Limited group, but it had missed its April 2019 deadline.So far, the previous company had completed only 40 per cent of the work. The work wasn’t resumed despite several notices served by the NHAI, said an NHAI official on condition of anonymity. The delay caused a lot of inconvenience to commuters, forcing them to face frequent traffic jams and score of people had lost their lives in accidents on this stretch in the past one-and-a-half-year.The service lanes, main highway, and sides of the road had been dug up at several places for widening by the previous company, but it had stopped work on all sites around two years ago.The Rs 2128.72-crore project was allotted to Essel Infraprojects Limited in 2015 in the public-private partnership (PPP) mode.Ashish Jain, Project Director, NHAI, Delhi, said the work had been re-allotted to Well Spun company and 15 months had been fixed to complete the project.Shyam Lal Poonia, Deputy Commissioner, Sonepat, said the new consignee had assured that the project would be completed within in 15 months. Besides, it has also assured to fix all signboards and to complete the two flyovers in Bari and Kundli of Sonepat district within four months.Pending Rs 76-crore payment sought||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nhai-re-allots-contract-for-widening-nh-44-102800
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to venture into mineral water bottling||The state has decided to set up a mineral water plant for manufacturing bottled drinking water under the brand name ‘Haryana Fresh’ through the PHE Department.The first rural sewerage under the Mahagram Scheme will be inaugurated in Sotai village of Faridabad district on August 15.These decisions were taken during a meeting of the water supply and sewerage board of the PHE Department under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here on Monday. The CM directed the department to chalk out modalities for setting up of this plant. Initially, bottled mineral water would be made available to government institutions.Later, reverse osmosis plants would be set up in educational institutions to provide clean and fresh drinking water to students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-venture-into-mineral-water-bottling-102803
23-06-2020||Pradeep Sharma||On wait list, Haryana government to absorb over 2,900 Group D candidates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22The state has asked as many as 2,949 waitlisted Group D candidates to join government service.The Haryana Service Selection Commission (HSSC) has now allocated departments to Group D candidates, which comprises several posts, including that of peon, beldar, mali and chowkidar. These candidates have been advised to join their respective departments on June 24.On Monday, HSSC chairman Bharat Bhushan Bharati told The Tribune that the departments were allocated to the candidates keeping in view the vacancies and after intense talks with around 178 government departments.All these are waitlisted candidates of the biggest recruitment drives in the state’s history, in which the government had recruited 18,216 Group D employees through the HSSC before the 2019 parliamentary and Assembly polls.While a majority of the selected candidates had joined the service, a substantial number of posts remained vacant on the account of non-joining, unwillingness and resignation by the former ones.With a view to give candidates their choice postings, the state resorted to reallocation of departments among the selected candidates. However, scores of candidates left the jobs even after the reallocation of departments after joining the service.This, the sources said, forced the state to absorb the waitlisted candidates in the government service. In fact, the absorption on the vacant posts was the major demand of these candidates in the run-up to the 2019 parliamentary and state Assembly polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/on-wait-list-haryana-government-to-absorb-over-2-900-group-d-candidates-102807
23-06-2020||Kaithal||Woman booked for killing 2-yr-old daughter||A woman (25) has been booked on the charge of murdering her minor daughter (2) at Kaitha’s Kakot village.Surender Singh, father of Mannat, reported that his wife Rajkumari killed his daughter yesterday and fled with her younger one. The couple reportedly had some altercation before the incident. When the family launched a search for her, Surender’s sister noticed the girl’s body in a cloth. A manhunt was launched to nab Rajkumari, who hails from Patna. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-booked-for-killing-2-yr-old-daughter-102808
23-06-2020||Ravinder Saini||Covid scare leads to sudden hike in gift deeds in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 22Rohtak has witnessed a sudden increase in the cases of gift deeds after the lockdown, with senior citizens transferring immovable properties in the name of their wards amid the Covid fear.Cap on registrationsBefore the lockdown, around 100 people used to visit the tehsil office daily for various deeds but the number is over 150 now. However, many have to return empty-handed due to the condition of 50 registrations per day. — An officialAt least 9 to 10 cases of gift deeds are coming to the Rohtak tehsil daily while the figure was confined to four to five per day earlier. Also, of the total 50 registrations allowed in a day, coupons for 25 are issued online and the remaining at the tehsil office.Due to the social-distancing norms, merely 50 coupons are being issued daily for the registration of all sorts of deeds. So, a large number of applicants are compelled to wait for long to get the coupon due to advance booking for the next 15 days.“My father has been suffering from multiple diseases for the past two years. He has now expressed the desire to transfer his immovable properties in my brothers and my name as Covid is affecting senior citizens more than youngsters. Hence, I am ascertaining the paper formalities for the gift deed,” said Vijay, a local.Parveen, an architect who came to the tehsil office to get a coupon for sale deed, said long waiting had forced him to put his plan on hold, till then the coupon system was not withdrawn.Confirming sudden increase in the gift deeds, Rajesh Kumar, Tehsildar, said: “Covid fear is forcing the senior citizens to transfer properties to their wards. Besides, people residing in villages used to transfer the properties after wheat harvesting, but the writers have now stopped writing the gift deeds till July 1.” “Also, buyers who have made partial/full payment are also in a hurry to get the sale deed registered to avoid any unpleasant circumstances in future due to Covid,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-scare-leads-to-sudden-hike-in-gift-deeds-in-rohtak-102796
23-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court notice to Haryana over use of Hindi in subordinate courts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22The use of Hindi in all subordinate civil and criminal courts and tribunals in Haryana today came under the judicial scanner, with the Punjab and Haryana High Court issuing notice of motion to the state and another respondent on a plea challenging the action.CLAUSE CHALLENGEDIn all civil courts and criminal courts in Haryana subordinate to the Punjab and Haryana High Court, all revenue courts and rent tribunals or any other court or tribunal constituted by the state government, work shall be done in Hindi language. — Government amendmentTaking up the matter through video-conferencing, the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh made it clear that Haryana Advocate General BR Mahajan would address the court on the issue on the next date of hearing.The state had amended Section 3 of the Haryana Official Language (Amendment) Act, 1969, earlier this year. Section 3-A inserted in the Act on the use of Hindi in courts and tribunals made it clear: “In all civil courts and criminal courts in Haryana subordinate to the Punjab and Haryana High Court, all revenue courts and rent tribunals or any other court or tribunal constituted by the state government, work shall be done in the Hindi language.”Challenging the amendment, Sameer Jain and other petitioners submitted that the objective of promulgating such a notification was not clear and it had no rational nexus to object, if any, sought to be achieved.Describing the notification in this regard as discriminatory in nature, Jain submitted that it violated Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. Jain referred to Section 30 of the Advocates Act, 1961, to contend that every advocate had the right to practise all over India.“But due to language constraint, some lawyers may not be able to do so as all law colleges teach in English medium and Hindi version of legal terminologies is not known,” Jain added. Issuing notice of motion, the Bench fixed the matter for further hearing in the last week of June.As of now, English is lingua franca of high courts and the apex court. Article 348, on language to be used in courts and for Acts and Bills, makes it clear that all proceedings in the Supreme Court and in every high court shall be in the English language. The Constitution has been amended over and over again over a period of time, but the age-old practice has withstood the forces of time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-notice-to-haryana-over-use-of-hindi-in-subordinate-courts-102804
23-06-2020||---||BAMS doctor conducted gender test on decoy: Probe||Jhajjar, June 22The preliminary probe into the cross-border sex determination racket revealed that a BAMS doctor had performed the gender test on a decoy customer in Noida, Uttar Pradesh, and an ultrasound machine used for it was sealed by the authorities two years ago, which he broke open and restarted the tests.Repeat offenderThe accused, Dr Hari Om Kashyap, is a repeat offender. He was booked by the Noida police in 2017 after a team of the Bhiwani health authorities raided his clinic there. After that he hesitated to perform the gender test on women from Haryana. The racket, however, has its tentacles in Delhi, UP and Rajasthan too. — Dr Achal Tripathi, Deputy Civil Surgeon“The doctor, identified as Hari Om Kashyap, is a repeat offender and was also booked by the Noida police in 2017 after a team of the Bhiwani health authorities raided his clinic there. Following which, he hesitated to perform sex determination test on women belonging to Haryana. The racket, however, has its tentacles in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan besides Haryana,” said Dr Achal Tripathi, Deputy Civil Surgeon Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PNDT).A team of the district health authorities led by Civil Surgeon Randeep Singh Punia busted the racket on Saturday with the arrest of a Bahadurgarh tout, Chand Singh, who took the decoy patient to Noida for the gender test. He cracked the deal with the decoy patient for Rs 70,000 but the police later recovered more than Rs 2 lakh from his car in Bahadurgarh on returning from Noida.“The police conducted raids at Kashyap’s clinic on Sunday but he was not found there. Kashyap used to perform the test in the basement of his clinic and three other pregnant women were also brought there for the test on the same day. One of them belonged to Delhi while another came in a vehicle bearing registration number of Gohana (Sonepat),” Dr Tripathi added.He said the police were not only conducting raids at the possible hideouts of Kashyap in Uttar Pradesh but also making efforts to trace the woman in Gohana to find out other information about the racket.On Monday, the tout was produced in a court, which remanded him to three-day police custody, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bams-doctor-conducted-gender-test-on-decoy-probe-102805
23-06-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana to facilitate migrants’ return||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22After facilitating the return of migrants to their native places, the Haryana Government is now open to transporting them back to the state.With a shortage of labour hitting the industry and construction projects hard, the Labour Department has asked its field staff to provide information on labour stuck in their native places and keen on returning to work.In a letter to all Deputy Directors, Industrial Safety and Health, and Deputy Labour Commissioners in Haryana, the Labour Department has sought information about such migrants in a prescribed format.As per information, the department, in the letter, has said the Haryana Government provided food, shelter and transportation to migrant labour to help them return to their native places due to the Covid lockdown.However, as per the MHA guidelines, all construction sites and industries other than those in containment zones have resumed operations from June 1. The letter states that the department has received feedback that the workers transported back to their native places in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal want to return to their places of work.Based on this input, the department has asked its field staff to collect information of all such migrants wanting to come back and to enable the state government for making arrangements for their transportation. The department has not only sought information details about the migrant workers, but also the details that include their work place and the contact person who has employed them.“We had, initially, verbally, asked the field officers to provide these details. However, after a meeting held last week, we have sent them a letter explaining the information we will need. Based on the input, the government will organise the return of these migrant workers,” Haryana Labour Commissioner Pankaj Aggarwal said.Last month, Haryana had sent back nearly three lakh migrants and bore the entire cost of their transportation, which came to nearly Rs 10 crores during the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-facilitate-migrants-return-102806
23-06-2020||Gurugram||1 held for selling sanitiser at exorbitant rates in Gurugram||Cracking down on a salesman of a medical store, Gurugram Drug Controller Amandeep Chauhan got him arrested for selling hand sanitiser costlier than the MRP. Chauhan went to Bansi Lal Enterprises, DLF Phase 1, where he purchased a 500-ml hand sanitiser for Rs 300 against invoice and called cops for lodging an FIR.The police nabbed the salesman of the store. Chauhan said such action would continue.Inspector Vishnu Dyal, SHO, DLF-1 police station, said the store owner was also booked and he would be arrested soon. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-held-for-selling-sanitiser-at-exorbitant-rates-in-gurugram-102810
23-06-2020||---||Nine more succumb to Covid in Haryana||Chandigarh, June 22Haryana reported nine more deaths and 390 fresh Covid cases today, taking the death toll to 169 and tally to 11,025.Faridabad reported five deaths, taking the toll to 61, followed by Gurugram with two deaths, taking its toll to 66. One death each was reported from Jhajjar and Rewari.A maximum of 176 cases were reported from Faridabad, while Gurugram reported 85 cases and Rohtak 31.Today was the eighth consecutive day of casualties as 33 patients had died since June 15. The tally of positive cases surged to 2,411, with the addition of 176 cases today.Five patients in Faridabad — a 56-year-old woman from Sector 18, a 65-year-old man from Sanjay Colony, a 67-year-old person from SGM Nagar, a 59-year-old man from Sector 31 and an 86-year-old resident from Sector 21 — succumbed to the virus.The localities which reported fresh cases during the past 24 hours included Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad, NIT, Jawahar Colony, AC Nagar, Bharat Colony, SGM Nagar, Dabua Colony, Sanjay Colony, Subhash Colony, Kheri Kalan village, Sector 3, Sector 15, Sector 16, Sector 23, Sector 19,M ahaveer Colony and Palla Panhera Khurd village.Jhajjar reported its third death today. A 40-year-old woman residing at Kirdod in Jhajjar, who was also suffering from tuberculosis, died at the PGIMS in Rohtak.In Rewari, 42 persons, including a trader and 13 labourers, tested positive. Ten of them are from Dhaaruhera, two each from Kayasthvada and Suthani.Mahendragarh reported seven fresh cases. One case each was reported from Bhadaf, Bachini, Mohalla Dhobiyaan, Thanvaas and Nangal Choudhry.With 10 fresh cases in Ambala, the tally reached 283. Fresh cases included seven from Ambala Cantonment, two from Ambala City and one from Shahzadpur. Five of them were contacts of Covid patients and three had travel history.In Karnal, 10 persons, including a 57-year-old woman of Sector 13 and her two sons in their early 30s, tested positive. Their maid had tested positive a few days back. With these cases, the number of positive cases in Karnal reached 231.In Yamunanagar, an employee of the district court at Jagadhri tested positive. The employee was posted as peon in the court of an Additional District and Sessions Judge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nine-more-succumb-to-covid-in-haryana-102811
23-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court stays promotion of Haryana government college principals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 22Acting on a petition filed by associate professors alleging contempt of court in a promotion matter, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed further promotion of government college principals in the state, at least till the first week of July.Issuing notice of motion, Justice Amol Rattan Singh directed the state to file a detailed paragraph-wise reply to the petition filed against Additional Chief Secretary Ankur Gupta and another respondent by Bansi Dhar Yadav and other petitioners through counsel Sameer Sachdeva.Justice Amol Rattan Singh made it clear that any request for an adjournment on behalf of the petitioners on the next date would entail automatic vacation of this interim order “with no further order required to be passed in that regard”.Going into the background, Sachdeva alleged non-compliance of orders passed by the High Court on January 24. He submitted that the High Court, while disposing of the matter without commenting on the claim or the entitlement of the petitioners to the relief claimed, had directed consideration and decision on a legal notice issued in this regard in September last year.Sachdeva submitted that the respondents, in utter disregard to the orders passed by the High Court, did not take any action in the matter though there were clear-cut directions to take the decision within three months.“More than five months have already elapsed, but the respondents have shown no progress in the matter and have been sitting over the matter though the petitioners are regularly visiting the respondent office from time to time till date,” he stated.Sachdeva told the court that the respondents had already made promotions to the posts of principal and were making further promotions without passing any order on the legal notice referred to in the High Court order.“The contemnors have become totally casual and irresponsible on account of authority vested in them. Thus, the action on the part of the respondents clearly amounts to wilful disobedience and breach of the orders passed by this court. Thus, the contemnors are guilty of contempt of court and liable to be punished for contempt under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971,” Sachdeva added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-stays-promotion-of-haryana-government-college-principals-102812
23-06-2020||Ravinder Saini||Mare owners in dire straits in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 22People owning mares and horse-drawn carriages are facing a tough time due to Covid. They have no source of income for the time being following restrictions on gatherings at weddings and religious functions.“I have 16 mares and over Rs4,500 a day has to be spent on their feed. There is no hope of much fanfare at weddings and other functions this year. The price of horses has halved and we cannot think about selling them,” said Gaurav Chhokra, running this business.He said he had taken advance from people for weddings scheduled in April, May and June. He said several weddings had taken place during the lockdown, but many people were demanding repayment of advance.“I had taken a loan to construct a house. Paying Rs10,000 per month as EMI without any income is adding to my woes,” he said. Billu Bhatia and Gaurav Saluja, also into this business, were facing a similar crisis.“I have borrowed money as there seems no chance of any booking for a year following restrictions on gatherings and Covid fear. I have to pay the rent of my shop, feed mares and arrange two meals a day for my family without any income,” Bhatia said.“We are in deep trouble after losing our only source of income. We have no choice but to face these losses. A majority of us have been running this business for a long time and are not in a position to switch to any other business,” Saluja said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mare-owners-in-dire-straits-in-rohtak-102813
