04-02-2021||India||Vizag Steel Plant staff preps for agitation against move to privatise company||Thousands of employees belonging to the Rasthtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), one of the largest state-run steel plants in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam, will take out a huge rally in the port city on Friday in protest against the NDA government’s decision of privatisation of the mega steel plant.A tweet by secretary of Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) Tuhin Kanta Pandey on Wednesday stating that the Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs (CCEA) has cleared the privatisation of RINL, popularly known as Visakhapatnam Steel Plant or Vizag Steel, has triggered an uproar among the employees on Thursday.“Whatever we have been fearing all these days has finally happened. We have been left with no option but to fight it out till the Centre withdraws the proposal,” D Adinarayana, a trade union leader of the steel plant said.Pandey tweeted that the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) on January 27 had given in principle approval for 100% strategic disinvestment of the Government of India shareholding in RINL along with management control by way of privatization.The employees have formed an umbrella organisation in the name of joint action committee (JAC) comprising the Centre for Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) and have decided to step up the agitation in protest against the privatisation move.“We shall begin with a massive rally in Visakhapatnam with thousands of employees on Friday. Later, we shall tour all parts of the state to highlight our cause,” Adinarayana said.Though having an installed capacity of 21 million tonnes per year, the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant has presently been operating with a production capacity of only 7.3 million tonnes.“The basic reason for this underperformance of the plant is lack of raw material. Unlike Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), Tata Steel, Jindal Steel and other such plants, the VSP does not have its captive iron ore mine. We have been depending on the supplies from Bailadila mines being run by the National Mineral Development Corporation and importing coking coal from Austria,” another senior employee VM Naidu said.He said because the other steel plants have their own captive mines, they are able to get the iron ore at a cost of ₹1500 per tonne, whereas the RINL was spending ₹7,000 per tonne. “We require 20,000 tonnes every day and that is resulting in huge losses to the company,” Naidu said.Established in 1988 after massive agitations, the RINL has been witnessing several ups and downs in the last two decades. “In 2003-04, the company was referred to the Board for Industrial Finance and Reconstruction (BIFR) for winding up due to losses, but we agitated then, too. We assured the government that we shall work hard to make the company turnaround and within two years, we proved it,” J Ayodhya Ramu, president of CITU, Vizag Steel, said.The RINL has been incurring losses over a period of time, but occasionally, it has also been making profits. In 2017-18, it incurred net losses worth ₹1,321 crore, but the next year, it bounced back with a net profit of ₹96 crore. “However, due to a slump in the market and later the Covid-19 pandemic, the production has come down resulting in losses in the next two years,” he said.“Even now, if the Central government allocates captive iron ore mines to the steel plant, we challenge that we can bring the plant back on profits and also make it run to full capacity,” Ramu said.According to Naidu, there are around 17,000 permanent employees in the RINL, besides another 16,000 contractual workers. Another 40,000 people are depending on the steel plant indirectly in the allied activities. “All their lives will be in jeopardy if the government privatises the steel plant,” he said.The employees’ unions are apprehensive that the Centre is planning to dispose of the steel plant along with lands and machinery to South Korean giant POSCO. “In fact, last year itself, the Union steel ministry signed an agreement with POSCO to set up a joint venture with RINL in the available land. But we strongly resisted. Now, they are coming through the backdoor method,” Ramu alleged.Vizag Steel has around 22,000 acres of land, acquired by the state government for the steel plant. “At the present market value, each acre costs around ₹5 crore. So, the land value itself is more than ₹one lakh crore. The Centre is likely to sell this prime property to private parties for a song, which we will strongly resist,” the trade union leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vizag-steel-plant-staff-preps-for-agitation-against-move-to-privatise-company-101612461992531.html
04-02-2021||India||Andhra govt to buy 14,000 million units of power from 10 solar power producers||The Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday finalised the power purchase agreements with 10 solar power producers with a total installed capacity of 6,400 megawatts of power that would supply 14,000 million units of power to the state at the lowest-ever tariff of ₹2.48 per unit.Out of these 10 solar power projects, four would be set up in Kadapa, three in Anantapur, two in Prakasam and one in Kurnool districts. The bidders who won the projects include big players like National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and Adani group, an official statement from the chief minister’s office said in the evening.The official note said the average tariff at which these power plants would supply to the state is ₹2.48 per unit, which is significantly lower than the tariff at which power distribution companies in the state are procuring power from other power generators.“The state will now procure 14,000 million units of power every year at this tariff from these power plants whose total installed capacity would be 6,400 MW. This additional power purchase will help the state meet the demand for uninterrupted power supply requirements of farmers free of cost,” the official note said.Every year, the state has to bear a burden of ₹10,000 crore on free power supply in the form of subsidy to Discoms. “The purchase of power at cheaper tariff from these solar power plants would reduce the subsidy burden to a large extent,” the note said.The present tariff of Rs. 2.48 would result in a savings of nearly ₹3,800 crores in the very first year and this saving is likely to increase over the years as the tariff would remain the same.“The present value of benefit accruing to the Andhra Pradesh Government exchequer over the life of this project can conservatively be estimated at ₹50,000 crore. Since these solar power projects are Build-Own-Transfer (BOT) projects, they would be transferred to the state government after 30 years,” the note said.It reminded that during the previous Telugu Desam Party regime, power purchase agreements were signed with various solar power companies at exorbitant tariffs, ranging from ₹5.25 to ₹5.90 per unit. “The developers got unreasonably high returns on their investments and the State government and the Discoms had been subjected to a very huge financial burden,” the CMO note said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-to-buy-14-000-million-units-of-power-from-10-solar-plants-101612462023913.html
04-02-2021||India||Govt has empowered farmers: Modi||LUCKNOW Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday listed out all that his government has done to empower India’s farmers in the 2021 Budget and in prior years, in another outreach to protestors demanding the repeal of three contentious farm laws aimed at opening up agricultural markets..For one thing, the government has decided to connect at least 1,000 mandis (agricultural markets) to the eNAM online agricultural trading platform to turn the markets into centres of profit for farmers, the prime minister said in a speech by video link to mark the centenary of the Chauri Chaura event, a landmark moment in the history of India’s freedom struggle. “Now, when farmers go to mandis to sell their produce they will be able to do so with ease at any place across the country,” said the Prime Minister, who released a stamp to mark the centenary.In addition, Modi noted that the Centre had allocated ₹40,000 crore for the development of rural infrastructure in the budget for financial year 2021-22, which has been described by many economists as a growth-oriented package aimed at boosting the pandemic-ravaged economy.”Farmers will directly benefit from investment in the infrastructure sector,” the PM said. “The decision of the Centre will make farmers atmanirbhar (self-reliant). Agriculture will turn into a profitable venture for farmers.” February 4 marks 100 years of an event that took place in Chauri Chaura, a village in Gorakhpur district of Uttar Pradesh, known as United Province in British India, when a large group of protesters participating in Mahatma Gandhi’s non-cooperation movement clashed with the police, who opened fire. In retaliation, the protestors set fire to a police station. The incident left three civilians and 22 policemen dead. Days later, a saddened Gandhi halted the non-cooperation movement. Modi said the fire lit by the protestors was not confined to the police precinct. It reached the hearts of the people of India, infusing them with the desire for achieving independence from colonial rule. Modi’s speech has come amid protests by thousands of farmers massed on the borders of the national capital demanding the repeal of three contentious laws pushed through by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government.The laws aim to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce by setting up free markets, which will co-exist with regulated markets, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements.Farm unions say free markets under the laws will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices and make them vulnerable to exploitation by corporate giants. The Supreme Court put the three laws on hold on January 12.In his speech, Modi said farmers had contributed record foodgrain production during the pandemic year, and become the base of progress achieved by the country. Modi said the Swamitwa Yojana (Ownership Scheme) launched by the government in Uttar Pradesh last year will also benefit farmers, who will receive documents of ownership of their land and houses. The ownership document will not only raise the value of their property, but they will also get loan from banks with ease, Modi said.“Efforts of the government are changing the scenario in the Gorakhpur region, known as the land of revolutionaries. Earlier, factories were closed, roads were damaged and hospitals remained closed. Now, the Gorakhpur fertiliser factory is starting. Farmers will benefit and young people will get employment, :he said. Modi said the Budget will enable the country meet the challenges on the road ahead in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Before the budget was presented, several experts said the country faces a crisis and the centre will have to increase taxes, put the burden on the common man. But the centre ensured that no burden was put on the people,” Modi said. The Centre has, instead, decided to increase spending to accelerate development. “Expenditure will be on construction of wide roads to connect villages with towns, mandis and markets; construction of bridges, laying of railway tracks, starting new trains, buses; improvement of education; to provide more opportunities of employment to the young,” he said. He also mentioned India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and its vaccination drive from which, Modi said, several countries were drawing lessons. Alongside manufacturing Covid-19 vaccines, India is exporting them to countries who need them, he said. “Now, the Centre is working to provide quality medical facilities to people in rural areas so that they do not have to go to cities for treatment of minor health problems. To ensure that they do not face any problem in getting medical services, a big decision has been taken in the budget -- now modern testing laboratories will be established in each district and people will get health services in villages too. The Centre has increased the budget allocation for the health sector,” he said. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu said the Prime Minister should also have paid tribute to the 150 farmers who have died in the course of the protest, accusing the government of betraying farmers. “Farmers across the country have united to launch a movement against the government, he said. Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati has demanded a repeal of the three laws in solidarity with the protesting farmers, the party’s general secretary Lalji Verma said. “Instead of talking with the farmers, the central government is trying to suppress their movement. It clearly shows the anti- farmer attitude of the central government,” Verma said. Samajwadi Party’s national president and former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav said the Bharatiya Janata Party should take a lesson from the Chauri Chaura movement, and repeal the three laws.Hem Chandra Singh, president of the Purvanchal Kisan Union, said that instead of talking to the farmers, the Centre was trying to suppress their agitation, which is against the spirit of the freedom struggle and the ideals of Chauri Chaura activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-has-empowered-farmers-modi-101612462090858.html
04-02-2021||India||We’ve sought to address needs, efficiency, equity: NK Singh||The Constitution, through Article 280 to 281, provides for finance commissions every five years as a mechanism for sharing of taxes and revenues vertically between the Centre and states; and horizontally among all states, based on levels of development, demographic outcomes, prosperity and regional needs. The final report of the 15th Finance Commission for 2021-26 has now been made public. The Union government, in its action taken report on the commission’s report tabled in Parliament, has accepted most of the recommendations, and overtly rejected none. The 15th FC had the onerous task of devolving resources at a time when the pandemic has devastated the economy, shrinking the resource pie. The chairman of the 15th FC, NK Singh, spoke to Zia Haq about the report. Edited excerpts:What were the philosophical underpinnings and approach of the 15th FC? Your report states that “stability and predictability of resources is an essential component of good long-term budgeting for both Union and States”. The history of the Finance Commission is embedded in the legacy of unalloyed confidence and trust. When the Constituent Assembly in its debates was unable to come to a conclusion of how the resources were to be divided between the Union and states, various mechanisms were considered at that time. Earlier it was said that nothing was shareable, except income tax, and you know the finance commission in a sense is older than our Constitution, because the Independence was in 1947, whereas the Constitution came into play only in 1950. So, there was a period they had appointed an interim chairman of the finance commission under CD Deshmukh because the Constituent Assembly had asked him to do it. He had given a certain framework on the division of resources. Then the Constitution got adopted and the 1st FC under KC Neogi was constituted. Since then it has had an unbroken legacy, an unbroken record embedded in bipartisanship, fair play and has been totally ideologically neutral. In terms of receiving the requests, each of the states and the Union government… and then looking at what would be their expenditure, looking at their likely revenue, what would be a fair distribution of these resources between the entities of the Union and the states, and thereafter what would be a reasonable basis for allocation. And if there were obvious gaps after the revenue expenditure of the state had been calibrated in an optimum way and the revenues had been projected in a somewhat optimistic way. Now, if there were inescapable gaps, what amount of it was reasonable to fill up by taking recourse to Article 275 of the Constitution, by way of revenue-deficit grants. Thereafter, two big changes took place. One was that the third tier (urban local bodies and panchayats) was brought into play by the two constitutional amendments (73rd and 74th), which assigned responsibilities to the FCs and second, the Disaster Management Act 2005 was enacted and it became customary for assignment of resources for disaster management. Also, it gave greater latitude to the President in asking the FC’s views on any other matter which the president may choose in the interest of sound finance. Over these 72 years or so, the dynamics of the Indian economy have changed enormously. From an economy originally depended on imported foodgrains and scrambling for shortage of foreign exchange to an economy, given the liberalisation and successive crisis, that has matured and evolved, we see that the needs and obligations from the states have increased. There are two important points. One is the recognition that the Union government had obligations that went beyond the strict interpretation of the 7th Schedule of the Constitution (which specifies allocation of subjects between Union and states, containing three lists: Union list, state list and concurrent list), namely what went beyond what was assigned to the Union government in terms of taking care of national priorities of the states. The birth of centrally sponsored schemes and the central outlays… these were important changes. Second was that the number of states increased rather significantly, many states required special treatment particularly, those who have a small population, hilly terrain etc. So these transformative changes have led to the evolution of the role, responsibility and obligation of the FCs. What states look forward to most in every report is the devolution formula, which you have maintained. It’s 41%, with a 1% downward adjustment (from 42% earlier) because of two new Union territories. You assigned a weight of 12.5% for demographic performance, which is the inverse of the fertility rate. You have said the 2011 Census better represents the needs of states. Was the biggest challenge for you was to not penalise efficient states, demographically speaking, at the cost of the inefficient? When the 15th FC was constituted, there were great worries. In the terms of reference, the President asked the commission to use the data of the 2011 Census in respect of the population criteria if population was to be used as a criterion for purposes of the assignment of the horizontal distribution. Then, there were strong protests by some states, particularly the southern states, because they would be big losers because they had controlled population well. It was argued that it would result in rewarding the inefficient and penalising the efficient. It was a challenge to therefore deal with this conundrum. We had no option because use of the 2011 data was a given fact by the president. It is the president’s right to assign a particular way in which we look at the criteria. Now, what are the options we had? One option, which was a hypothetical option, was... in total neglect of any past practice to ignore population completely as a criterion and to do it on the basis of some other criterion. The Constitution doesn’t bind me to use any particular criterion. But then we came to the conclusion that let us see what else could we have used. Some suggestions were made that maybe we could do it on the basis of per capita income. The result would have been that again the states that have the lowest per capita income would have the highest population density. In effect it would have meant that those states where rates of growth had been poor would get rewarded unduly and states with higher growth rates would get penalised. So the income distance criteria would begin to also mirror this phenomenon. So we went back to the drawing board and said, why not take the bull by the horn? Why not face the problem squarely and say, yes, there’s an X amount which used to be historically given on the basis of weightage to population in the horizontal formula and now we have to use the 2011 (population data) and break that into two parts. One part you give it on the basis of population, whatever weight you assign, and two, you actively reward states that have managed their demography better; which reflects what? Namely, greater investments they have made in girl-child education, managed their health parameters better, and have got a better governance matrix. So, in many ways assigning a positive weight in demographic management embedded the investments those states had made in the social sector particularly health and education. We found that in this way we would be able to mitigate any adverse consequences to some extent of what would be the outcome. Broadly speaking, in this horizontal distribution, there are three important factors which we have pointed out in the report. We have sought to balance need, efficiency and equity. The population reflects the need; the weight given to geographical area represents the need; the income distance criterion, namely the per capita income, represents the equity part. In what way are we rewarding efficiency? By giving weightage to the demographic criteria and also giving some weightage to the fiscal achievements to the state. So in some ways therefore if you look at these, each of these criteria...the forest area also represents the need... are evenly divided in some ways. Many of the southern states were extremely nervous about what would happen to them. They feared that they would be penalised for getting their population under control. Do you think you have adequately addressed those concerns now? Adequacy is a subjective norm. The best way this would have been addressed is a situation where we hadn’t used population as a criteria at all. But then I explained you would have had other kind of choices. Instead of saying ‘adequately addressed’, let me say ‘reasonably mitigated’, or ‘responsibly mitigated’. The concern of the southern states was not only the award of the 15th FC, but they looked a bit ahead -- that if, for the purpose of the delimitation of the constituencies, this was going to be the pattern of using the most contemporary population census data, what would happen in terms of the nature their representation in Parliament and the size of their Assemblies, and therefore the number of the seats they would elect to Rajya Sabha. That was fortunately not a concern with us but I know that embedded in their minds was also this particular concern. You could say that we have tried to in some ways redressed this in a manner we considered appropriate. In spite of what we did as we had done, to mitigate this , it turned out to be that many of the states would have had a huge yawning resource deficit. That is why, ₹2.95 lakh crore given by way of revenue-deficit grants... if you look at the states who are beneficiaries of this, huge amount has gone to Andhra Pradesh, huge amount has gone to Kerala. Kerala was one of the states where the demographic management was one of the best. Some has gone to Telangana. The way we have calibrated these revenue-deficit grants, we looked at this... as you can see there’s one full volume in the report devoted to the states. We subjected each of the states to very careful scrutiny, then we worked out what would be the minimum inescapable revenue expenditure, we compressed that and calculated the maximum amount of resources that they were likely to generate on a normative basis and concluded that this is the inescapable gap between the inescapable minimum expenditure and what is likely to be the optimum revenue. We have therefore assigned revenue-deficit grants. A fair amount of that has gone to states who would have been the unaddressed factor in spite of the mitigation on account of the use of the 2011 data. Have we succeeded totally? One classic example to be honest is that we have not been able to take care of, for instance, Karnataka because it has managed its finances in a reasonable way and their expenditures have very low and their revenues have been reasonable. So I have no answer to this question. A state like Karnataka I was not able to give revenue-deficit grant. I couldn’t reinvent a formula to overcome this handicap. I did try to address the concerns of Karnataka by giving them some state-specific grants for the rejuvenation of lakes and water bodies and some important places, particularly rejuvenation of Bangalore and Mysore. Do you think some states would still have reasonable grounds to complain? Sure, I think that is quite legitimate. We must also recognise that for many FCs, the weightage given to per capita income was much more than what we have given. If we had stuck to those weightages, their injury would have been far more significant. The issue of equity would have got greatly compromised. The lowest per capita income is of Bihar. Bihar, UP and Rajasthan, these are known as the really backward states. You would recall that in the earlier government, they appointed a committee under Raghuram Rajan to come up with the multiple index on the backwardness of states. In that multiple index Raghu had done at that time, Bihar and Odisha were at the rock bottom. In this case, Odisha has also done better subsequent to Raghu’s report; Odisha has managed its demography also well; so Odisha is not too happy Maybe this will get mitigated when some of their special projects, such as the cyclone, get addressed. You have recommended a fiscal glide path whose imprint is more or less clear in the Budget. You have also recommended a committee to review the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBM). What prompted this? In the FRMB committee, which I chaired, what we were aiming at then and also during the terminal period of the 15th FC, was to look at the debt-to-GDP (ratio) to be 60% -- 40 for the Central government, and 20 for the states. We had done a calibrated fiscal-deficit trajectory which would enable this level of debt to be reached. So that’s now embedded in history, and overtaken by events in a very dramatic way. We are no more in that world. The world has changed in some important respects: The pandemic permanently changed the structure of the global economy. When I chaired the FRBM committee, the focus was the central government and as far as the states were concerned the committee said this would be left to a subsequent FC. I didn’t know then I was going to head that FC. But investors look at the general government debt. FDI looks to general government. So that FRBM which had reference to the central government, where states were not in the picture, has changed. That’s why I proposed that we need to have a fundamental re-look at this overall framework, the changed global context and the changed national context in which we make the states and the central government equal partners. That is why I have not given a point (for fiscal deficit) both for the central government and the states, but a range (of fiscal deficit). Why had I suggested a fixed point in the FRBM committee? The reason is in parliamentary democracies, the tendency is to adhere to the upper end of the range given the populist pressures for public outlays.That logic doesn’t hold good anymore. Giving fixed number is to build in inflexibility and I am increasingly coming around to the view that this framework needs not to be pro-cyclical, it needs to work in accordance with the tandem of the cycle; and therefore a cyclically adjusted fiscal deficit and debt norm would be more appropriate. I have given the states a leeway to go up to 4% and taper down to 3% (fiscal deficit) much later. I have given a 0.5% leeway for purposes of reform in the power sector. Why did I select [the] power [sector]? When I visited all the states, the giant and the gorilla in the room is power. Look at any state’s finances, it is the power sector and unbridged financial gaps in the power sector that is critical. The 0.5% headroom for borrowing by states was quite in line with what we had experienced during our visit to states. If there is a shortfall in Goods and Services Tax compensation, and states have to borrow, that should not be debited against what we have proposed i.e. 4% and 0.5. The important thing I realised is that there no point in any debt framework which doesn’t involve the partnership of the states. Given the events of the last year, do you think our thinking of fiscal mathematics not just in India but the world has undergone a change? I would say yes. Who else, if you think among the global economists, write and have written continuously on this? I am not going to an extreme version like Larry Summers (former chief economist of the World Bank)... no Larry is not one who may be regarded as a fiscal fetishist, but there were others like Stanley Fischer (former vice chair of US Federal Reserve). Stan has been writing and saying that the entire literature in relation to the fiscal issue by eminent economists has undergone a rethink in terms of the importance of the role of public outlays, particularly on the need for them to play a proactive role on rejuvenating of infrastructure and more importantly employment, given in terms of what (labour-saving) technologies have done and also in terms of health and education. So I agree with you that the literature on fiscal policy has undergone a change. To give you an anecdote, I was invited to give a lecture to the finance ministers of all Commonwealth countries. The title of my lecture was fiscal forbearance. People talk of monetary forbearance. But I talked of fiscal forbearance in times of this kind, which represents in some ways the changing ethos. Similarly, in the last OECD fiscal networking conference, the thinking on this fiscal issue has been an evolving one. OECD has been one of the flag carriers with regard to adherence to fiscal policies. The Germans have had a very strong influence if you recall. So all that... I agree entirely has undergone and is undergoing a change. In our federation, it’s much more important for the states to become increasingly involved in all of this. If I were to ask you a hypothetical question, that if there was no implicit guarantee upon the charge of the consolidated fund of each individual state government, don’t you think that the market would have displayed their hesitation. For instance, if we looked anecdotally at the debt today of Punjab, it’s so high, and yet Punjab successfully borrows market development loans because there is an implicit state guarantee and unlike the US constitution, there is no such thing as federal bankruptcy. California can get bankrupt, I cannot imgaine any state becoming bankrupt. The issue of the sovereign guarantee -- that’s why I think we need to consider the states and the Centre in a holistic way. The hobbling implementation of GST has been a structural problem and the 15th FC has made key recommendations to reform it, including simplifying the inverted duty structure. Your comments. I have a feeling that there is deep realisation on the part of the finance minister, reflected in the statement I have seen by the revenue secretary on this issue of GST, and he was asked this pointed question maybe by your paper, about the 15th FC recommendation in our fairly robust chapter on resources (Chapter 5, Volume I), and what he intended to do. He said ‘these are all work in progress’ and because of the pandemic, the GST Council has not been able to deliberate on them. I think clearly on this whole story of invoice matching, you could see the budget talking on this, on invoice manipulation, and in terms of much better compliance... you see there are fundamental issues of the inverted duty structure, there are issues of moving towards a more standardised set of rates. I am not wanting to take the extreme view of one rate only but you can have one standard rate, one merit (goods) rate and one which may be called the penal rate but no more than three (rates) and we have said so. It is our expectation and sanguine belief that our key suggestions would be considered by the GST Council. It is of vital concern. I’m happy to say the finance minister and finance secretary are acutely aware of all of this and will take it as soon as things return to normalcy. You have said that the efficiency measure of the GST is around 50% and can be taken up to advanced economy benchmarks of 60%. What else will it take? The literature on how and what has been called the revenue-neutral rate and there’s been a lot of debate on this. I recall that years ago, when the idea of GST had begun to take shape and I was still the revenue secretary, we had worked out a revenue-neutral rate, which was in the region of 14-15%. The average rate what we see now is 11%. What I mean really is that these are not necessarily raising rates but these are within the entire basket that you need to recalibrate in a manner which would approximate what would be regarded by economists a revenue-neutral rate. That would mean a deeper rationalisation in many ways. So I believe that the GST Council which I had the privilege to address once also believed that future FCs should have a greater partnership with the GST Council because the two are very intimately connected. You have looked at the whole idea of defence in somewhat innovative way and recommended creation of a non-lapsable defence and security fund. On defence, we got special terms of reference. It was not, so to say, spontaneous. I had the experience of working in the ministry of home also looking after paramilitary forces. In that sense I have a little bit of hangover. I realised having been expenditure secretary that there was a huge mismatch between the expenditure cycle and financial cycle of the defence ministry. The procurements are so complicated and the need to be clear of any controversy that by the time they are ready, the finances are not there. There is this inherent mismatch with regards to capital expenditure. Also, I realised the need for predictability and stability for the capital expenditure on the defence side. Keeping pace with technology often meant that they need a resource. So I played with many ideas. The other thing was how to make states partners in this process. The issue of defence really transcends any list. I obtained many legal opinions on this. I obtained the opinion of (Kesava) Parasaran. When I had gone to the late Mr Jaitley, for whom I had great affection, I asked him that there is this complex issue which is troubling me; he said there is only one person who will know but will not give you the opinion. I said why, because he is 93 years old. Yet, I rang up Parasaran, who gave important opinions. One, he said I cannot play around what is in the divisible pool and there’s nothing I can to do to impose any condition on the resources from the divisible pool and that will have a constitutional infirmity. Second, he said there’s no question that the defence of India is of paramount responsibility. So then we were hard put to fund resources. I visited some of the defence establishments. I visited Pangong, Leh, I saw some of the stuff. We said we must create a non-lapsable defence fund and to bridge this asymmetric cycle. I had done so for the road cess. That’s how I came up with the non-lapsable fund and the funding of it. In defence funding what I have done, before the fund becomes a part of the divisible pool, you understand the gross revenue reciepts (GRR) and gross tax revenue (GTR), I calibrated the GRR by 1% and got the amount which I wanted, and added it to the monetisation of the surplus defence land, added it to the proceeds of the disinventment of defence units, and added it to the liabilities of different entities which owed to defence establishments. So four sources of income outlined towards the creation of a non-lapsable fund. Can you talk about any discomfort that states have right now with the new kind of fiscal federalist architecture that’s come in where it’s becoming increasingly difficult to sort of segregate matters of financial management of states? I think that area also needs a rethink. Do you think if I had asked you the hypopthetical question that the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution (the part which divides domains into central, states and joint Centre-states jurisdiction) has outlived its purpose, what would be the answer? In my view, yes. The Seventh Schedule decided to classify between the three categories... what would be in the exclusive category of the Union, exclusive domain of the states, and what would be in the concurrent list. There was a degree of clarity in that. Over a period of time, you have really transgressed from one end to the other. Most of the centrally sponsored schemes are subjects which are classic subjects in the domain of the states, such as employment, food, education. You have now standalone parliamentary legislation, which are justiciable, in areas such as employment like MNREGA, you have given a major boost to resources for right to education. Take for example a function number one for states, which is law and order. They have taken up a whole new centrally sponsored scheme under health. So the Seventh Schedule requires a revisit. So does the entry under Article 282 of the Constitution which has been used and misused for having all the centrally sponsored schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weve-sought-to-address-needs-efficiency-equity-nk-singh-101612462090254.html
04-02-2021||India||Will not enter Delhi, say farmers as police prepare for chakka jam||New Delhi/KarnalFarm unions agitating against three agriculture laws announced on Thursday that no protester will enter Delhi during a three-hour nationwide highway blockade on February 6 in a bid to avoid a repeat of the clashes and violence witnesses on Republic Day. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana drummed up support for the chakka jam, scheduled between 12pm and 3pm on Saturday, held village-level meetings and deputed special security volunteers to avert any clashes with security forces.In Delhi, Union home minister Amit Shah met national security adviser Ajit Doval and Delhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava inside the Parliament complex to review the security situation. The Centre had already conveyed to Delhi Police that additional central paramilitary forces are on standby if required. Currently over 60 companies (6,000 personnel) of central paramilitary forces are assisting Delhi Police at the borders.Farm leaders said cultivators camping at Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur borders, and those who will join them by Friday, will carry out the chakka jam at their respective venues. “Farmers will block the highways in their respective states and no attempt will be made to enter Delhi. In case anyone gets stuck during the chakka jam, they will be served water and food by the farmers. We will also explain to them the reason behind our protest and what the government is doing with us,” Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said at the Ghazipur border.During this chakka jam – the first big event by the agitators after the Republic Day tractor rally went out of control and protesters ran riot on Delhi’s streets – farmer leaders assured that they will not stop ambulances and fire brigades.“We would like to request the people to cooperate with farmers on February 6, just for three hours, and let’s do our protest peacefully,” said Manjeet Singh Rai, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba). Many farmers said they will ask family members and supporters to block roads peacefully in their home states. “We are already sitting on a highway and we will continue doing so. We need people to participate in the chakka jam in different parts of the country. We are urging people to stay back at their places and support us from there,” said farmer leader Jagtar Singh Bajwa. Farmer leaders held meetings with people in various states to discuss the plan to avoid the scenes from Republic Day, when farmers ran riot during a tractor rally on Republic Day, storming the Red Fort and hoisting the Sikh flag from its ramparts.“From the security point of view, farm leaders, as well as volunteers, have been visiting all tractor trolleys and tents and telling people to remain non-violent. Volunteers in security duty will remain present at the border points to ensure nobody crosses the line,” said Lakhbir Singh, a farmer leader.Rai said that to strengthen their numbers, announcements were made in villages in Punjab that R1,500 will be collected as a fine from people who didn’t visit Delhi borders.“This announcement is having an impact now as many farmers have come from those villages in Punjab from where not a single participation was made in the past 70-71 days. We don’t want our agitation to die in the absence of protesters,” said Rai.Farmers at the Tikri border also said that they will avoid getting into confrontation. “Only anti-social elements resorted to violence on Republic Day. For the past two months, farmers had been protesting peacefully and the same will continue on February 6,” said Bijender Pal, a farmer from Mansa in Punjab.Across Punjab and Haryana, farmers held meetings. Response was especially enthusiastic in Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar as local people thronged toll plazas. “This agitation is at its peak and we need your support to win it,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni in Kurukshetra district. He said block-level meetings were held to fix responsibilities and they were finalising locations to block highways.In Delhi, police officers said that their strengthened security arrangements, deployment of security personnel and closure of the three borders will continue. The protest sites have turned into fortresses with police digging trenches, putting up barbed wire fences, concrete barricades and hammering beds of nails on roads. A senior police officer, who did want to be named, said intelligence inputs were being received that farmers may try to enter Delhi from several borders for the chakka jam and stopping them may lead to confrontation with the police.“Whenever there is a call for any such event (nationwide chakka jam), Delhi Police always make security arrangements to maintain law and order and avoid inconvenience to the public. Our police personnel will be deployed at the borders and on the streets across the city to manage traffic and security,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.In Haryana, district administrations across the state said they were making arrangements to deal with the situation. “We are holding talks with farmers and urging them not to block Delhi-Chandigarh, National Highway 44 as this may cause problems for thousands of commuters”, said Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-enter-delhi-say-farmers-as-police-prepare-for-chakka-jam-101612461970196.html
04-02-2021||India||US says it supports reform but cautions against curbs||The US on Thursday weighed in on the ongoing farmers’ agitation at New Delhi’s borders for the first time since it began in November-end, saying peaceful protests and unhindered access to information, including the internet, were hallmarks of a “thriving democracy”, but at the same time backed reforms that would increase efficiency of Indian markets and attract more private investment.The carefully worded response by Joe Biden’s administration also encouraged a “dialogue” between farmers and the government to end the agitation that has been getting global attraction with international celebrities such as pop star Rihanna and green activist Greta Thunberg tweeting in support of the protesters. The external affairs ministry said the comments by the US must be seen in their entirety, while pointing out that State Department “has acknowledged” India’s steps towards reforms, which have emerged as a point of contention. The government also appeared to draw parallels between a farmers’ rally on January 26 that plunged into chaos and the January 6 storming of the US Capitol by Donald Trump’s supporters protesting election results that declared his defeat in the presidential race.“We recognise that peaceful protests are a hallmark of any thriving democracy and note that the Indian Supreme Court has stated the same,” a US State Department spokesperson said in Washington in response to a request for comment from US media. A version of it was provided to HT. “We encourage that any differences between the parties be resolved through dialogue.”In New Delhi, a US embassy spokesperson echoed a similar response. The State Department did not mention anything specific to three new farm laws that have triggered the agitation (now in its 71st day), but appeared supportive of reforms. “In general, the United States welcomes steps that would improve the efficiency of India’s markets and attract greater private sector investment,” the spokesperson said.“We recognise that unhindered access to information, including the internet, is fundamental to the freedom of expression and a hallmark of a thriving democracy,” the spokesperson added, a remark that came in the backdrop of internet curbs at protest sites. Asked about the US position at a news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “Any protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the ongoing efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse.” Describing India and the US as vibrant democracies with shared values, Srivastava added: “The incidents of violence and vandalism at the historic Red Fort on January 26 have evoked similar sentiments and reactions in India as did the incidents on the Capitol Hill on January 6 and are being addressed as per our respective local laws.” He said “temporary measures” on internet access in parts of the National Capital Region were “undertaken to prevent further violence”. Michael Kugelman, South Asia expert at leading think-tank Wilson Center, Washington’s comments were unlikely to trouble the Narendra Modi government.“What strikes me about these comments is their neutrality. Aside from some soft criticism that the State Department made about the internet blocks...they don’t convey anything that New Delhi would find disagreeable. Washington is essentially saying it agrees with India’s new farm laws and with any peaceful protestors that may oppose them,” Kugelman said.Milan Vaishnav, South Asia expert with Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said, “I actually found the State Department statement to be quite balanced. While the statement reiterates the right of Indians to peacefully protest, it also expressed its support for the underlying motivations of the farm reform bills. In my view, I think U.S. diplomats threaded the needle very well. I would also add that the MEA seems to have also picked up on this--highlighting, in its response, U.S. support for continued market reforms in agriculture. The MEA statement also links the Jan 26th incursion at the Red Fort to the January 6 Capitol insurrection, a not-so-subtle message that the U.S. is facing its own domestic infirmities.”Tens of thousands of farmers have camped at Delhi’s borders, demanding the repeal of the three contentious laws passed by Parliament in September. Eleven rounds of talks between the protesters and the government have failed to break the impasse. Protesters say the laws will hurt their livelihood and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government defends the laws as necessary for long-overdue reforms in the agriculture sector.On Republic Day, violence broke out during a tractor rally by farmers after a section of the protesters veered off the routes agreed with police and resorted to vandalism. Clashes broke out in several places, including the 17th-century Red Fort and the ITO intersection. On that day, internet services were suspended, albeit temporarily, at three key protest sites — Singhu and Tikri (on Haryana border), and Ghazipur (on Uttar Pradesh border). Services were suspended again on January 29 for two days, and then extended till February 3.After the violence, authorities stepped up security at the protest sites, placing iron spikes and steel barricades to prevent the agitators from entering Delhi.The agitation landed in global spotlight after Rihanna, who has 101 million followers, tweeted a CNN news report about internet curbs on Tuesday. Meena Harris, an American lawyer and niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, actor Amanda Cerny, singers Jay Sean and Dr Zeus, and US sporting icons Juju Smith Schuster, Baron Davis and Kyle Kuzma supported the farmers. They were joined by lawmakers from the UK, the US and other countries.On Wednesday, India said criticism by foreign celebrities and attempts to “mobilise international support” against the country on the government’s handling of the protests without ascertaining facts were “neither accurate nor responsible”. In a rare statement, the external affairs ministry contended that “vested interest groups” were trying to enforce their agenda, referring to “sensationalist social media hashtags and comments” by “celebrities and others”. It didn’t name anyone.While Indian movie stars such as Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn said citizens should focus on the government’s efforts to resolve the farmers’ crisis, others appeared to be on the opposite side of the debate. “If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief then it’s you who has to work on strengthening your value system not become ‘propaganda teacher’ for others,” actor Taapsee Pannu posted.The tug of war continued on Thursday. Opposition parties stepped up attack on the government even as leaders of the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) launched a counter-offensive.“The issue is not Rihanna or Greta Thunberg or any individual. The issue is the manner in which the government is countering the farmers’ protests as though they were an invading army,” senior Congress leader and former Union minister P Chidambaram tweeted. “There are many Gretas among Indian women and girls, but they are shackled by poverty, social constraints and fear. Sooner than later, India’s Gretas will find their voices and speak in favour of the farmers,” he added.Late on Thursday evening, farm leader Rakesh Tikait said, “If some foreigner is supporting the movement, then what’s the problem? They are not giving or taking anything from us.”In Nagpur, BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis told reporters that there was an international conspiracy to defame India and spark chaos and unrest in the country. “How an international conspiracy is going on has been revealed with the tweets. India is being defamed using the platform of farmers’ protest,” Fadnavis was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Valerie Vaz, a senior MP of Britain’s Labour Party and sister of former lawmaker Keith Vaz, wrote a letter to foreign minister Dominic Raab to reiterate the concerns of her constituents regarding events related to the farmers’ protest. The Indian-origin MP was among 35 British lawmakers to take up the farmers’ protest with Raab before he visited India in December. Vaz asked Raab to contact the Indian government “as a matter of urgency regarding these concerning events”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-says-it-supports-reform-but-cautions-against-curbs-101612461910208.html
04-02-2021||India||AIADMK files police complaint after Sasikala flies party flag in her car||Tamil Nadu’s ruling AIADMK on Thursday evening lodged a complaint with Tamil Nadu director general of police, J K Tripathy against expelled leader V K Sasikala for using the party’s flag in her car after she was discharged from Bengaluru’s Victoria hospital on January 31The complaint is the latest in a series of actions by the AIADMK which is tightening its grip on the party apparatus ahead of Sasikala’s return to Chennai on February 8, a day later than originally planned.Law minister C V Shunmugam, fisheries minister D Jayakumar and other senior AIADMK leaders went to the DGP’s office to file the complaint seeing action against Sasikala.“Only AIADMK’s cadre and leadership can use the flag...Sasikala has no right to use the flag,” K Munusamy, deputy coordinator of AIADMK told reporters after submitting the complaint. He added that according to the party by-laws, once every five years existing office bearers should also renew their membership which wasn’t done by Sasiakla so she ceased to be a member.After meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi in January, chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami had made clear that the party will not take back Sasikala.After Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016, the AIADMK elected Sasikala as the interim general secretary. She was set to become chief minister but after her imprisonment in February 2017, the warring factions of Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam united. In September 2017, they expelled Sasikala and her nephew TTV Dhinakaran who had launched a breakaway faction - Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK). After her release from prison last month, Dhinakaran said that Sasikala remains the general secretary and her supporters will help her reclaim the AIADMK.A case is pending in the Madras high court where Sasikala has challenged the conduct of a general council meeting that expelled her. Sasikala also plans to file a curative petition to claim the AIADMK's two leaves symbol and name which the election commission allotted to the Palaniswami-led faction in November 2017.The Delhi high court and Supreme court had dismissed her petitions challenging and reviewing this order. Alluding to the fact that curative petitions rarely find success and taking a swipe at Sasikala’s family belonging to Mannargudi, Shunmugam said, “Beyond this if she wants to proceed with the case, she can go to the United Nations or the Mannargudi panchayat.”On Wednesday night, the AIADMK removed its Karnataka secretary M P Yuvaraj for planning to meet Sasikala. in the past week, the party has sacked several functionaries for putting up posters welcoming Sasikala as the 'party general secretary'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-files-police-complaint-after-sasikala-flies-party-flag-in-her-car-101612460146178.html
04-02-2021||India||Amit Shah meets Delhi top cop, NSA Doval ahead of Chakka Jam on February 6||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday had a meeting with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava inside the parliament complex to review the security situation in Delhi-NCR ahead of the February 6 “Chakka Jam” protest called by farmers’ unions against the Centre’s three farm laws, people familiar with the development said.The ministry of home affairs (MHA) remained tight-lipped about the high level meeting but officials who didn’t want to be named said the Delhi Police Commissioner also updated the home minister about the status of investigation in the January 26 violence near Red Fort and Income Tax Office during the farmers’ tractor rally as well as deployment of forces at various borders of Delhi.Even though the farmers’ unions have said the Chakka Jam will not be held in Delhi, the government doesn’t want to take any chances considering the January 26 tractor rally that was marred by violence and several people including over 500 cops were injured, said an official.Shah is learnt to have directed the Delhi Police to make adequate security arrangements at Delhi’s borders so that the January 26 situation should not arise again. The Centre had already conveyed to the Delhi Police that additional central paramilitary forces are on standby if required. Currently, over 60 companies (6,000 personnel) of central paramilitary forces are assisting the Delhi Police at various borders.The home ministry has also claimed that internet has not been suspended at Delhi’s borders beyond 11 pm on Tuesday.The farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders - Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur for over two months now demanding that the Centre repeal the controversial laws, a demand rejected by the Centre.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities for farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-meets-delhi-top-cop-nsa-doval-ahead-of-chakka-jam-on-february-6-101612460196523.html
04-02-2021||India||On farmers' protest, Sonakshi Sinha says 'don't give in to that narrative'||Bollywood actor Sonakshi Sinha on Thursday said that protesters demanding the repeal of the recently passed farm laws are being vilified for raising their voices against the suppression of basic human rights.The actor took to Instagram to express her disapproval towards tweets posted by celebrities from the film industry and sportspersons who criticised western celebrities who were tweeting in support of farmers. The ministry of external affairs on Wednesday in response to international celebrities tweeting about the farmers’ protests launched two hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda and claimed that vested interests were working towards maligning India’s international image.Sonakshi Sinha in her Instagram Story shared statements that said that the issues of suspension of internet and basic amenities for farmers at Delhi’s borders have now attracted global attention and one should not view the criticisms with an anti-India lens. “Journalists are being harassed. Internet has been banned. Protesters are being vilified through state and media propaganda. Hate speech (desh ke gaddaro ko, goli maro sardaro ko resurfaced) is flourishing. That is the issue that's taken global centre stage,” the statement said. The statements were posted by a handle @storysellercomics, which the Bollywood actor shared.Her Instagram story further added that the tweets made by international celebrities are to reiterate their support for human rights. “To reiterate, (the) news tonight will try to paint a picture that 'outside forces' are trying to meddle in the functioning of our country. Please don't give in to that narrative. It's human, standing up for other humans. THAT'S the narrative,” it said.“The voices raised are about the violation of human rights, suppressions of free internet and expression, state propaganda, hate speech and abuse of power,” it added.After pop artist Rihanna tweeted an article demanding a conversation of the ongoing farmers’ protests, Swedish environmentalist Greta Thunberg, Meena Harris, an American lawyer and niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, actors Amanda Cerni, singers Jay Sean, Dr Zeus and former adult star Mia Khalifa also tweeted in support of farmers' protest.Delhi Police on Thursday registered a case against unknown persons for fomenting ‘disaffection and ill-will against the Indian government’ under the guise of supporting farmers’ unions. Union minister Prakash Javadekar also said that the tweets by international celebrities show that there are ‘vested interests at work’ trying to malign the nation’s image at an international level.Actor Tapsee Pannu, filmmaker Onir, actor Arjun Mathur and few other celebrities also criticised the show of solidarity shown by major celebrities on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-farmers-protest-sonakshi-sinha-says-don-t-give-in-to-that-narrative-101612459286266.html
04-02-2021||India||Budget 2021-22 will fuel entrepreneurial spirit among Indians: Sitharaman||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said despite the devastating impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy, the Budget 2021-22 has not levied any new tax on the people, instead it has relied on non-tax resources other than just disinvestment for enhanced capital investments that will spur growth.“I underline that we have not burdened any section of Indian society with any additional demand for even an additional rupee,” the finance minister said at a closed-door virtual meeting of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI).Sitharaman on Monday unveiled a Union Budget providing significant increase in health and capital expenditure to boost the economy that contracted by 23.9% in the first quarter of the current financial year mainly because of a 68-day hard nationwide lockdown since March 25, 2020, but quickly recovered to contract by a slower 7.5% in the next quarter ended September 30. The recently launched Covid-19 vaccination drive has given a further boost with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) projecting 11.5% growth for India in 2021-22 and the Economic Survey estimating a real growth of 11%.“This Budget marks a clear directional change for the Indian economy and that directional change is not what the government has offered as a sudden response, but it was something that was preoccupying the Indian minds for over 30 years,” she said while addressing FICCI’s national executive committee meeting on Thursday.This Budget is trying to raise resources which are non-tax resources at a time when we need a lot of money to spend, FICCI said in a statement quoting her. “It’s a budget which raises resources but not on the back of increased taxation. There is a directional change in the budget which is so distinct that it will fuel the entrepreneurial spirit which Indians show given the right opportunities,” she added.Stating that revenue generation would improve through this year, she expressed confidence about robust collection of non-tax revenue other than just disinvestments through various other monetisation of assets.Sitharaman also urged the industry to come forward to make investments. “I hope the industry will understand the spirit with which the budget is placed before you and therefore also come forward to participate in this inevitable exercise. Industry, having cleared all its debts and finances, should now be in a position to invest money to expand and grow and clearly show signs that it is now ready to receive any joint ventures for the sake of technology that it prefers to have,” she said.For providing immediate stimulus to the economy, the government will be spending in a big way in public infrastructure and three large areas where big ticket expenditure will happen include infrastructure, health and agriculture. “Government alone, even if it brings bags full of money, cannot meet the demand of growing and aspirational India,” Sitharaman said.Speaking about the Budget proposal to set up Development Financial Institutions (DFI), the finance minister said the government will enable one DFI and the entire financing of long-term infrastructure will happen in a very market-driven way, which itself will bring in efficiency.The government has taken up a confident, trustworthy and transparent accounting statement in our budget, she said. “There is no patching up or white washing. It has made an honest attempt to give an honest statement of the government’s finances and with the reforms announced along with the stimulus. It is clear that this government is not sitting cautiously, and it is coming forward with faith in Indian industry and business leaders,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-2021-22-will-fuel-entrepreneurial-spirit-among-indians-sitharaman-101612451346291.html
04-02-2021||India||BJP MP Nishikant Dubey demands President's rule in Jharkhand||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Nishikant Dubey on Thursday demanded the imposition of the President's rule in Jharkhand alleging that 4,000 rape cases were reported last year in the state and women are not safe there."Our Prime Minister talks of Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao but in last one year, 4,000 rape cases were reported in Jharkhand. Girls and women were murdered after rape. The Chief Minister himself is accused of a 2013 rape case and the matter is being heard in Bombay High Court," Dubey, Lok Sabha MP from Godda constituency of Jharkhand said."Women are not safe there and hence I want to say that it is the favourable condition to impose President''s rule there and hence I want to request that President's rule should be imposed immediately in Jharkhand to protect women," he added.He was speaking during the zero hour in Lok Sabha.The Lower House of the Parliament resumed proceedings after the fourth adjournment, amid sloganeering from Opposition in protest against farm laws. BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi, who was in the Chair, has requested the protesting members to use the Zero Hour to raise important issues.Vishnu Dayal Sharma, BJP MP from Jharkhand's Palamu asked for railways crossings that have been shut down to be opened in his constituency in the state.During Zero Hour, Manoj Tiwari BJP MP from North-East constituency of Delhi raised the issue of education in Delhi. He requested the Education Ministry to provide Navodaya Vidyalaya in his Lok Sabha constituency."A lot of students are failing exams because teachers are either not available or are unable to give attention to children in schools. I don't want to leave the important matter of education on the Delhi government so kindly open a Navodaya Vidyalay in my constituency," Tiwari said.Madhya Pradesh' Balaghat MP Dhal Singh Bisen urged the government to enhance internet connectivity in his constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-nishikant-dubey-demands-president-s-rule-in-jharkhand-101612458708985.html
04-02-2021||India||DGCA allows agri dept to fly drones over 100 districts for quickly settling insurance claims||To ensure timely settlements of claims under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has approved the proposal of the Department of Agriculture for flying drones over 100 districts growing rice and wheat, said Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar."To ensure timely settlements of claims under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has approved the proposal of Department of Agriculture for flying the drone over 100 districts growing rice and wheat," Tomar tweeted."This is the first remote sensing technology based largest pilot study in the country so far, conducted for crop yield estimation," he added.Apart from drone-based images, High Spatial Resolution Satellite data, Biophysical Models, Smart Sampling, CropSnap, IoT, etc. are also being used in this large-scale pilot study.Several Remote Sensing data-driven pilot studies have been conducted under PMFBY across the country to determine the optimum number of Crop Cutting Experiments for accurate crop yield loss at insurance unit, Smart Sampling Technique and Rationalization of CCE and direct yield estimation."This Department had engaged 13 International/National/ Private agencies for conducting pilot studies to develop technology-driven approaches for direct yield estimation at Gram Panchayat level for Kharif 2019 and Rabi 2019-20,"The agencies had conducted studies in 64 districts of 15 States for nine crops for Kharif 2019 with the help of Satellite, UAV, Biophysical Models, Smart Sampling and other Advanced Statistics technologies for crop yield estimation.The pilot studies were continued in Rabi 2019-20 in Rabi Rice and Wheat growing districts for validation of crop yield results obtained in Kharif 2019, he added."In view of outstanding results of pilot studies, the Expert Committee has recommended that there is a large scope of use of technology under PMFBY for GP level yield estimation," said Tomar.Based on advanced technology used by the agencies and modeling accuracies, Seven Agencies (AMNEX, AGROTECH, CROPIN, ICRISAT, NIRUTHI, RMSI, WRMS) have been selected for large scale pilot studies for Kharif 2019 and Rabi 2019-20, the Union Agriculture Minister added."Drone images are crucial input parameters for crop yield estimation at GP level developed by the agencies," Tomar tweeted."The use of UAV data in the scheme will bring a new dimension to ensure timely settlement of claims in the scheme as well as for crop area estimation, losses due to localized calamities and to resolve yield dispute between different stakeholders under the scheme," he added.The use of high spatial resolution UAV data may also be explored in other agriculture-related schemes in India, Tomar stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-allows-agri-dept-to-fly-drones-over-100-districts-101612458585747.html
04-02-2021||India||3rd ICMR serosurvey: 21.5% population showed evidence of past exposure to Covid||Over 21 per cent of the population, aged 10 years and above, showed evidence of past exposure to Covid-19 in the ICMR's latest national serosurvey, the government said on Thursday, noting that a large proportion of people are still vulnerable to the infection.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) third national serosurvey was conducted between December 17 last year and January 8.Presenting the findings of the survey, ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said 21.4 per cent of the 28,589 people, aged 18 years and above, surveyed during the period showed evidence of past exposure to the coronavirus infection. While 25.3 per cent of children aged 10 to 17 years from the same number of surveyed population have had the disease, he said.Urban slums (31.7 per cent) and urban non-slums (26.2 per cent) had a higher SARS-CoV-2 prevalence than that in rural areas (19.1 per cent), Bhargava said, adding that 23.4 per cent of individuals above 60 years of age had suffered from Covid-19.Blood samples of 7,171 healthcare workers were also collected during the same period and the seroprevalence was found to be 25.7 per cent, the ICMR director general said.The survey was conducted in the same 700 villages or wards in 70 districts in 21 states selected during the first and second rounds of the national serosurvey.On the coronavirus situation in the country, the health ministry said India's Covid-19 cumulative positivity rate is 5.42 per cent and declining. The weekly positivity rate (last week) was recorded at 1.82 per cent, it said.It said that 47 districts have not reported any new case of Covid-19 and 251 districts have not registered any new deaths in the last three weeks.So far, 49,93,427 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the country out of which 11 states and Union Territories, including Tamil Nadu, Assam, Ladakh, Chandigarh, Meghalaya and Manipur, have covered 30 per cent or less healthcare workers through the COVID-19 vaccination, it said.The ministry also said that 1,239 private facilities and 5,912 public facilities are being used as Covid-19 immunisation sites in the country as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3rd-icmr-serosurvey-21-5-population-showed-evidence-of-past-exposure-to-covid-101612453589497.html
04-02-2021||India||West Bengal got highest-ever allocation in rail budget: Piyush Goyal||The allocation of ₹6,636 crore to poll-bound West Bengal in the rail budget is the highest the state has ever received, Union railways minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday.Goyal also blamed successive state governments for the delay in rail projects in the state. According to the ministry, West Bengal has 53 on-going projects including new lines, gauge conversion, doubling projects costing ₹48,275 crore for 4463 km.He also said due to the non-availability of land as many as 34 projects in the state have received only token allotment in the Budget 2021-22.“The allocation for West Bengal is the highest ever in the history of Indian Railways. It is 2.5 times the average amount allocated between Budget 2009-2014 and 26 per cent more than last year. Projects there remain incomplete or are delayed because the state governments-- first it was the Left Front government and now the TMC-- have been unable to provide land to us. Projects which are 45 years old are pending in the state...I appeal to Mamatadidi to expedite the process and give us land,” Goyal said at a press conference.“Once someone became a minister, he would announce projects without first checking if there were funds available, if land was available and if the project was feasible. That is the reason why none of the projects which were announced then could be completed and there would be major cost overruns. So, inspired by politics this harmed the railways. Now, we have decided that we will start a project only after we have the land required for it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-got-highest-ever-allocation-in-rail-budget-piyush-goyal-101612454751870.html
04-02-2021||India||Congress upset with party MP’s remarks against Kerala CM||A red-faced Congress has distanced itself from Kannur Lok Sabha MP Sudhakaran whose unsavory remarks against Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s family background has riled the ruling CPI (M).Party general secretary Tariq Anwar, in-charge of Kerala, has reportedly warned the Kannur strongman and asked him to be careful about his remarks.“A toddy tapper’s son, now he travels in choppers. He will be the first Chief Minister from a proletarian party who roams around in helicopters. The leader who stood with red flame and red flag is flying high these days,” Sudhakaran had said in Thalassery in Kannur on Wednesday while addressing a public meeting in connection with opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala’s state-wide yatra.The government had hired a helicopter last year for emergency services and the CM often travels in it.Congress MLA Shanimol Usman was first to criticise Sudhakaran and asked him to withdraw his comment. But Sudhakaran chided her asking why she was getting upset when he criticised the CM. Later, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also distanced himself from the MP’s statement.But Sudhakaran reiterated that he was highlighting Vijayan’s earlier position and his status after becoming the chief minister. He said naming one’s profession was not an insult and the CM had made it clear several times that he was proud to be a toddy tapper’s son.The ruling CPI(M) has criticised the Congress MP’s comment saying it exposed his mindset and sought an apology.“He insulted the CM by taking up his profession and caste. He even insulted a Congress leader who expressed serious reservations over his cheap comments. He should apologise,” said state law minister A K Balan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-upset-with-party-mp-s-remarks-against-kerala-cm-101612455851272.html
04-02-2021||India||'Serious matter': What BJP leaders said on Greta Thunberg's toolkit||The Delhi Police on Thursday filed an FIR against the creators of the toolkit that was shared on Twitter by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg. It contained a social media plan on farmers protest. Later, Greta deleted that link and uploaded a new toolkit.What is a toolkit?A toolkit is a document explaining the basic points of an issue. For example, the toolkit that Greta uploaded later asks people to tag Prime Minister Narendra Modi, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.'Propose Greta's name for child bravery award': Meenakshi Lekhi on toolkit rowWhat Delhi Police saidThe Delhi Police on Thursday said the initial probe has suggested that the document is linked with a pro-Khalistan group. The document has a proper action plan about a digital strike on or before January 26 and tweetstorms on January 23, Delhi Police Special CP (Crime) Praveer Ranjan said.What Union ministers saidNot many ministers have spoken on the toolkit, though several tweeted MEA's statement on Wednesday denouncing attempt to hurt India's democracy. Information and Broadcast minister Prakash Javadekar said it is a serious issue. "It clearly shows that some foreign elements are conspiring to defame India," he said."We knew that a conspiracy was being hatched outside the country. But we did not have any proof of that. Greta Thunberg has given us the proof and in her naivety, she has done a huge service," BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi said.Greta Thunberg, on the other hand, reiterated her support to the protesting farmers and said no amount of hate, threat will change that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serious-matter-what-bjp-leaders-said-on-greta-thunberg-s-toolkit-101612454956807.html
04-02-2021||India||SC to hear Sonu Sood's plea against HC order on illegal construction notice tomorrow||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Friday the petition filed by actor Sonu Sood challenging the Bombay HC order which dismissed his appeal against a civic body notice over alleged illegal construction at his residential building in Mumbai's Juhu area.A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian is likely to take up the appeal filed by Sood, who was in the spotlight for helping migrants reach their homes during the lockdown last year.The actor has stated in his plea that his application for conversion has been approved by the Municipal Commissioner subject to Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) permission.It said the high court order of January 13, 2021 has been passed without considering the provisions of Section 43 (1) of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966 and his application for conversion of residential premises into a residential hotel was submitted in 2018 before the department concerned.The plea contended that their application for conversion, which has been approved by the Municipal Commissioner subject to MCZMA, be directed to be decided by authorities concerned. “The petitioners have already stopped the work of internal renovation which require no permission as per the provisions of Section 43 of Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966, therefore, the respondents may kindly be restrained from demolition of the renovation work already done in the building,” the plea filed by Sood and his wife said.He further stated that if the application of the petitioners for conversion is approved, the financial loss due to demolition will not be recovered in any manner and would cause miscarriage of justice to the petitioners.The High Court, while dismissing the actor''s appeal and application, said, "Law helps only those who are diligent." Sood's lawyer had sought a time of 10 weeks to comply with the notice issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in October last year, and requested the high court to direct the civic body to not initiate demolition action. The high court, however, refused and said the actor had ample opportunity in the past and if required, he could approach the civic body.Sood had approached the high court earlier this month challenging an order of a city civil court at Dindoshi that had dismissed his suit against the BMC's notice issued over the alleged illegal construction carried out by him.The actor, in the interim application in the high court, had sought an order from the high court restraining the BMC from taking any coercive action against his residential property in Juhu area.“The petitioner (Sood) has not made any changes in the building that warrants permission from the BMC. Only those changes that are allowed under the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act have been done," Sood's advocate had argued in HC.As per the BMC, the Bollywood actor had carried out structural changes in the six-storey residential building ''Shakti Sagar'', and allegedly converted it into a hotel without taking requisite permissions.The BMC earlier this month also filed a complaint at the Juhu police station, seeking an FIR to be lodged against Sood for allegedly converting the residential building into a hotel without permission.The complaint letter was sent to the police after the BMC inspected the building and found that Sood had allegedly not complied with the requisitions and was continuing unauthorised construction even after the notice was served to him in October last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-sonu-sood-s-plea-against-hc-order-on-illegal-construction-notice-101612453912129.html
04-02-2021||India||Stranded in Chinese waters, 16 more Indian sailors to return home||Sixteen Indian sailors stranded in Chinese waters for more than four months are set to return home after authorities in Beijing agreed to India’s request to permit a crew change, the external affairs ministry said on Thursday.A total of 39 Indian seafarers were stranded on two merchant vessels off Chinese ports for months because of the trade row between China and Australia. Both ships were carrying Australian coal, which they weren’t allowed to unload by Chinese authorities.Twenty-three sailors stranded on MV Jag Anand, which was at anchorage near Jingtang port since June 13 last year, returned home this month after a crew change was arranged at a Japanese port. Now, the 16 sailors stranded on MV Anastasia near Caofeidian port since September 20 will return as Chinese authorities have permitted a crew change.“After sustained follow-up by our embassy in Beijing, the Chinese central authorities have conveyed their clearance to the local foreign office in Tangshan and port authorities for the transfer of the crew of MV Anastasia,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.“This information has also been shared with the shipping company [which owns the vessel]. The shipping company’s agent, we understand, has submitted a request to the local port authorities and is coordinating with them on the modalities for crew change at Caofeidian port,” he said.“We hope the crew change can now be effected at the earliest,” Srivastava added.India has repeatedly taken up the issue of the stranded sailors with China over the past few months. Chinese authorities had outlined detailed steps for a crew change in view of the country’s strict pandemic control and prevention measures, and insisted these would have to be complied with by the shipping companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stranded-in-chinese-waters-16-more-indian-sailors-to-return-home-101612453780368.html
04-02-2021||India||India again asks Sri Lanka to stick to commitments on developing port terminal||India on Thursday again emphasised the importance of Sri Lanka adhering to international commitments under a trilateral agreement for developing a key port terminal following Colombo’s decision to hand over the facility to a state-run entity.India, Japan and Sri Lanka had signed an agreement in 2019 on jointly developing the East Container Terminal (ECT) of Colombo port. However, the Sri Lankan government gave in to pressure from labour unions, which are opposed to a joint venture with Indian and Japanese investors having a 49% stake in the ECT, and decided on Monday to run the terminal as a fully owned operation of the Sri Lanka Port Authority (SLPA).India responded to the move by calling on Sri Lanka to abide by the trilateral agreement, while Japan described the Sri Lankan government’s unilateral decision as “regrettable”.Asked about the issue at a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the memorandum of cooperation signed by the three countries in May 2019 envisaged the development and operation of the ECT in a trilateral framework.“We sincerely believe that the development of infrastructure in Sri Lanka, in areas such as ports and energy, with foreign investment from India and Japan will be a mutually beneficial proposition,” he said.“Our high commissioner in Colombo is in discussion with the government of Sri Lanka, including on the importance of adhering to international commitments,” he added.The Indian envoy has held separate meetings with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and foreign minister Dinesh Gunawerdene to convey India’s position that Sri Lanka must abide by the agreement. The Japanese envoy too has met the Sri Lankan leadership to discuss the matter.India’s Adani Group and several Japanese investors were to form a joint venture to hold 49% stake in the ECT, with the majority stake in the hands of SLPA. India has also informed the Sri Lankan leadership that the decision could hit investor confidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-again-asks-sri-lanka-to-stick-to-commitments-on-developing-port-terminal-101612452679976.html
04-02-2021||India||SC to hear bail plea of comedian Munawar Faruqui tomorrow||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Friday a plea filed by comedian Munawar Faruqui, who is accused of hurting religious sentiments by allegedly passing objectionably remarks about Hindu deities during a show, challenging the Madhya Pradesh High Court order denying him bail.Faruqui’s plea would come up for hearing before a bench comprising Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai.Faruqui and four others were arrested on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA's son that alleged objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were passed during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's day. One more person was arrested subsequently.The high court, in its order passed on January 28, had refused to grant him bail noting that to "promote harmony" is one of the constitutional duties.It had also turned down the bail plea of another accused in the case.In its order, the high court had said it would not comment on merits of the case, but based on the material seized, the witnesses' statements and considering the fact that probe was going on, no case was made out for grant of bail."The evidence/material collected so far suggests that in an organized public show under the garb of stand-up comedy at a public place on commercial lines, prima facie, scurrilous, disparaging utterances, outraging religious feelings of a class of citizens of India with deliberate intent, were made by the applicant," it had said.There was a possibility that "more incriminating material" would be collected, and further, a similar case has been registered against Faruqui in Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh, the high court had noted."That apart, there is also specific assertion by the counsel for the complainant that the applicant, along with other co-accused persons, (were) allegedly making outraging filthy jokes in social media deliberately against Hindu Gods, Lord Shriram and Goddess Seeta, hurting religious sentiments of Hindus for the last 18 months, despite protest on various social media platforms. There is nothing on record to the contrary," it had said.As per the First Information Report, the comedy show was held at a cafe in 56 Dukan area of Indore on January 1. Eklavya Singh Gaud, son of BJP MLA Malini Laxman Singh Gaud, had filed a complaint against Faruqui and others.Gaud had said that he and his associates had gone to watch the show where alleged indecent jokes were made about Hindu gods and goddesses and Union Home Minister Amit Shah.He forced the organizers to stop the show, he had said.Faruqui and others were arrested for the alleged offences punishable under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including section 295-A which deals deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class.They were also accused of holding the show amid Covid-19 pandemic without permission and were booked under other relevant provisions of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-bail-plea-of-comedian-munawar-faruqui-tomorrow-101612453235348.html
04-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP replicating Tripura model in poll-bound Bengal, says Mamata Banerjee and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP trying to repeat Tripura-model in poll-bound Bengal, says CM MamataThe Bharatiya Janata Party is trying to replicate the Tripura-model in poll-bound West Bengal, Trinamool Congress chief and CM Mamata Banerjee said on Monday. Read moreTo US comments on farmers’ protest, India mentions Capitol Hill violenceThe US on Thursday called for dialogue to address the farmers’ protest in India and backed peaceful demonstrations and freedom of expression, prompting New Delhi to compare the January 26 violence at the Red Fort with the storming of the US Capitol earlier this month. Read moreGovt says taxation of EPF contribution will not affect genuine contributorsThe government has said that the decision to make the interest earned on Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) of ₹2.5 lakh and above a year taxable at the prevailing income tax rates has been taken to remove disparity among contributors. Read moreRajasthan makes Covid test mandatory to participate in religious festivalsThe Rajasthan government has made the Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) - the gold standard frontline test for coronavirus - results mandatory for those participating in religious events, festivals, or mela (fair). The government on Thursday issued standard operating procedures (SOP) to contain the spread of Covid19 during festivals and fairs. Read moreTRS MLA Chennamaneni Ramesh is German citizen: Centre again tells courtTelangana Rashtra Samithi lawmaker Chennamaneni Ramesh is a German citizen and holds a passport of that country, the Union home ministry told the Telangana high court on Thursday. Read more'Kohli is still the main man': Hussain on Rahane impact ahead of Chennai TestAhead of the start of the Test series between India and England, there has been a lot of talk on how Ajinkya Rahane's leadership in Australia could actually put Virat Kohli under pressure, as he was away when Rahane inspired the team to a comeback 2-1 win. Read moreRealme X7 5G, X7 Pro 5G with MediaTek CPU launched in India: Price, bank offers and specsAfter building months of hype around its new Realme X series smartphones, the company today finally launched it's a Realme X7 5G and X7 Pro 5G handsets in India. The X7 5G is said to be India's first smartphone that is powered by MediaTek Dimensity 800U chipset. Read moreKubbra Sait takes indirect dig at Kangana Ranaut, says calling her 'queen' backfiredActor Kubbra Sait took an indirect jibe at actor Kangana Ranaut over her comments on the farmers’ protest, and disparaging remarks about supporters of the movement. Though Kubbra did not directly name Kangana, she made a reference to her National Award-winning film, Queen. Read moreDog gets trapped inside toilet with leopard for hours, miraculously survivesAn incident involving a dog and a leopard has now created a stir among people. The canine miraculously survived after getting stuck with the big cat in a toilet for hours. The incident took place in Bilinele village in Dakshina Kannada district of Karnataka. WatchBJP’s Tejasvi Surya flies on LCA Tejas, says it’s Bengaluru’s gift to IndiaBJP MP Tejasvi Surya took a sortie in Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas, on the second day of the ongoing Aero India-2021. Surya also tweeted pictures onboard and as he prepared for the sortie the Tejas aircraft. After the sortie, the BJP MP said this is Bengaluru’s gift to the nation and also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for promoting indigenous manufacturing in defence. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-replicating-tripura-model-in-poll-bound-bengal-and-all-the-latest-news-101612450383661.html
04-02-2021||India||Eight-year-old girl found murdered in Kolkata day after she went missing||An eight-year-old girl was found murdered close to her uncle's house on Thursday morning in north Kolkata, police said.Locals alleged that the victim was sexually abused and beaten up before being murdered, even though police remain tight-lipped and said that they were waiting for the post-mortem report.Police said that the victim had come to visit her maternal uncle at Jorabagan and was playing in the lane in front of the house on Wednesday late evening. She was last seen around 8:30 pm after which she went missing.“The girl went missing last night. Today her body was found from the staircase on the third floor of an adjacent building. We have started an investigation. We hope to crack the case very soon,” said Murli Dhar, joint commissioner (crime) of Kolkata Police.Sniffer dogs and forensic teams were pressed into action. Police also said that they were scanning CCTV footage from cameras installed in local shops. Police have found a knife, a few broken teeth and hair strands from the spot.“According to SOP we have collected some exhibits which would be sent to the laboratory,” said S Chakraborty, a member of the forensic team.Locals alleged that someone known to the victim committed the crime because it would be difficult for anyone to kidnap a child from the lane which remains crowded.“We have sought a report from the police commissioner. If it is proved that the girl was sexually abused, beaten and murdered, the guilty would surely get life term imprisonment. The judge may even sentence him to death,” said Ananya Chakraborti Chatterjee, chairperson of the West Bengal commission for the protection of child rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eightyearold-girl-found-murdered-in-kolkata-day-after-she-went-missing-101612451141077.html
04-02-2021||India||Air 'very poor' for third day in row in NCR region||The air quality in Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad and Gurgaon remained "very poor" for the third day in a row, according to data issued by a government agency on Thursday.Pollutant PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained prominent in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Thursday was 338 in Ghaziabad, 322 in Noida, 312 in Greater Noida, 308 in Faridabad and 303 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB's Sameer app.The CPCB states that an AQI in the "very poor" category may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure.On Wednesday, it was 388 in Ghaziabad, 339 in Noida, 345 in Greater Noida, 317 in Faridabad and 306 in Gurgaon.On Tuesday, it was 394 in Ghaziabad, 372 in Noida, 379 in Greater Noida, 354 in Faridabad and 324 in Gurgaon.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all monitoring stations there. Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Noida have four such stations while Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app. PTI KIS TDS TDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-very-poor-for-third-day-in-row-in-ncr-region-101612449605794.html
04-02-2021||India||BJP trying to repeat Tripura-model in poll-bound Bengal, says CM Mamata||The Bharatiya Janata Party is trying to replicate the Tripura-model in poll-bound West Bengal, Trinamool Congress chief and CM Mamata Banerjee said on Monday.“Many people had abandoned the Congress and had helped the BJP to become more powerful and form the government in Tripura. The BJP think that they can apply the same formula in Bengal and form the government here with some traitors who left the TMC,” she said, while addressing a party meeting in Kolkata.At least six former TMC MLAs, who were expelled by the party, switched over to the BJP ahead of the Tripura assembly polls in 2018. The six were earlier with the Congress and had joined the TMC in June 2016. The BJP won 36 out of the 60 seats in Tripura assembly and formed the government. The TMC could not win any seat.“In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, when not many MLAs from the TMC and other parties had joined us, the BJP had won 18 Lok Sabha seats. So it is clear that the people of Bengal are now against the TMC and the party will lose the elections. In Tripura the six MLAs who joined the BJP were from TMC. She is ashamed to tell the truth,” said Rahul Sinha, veteran BJP leader and the party’s former national secretary.In West Bengal, at least 23 sitting MLAs and former legislators, a majority of them from the ruling TMC, have joined the BJP since 2019. Recently, at least two former ministers and ex-TMC leaders Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee joined the BJP.The chief minister was visibly peeved and lost her patience when some women from the audience tried to approach her with a set of demands. Banerjee stopped her speech midway.“I am not God. How much do you want? I have given everything. Don’t try to blackmail me before the elections. I am a street fighter,” she said.Upping her ante against the BJP she said that many people from Tripura have migrated to West Bengal and out of fear after the BJP came to power in the north eastern state.“Those who point fingers at Bengal should first take a look at what’s happening in BJP-ruled states like Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh among others. In Tripura, the residents once used to raise slogans that the CPI(M) had ruined the state. The same people now raise slogans that the BJP has devastated the state. Many people of Tripura stay in West Bengal out of fear,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-trying-to-repeat-tripura-model-in-poll-bound-bengal-says-cm-mamata-101612450436821.html
04-02-2021||India||Snow disrupts traffic on Jammu-Srinagar highway||Traffic movement on 270-km long Jammu-Srinagar national highway - the only all weather surface link with Kashmir, was briefly disrupted Thursday morning due to snowfall at Jawahar Tunnel in Ramban district, the traffic police said.However, after brief disruption due to snowfall and consequent slippery road condition, Srinagar-bound light motor vehicles from Nagrota in Jammu district were allowed to proceed at 11 am.According to the latest advisory issued by the traffic police, there will be no traffic movement on Fridays when road maintenance work will take place. Road maintenance work earlier used to be carried out on Thursdays.“No vehicle will be allowed to move between Jammu and Srinagar especially between Nashri and Banihal on Friday,” said a traffic police officer.Last month, the highway was closed for several days at different times because of heavy snowfall and the collapse of a retaining wall of a bridge. The longest blockage lasted a week from January 2 to January 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snow-disrupts-traffic-on-jammu-srinagar-highway-101612449238251.html
04-02-2021||India||Rajasthan makes Covid test mandatory to participate in religious festivals||The Rajasthan government has made the Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) - the gold standard frontline test for coronavirus - results mandatory for those participating in religious events, festivals, or mela (fair). The government on Thursday issued standard operating procedures (SOP) to contain the spread of Covid19 during festivals and fairs.Principal secretary, home department, Abhay Kumar said the government is responsible for instituting measures that prevent the spread of Covid19 during religious festivals, events, fairs and ensure prompt public health response to an outbreak.“The government would widely publicise, and also convey to all other state governments that devotees with negative RT-PCR test reports shall only be allowed to enter all such religious festivals and fairs. The devotee may carry such test reports either on their mobile phones or hard copy,” said the officer.The mass gathering events, said the secretary, have the potential to facilitate the transmission of the virus and disrupt the gains made by the country in Covid19 management. The top bureaucrat said the culture of Rajasthan reflects its splendid and vibrant history with ethnic and religious diversity, different cuisines, beautiful dances, and mesmerising music. The state is also rich in flora and fauna with some of the popular wildlife sanctuaries and national parks. Its varied culture and multi-religious background attract tourists and pilgrims from all over the world, he said.The SOP directs that only vaccinated health care and frontline workers be deputed at such places for the duties. There should be registration of the devotees and a medical certification regimen on similar lines as being done for Amarnath yatra.For infection prevention and control, the public utility areas and open spaces shall be sanitised at least twice a day with 1% of sodium hypochlorite, it states.The religious event may witness a floating population of many thousands, a large number of samples may have to be tested during the event. Therefore, the number of testing centers needs to be augmented, states the SOP.The enforcement agencies should levy fines on those not wearing masks or not following physical distancing norms, reads the SOP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-makes-covid-test-mandatory-to-participate-in-religious-festivals-101612449824042.html
04-02-2021||India||16 out of 25 high courts resume physical hearing||A total of 16 out of 25 high courts in the country have resumed physical hearings which had stopped following the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Rajya Sabha was informed on Thursday.Nine high courts have not yet resumed physical hearings and are hearing matters virtually, the House was informed.The government was asked whether many of the high courts are still functioning only through virtual hearing.In his written reply, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, "Nine high courts are still functioning through virtual hearing only."These high courts are Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Manipur, Orissa, Punjab and Haryana and Sikkim.In almost all the high courts, which have resumed physical hearing, online or video conference (VC) courts are still functioning.The country has 25 high courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-out-of-25-high-courts-resume-physical-hearing-101612441797871.html
04-02-2021||India||To US comments on farmers’ protest, India mentions Capitol Hill violence||The US on Thursday called for dialogue to address the farmers’ protest in India and backed peaceful demonstrations and freedom of expression, prompting New Delhi to compare the January 26 violence at the Red Fort with the storming of the US Capitol earlier this month.The US described peaceful protests and unhindered access to information and the internet as indicators of a “thriving democracy”, while offering support for reforms that improve and open up India’s markets to attract private investments.The remarks by a US embassy spokesperson were the first public comments by the Biden administration on the farmers’ protest that began last November. Hours later, the ministry of external affairs said the protest must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos, and compared violence at a farmers’ rally on January 26 to the chaos during the siege of the US Capitol on January 6.“We recognise that peaceful protests are a hallmark of any thriving democracy, and note that the Indian Supreme Court has stated the same,” the US embassy spokesperson said on the farmers’ protest that has increasingly attracted attention worldwide. “We encourage that any differences between the parties be resolved through dialogue,” the spokesperson added.On internet restrictions at sites on the outskirts of Delhi where farmers are protesting, the spokesperson said: “We recognise that unhindered access to information, including the internet, is fundamental to the freedom of expression and a hallmark of a thriving democracy.”At the same time, the US backed reforms to open up India’s markets. “In general, the United States welcomes steps that would improve the efficiency of India's markets and attract greater private sector investment,” the spokesperson said.Asked about the US position at a regular news briefing, the external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “Any protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the ongoing efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse.”Describing India and the US as vibrant democracies with shared values, Srivastava added: “The incidents of violence and vandalism at the historic Red Fort on January 26 have evoked similar sentiments and reactions in India as did the incidents on the Capitol Hill on January 6 and are being addressed as per our respective local laws.”He said “temporary measures” on internet access in parts of the National Capital Region were “undertaken to prevent further violence”.Despite the external affairs ministry pushing back against support for the farmers’ protest by foreign celebrities on Wednesday and describing the agitation as an internal matter, activists and entertainment personalities reiterated their backing for the farmers, mainly on social media. They were joined by lawmakers from the UK, the US and other countries.Asked if the government believes a “motivated campaign” or an entity is behind the protest, Srivastava evaded a direct answer and said the matter is best handled within the country. “What I will say broadly is that the debate on reforming the agricultural sector is an issue best addressed by the Indian democratic polity. Those following it should have an informed and objective view,” he said.Environmental activist Greta Thunberg tweeted early on Thursday what she said was a “toolkit by people on the ground in India” to help farmers, including backing the protest on social media, contacting foreign government representatives to ask them to act on the issue, signing online petitions, and organising “on-ground action near the closest Indian Embassy, Media House or your local Govt. office on 13th/14th February”.The National Farmers Union of the US, founded in 1902, extended support to the protest in a tweet. “In India, farmers are protesting against policies that will cut into their income, give corporations more power, + erode rural communities,” the tweet said. “These issues resonate strongly w/farmers in the US, who have seen similar changes over the last several decades,” it added.Valerie Vaz, a senior MP of Britain’s Labour Party and sister of former lawmaker Keith Vaz, wrote a letter to foreign minister Dominic Raab to reiterate concerns of her constituents regarding the farmers’ protest. The Indian-origin MP was among 35 British lawmakers who had taken up the farmers’ protest with Raab before he visited India in December.“My constituents and I are horrified by widespread reports of police brutality against the farmers protesting these laws, who are asserting their right to peaceful protest...In several instances police have fired tear gas shells, used water cannons and ordered the suspension of internet connection for long periods of time,” she wrote in her letter.Vaz asked Raab to contact the Indian government “as a matter of urgency regarding these concerning events”.Happymon Jacob, columnist and associate professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University, emphasised the need for nuance in India’s stance on global reactions to the protest. “New Delhi's sharp reactions to external criticism about its handling of the farmers' protest in the country are both ill-advised and don't befit the country's democratic traditions. In a globalised world, established democracies such as India cannot afford to push back criticism using the ‘internal matter’ argument,” he said.The farmers’ protest against three laws – Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 – began on November 26 last year.The government has defended the laws as necessary for long overdue reforms in the agricultural sector. After several rounds of unsuccessful negotiations with the government, the unions backing the protest decided to intensify their agitation and organised a tractor rally in the capital on Republic Day that descended into violence and chaos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-us-comments-on-farmers-protest-india-mentions-capitol-hill-violence-101612449434871.html
04-02-2021||India||'Taken note': MEA refers to Capitol violence, reacting to US statement||The ministry of external affairs on Thursday said it has taken note of the comments of the US State Department regarding farmers' protest and said such comments should be taken in the context and in their entirety."Debate on reforming agricultural sector is an issue being addressed by Indian democratic polity. Those following it should have an informed and objective view. We are making sure through our activities that this is what happens," spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. He also referred to the Capitol violence and drew a parallel between that with the event that unfolded in Delhi on Republic Day.US wants India to resolve farm protest through dialogueOn Thursday, the US administration issued its first reaction to the ongoing farmers' agitation in which it said it encourages dialogue to resolve any differences between the parties. It also extended support to steps that can improve the efficiency of India's markets and attract greater investment. Peaceful protests and unhindered access to the internet are hallmarks of a thriving democracy, it said."The incidents of violence and vandalism at the historic Red Fort on January 26 have evoked similar sentiments and reactions in India as did the incidents on the Capitol Hill on 6 January and are being addressed as per our respective local laws," the spokesperson said adding that both India and the United States are vibrant democracies with shared values."The temporary measures with regard to internet access in certain parts of the NCR region were therefore understandably undertaken to prevent further violence," Srivastava added.The MEA spokesperson said the US state department has acknowledged the steps being taken by India towards agricultural reforms.The press conference comes a day after the ministry issued a statement condemning comments of international celebrities on farmers' protest.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taken-note-mea-refers-to-capitol-violence-reacting-to-us-statement-on-farmers-protest-101612448704663.html
04-02-2021||India||Will remove misinformation around Covid-19, false claims about vaccine: Facebook||Social media giant Facebook on Thursday said it is focused on removing misinformation around Covid-19, including false claims related to vaccines, as part of its efforts to ensure user safety protection.Facebook Product Policy Manager, Misinformation Alice Budisatrijo said while it isn't appropriate for a company to decide whether the information is true or false, it is essential that people have access to credible information."We don't believe that it's appropriate for a US technology company, or anyone to determine what is true and what is false. So, whether it's private companies, governments, if any single actor gets to decide what's true and false, this creates potential overreach and unhealthy power imbalance," she said during a virtual briefing.Also, there can be different degrees of truth or people can have different opinions about what is true or false, Budisatrijo said."However, we take our responsibility seriously...We are a service for more than 2 billion people around the world. So we know how essential it is for people to have access to credible information, and for us to remove harmful content," she said.Referring to Facebook's community standards as a "living document", Budisatrijo said these guidelines constantly evolve to keep pace with changing online behaviours."...as part of our response to the Covid pandemic, we have clarified our policy guidelines to apply our policy to harmful claims related to this global health emergency. This started since January last year at the beginning of the pandemic and it has continuously evolved," she said.Budisatrijo explained that Facebook removes Covid-19 misinformation that could contribute to physical harm, including false cures, false treatments, false information about the availability of essential services, such as hospitals, hospital beds, or the location and severity of the outbreak."We also prohibit false claims related to Covid vaccines, because especially now that we know the Covid vaccines are starting to get approved and rolled out in many countries. So claims about the safety, efficacy, serious side effects, ingredients and conspiracy theories about the vaccines, will remove them as well," she said.Budisatrijo noted that between March and October last year, the social media platform - which works with a number of third-party fact-checkers - removed 12 million pieces of Covid-19 misinformation that fall under these claims.Besides, around 167 million pieces of content had a warning label applied related to Covid-19 misinformation.The company said nearly 95 per cent of the time people who saw warning labels around Covid-19 misinformation, did not click through the links and were therefore not exposed to false information.The executive acknowledged that there is still scope for further enhancing these efforts. "Even with the combination of artificial intelligence and the human reviewers that we have all over the world, we can never 100 per cent guarantee that content that violates our policies is not on the platform," she said.On the decision to remove former US President Donald Trump from the platform, Budisatrijo said no politician was exempt from Facebook's community standards, including those on violence and incitement.She said people should be able to see content from politicians, especially in democratic societies, but if the content violates community standards and has offline risks that needs to be removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-remove-misinformation-around-covid-19-false-claims-about-vaccine-facebook-101612449011724.html
04-02-2021||India||India ready to supply weapons systems to countries in Indian Ocean Region: Rajnath Singh||India is ready to supply various types of weapons systems to Indian Ocean Region (IOR) countries, said Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday.Addressing the Indian Ocean Region Defence Ministers' Conclave here, he advocated for uninterrupted access to the open seas and abiding by international laws for stability and security in the region."India is ready to supply various types of weapons systems to IOR countries. In consonance with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of SAGAR, Neighbourhood First and Act East policy, India has adopted a cooperative approach through capacity-building assistance with partner countries. This was reflected in the supply of Indian made ships, maritime aircraft and setting-up of Coastal Surveillance Radar Systems," Singh said.The Defence Minister pointed out that the negative impact of conflicting claims in some maritime areas of the world highlighted the need to ensure peace in the IOR region.Referring to India's growth in the aerospace and defence sector and its emergence as a global R&D hub with one of the world's largest start-up ecosystems, the Defence Minister said IOR countries can leverage these sectors for mutual benefit.He said the recent order from the Indian Air Force to buy 83 Advanced Light Helicopters Mk-1A from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) is a milestone in India's indigenisation of defence manufacturing capabilities.Singh also pointed out that India's approach and vision to tackle global challenges was highlighted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dynamic five 'S' vision - Samman (respect), Samvaad (dialogue), Sahyog (cooperation), Shanti (peace) and Samriddhi (prosperity)."Indian Ocean Region acts as a constant source of resources, particularly in sectors of fisheries, aquaculture, ocean energy, sea-bed mining and minerals. It provides tremendous economic opportunities to develop marine tourism and shipping activities," he added.The Defence Minister said that the Indian Ocean is a shared asset and a lifeline to international trade and transport due to its control of major sea-lanes carrying half of the world's container ships, one-third of the world's bulk cargo traffic and two-thirds of the world's oil shipments.Singh emphasised the IOR conclave should focus on security, commerce, connectivity, fight against terrorism and intercultural exchanges in line with 'SAGAR' - Security and Growth for All in the Region, the theme of Indian Ocean Policy outlined by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015."The deployment of ships by the Indian Navy and the Indian Coast guard for maritime security and anti-piracy operations had been successful in minimising threats to commercial shipping," he said.The Defence Minister identified the capacity building, capability enhancement, cooperative engagements and collaborative efforts as the four pillars of Naval Foreign Cooperation that carry the significance in transforming India's reach and capabilities, in the near and far regions."Due to its geo-strategic location in Indian Ocean Region, maritime character, historical and cultural ties with littoral states, India considers it important to keep the maritime neighbourhood safe and secure, through unity and togetherness," added Singh.He said IOR faces a number of challenges such as piracy, smuggling of drugs/people and arms, humanitarian and disaster relief, and Search & Rescue (SAR) which can be met through maritime co-operation.The Defence Minister highlighted that Indian Navy successfully evacuated about 4,000 Indian nationals from the region under Operation 'Samudra Setu' undertaken during the COVID-19 pandemic. "These missions would not have been a success without able assistance from our maritime neighbours," he underlined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ready-to-supply-weapons-systems-to-countries-in-indian-ocean-region-101612446975572.html
04-02-2021||India||TRS MLA Chennamaneni Ramesh is German citizen: Centre again tells court||Telangana Rashtra Samithi lawmaker Chennamaneni Ramesh is a German citizen and holds a passport of that country, the Union home ministry told the Telangana high court on Thursday.The ministry of home affairs submitted an affidavit to this effect, as per the earlier directions of the court. In December, too, the ministry brought to the notice of the high court in the form of a memo that Ramesh was holding a German citizenship.However, the high court directed the ministry to submit the details in the form of an affidavit along with the details obtained from Germany through Indian embassy that proved the MLA’s German citizenship.Ramesh, who has been representing Vemulawada assembly constituency in Rajanna Siricilla district for the last three terms, is the nephew of former Maharashtra governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao.The high court was hearing a petition filed by Congress leader Adi Srinivas, who had contested elections against Ramesh in Vemulawada. Srinivas contended that Ramesh had obtained the Indian Citizenship by fraudulent means hiding his German citizenship.In November 2019, the ministry of home affairs cancelled the Indian citizenship of Ramesh on the grounds that he had held citizenship of Germany and had not fulfilled the stipulated norms while obtaining the Indian citizenship in 2009.Ramesh had gone to Germany for employment in the early 1990s and obtained German Citizenship in 1993, when he surrendered his Indian passport. In 2008, he returned to India and applied for Indian citizenship which was granted to him by the MHA. He won the election from Vemulawada assembly constituency in 2009 elections.As per the Citizenship Act, a person who applies for an Indian citizenship should be present in India at least for 12 months before the date of application. But Adi Srinivas lodged a complaint with the MHA stating that Ramesh still held the German passport and had gone to Germany within this stipulated period of 12 months before being granted Indian citizenship.A committee appointed by the ministry concluded that Ramesh had obtained the Indian citizenship “by playing fraud upon the Government of India and concealing crucial material facts of his visits abroad during the last twelve months immediately preceding his application for Indian citizenship”.In September 2017, the MHA cancelled the citizenship of Ramesh. However, he filed a review petition in the MHA and later moved the high court and obtained the stay order. Subsequently, he contested the assembly elections again in December 2018 and got elected from the same constituency for the third successive term.The high court, which disposed of the case in July 1999, referred the matter to MHA again. After conducting the due enquiry, the MHA issued the orders again, cancelling his citizenship. Ramesh once again moved the high court and obtained a stay order.Ramesh could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-mla-chennamaneni-ramesh-is-german-citizen-centre-again-tells-court-101612448474976.html
04-02-2021||India||Two elephants killed in Odisha's Sundargarh district after being hit by train||Two elephants that had strayed from a herd of 15 jumbos in Odisha's Sundargarh district were killed after being hit by a parcel train late Wednesday night, forest officials said Thursday.Additional conservator of forest of Rourkela, Tankadhar Behera said the parcel train hit the elephants near Mahipani in Bisra region of Sundergarh at around 1 am."The two elephants had separated from a herd of 15 elephants that were in the Bisra area last week. Around 30 staff of our department were crossing the railway track and so were the elephants when the speeding train, which was running at high speed, hit the two animals. Though our staff signaled the train to stop, it did not. It was criminal on the part of the train driver to speed up in an area where elephant movement is known," said Behera.The forest department sent the carcasses for post-mortem Thursday morning.Nishant Kumar, Assistant Railway Manager, Bondamunda, said diversion of the elephants’ movement might have led to the accident. "Restoration works have been completed and the running of trains on the route will be resumed soon. We will soon start a probe into the incident," he said.In December last year, two elephants were knocked dead by trains in Sambalpur district in two separate incidents. On December 5, the Bhubaneswar-Rourkela Intercity Express hit a tusker between Jujumura and Hatibari area of Sambalpur district killing the elephant on the spot. On December 20, another tusker was killed after the Puri-Surat Express train ran over it between Hatibari and Maneswar Railway stations under Sambalpur division.In the last 10 years, 28 elephants have been killed in Odisha after being hit by trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-elephants-killed-in-odisha-s-sundargarh-district-after-being-hit-by-train-101612446806566.html
04-02-2021||India||What's the harm in Hollywood artists supporting us, asks Rakesh Tikait||Amid uproar over international celebrities extending support to the ongoing farmers' protest, Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said there is no harm in Hollywood artists supporting farmers' movement. "I don't know them personally, but they are supporting without any expectation," Tikait said. On Wednesday, Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of the protesting farmers, acknowledged the international support and said it was a matter of pride.The tweets of American pop singer Rihanna and Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg in support of the protest have opened a debate as the ministry of external affairs condemned the support and linked it with an international attempt to hurt India's democracy.Union ministers, including Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Hardeep Singh Puri, tweeted supporting India's unity and action against any propaganda. The farmers' protest, which was going on peacefully since November at Delhi borders, got derailed after their proposed tractor march on January 26 resulted in a violent stand-off between protesters and Delhi Police. Over 300 policemen were injured in the clash in which a group of protesters climbed the Red Fort and hoisted religious flags.Since then, police have launched a crackdown on protesters and internet connection was snapped at the protest sites several times. The farmers are planning a 'chakka jam'||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whats-the-harm-in-hollywood-artists-supporting-us-asks-rakesh-tikait-101612446965086.html
04-02-2021||India||In UP, Priyanka Gandhi attends prayer meet for farmer who died in tractor rally||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday met family members of the Uttar Pradesh farmer who lost his life during the protest in New Delhi on Republic Day. The Congress leader attended ‘ardas (prayer)’ ceremony of Sikh youth Navreet Singh at Dibdiba village in Rampur, about 325 km north west of Lucknow.“Navreet was 25. My son is 20. You have young sons who went there to show their solidarity with farmers. He (Navreet) did not come back because of an incident. I want to tell Sardar Hardip Singh that we will not allow the loss of your grandson go waste. This agitation will continue till these black farm laws are withdrawn,” she said.Navreet Singh died after his tractor overturned during the farmers' tractor parade on January 26 in New Delhi, said police, when a section of farmers veered off agreed routes and chaos ensued.“We cannot tolerate such an injustice. It’s true. This is not a political agitation. This is an agitation of truth. This is an agitation of every Indian… Whichever religion he belongs to, every farmer is with you,” the Congress leader said.She called the BJP government ‘unjust’ to farmers and said her party would not tolerate such injustice. The Congress leader said the agitation of farmers would continue till the three farm laws were withdrawn.“This government does not want to withdraw the three farm laws. These laws have to be withdrawn. This is great injustice being done to farmers. But the greater injustice is being done to them by calling them terrorists and seeing a conspiracy in their agitation,” she said.UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu and Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhna Mishra accompanied Priyanka to the village to meet family members.UP BJP vice president Vijay Pathak said the state government was doing a lot of work to double the income of farmers and bring about an improvement in the law and order situation.“By supporting the cause of farmers, the opposition wants to target the government. It’s opposition for the sake of opposition. Instead of siding with farmers, the Congress should point out the flaws in the farm laws,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of department political science, Lucknow University.Earlier, a large crowd of party men followed Priyanka’s cavalcade as she moved towards the village. Two vehicles in Priyanka’s convoy collided on a highway in Hapur. No one was hurt in the incident but some vehicles were damaged.Farmers have been camping on three Delhi border points protesting against the three farm laws enacted in September and have been demanding assurance on minimum support price for the crops. The Centre has maintained that the laws will benefit farmers and will also allow them to sell their produce anywhere in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-up-priyanka-gandhi-attends-prayer-meet-for-farmer-who-died-in-tractor-rally-101612446822093.html
04-02-2021||India||Republic Day violence is a blot on Indian history: Shahnawaz Hussain||Clearly indicating that the Centre will not budge from its stance on the three farms laws, BJP national spokesperson and former Union minister Shahnawaz Hussain said the farmers' agitation was backed by political parties like the Congress, and Communists and was allowing even anti-social and anti-national elements to take part in the agitation for the past 70 days in Delhi.Prior to paying obeisance at the shrine of Piran Kaliyar Dargah in Haridwar, Shahnawaz Hussain termed the Republic Day violence at Red Fort as a blot on Indian history alleging it was sponsored and pre-planned on the lines of the vandalism that had happened last month in Capitol Hill.Alleging that propaganda was being done to malign the image of the government at the international level too, Hussain said whether it be pop star Rihanna or Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, without trying to know and understand the three agricultural laws, they are only trying to create sensationalism through social media, hashtags and misinformation.Hussain said the Parliament passed the agricultural legislations after due discussion and debate.“There have been eleven rounds of talks between the government and farmers representatives but the onus is on them as the government won’t repeal the laws. We are open to suggestions on certain provisions but the laws can’t be repealed. The government has already given assurance on minimum support price assurance, carrying on with agricultural production committees and other aspects raised initially by protesting farmer organizations and even offered delaying these laws by one and half year,” said Hussain, a member of the Bihar legislative council.BJP district general secretary Vikas Tiwari said that party leaders and workers are trying to convince local farmers about the benefits of the three farm laws urging farmer representatives not to participate in the February 6 nationwide Chakka Jam called by farmer unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-violence-is-a-blot-on-indian-history-shahnawaz-hussain-101612446703658.html
04-02-2021||India||Defend or rebuke? House GOP faces difficult vote over Marjorie Taylor Greene||House Republicans will be forced to go on the record, defending or rebuking Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, who has drawn bipartisan condemnation over her embrace of far-right conspiracy theories, as well as her past endorsement of violence against Democrats.The politically agonizing vote expected Thursday, which will determine whether the Georgia Republican is stripped of her committee assignments, underscores tension over the best political path forward that has riven the party since Donald Trump lost the White House.Democrats issued an ultimatum earlier in the week, telling House Republicans to strip Greene of her committee assignments — or they would. Bipartisan pressure built after Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell called Greene’s “loony lies” a “cancer” for the party.But House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., on Wednesday ruled out taking action. Instead, he accused Democrats of a “partisan power grab” for targeting Greene, who once suggested that a Jewish-owned financial firm may have been involved in a plot to spark California wildfires using a space laser.“If this is not the bottom, I don’t know what the hell is,” House Rules Committee Chairman Jim McGovern, D-Mass., said before a resolution was sent to the House floor to strip Greene of her posts.McCarthy's decision to back Greene comes at a time when the party has been ideologically adrift after Trump's loss, struggling over whether to embrace his norm-busting divisiveness or the GOP's more traditional, policy-oriented conservative values.On Wednesday, House Republicans blocked an effort by conservative hardliners to oust the No. 3 House Republican, Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., from her leadership role. Cheney, a daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney, had enraged Trump supporters by voting to impeach him over the riot at the U.S. Capitol.In sticking by both women, McCarthy was attempting to placate both traditional conservatives and populists, like Greene, who emulate Trump. The moves were typical of McCarthy’s preference to avoid ruffling feathers as he charts his path to someday becoming House speaker.“You know what that’s going to mean?” he told reporters Wednesday evening. “Two years from now, we’re going to win the majority. That’s because this conference is more united. We’ve got the right leadership team behind it.”But the GOP’s wings remain concerned that the other is leading them down the wrong path, and to some, Wednesday's outcome seemed more an uneasy truce than a full-on peace treaty.“This is about the direction of our party and whether or not we’re going to be a majority who’s dedicated to just one person or we’re going to be a united Republican majority,” said Rep. Jaime Herrera-Beutler, R-Wash., who with Cheney was among just 10 House Republicans to back impeaching Trump.Greene has shown support for calls to violence against Democrats, bizarre fictions about faked school shootings and unfounded QAnon theories about Democrats joining in child abuse rings.The conspiracy theories she’s embraced came up during a closed-door Republican caucus meeting on Wednesday, which attendants described as spirited with long lines of speakers at the microphones. Some said Greene apologized to her colleagues, though there were conflicting, vague versions of exactly what she’d said.“She was contrite. And I think she brought a lot of people over to her side,” said conservative Rep. Thomas Massie, R-Ky.That's at odds with statements she's made in recent weeks on Twitter, where she has vowed to never back down or apologize and labeled her critics traitors, while using the Democratic push to punish her to raise money for her campaign.Democrats say it's politically advantageous to tie some Republicans to the far-right Greene. This week, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee launched a $500,000 ad campaign that attempts to link eight Republicans to her and other adherents of QAnon, which focuses on the false belief that top Democrats are involved in child sex trafficking and cannibalism.McCarthy condemned Greene’s past endorsements of conspiracy theories — after weeks of saying little critical of her — and said the first-term congresswoman had recognized in a private conversation that she must meet “a higher standard” as a lawmaker.“I hold her to her word, as well as her actions going forward,” McCarthy said.She burst onto the national political scene with enthusiastic support from Trump.Republicans appointed Greene to the Education and Labor Committee, a decision that drew especially harsh criticism because of her suggestions that mass school shootings in Connecticut and Florida could be hoaxes. Greene is also on the Budget Committee.McCarthy said Democrats turned down his offer to move Greene onto the House Small Business Committee instead.It’s unusual for party leaders to strip lawmakers of committee assignments, which can help them address their districts’ needs and raise campaign contributions.In 2019, House GOP leaders removed Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa, who had a history of racist comments, from the Agriculture and Judiciary panels after he wondered aloud in a New York Times story about when the term “white supremacist” became offensive. He lost the Republican primary for his seat in 2020 and is out of Congress after serving nine terms.In online videos and through supportive “likes” on social media, Greene has voiced support for racist beliefs, calls for violence against House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and former President Barack Obama and various false theories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defend-or-rebuke-house-gop-faces-difficult-vote-over-marjorie-taylor-greene-101612441786368.html
04-02-2021||India||Over 2.9 lakh cyber security incidents related to digital banking reported in 2020||Over 2.9 lakh cyber security incidents related to digital banking were reported in 2020, Parliament was informed on Thursday.As per the information reported to and tracked by Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), a total number of 1,59,761; 2,46,514 and 2,90,445 cyber security incidents pertaining to digital banking were reported during 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively, Minister of State for Electronics and IT Sanjay Dhotre said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha.These incidents included phishing attacks, network scanning and probing, viruses and website hacking, he added.The Minister noted that the rising popularity of non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) along with e-commerce has also expanded the scope of digital payments."The percentage rise in digital transactions is 46 per cent in 2020 in comparison to 2018-19," he said.The numbers of digital transactions have increased from 3,134 crore in the financial year (FY) 2018-19 to 4,572 crore in FY 2019-20, Dhotre added.Responding to a separate query, the minister said the number of websites/webpages/accounts blocked stood at 9,849 in 2020.This was 2,799 in 2018 and 3,635 in the year 2019.He said Section 69A of the IT Act empowers the government to block any information generated, transmitted, received, stored or hosted in any computer resource in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states or public order.In response to another question, Dhotre said 6,233 cases were registered in 2019 under fraud and cheating (involving communication devices as medium/ target as per Information Technology Act 2000), as per National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data."As per NCRB, number of cases registered under fraud and cheating (involving communication devices as medium/ target as per IT Act 2000) for cyber crimes are 3,466, 3,353, 6,233 during the year 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2-9-lakh-cyber-security-incidents-related-to-digital-banking-reported-101612436091199.html
04-02-2021||India||190 pigeons found dead in Narol district, Ahmedabad||In yet another suspected case of bird flu, around 190 pigeons were found dead in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city over a period of two days, said officials on Thursday.To ascertain the exact cause of death of the pigeons in the Narol area, the carcass samples were sent to a Bhopal laboratory for testing for avian influenza, said Dr Rajendra Patel, Assistant Director, animal husbandry department, Ahmedabad district."We have sent two samples to a Bhopal-based laboratory for confirmation (of bird flu)," said Patel."Around 190 pigeons were found dead in the Narol area of the city during the last two days in a suspected case of bird flu. We have discarded the carcasses as per protocols and sanitised the area.Bird flu cases were first reported in Gujarat on January 8 when samples of some dead birds, found near a dam in Junagadh district, later tested positive for avian influenza. Later, bird flu cases were also reported from Surat, Vadodara and Valsad districts, where samples of dead crows returned positive tests for the virus.Bird flu is a highly infectious and severe respiratory disease in birds caused by the influenza virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/190-pigeons-found-dead-in-narol-district-ahmedabad-101612439061417.html
04-02-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination of cops, frontline workers begins in Kashmir||The second phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive kicked off in Kashmir Valley on Thursday with the inoculation of several top police officers.Vijay Kumar, Inspector-General of Police (IGP) of Kashmir, was the first cop in the Valley to receive the vaccine shot. He was administered the vaccine shot at police control room in Srinagar.The IGP termed the vaccines as "safe" and requested the police personnel and others to get themselves vaccinated without any "doubt"."Police, Army, paramilitary, other security agencies and officials of Municipalities and revenue department will be vaccinated in the second phase," he added.Dr Haroon, state immunisation officer of Jammu and Kashmir said that the vaccination of IGP Kashmir and other officials will send a positive message to the people.Also read| A budget for a ‘project finance economy’"It is a great step that IGP Vijay Kumar and other officials are getting the jabs. It will send a positive message to the people," he said.Haroon mentioned around 30,000 healthcare workers were administered vaccine shots against Covid- 19 across the Valley. "They all are doing fine. Vaccines are safe," he added.According to Union Health Ministry, there are 669 active Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir while the number of recovered cases stands at 1,22,049. The death toll due to Covid-19 in the Union Territory reached 1,941.India started its vaccination drive against Covid-19 on January 16. As per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, a total of 45,93,427 doses of vaccines have been administered in the country till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-of-cops-frontline-workers-begins-in-kashmir-101612442652199.html
04-02-2021||India||2nd phase of Covid-19 vaccination starts as J-K reports 2 deaths, 60 new cases||The second phase of vaccination against Covid-19 started in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday in which frontline workers like police were administered vaccines.Kashmir’s inspector general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar volunteered for the first vaccine shot and inaugurated the vaccination drive at the Police Control Room in Srinagar. Other senior police officers were also present on the occasion.“The vaccination drive will be a key factor in strengthening our defence against this disease and will facilitate resumption of our daily life schedules,” Kumar said, advising all the officials to shed any inhibition and take the vaccine.The IGP appreciated the efforts of police personnel during the pandemic and thanked the health department officials for their assistance in administering the vaccine doses to police officials.In the first phase of the vaccination drive in the country that began on January 16, healthcare workers across the union territory were administered the shots.A health department official who did not wish to be identified, said that in the second phase the frontline workers like security forces, revenue and municipal workers will be inoculated.“There are estimated 7-8 lakh frontline workers other than over one lakh health care workers. Security forces other than police are also to be vaccinated. It will take some time to completely vaccinate all the frontline workers,” he said.The vaccination drive was simultaneously inaugurated at all the district headquarters by respective senior superintendents of police (SSPs) after receiving the first vaccine shots. Similarly, the immunization drives were started in other districts of the union territory.Even as the second phase of vaccination began, Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday recorded 60 fresh coronavirus infections and two deaths on Thursday, taking the total cases to 1,24,719 and death toll to 1943. For the past two weeks the UT has been consistently reporting less than 100 daily cases of Covid-19.Officials said that as many as 18 positive cases of Covid-19 were reported from Jammu division and 42 from Kashmir division. Two persons succumbed to the disease in Kashmir.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was in Srinagar where 22 more people each tested positive, while 20 cases were cumulatively reported in other six districts.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at eight while there were 10 cases cumulatively in three other districts.For the past 14 days, the daily cases have not gone beyond a high of 94 on January 23 and low of 44 each on February 1 and February 2.Seventy five people were discharged from various hospitals including 13 from Jammu Division and 62 from Kashmir Division on Thursday after recovering from Covid-19.Officials said that 1,22,124 people have recovered in the union territory so far taking the recovery rate to 97.91%. There are now just 652 active cases.A total of 1,221 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 722 in Jammu.There were 53 Covid-19 casualties in January while the average daily cases have remained below 115.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination-starts-as-j-k-reports-2-deaths-60-new-cases-101612444530809.html
04-02-2021||India||BHEL commissions 800 MW unit at Gadarwara project in Madhya Pradesh||New Delhi, Feb 4, (PTI) State-owned BHEL on Thursday said it has commissioned the second unit of 1600 MW Gadarwara thermal power project in Narsinghpur district of Madhya Pradesh.The project is being developed by NTPC Ltd.The first unit of 800 MW of this project was commissioned by BHEL in 2019 and is presently under commercial operation."Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) has successfully commissioned the second unit (800 MW) of the 2x800 MW Gadarwara Super Thermal Power Project Stage-I," a BHEL statement said.BHEL’s scope of work in the project envisages design, engineering, manufacture, supply and erection & commissioning of steam turbines, generators, boilers and associated auxiliaries, besides state-of-the-art controls & instrumentation (C&I) and electrostatic precipitators (ESPs).The key equipment for the project was manufactured at BHEL’s Trichy, Haridwar, Bhopal, Ranipet, Hyderabad, Jhansi, Thirumayam and Bengaluru plants, while the construction of the plant was undertaken by the company’s Power Sector – Northern Region, Noida.BHEL is India’s largest manufacturer of power generating equipment with an installed base of over 1,90,000 MW of power equipment globally. PTI KKS KKS ANU ANU||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhel-commissions-800-mw-unit-at-gadarwara-project-in-madhya-pradesh-101612431479099.html
04-02-2021||India||'Chakka jaam' not to be held in Delhi, confirms Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said on Thursday that there will be a three-hour-long 'chakka jaam' on February 6 everywhere outside the national capital. He said that the people who will be stuck in it would be provided food and water and will know what the government was doing to the farmers."There'll be a three-hour-long 'chakka jaam' on February 6. It won't take place in Delhi but everywhere outside Delhi. The people that will be stuck in it will be given food and water. We will tell them what is the Govt doing with us," Tikait said as quoted by news agency ANI.Farmers' unions have called the 'chakka jaam' as a protest against the government's decision to shut down internet services at protest sites, the police barricading and the Centre's three farm laws that the protestors want repealed.The RSS-affiliated farmers' body, Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS), said that they would not support the 'chakka jaam', citing that the protests had become political propaganda."Now, the protest at all the borders of Delhi is very much political and it is clearly visible that this has become political propaganda," BKS General Seceratery Badri Narayan Choudhary said as per ANI.Choudhary also noted the international support the protests had garnered and called it 'propaganda against India'.The farmers' protests had recently been shot into the global eye after pop icon Rihanna tweeted about it. The story was then shared by several eminent personalities like climate activist Greta Thunberg.Thousands of farmers have been protesting against the Centre's contentious farm laws for several weeks around the national capital. They had organised a tractor rally on Republic Day that ended in violence, after which the government cut the internet and the Delhi police set up barricades at the protest sites.Several rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmers have ended unsuccessfully with the farmers demanding a complete rollback of the three laws and the Centre refusing to do so.The three laws are Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-not-to-be-held-in-delhi-confirms-rakesh-tikait-101612441576279.html
04-02-2021||India||'No particular name': FIR against creators of toolkit shared by Greta||The Delhi Police registered a case against unknown persons for spreading ‘disaffection and ill-will’ against the Indian government under the guise of supporting farmers’ unions who have been protesting against the recently passed farm bills at Delhi’s border for more than two months.Delhi Police’s special commissioner Praveer Ranjan said that the farmers’ unions representatives have been made aware of the social media handles which were allegedly posting hateful content on social media during the process of negotiations which were held earlier in December and January.“A particular toolkit has come to our notice and taking cognisance of this toolkit Delhi Police has registered a case under Sections 124(a), 153(a), 153 and 120(b) of the IPC (Indian Penal Code). It means spreading disaffection against the government of India and creating disharmony among different social, religious and cultural groups. 120(b) for the conspiracy of executing such a plan,” Ranjan said.“Delhi Police has also registered several cases against those social media handles which have been pushing either fake news or spreading rumours among citizens with the purpose of spreading disaffection and ill-will,” Ranjan said while speaking to reporters.“In the process of social media monitoring, we have come across one particular document which was uploaded on one of the social media handles on one particular platform. This ‘toolkit’ has a particular section in the document titled ‘Prior Action Plan’ and says digital strikes have to be conducted using hashtags before January 26,” he further added.Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg had tweeted a document which talked about the farmers’ protest and how one can support the agitating farmers. She later deleted the tweet and shared a link to a new document saying that the previous tweet had an outdated document.“If you go by the unfolding of events on January 26, including the violence which unfolded, it reveals a copycat execution of the action plan mentioned in the toolkit,’ Ranjan said. He also highlighted that the toolkit aims at ‘waging social, cultural and economic war against the government of India.' He also said that the Delhi Police’s Cyber Crime cell will be conducting further investigation into the case.Several celebrities like environmental activist Greta Thunberg, pop artist Rihanna and model Amanda Cerny among others have tweeted voicing their support for the ongoing protests against the farm laws by farmers’ unions representatives at Delhi’s borders. The farmers who have been protesting for more than two months are demanding a repeal of the the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The farmers’ groups believe that these three laws will affect the procurement under the Minimum Support Price system and allow private and multinational companies to make profits off farmers as it will encourage corporate farming.The government has claimed that the laws will increase farmer incomes and said that the recent social media uproar in social media claiming to support the ongoing protests are being done by entities with vested interests and aimed at maligning India’s image at an international level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-registers-fir-against-unknown-persons-for-sharing-toolkit-in-social-101612443175197.html
04-02-2021||India||Orissa HC quashes Lokayukta order on vigilance probe against former BJD minister||The Orissa High Court has quashed the Lokayukta’s order for a probe by the state vigilance department against expelled BJD MLA and former minister Pradeep Kumar Panigrahy on grounds that the complainant and investigating agency in a quasi-judicial process cannot be the same, his lawyer Pitambar Acharya said Thursday.In response to Panigrahy's petition challenging the legal validity of the Lokayukta order and alleging that the anti-corruption body had clearly acted in excess of jurisdiction and authority and purely on extraneous considerations and facts, a division bench of chief justice S Muralidhar and justice Biswanath Rath on Wednesday quashed the Lokayukta order.The Lokayukta had issued the order in December last year on a complaint filed by deputy superintendent of police (Vigilance), Ranjan Kumar Das observing that the complaint revealed how Panigrahy amassed assets disproportionate to his known source of income. While issuing the order, the Lokayukta had observed that the complaint prima facie revealed that Panigrahy by resorting to corrupt practice had amassed assets disproportionate to his known source of income. The Lokayukta had asked the vigilance department to submit a report within two months.In his petition, Panigrahy had said that Lokayukta is supposed to proceed in a manner to ascertain whether there exists a prima facie case. "However, the Lokayukta jumped to the conclusion that the complaint of the vigilance department revealed a prima facie case. In the absence of granting of opportunity of hearing to the petitioner, the finding of Lokayukta is perverse, illegal and unsustainable under law," he alleged.Panigrahy also alleged in his petition that he had already been prejudiced as a rumour was floated around that the chief minister had made a reference to the Lokayukta to initiate a proceeding against him.Panigrahy is currently in jail after the Odisha CID arrested him on December 3 in connection with a corruption case.It was alleged that Panigrahy had collected money from people on behalf of Akash Pathak, son of suspended IFS officer Abhay Pathak, with the false promise of providing jobs in Tata Motors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-hc-quashes-lokayukta-order-on-vigilance-probe-against-former-bjd-minister-101612441142297.html
04-02-2021||India||97.38% respondents satisfied with vaccine process; Centre asking 4 questions||The Centre is collecting feedbacks from all those who have received their first shot of Covid-19 vaccine, through a personalised SMS. Unveiling the details of the system, developed by the ministry of electronics and information technology, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Thursday said the mechanism is aimed at analysing the ongoing process.'Worrying': Ministry lists 8 states/UTs with high Covid-19 positivity rateFirst, the beneficiaries are being sent an SMS where they have to confirm whether they have been vaccinated or not. Once they say yes, they will have to click on the URL mentioned in the SMS and will have to answer four questions:> If social distancing was maintained at the vaccination site.> If the staff explained about the vaccination process and the vaccine that would be administered.> If the staff informed about adverse event following immunisation.> If they were asked to wait for 30 minutes after vaccinationIf the beneficiaries do not reply to the SMS, then one outbound call is made. If the first call goes unanswered, a second call is being made in an interval of four hours. Participating in this process is not mandatory. The government sent the SMS to over 37 lakh beneficiaries, out of which 5 lakh replied and 97.38 per cent of these five lakh people expressed overall satisfaction with the process.Started on January 16, India's vaccination drive, which is also the biggest and fastest vaccination drive in the world, has already covered 44,49,552 beneficiaries. Vaccination of frontline workers has already begun in several parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9738-respondents-satisfied-with-vaccine-process-centre-asking-4-questions-101612441085867.html
04-02-2021||India||'Propose Greta's name for child bravery award': Meenakshi Lekhi on toolkit row||BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi took a swipe as Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and said she would propose her name for child bravery award as the 18-year-old activist has done a "huge" service to the country by uploading the toolkit which according to Lekhi proves the conspiracy being hatched to destabilise India.I propose Greta Thunberg for Child bravery Award which Govt of India should bestow on her as she has done a huge service by uploading the document providing proof about hatching of a conspiracy to destabilise India from 1/1/ & leading up to 26/1/2021"She is a kid, she is a child...we have all through this engagement knew that there was a conspiracy hatched outside the country. But we have no proof. She has given us proof. I am grateful to her for that. In her naivety, she has given us proof. We should acknowledge that. I don't despise her for this," the BJP MP said."What I despise is that her name has been prosed by some elements for Nobel Peace Prize and she is known to be an environmentalist. Now an environmentalist who does not understand sustainable farming practices, an environmentalist who doesn't understand the kind of problems that stubble burning can give, an environmentalist who doesn't understand how much water is needed for farming and an environmentalist who doesn't even understand the diversification of crops, can't be even named for Nobel Peace Prize. The prize will lose its credibility if such people are named for it. I despise that," she added.Greta Thunberg is in news for extending support to the ongoing farmers' protests. Her tweet came soon after American pop singer Rihanna tweeted a CNN article on farmers' protest and partial internet suspension. The "international support" has drawn flak as an international conspiracy to attack India's democracy. The ministry of external affairs drew a link between this with the recent desecration of Gandhi statues at various places in the world and said both are attempts to hurt India's democracy.Union ministers, BJP leaders, Bollywood and cricket personalities put their weight behind the message of India's unity and urged their follower to not believe in rumours.Meanwhile, Greta Thunberg tweeted a document which had Rihanna's name mentioned. This apparently proved that getting international figures to tweet for farmers' protest is a "bigger" plan. Greta, however, deleted the link and tweeted a fresh link of an action document which too lists similar actions but it does not mention any name.Meenakshi Lekhi said the earlier document made it clear that there have been elaborate plans to "destabilise" India since January 1.Delhi Police filed an FIR against the creators of the toolkit for criminal conspiracy. Greta, however, was undeterred and said she will still stand with the farm protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/propose-greta-s-name-for-child-bravery-award-meenakshi-lekhi-on-toolkit-row-101612439832469.html
04-02-2021||India||Rajya Sabha: Opposition raises farm laws, migrant crisis issue||Rajya Sabha proceedings went relatively smoothly on Thursday even as the Opposition MPs raised the issue of farm laws, the government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis and the migrant crisis during the lockdown. Congress MP Digvijaya Singh raised the issue of farm laws and said democracy was being suppressed in the country. “We respect the mandate you have, but the way in which dissent, which is the backbone of a democracy, is being suppressed in our country is deplorable,” Singh said. “The foisting of cases against farmers, journalists, activists and such need to stop.” He was backed by TMC MP Derek O’Brien who added that the government had failed to uphold the sanctity of Parliament. “Members had asked, as is procedure, for the Bills to be referred to a select committee, but the government never did that. Political administration is the purview of the Prime Minister and the home minister. This government has failed on many counts, including handling the Covid-19 crisis and economy.” Also Read | ‘Have mercy’: AAP’s Sanjay Singh urges Centre to repeal ‘black laws’He added that he had prepared a draft bill to repeal the three farm laws. DMK’s NR Elango said the government was violating the federal structure with the farm laws. “The farm laws occupy the field of the state’s power,” Elango said, adding, “The government legislated them in tearing hurry and farmers interest was not considered.”The Ohad demanded a separate discussion on the issue of the three contentious farm bills that have led to widespread protests by the farmers at the borders of the national Capital. The Opposition has demanded a repeal of all three laws, but the government has propoed a waiver of 18 months, during which it says that the laws will be examined. Defending the government, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had tackled every crisis head-on. “The mandate of the country has been vested in the PM not once but twice in the national elections. “Modi ji has worked for energy justice that the farmers will benefit from,” said Pradhan. “India is also working to develop alternate energy in the form of hydrogen fuel.”MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, who joined the BJP last year, also lauded the Prime Minister’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis and other issues since he came to power for the second time. “Jammu and Kashmir has been freed from historical chains and over 1.5 crore [15 million] people have received the benefits of Central schemes,” he said. He added that the PM had rolled out visionary reforms. “The ram mandir will be a symbol of new and strong India,” Scindia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-opposition-raises-farm-laws-migrant-crisis-101612440127749.html
04-02-2021||India||Poaching case: Salman seeks exemption from personal appearance in Jodhpur court||Actor Salman Khan has challenged the Jodhpur district and sessions court’s order directing him to appear before it on February 6 in connection with the blackbuck poaching case.Hastimal Saraswat, Khan’s lawyer, said they have sought permission for his client to appear before the court via video conferencing.Khan was in 2018 sentenced to five years in prison in the poaching case. His appeal against the case is pending. Khan was charged in the killing of two endangered antelopes in 1998 along with actors Saif Ali Khan, Tabu, Neelam Kothari, and Sonali Bendre while shooting Hum Saath Saath Hain. All the other accused were acquitted.In 2017, another court in Jodhpur acquitted Khan in a separate poaching case citing a lack of proof that he killed an endangered gazelle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poaching-case-salman-seeks-exemption-from-personal-appearance-in-jodhpur-court-101612439230903.html
04-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: 2nd Covid-19 vaccine shot to be administered from Feb 13 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Second Covid-19 vaccine shot to be administered from Feb 13The second dose of Covid-19 vaccines will be administered to healthcare workers from February 13, NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul said at a press conference on Thursday. Read moreDalit, 24, blindfolded, assaulted by 4 for allegedly stealing money: PoliceRahul, 24-year-old Dalit labourer, is blindfolded, his head is stuck between a man's thighs while another fellow swings the thin wooden stick and brings it flat on his dhoti-clad derierre. The sound of lathis on his body and the muffled cries punctuate the air near Ammapettai in Thanjavur. The Dalit man is alleged to have stolen money from the men. Read moreStop viewing protests as political conspiracy, Priyanka Gandhi tells CentreCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday said that the government has failed to identify the agitation against the three farm laws as a real struggle and does not recognise the plight of the farmers’ protesting at Delhi’s borders. Read moreLJD MP MV Shreyams Kumar criticises govt handling of farmer agitationIn a scathing attack on the government over its handling of the ongoing farmer agitation, Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) MP MV Shreyams Kumar on Thursday said the government has remained a mute spectator while democracy is being "butchered" just a few kilometers away from the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Read moreStill stand with farmers, tweets Greta Thunberg facing toolkit rowOn Wednesday, she tweeted a document which she later deleted. The document containing detailed plans of garnering international support for the farmers stoked controversy as it implied that her tweet in support of farmers may not be organic, may be part of an engineered protest on social media. Read MoreCo-workers raise money to replace man’s stolen scooter. Watch wholesome video“We can’t help everyone, but everyone can help someone,” these words by former US President Ronald Reagan perfectly capture the essence of a video which is now winning people’s hearts on Instagram. It shows how co-workers of a man came together to raise money to replace his stolen scooter. The emotional scene showcased in the video may win your over too. Read more'Don't want to get him injured again': Aakash Chopra on India star ahead of England Test seriesWill Hardik Pandya get a chance to play in England Tests? And if he does, will he be joining the likes of Ishant Sharma and Jasprit Bumrah while bowling? Read moreSonakshi re-posts message about humanitarianism amid protests, fans say she really is 'asli sona'Actor Sonakshi Sinha has shared a social media post about international attention on the ongoing farmers' protest in India. The post, re-posted by Sonakshi on Instagram Stories, attempts to highlight the difference between humanitarianism and political activism. Read moreWatch: IAF chief on increase in capital outlay of Defence, LCA Tejas inductionIAF chief RKS Bhadauria called the increase in capital outlay of Defence budget ‘a huge step’. Bhadauria said it will provide adequate budgetary support amid Covid-19 pandemic. The IAF chief also spoke on how LCA Tejas induction will help squadron strength of the Air Force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-second-covid-19-vaccine-shot-to-be-administered-from-feb-13-and-all-the-latest-news-101612437737269.html
04-02-2021||India||Day-long centenary celebrations of Bihar assembly building slated for Feb 7||The centenary year celebration of the Bihar Legislative Assembly building will begin on February 7 at the Central Hall. Chief minister Nitish Kumar will inaugurate the function, which will also feature a session for members on the topic “Role of legislators in a democracy”.Due to Covid-19 pandemic, it will be just a day-long isession marking 100 years of the first session of the Bihar and Orissa Provincial Legislative Council held under the presidency of Sir Walter Maude on February 7, 1921 and addressed by then Governor Lord SP Sinha.The present-day legislature has its genesis in the December 12, 1911 decision of British emperor George V regarding the creation of a separate province combining Bihar and Orissa with Patna as its headquarters and it was notified on March 22, 1912. Later, an independent building and secretariat for the Provincial Legislative Council was built in 1920.Also Read | AIMIM MLAs’ meeting with Nitish Kumar sparks speculations of defectionBihar Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha said on Thursday, “We have organised just a day’s function on February 7, as the date is significant. In a couple of months, when the situation has improved, we will have a bigger function and a lot of other activities will be included. The PM has also given his consent to attend the function, but the date will be finalised after he gives a suitable date,” he said.The day-long event will be divided into two parts. While the Speaker will give the welcome address, deputy CMs Tar Kishore Prasad and Renu Devi, Legislative Council chairmam Avadhesh Narayan Singh and the CM will address the inaugural session. Parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary will deliver a vote of thanks.In the second half, the legislators, especially 104 first-timers, will be apprised of the legislative practices and functioning as well as the powers and privileges. Union law and justice minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Vijay Kumar Choudhary and Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi will deliberate on legislative business, financial matters, powers and privileges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daylong-centenary-celebrations-of-bihar-assembly-building-slated-for-feb-7-101612438870373.html
04-02-2021||India||Second Covid-19 vaccine shot to be administered from Feb 13||The second dose of Covid-19 vaccines will be administered to healthcare workers from February 13, NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul said at a press conference on Thursday."The second dose of vaccine will be administered to healthcare workers from 13th February. Only the first dose has been given to them so far," he said.During the press conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that 1,239 private and 5,912 public hospitals were being utilised as vaccination session sites. Bhushan also said that the the country's Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) system was robust and was strengthened for the purpose of Covid-19 vaccinations. He also noted that 0.18% of vaccinations were followed by adverse events."There is a very structured & robust system of AEFI monitoring in this country. It has been further strengthened in view of Covid-19 vaccination. We have 8563 AEFI so far when we have done vaccination in lakhs. This is 0.18% of vaccinated people," he said.As per the government, 45,93,427 beneficiaries have been vaccinated against Covid-19 till 1.30pm on Thursday. India was the fastest country to reach four million vaccinations, however, Union Health Ministry said that there were 11 states and union territories, including Tamil Nadu, Assam and Jammu & Kashmir, which have inoculated 30% or fewer of their healthcare workers.Pegged as the world's largest vaccination programme, the first phase of the country's vaccination drive began on January 16, after the government approved Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech's coronavirus vaccines, with healthcare workers and front line workers being the first in line to be inoculated.India recorded 12,899 new Covid-19 cases which took the country's overall tally to 10,790,183. 107 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 154,703. As per the Union Health Ministry, the country's cumulative positivity rate stood at 5.42% and was on the decline while the positivity rate recorded for the previous week was 1.82%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-covid-19-vaccine-shot-to-be-administered-from-feb-13-101612435498641.html
04-02-2021||India||Dalit man blindfolded, assaulted by 4 for allegedly stealing money: Police||Rahul, 24-year-old Dalit labourer, is blindfolded, his head is stuck between a man's thighs while another fellow swings the thin wooden stick and brings it flat on his dhoti-clad derierre. The sound of lathis on his body and the muffled cries punctuate the air near Ammapettai in Thanjavur. The Dalit man is alleged to have stolen money from the men.The incident, captured on a video, shows how the four men go about torturing him. As if in a relay race, another man takes over the stick from the one carrying it earlier. The man is briefly let go and then again captured and pushed to the ground. At this point with Rahul’s face in the soil, a man sits on top of him, while another fellow grabs him by the ankles. And he is again hit on his bottom.With the man still sitting on top of the Dalit man, now the one holding him by the ankles gets up, the wooden stick changes hands again, but the same story plays out. Rahul is now hit on his bare feet.An FIR has been filed against four men under six sections, including 307 and atrocities against SC/ST Act, said Somasundaram, superintendent of police, Thanjavur.The search is on for the four accused to be arrested.They reportedly beat up the Dalit man for stealing money from one of the accused, as per initial information, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-24-blindfolded-assaulted-by-4-for-allegedly-stealing-money-police-101612436857219.html
04-02-2021||India||'Still stand with farmers', tweets Greta Thunberg after Twitter controversy||Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg who is in the eye of the Twitter storm for which Delhi Police may take action against her on Thursday reiterated her support to the cause of the farmers. "I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest. No amount of hate, threats or violations of human rights will ever change that. #FarmersProtest," the teen activist tweeted.I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest.No amount of hate, threats or violations of human rights will ever change that. #FarmersProtestOn Wednesday, she tweeted a document which she later deleted. The document containing detailed plans of garnering international support for the farmers stoked controversy as it implied that her tweet in support of farmers may not be organic, may be part of an engineered protest on social media.Greta Thunberg's toolkit on farm protest creates uproar; she takes it down, posts 'update'Greta tweeted on the ongoing farmers' protest after Americal pop singer Rihanna shared a CNN article on farmers protest and following internet suspension in the Capital region. She too shared the same CNN article.Without naming either Rihanna or Greta, the ministry of external affairs issued a statement condemning such rushed comments, which are neither accurate nor responsible, it said.We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India. https://t.co/tqvR0oHgo0A host of ministers, Indian celebrities started a counter hashtag movement on Twitter with #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda.On Wednesday evening, Greta posted a document which had Rihanna's name in it. Hours later, she posted another one saying that the earlier document has been withdrawn. The new document lists seven actions to support the protesting farmers in India.Sharing video/photo message, digital strike with #AskIndiaWhy, several tweets tagging @PMOIndia, @Nstomar, reading more about the protests, joining protests near Indian embassies, signing petitions are some of them.Delhi Police have filed an FIR against the creators of the toolkit under Section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race) and Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/still-stand-with-farmers-tweets-greta-thunberg-facing-toolkit-row-101612436937973.html
04-02-2021||India||Kejriwal launches 'Switch Delhi' campaign to fight air pollution||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday launched 'Switch Delhi', an electric vehicle mass awareness campaign, to sensitize citizens about the benefits of switching to electric vehicles.Delhi government has rolled out incentives on the purchase of electric vehicles (EVs) among all the states."Our vision is that by 2024, 25 per cent of new vehicles must be electric. Approximately ₹30,000 subsidies are to be given for 2/3-wheelers while ₹1.5 lakh for 4-wheelers. We are starting the 'Switch Delhi' campaign today to make people aware of clean vehicles," said Kejriwal in his video conference.Appealing to the people to take part in the movement, Kejriwal said, "We have to turn our EV adoption movement into a mass movement, a 'jan andolan', to form a collective commitment to decrease pollution."The government launched the campaign to inform, encourage and motivate every person in Delhi to switch from polluting vehicles to zero-emission EVs. All the hired cars being engaged by various departments of the Delhi government will switch to EVs within six months.Also read| ‘Have mercy’: AAP’s Sanjay Singh urges Centre to repeal ‘black laws'The Chief Minister said that the focus should be on the problem of air pollution which haunts the state and the health of its citizens."Over the last year, the people of Delhi have fought a courageous fight against Corona. They overcame all odds to defeat three waves of Corona. While all the people of Delhi deserve credit for this, it should not take away our focus from the long-term challenges facing Delhi. One such challenge is air pollution. To address the vehicular pollution in Delhi, in August 2020, the Delhi government notified the landmark Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy. It has been called the most progressive EV policy in India and among the best globally," he added.The Chief Minister informed that the state government has made road tax and registration fees for the EVs completely free. The policy has been created to promote the adoption of EVs on a large scale that cannot run on petrol. The government will also issue tenders to develop 100 public charging stations spread across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-launches-switch-delhi-campaign-to-fight-air-pollution-101612432841496.html
04-02-2021||India||LJD MP MV Shreyams Kumar criticises govt handling of farmer agitation||In a scathing attack on the government over its handling of the ongoing farmer agitation, Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) MP MV Shreyams Kumar on Thursday said the government has remained a mute spectator while democracy is being "butchered" just a few kilometers away from the Rashtrapati Bhavan.Participating in a discussion on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament at the start of the Budget Session, Kumar alleged that none of the constitutional values are being upheld by the current dispensation and that the country is being mortgaged to private entities."Rashtrapati (President) can see how democracy is butchered just a few km away from the Rashtrapati Bhavan -- the Singhu border (the epicentre of the farmer agitation). Our annadatas, the kisan, on whom the Rashtrapati showers praise in his speech, is silenced and traumatised with multi-layered barricading, iron nails on road, barbed wires and iron rods between cemented barricades, reminding one of the horrific Tiananmen Square," he said in Rajya Sabha.He noted that the President denouncing farmer protests was a disrespect to constitutional values.Referring to the violence during the farmers' tractor rally on January 26, Kumar said it was the BJP government which dishonoured the national monument -- the Red Fort -- by handing it over to a private party for ₹25 crore for a five-year period in the garb of adopting a heritage site."The Red Fort is today in private hands. Rashtrapati has no qualms about this. The BJP dispensation does not know that under Article 51-A (of the Constitution), it is the fundamental duty of every citizen to value and preserve the rich heritage of our composite culture," he added.The government does not know the difference between a national monument and a commercial property, Kumar said."However, when some hooligans entered into the Red Fort, the dispensation first allowed them to enter and create mayhem only to raise the jingoistic fervour later," he noted.He further said, "Unfortunately, the President has not seen the sufferings of his fellow brethren, the kisan, the annadatas who are protesting just a few km away from the Rashtrapati Bhavan. They are today insulted by the BJP dispensation by terming them as anti-nationalists."The Internet is banned at the sites of farmer protest strike and this is draconian and unheard of in a democratic setup. Several international personalities have started raising their voice against this, Kumar noted.He said that Parliament is "no longer sovereign" and bills are passed for private ends.He added that the president's speech says the government holds in high esteem the values of democracy and sanctity of the Constitution and that the government has always respected freedom of expression and holding of peaceful agitations."In the 2020 World Press Freedom Index, India is ranked abysmally low at 142 out of 180 countries. Even the military junta Myanmar is ranked above India at 139. Palestine is at 137. Monarchies like Oman and UAE are ranked at 135 and 131 respectively. It is a shame for this government that no democracy is ranked as low as India at 142," Kumar said.The LJD member also attacked the government over its economic policies and said that in the name of a free market economy, the current dispensation is selling all its assets. "Rashtrapati speaks a lot about Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). This is nothing but a catchy slogan aimed at hoodwinking the citizens. From computers to fabrics and from aircraft to toys -- everything is imported," Kumar said."Let this government know that roti cannot be downloaded from Google. It is the farmers who feed us. The rich gets richer and the poor gets poorer," Kumar said while opposing the Motion of Thanks to the President's address.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi's border points with a demand that the Centre repeal the new agri-marketing laws enacted last September.The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljd-mp-mv-shreyams-kumar-criticises-govt-handling-of-farmer-agitation-101612434904659.html
04-02-2021||India||'Worrying': Ministry lists 8 states/UTs with high Covid-19 positivity rate||With the number of daily infections, deaths coming down, Covid-19 situation in India in comparison with the US, the UK, Brazil is looking up, but the positivity rate in eight states/UTs is worrying, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Thursday. "It is definitely worrying that the weekly positivity rate in these eight states and union territories are more than the national positivity rate. We are in contact touch with the administrations and are sending national team," the secretary said.India likely to get 97.1 million Covid-19 doses through CovaxWeekly positivity rate is the average percentage of people testing positive in a week. India has a weekly positivity rate of 1.82 per cent.List of states/UTs with a higher positivity rate than the national rateKerala (11.20%)Chhattisgarh (6.20%)Maharashtra (4.70%)Goa (4.40%)Nagaland (3.60%)Ladakh(2.90%)Puducherry (2.60%)Chandigarh (2.10%)Interestingly, apart from Kerala and Maharashtra, none of these states ever became epicentre of the infection. But the positivity rate implies that the spread of the infection is not being contained.India at present has only 1.55 lakh active Covid-19 cases. Kerala and Maharashtra are the only two states with more than 35,000 active cases — Kerala (69.365), Maharashtra (38,762).On global Covid-19 situation, the secretary said, "Countries have experienced multiple peaks...and if we compare death figures, the number is again increasing in other countries. It means more people are contracting the disease and getting admitted to the hospital, probably beyond the capacity of the hospitals there. They are not getting proper treatment and that's why the number of deaths in these countries is on the rise. In India, the situation is absolutely the opposite."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worrying-ministry-lists-8-states-uts-with-high-covid-19-positivity-rate-101612433143255.html
04-02-2021||India||Central Vista: Govt starts work on Rajpath redevelopment||The Centre on Thursday held the bhoomi poojan for laying the foundation stone of the redeveloped and restructured Central Vista Avenue—the next phase of the Central Vista redevelopment plan.The bhoomi poojan ceremony of Central Vista Avenue was performed by Union housing minister Hardeep Puri in the presence of housing ministry secretary Durga Shanker Mishra,CPWD DG and senior officers of the ministry at India Gate, New Delhi.“With this ceremony, the work has started for the development/redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue. The 3km-long Central Vista Avenue stretches from North & South Block to India Gate, and includes Rajpath, its adjoining lawns and canals, rows of trees, Vijay Chowk and the India Gate plaza. This was originally designed to be a grand processional pathway to the Viceroy’s House during the British Raj. It was appropriated by the people of India and their government during Independence,” the ministry said on Thursday.Also Read | Parliament library to continue home delivery of books despite lukewarm responseThe redevelopment of the avenue — which comprises Rajpath, leading from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate — will involve restructuring the avenue, creating underground passes, landscaping the green areas and comprehensive maintenance and operation of the same for five years.The first phase of the Central Vista avenue redevelopment at an estimated cost of ₹502 crore will include refurbishing and landscaping the lawns; the entre has proposed that green cover be increased from 350,000 sqm to about 390,000 sqm. It will also include public amenities with toilets, drinking water facilities and vending areas that are being provided at 10 locations for visitors and tourists.It will also include underpasses at Janpath and C-Hexagon crossing with Rajpath.“Walkways across lawns and low-level bridges over canals are being provided to ensure better connectivity with parking, public amenities at 12 suitable locations. Canals are being refurbished with proper lining and aerators are being provided to keep the water clean,” the ministry said.It will also include parking spaces and foldable seating arrangement “to reduce time taken for installation and removal of temporary seating arrangement during Republic Day Celebrations.”“Government approved a proposal for development of Central Vista Avenue with estimated cost of ₹608 crore on November 10, 2020. Requisite permissions from Delhi Urban Arts Commission, Heritage Conservation Committee, Central Vista Committee, local bodies, etc. have been obtained,” the ministry said.HT on January 6 had reported that the Shapoorji Pallonji Group on Wednesday emerged as the lowest bidder for the Centre’s tender for the redevelopment and restructuring of the Central Vista Avenue after it quoted a financial bid of ₹477 crore, nearly 5% lower than the estimated cost of the project pegged at ₹502 crore.This will be the second phase of redevelopment after Tata Projects Limited was tasked with the construction of the new Parliament complex on September 29, 2020.The Central Public Works Department, nodal agency for the redevelopment project, revised the estimated cost for the project from ₹463 crore to ₹502 crore in a modified tender document released in November. Of this, ₹372.9 crore is earmarked for civil work and horticulture, ₹113.7 crore for electrical and mechanical work and ₹15.51 crore for operation and maintenance, all for a period of five years.“Adequate measures will be taken up to mitigate environment pollution during the construction/retrofitting work with focus on water conservation,” the ministry said.The tender for the redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue also mandates the firms to maintain it for five years after completion, and requires that the project be completed within 300 days. Work will also need to be carried out in sections to minimise the portion of the avenue that is cordoned off at any given time.“Some modifications were carried out in Central Vista Avenue after independence; the landscape was altered, new rows of trees were added in the 1980’s, a new road, Rafi Ahmad Kidwai Marg, was constructed to improve north-south connectivity. Annual Republic Day Celebrations (RDC) are held on this avenue every year. Other important functions… has very high footfalls. It is the most frequently visited place and important tourist attraction in Delhi. However, it lacks public amenities like toilets, pathways, designated vending zones, parking, proper lighting, signage, etc. Its lawns and water canals are in depleted condition as they were not planned for heavy public use and now become increasingly stressed. The Republic Day arrangements takes long time and during that time most of the area become inaccessible to public.The government has decided to address these by refurbishing and improving the avenue, as part of the comprehensive transformation of the Central Vista. The objective of the proposal is to make the Avenue an icon that truly befits New India. This will come out to be one of the best Central Vista Avenue of the world,” it said.“The design also provides space and facilities for vendors, ensures that arrangements for national events cause minimal disruption, and ensures integrity and continuity of the Vista’s original layout, its geometries and its architectural character,” it added.The plan will also involve razing the buildings on either side of the avenue that house ministry offices to make the Central Secretariat: a set of 11 buildings that will house all the 51 central government ministries.The Centre in December opened the technical bids for the tender narrowing on five firms, HT reported on December 14.The plan, being handled by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, involves having a new Parliament building in place by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022, while the entire project, which includes constructing 11 administrative buildings to house all the government ministries, is slated to be finished by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-starts-work-on-rajpath-redevelopment-as-part-of-central-vista-plan-101612432503769.html
04-02-2021||India||4-year-old leopard hit by vehicle in Maharashtra, dies||A four-year-old leopard was killed after being hit by some unidentified vehicle early on Thursday morning, near Atgaon village of Shahapur, the largest taluka of Thane district.The forest department officials are at the spot and are likely to perform the big cat’s last rites.On Thursday early morning, the officials received a call from villagers informing them about the accident involving a leopard. Upon reaching the accident site, they found the leopard was severely hit and had died on the spot.Shahapur forest officer said, "It seems the incident happened between 1.30 and 3 am. The vehicle must be at full speed as the leopard was hit so badly. He was three to four-year-old. Further investigation is going on."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4yearold-leopard-hit-by-vehicle-in-maharashtra-dies-101612431639353.html
04-02-2021||India||SII delays vaccines for private sale in Bangladesh to focus on national campaign||Bangladesh's Beximco Pharmaceuticals Ltd said on Thursday the Serum Institute of India (SII) had delayed the first supplies of a Covid-19 vaccine for private sale, instead prioritising government immunisation campaigns.The Bangladeshi company last week received 5 million of the 30 million doses it had ordered from SII for Bangladesh's immunisation programme that begins next week.Beximco had separately ordered 1 million doses for sale on the private market, with the hope to start marketing it this month."However, the company has now been informed by SII that the first instalment (500,000 doses) of this supply will be delayed following a prioritisation on supplying vaccine doses for government mass vaccination programmes and WHO-led COVAX initiatives over private pay use," Beximco said in a regulatory filing."It remains unclear how long this delay will last."Beximco's chief operating officer told Reuters last month the company could buy up to 3 million doses of the vaccine from SII at about $8 each for sale on the private market.The price is about twice the $4 per dose that Beximco had agreed for the government programme.AstraZeneca has been embroiled in a dispute in Europe after it said it would have to cut supplies of its vaccine there in the first quarter.The WHO has called for vaccines to be should be shared equitably and has urged countries them not to jostle for deliveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-delays-vaccines-for-private-sale-in-bangladesh-to-focus-on-national-campaign-101612429928653.html
04-02-2021||India||Govt says Lokpal did not present any annual report in Parliament||Anti-corruption ombudsman Lokpal, which came into being in 2019, is required to present to president and Parliament an annual report on the work done by it but no such report has been laid in the two Houses, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Thursday.On March 23, 2019, President Ram Nath Kovind administered the oath of office to Justice Pinaki Chandra Ghose as chairperson of Lokpal, the top body to inquire and investigate allegations of corruption against public functionaries.“Lokpal is an independent statutory body established under Section 3 of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013. In terms of Section 48 of the said Act, the Lokpal is required to present annually to the President a report on the work done by it, which is caused to be laid in both the Houses of the Parliament,” Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said in a written reply.“No such report has been laid,” he said.The Lokpal's eight members were administered the oath by Justice Ghose on March 27, 2019.The Lokpal received 1,427 complaints during 2019-20. Of these, 613 were related to state government officials and four against Union ministers and members of Parliament, according to the ombudsman’s data.As many as 89 complaints, including three against Members of Parliament, were received by the Lokpal between April and December 2020, the data said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-lokpal-did-not-present-any-annual-report-in-parliament-101612428716460.html
04-02-2021||India||Union Budget focuses on farmer empowerment: PM Modi at Chauri Chaura event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that several measures have been taken in the 2021-22 Union Budget for the empowerment of farmers. This comes amid farmers’ continuing their protest on Delhi borders since November last year and several rounds of failed talks with the Centre.Speaking at the inauguration of the Chauri Chaura centenary celebrations virtually where he also released a stamp to mark the occasion, the PM said, “For the mandis to become markets of profit for farmers, the Central government has decided to connect over 1,000 mandis with eNAM (online agriculture trading platform). Farmers will be able to sell their produce with ease anywhere in the country.”In the past six years, several measures have been taken by the Centre towards making farmers self- dependent. During the Covid pandemic, the country continued to move forward and the farmers contributed with record grain production, he said. “To develop rural areas, the Centre has allocated ₹40,000 crore for development of rural infrastructure. Farmers will directly benefit from investment in the infrastructure sector. The decision of the Centre will make farmers ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-dependent). Agriculture will turn into a profitable venture for farmers.” “Efforts of the government are changing the scenario in Gorakhpur region, known as the land of revolutionaries. Earlier, factories were closed, roads were damaged and hospitals remained closed. Now, Gorakhpur fertiliser factory is starting. Farmers will benefit and the young will get employment,’ he said. Talking about the Union Budget, he said, “Before the budget was presented, several experts said the country has faced a crisis and the Centre will have to increase taxes, put burden on the common man. But the Centre ensured that no burden was put on the people,” Modi said. Attacking the previous governments, he said, “For decades, the budget meant launch of projects or programmes in the names of a few people. The budget had virtually turned into a ‘baahi-khata’ (account book) of income and expenditure.” “Even common people prepare income and expenditure of their household, keeping in mind their present and future needs. But previours governments had made the budget a medium of announcements that were not fulfilled,” Modi said. India’s fight against Covid pandemic is being appreciated world-over. Several countries are learning from our Covid vaccination drive. Along with manufacturing Covid vaccine, India is exporting it to needy countries, he said. “Now, the Centre is working to provide quality medical facilities to people in rural areas so that they do not have to go to cities for treatment of minor health problems...The Centre has increased budget allocation for the health sector,” he said. The Chauri Chaura incident is regarded as a crucial event in India’s independence movement. On February 4, 1922, supporters of the Non-Cooperation Movement clashed with police which opened fire.In retaliation, the demonstrators set fire to the Chauri Chaura police post in which 23 personnel were killed. The killing led to the arrest of many demonstrators. While 228 put on trial, 172 of them were ordered to be executed, six of them died during the trial and the remaining were sentenced to jail terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-budget-focuses-on-farmer-empowerment-pm-modi-at-chauri-chaura-event-101612429623305.html
04-02-2021||India||Flight operations disrupted in Kashmir for 2nd day as valley receives snowfall||The air traffic to and from Kashmir was affected for the second consecutive day on Thursday due to bad weather as most parts of the valley received snowfall overnight, officials said.“The flight operations at Srinagar airport were hampered as no flights have been able to land so far today due to bad weather,” the officials said.They said the accumulation of snow on the runway and poor visibility affected the operations.The officials said while the runway has been cleared, the visibility was still poor for the operations to take place.Also read| Kashmir under worst siege since August 2019, says Mehbooba Mufti“The MET department has said the weather will improve in a few hours, therefore, we expect the flight operations to start around noon,” they added.The flight operations at the airport were affected on Wednesday as well as most parts of the valley received snowfall.As many as 14 flights were cancelled due to poor visibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flight-operations-disrupted-in-kashmir-for-2nd-day-as-valley-receives-snowfall-101612417976567.html
04-02-2021||India||No fresh Covid-19 case in Arunachal Pradesh, tally at 16,829||Arunachal Pradesh did not report any fresh Covid-19 case in the past 24 hours, a health department official said on Thursday.The total caseload in the northeastern state stood at 16,829, he said.Two more persons were cured of the disease on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 16,764, State Surveillance Officer (SSO) Lobsang Jampa said.The recovery rate among coronavirus patients in the state stood at 99.61 per cent.State immunisation officer Dimong Padung said 16,876 health workers have received vaccine shots thus far, and seven cases of adverse event following immunisation have been reported.The health department has been carrying out the inoculation drive four days a week -- Monday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday.Also read| India’s active caseload drops below 156,000; recoveries surpass 10.48 millionThe state has received 32,000 doses of Covishield vaccine from the Centre so far.Arunachal Pradesh currently has nine active cases and 56 people have succumbed to the infection.The Capital Complex Region, comprising Itanagar, Naharlagun, Nirjuli and Banderdewa areas, has the highest number of active cases at three.Altogether 3,93,880 samples have been tested for Covid-19, including 566 on Wednesday, and the positivity ratio is at 0.05 per cent, the SSO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-fresh-covid-19-case-in-arunachal-pradesh-tally-at-16829-101612417488803.html
04-02-2021||India||HS Puri performs 'bhoomi pujan' for redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue||Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday performed the 'bhoomi pujan' for the redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue between the Rashtrapati Bhavan to the India Gate.The government plans to hold the 2022 Republic Day parade on the newly-developed Rajpath, a project that is being executed under the government's ambitious Central Vista redevelopment plan.According to the Central Public Works Department, the ground-breaking ceremony was held at India Gate Lawn where senior officials, including ministry secretary Durga Shanker Mishra, were present.The Rajpath redevelopment project includes large scale stone work, construction of underpasses, underground amenities blocks and horticulture work.Infrastructure firm Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Limited is executing the project. The company had emerged as the lowest bidder for the Rajpath redevelopment project quoting ₹477.08 crore, which was 4.99% less than the estimated cost, according to the CPWD's bid documents.The CPWD, which is executing the government's ₹13,500-crore Central Vista revamp project, said that the redevelopment work of Central Vista Avenue will be executed in a phased manner so that some parts of Rajpath are available for visitors.The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new prime minister residence and PMO, and new Vice President Enclave.In September last year, Tata Projects Limited had won the tender for the construction of the new Parliament building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hs-puri-performs-bhoomi-pujan-for-redevelopment-of-central-vista-avenue-101612428447344.html
04-02-2021||India||‘Have mercy’: AAP’s Sanjay Singh urges Centre to repeal ‘black laws'||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is among the Opposition parties supporting farmers protesting against the three contentious farm laws, on Thursday accused the Centre of not being bothered for the farmers. Speaking in Rajya Sabha, AAP MP Sanjay Singh urged the central government to ‘have mercy and repeal the three black laws.’Also Read | Protesters treated as anti-nationals: Harsimrat Badal after Ghazipur visit with opposition team“Farmers are protesting for 76 days, they are being lathi-charged, called traitors, terrorists and Khalistanis. Talks happened 11 times, all failed, the government claims to be a call away, but doesn’t bother. About 165 farmers lost their lives. Have mercy and repeal the three black laws,” news agency ANI quoted Singh as saying in Rajya Sabha. Singh’s remarks came a day after he and two other AAP MPs were suspended for a day for creating ‘ruckus’ in the House on the issue of farm laws.Farmers are protesting for 76 days, they are being lathi-charged, called traitors, terrorists, Khalistanis. Talks happened 11 times, all failed, govt claims to be a call away, but doesn't bother. About 165 farmers lost their lives. Have mercy&repeal 3 black laws: Sanjay Singh,AAP pic.twitter.com/C9yc8wdcsi11 rounds of talks have taken place between the Centre and farmers’ unions representing the protesting farmers. The 11th round took place on January 22; in the 10th round, which took place on January 20, the government offered to keep the laws in abeyance for one-and-a-half-years, a proposal which the farmers rejected a day later. On January 30, in a virtual all-party meet, held four days after violence during the ‘Kisan tractor parade’ on Republic Day, prime minister Narendra Modi reiterated that the proposal to keep the laws in abeyance was still on, adding that the government was ‘just a phone call away.’The talks between the Centre and farmers’ leaders have been stuck on two major issues: legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP) and a complete rollback of the laws; on the latter, the government has categorically said that it won’t withdraw the laws, and has instead offered various other options, including amendments, which have been rejected by the unions.The AAP, meanwhile, has been supporting the protests from the beginning. In the initial days, the AAP government in Delhi rejected the police’s request to turn some of the city's grounds into temporary prisons. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and AAP MLAs tore copies of the farm laws in a special one-day session of the Delhi Assembly in December 2020. The party has also been providing water and internet connectivity to farmers protesting on the borders of Delhi. Last Friday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia visited Ghazipur, one of the three protest sites in the capital city.Also Read | Three days after R-Day violence, Delhi govt renews support to farmersOn Wednesday, Kejriwal said that his government will help find farmers ‘missing’ since the violence on Republic Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-mercy-and-repeal-aap-s-sanjay-singh-urges-centre-to-withdraw-black-laws-101612428496102.html
04-02-2021||India||On farm laws stir, TMC's Derek O'Brien says govt failed country at many levels||All India Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Derek O'Brien on Thursday said that the government failed to uphold Parliament's sanctity because of its arrogance, adding that it has "failed India at many levels"."Government has failed India at many levels, it failed to uphold Parliament's sanctity because of its arrogance. On September 20, 2020, seven MPs who stood for farmers were suspended. I stand in solidarity with the farmers who lost their lives" said TMC leader.Follow latest updates on Parliament proceedings here Speaking on the Motion of Thanks on President's Address, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP Sanjay Singh also slammed the government for its reaction on the issue."Farmers are protesting for 76 days, they are being lathi-charged, called traitors, terrorists, Khalistanis. Talks happened 11 times, all failed, government claims to be a call away but doesn't bother. About 165 farmers lost their lives. Have mercy and repeal 3 black laws," he said.Meanwhile, minister of state (MoS) for home affairs G Kishan Reddy introduced Bill in Rajya Sabha to replace Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-farm-laws-stir-tmc-s-derek-o-brien-says-govt-failed-country-at-many-levels-101612428378788.html
04-02-2021||India||About 4.5 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in 19 days: Centre||Nearly 4.5 million (44,49,552) beneficiaries have received Covid-19 vaccine shots in merely 19 days, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.India became the fastest country in the world to reach the 4 million Covid-19 vaccination mark, achieving this feat in 18 days."Many other countries have had a head start of almost 65 days. India launched the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16. The number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day has also shown a progressive increase," the ministry said.In a span of 24 hours, 3,10,604 people were vaccinated across 8,041 sessions, it said, adding that 84,617 sessions have been conducted so far.India's Covid-19 active caseload has dropped to 1.55 lakh (1,55,025) and comprises just 1.44 per cent of the total infections. The day-on-day change in the number of active cases over the last few weeks depicts the consistent decline in active cases.India's Daily Positivity Rate is 1.82 per cent, as of today, it said.Also read| Recovered Covid patients may need only one shot of mRNA vaccines: Report"India has maintained the daily positivity rate below 2 per cent in last few weeks (19 days)," the ministry said.The total recoveries have surged to 1,04,80,455."The difference in new recoveries outnumbering new cases has also improved the recovery rate to 97.13 per cent. The total recovered cases are 67.6 times the active cases," the ministry highlighted.It said 86.04 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in six states and union territories.At 7,030, Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries while 6,380 people recovered in Kerala in a span of 24 hours followed by 533 in Tamil Nadu.The ministry said that 84.67 per cent of the new cases too are from six states and UTs.Kerala continues to report the highest daily new cases at 6,356. It is followed by Maharashtra with 2,992, while Tamil Nadu reported 514 new cases. Six states and UTs also account for 71.03 per cent of the new deaths.Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties at 30 followed by Kerala (20). West Bengal and Chhattisgarh reported 7 casualties each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/about-4-5-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-19-days-centre-101612427789481.html
04-02-2021||India||Twitter says Kangana's posts taken down as they violated rules||Microblogging platform Twitter on Thursday said it has taken action against some tweets of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut as they were in violation of the Twitter rules "in line with our range of enforcement options".On Thursday, two of Kangana's tweets were taken down. This is not the first time that the actor is facing action on the microblogging platform. In January, her Twitter account was suspended for a few hours after her controversial post on Tandav, a web series.Govt cracks down on Twitter accounts talking about ‘farmer genocide’The fresh action against Kangana comes after the actor attacked American pop star Rihanna in which she shared a CNN article on farmers' protest and asked her followers why there is no discussion on farmers' protest and internet suspension. Kangana, in her tweet, attacked Rihanna and called her a 'fool'.In one of the now-deleted tweets, Kangana retweeted cricketer Rohit Sharma's tweet in solidarity with #IndiaTogether and said that cricketers are "afraid" to say the truth about farmers who are protesting. In her tweet, Kangana mentioned the word "terrorists" which violates Twitter guideline. Several cricketers, Bollywood personalities, politicians on Wednesday tweeted using #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda after the ministry of external affairs issued a statement condemning the action of international celebrities as "irresponsible" and "inaccurate".In another, she said the "cancer" of the country will now be "eradicated".Kangana and her tweets came under fire on several occasions in past. A petition was moved in the Bombay high court calling for a permanent suspension of her Twitter account, which was dismissed.Kangana's tweet on farmers' protest stoked fresh controversies as she has been calling them "terrorists" and got engaged in severe Twitter wars with celebrities supporting farmers' protests, including Diljit Dosanjh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-says-kangana-s-posts-taken-down-for-violation-of-rules-101612428256261.html
04-02-2021||India||Most Indians looking to revisit familiar tourist destinations in 2021: Survey||Most Indian travellers intend to holiday at a location they have previously visited due to its familiarity, shows research findings by a prominent travel and hotel booking website.The future of travel research findings by Booking.com indicate that 57% of the 20,934 surveyed Indian travellers from the portal’s database prefer to return to a place they have already explored, while 49% are aiming to head to a new destination within India. The survey also reveals that 52% of Indian travellers plan to travel within their own country in the next 7 to 12 months.“While it will be some time before travel returns to pre-pandemic levels, all signs point to the fundamental and enduring role that travel plays in all our lives. Looking ahead, staying closer to home and becoming familiarists (sic) rather than tourists will continue to be at the forefront of travel agendas. Rediscovering India and travelling like a local is what 2021 is going to be about," said Ritu Mehrotra, regional manager, South Asia at Booking.com.According to the survey, Srinagar, Digha, Manali, Goa and Alibag are some of the top trending Indian destinations for locals travelling from February 1 to February 28, with a surge in staycations to nearby destinations compared to the previous year.Also Read: Travel can improve your mental health: Anjum Khanna"The popularity of holidaying with pets, travelling with furry companions has been top of traveller’s minds in recent months, with the use of Booking.com’s ‘pet-friendly’ filter more than doubling, since travel restrictions began. With no sign of slowing down, the trend to travel with pets is one that we are likely to see continue throughout 2021 and beyond," read a statement on the portal.The survey also found that 25% of Indian travellers also intend to travel to foreign destinations by the end this year as against 12% by the end of 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-indians-looking-to-revisit-familiar-tourist-destinations-in-2021-survey-101612425778509.html
04-02-2021||India||Centre's decision to put concrete walls at protest sites won't help: Devegowda||Former Prime Minister and Janata Dal-Secular (JDS) MP HD Devegowda on Thursday during Rajya Sabha session condemned the violence on Republic Day and said that the Centre's decision to put concrete walls at farmers' protest sites won't help."We condemn actions of certain miscreants on Republic Day, but farmers are not responsible for it. They should not be punished. Centre's decision to put concrete walls at the protest sites won't help. The government must end the matter peacefully," he said.He further said that the matter is a state subject, it's in the concurrent list and the state government's opinion also has to be taken."Farmers are not at all responsible for the Republic Day incident some anti-social elements are. The matter is a state subject, it's in the concurrent list. State government's opinion also has to be taken," JD(S) leader said.Protestors broke barricades to enter New Delhi and clashed with police in several parts of the national capital during the January 26 'tractor rally' protest organised by farmers. The protestors also entered the iconic Mughal Era monument Red Fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-decision-to-put-concrete-walls-at-protest-sites-won-t-help-devegowda-101612424283023.html
04-02-2021||India||Protesters treated as anti-nationals: Harsimrat Badal after Ghazipur visit with opposition team||A delegation of opposition leaders visited Ghazipur - Delhi's border with Uttar Pradesh - on Thursday to extend their support to thousands of farmers who have been camping these since November last year, demanding a complete roll back of Centre’s agricultural legislation enacted in September.Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who was among the leaders to visit Ghazipur, tweeted, “Today 15 MPs representing different political parties from Kashmir to Kanyakumari went to #GhazipurBorder to express solidarity with farmers & demand imm repeal of the 3 hated #FarmLaws. We also demand an end to atrocities being meted out to peacefully agitating farmers.”Follow latest updates on farm stir hereThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader also posted a video alongside, in which she spoke about the lack of facilities at the protest side and added that they will try to raise it in Parliament. “No electricity, no water. God forbid, if there’s a fire inside, there’s no ambulance, no fire brigade. They can’t even ring up because there’s no electricity. We’re trying to raise it in Parliament but the government is refusing to raise it saying let’s discuss presidential address. The way this fortification has taken place... these are our own people, even the Pakistan border does not have this kind of fortification. We will go back and appeal to the Speaker how they (protesting farmers) are being treated as anti-nationals and foreigners rather than our own people,” Badal told a reporter.Today 15 MPs representing different political parties from Kashmir to Kanyakumari went to #GhazipurBorder to express solidarity with farmers & demand imm repeal of the 3 hated #FarmLaws. We also demand an end to atrocities being meted out to peacefully agitating farmers. pic.twitter.com/bvilkFFiLMBadal had alleged that they were not being allowed to meet the farmers and termed it a “black day.” “.@Akali_Dal_ joins hands with like minded parties & MPs who are visiting #ghazipurborder to condemn atrocities being inflicted on farmers. Even MPs are not being allowed to meet peacefully protesting farmers. This is truly a black day for democracy!” the former food supplies minister wrote on the microblogging site.The police said movement was restricted because of blockades in view of the law and order situation. “Members of Parliament wanted to go to the protest site (Ghazipur border). We informed them that movement was not possible as we've barricaded the road in view of the law and order situation. We apprised them of alternate route & proposed to escort them,” the joint commissioner of Delhi Police Alok Kumar was quoted as saying by ANI.Earlier in the day, the police ordered the repositioning of iron nails that were studded on the Ghazipur border road to stop agitating farmers from entering Delhi. Deepak Yadav, DCP (East) said that the nails were being repositioned because of a spot where people wouldn't venture earlier but some were seen around that point. “We fear that the nails could be dangerous for them. So, just to ensure their safety, we are removing them from there and fixing them elsewhere,” he said.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding that the Centre repeal Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesters-treated-as-anti-nationals-harsimrat-badal-after-ghazipur-visit-with-opposition-team-101612424133580.html
04-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rajnath Singh says India ready to supply defence equipments to IOR nations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajnath Singh says India ready to supply defence equipments to IOR nationsUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday that India had to play an active role to ensure a peaceful and prosperous co-existence of all other countries in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) since it was the largest country and had a vast coastline in the region. A total of 22 countries including Indonesia, Bangladesh, Australia, South Africa, Yemen, the United Arab Emirates Somalia, Madagascar and Tanzania are a part of the IOR. Read more‘To give details in Parliament’: Harsimrat Badal explains Ghazipur border visitFormer Union minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who on Thursday arrived at the Ghazipur border to meet the farmers protesting against the three agricultural laws, said that the Lok Sabha Speaker was not allowing the Opposition parties to raise the issue. The purpose of the visit, she added, was to give him details of ‘what is happening here.’ Read more'Nails on Ghazipur road being repositioned': Cops on protesters' claimThe police on Thursday ordered the repositioning of nails that were hammered into the Ghazipur border road to keep protesting farmers from entering Delhi. In a video tweeted by news agency ANI, a man was seen pulling out the irons nails. Read moreWhy are Covid-19 cases falling? Are vaccines the main driver? Experts answerAfter being ravaged by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for over a year, the world is now witnessing a fall in the number of cases. The World Health Organisation (WHO) welcomed this development, calling it encouraging news. Read moreEngland batsman Zak Crawley ruled out of first two Tests against India with wrist injuryEngland's preparations for the four-match Test series against India took a hit after top-order batsman Zak Crawley was ruled out of the first two Tests with a wrist injury, confirmed England and Wales Cricket Board on Thursday. Read moreTata Safari bookings officially open at ₹30,000, launch on February 22Bookings for Tata Safari were officially opened on Thursday and start at ₹30,000. Tata Motors has confirmed that Safari will be launched on February 22 and that deliveries of the seven-seat SUV will begin from the same day. Read moreKangana Ranaut lashes out at Taapsee Pannu, calls her 'B grade actor, freeloader, burden on nation'Actor Kangana Ranaut has attacked actor Taapsee Pannu, who in a recent tweet made an indirect comment about the social media outcry that Rihanna's comment on the farmers' protests evoked. Taapsee seemingly commented on Rihanna's tweet, and the 'India against propaganda' social media hashtag that trended hours later. Read more4-year-old girl gets warm send off after being cured of coronavirus. WatchA heartwarming video of healthcare workers in a hospital giving a celebratory send off to a little girl who recovered from Covid-19 after months-long fight has won people over. There is a possibility that the clip will leave you emotional too. Read moreWatch: ‘Nobody’s tweet can’t weaken our democracy’: RJD’s Manoj Jha in Rajya SabhaRJD MP Manoj Jha spoke during the motion of thanks to the President’s address in Rajya Sabha and lashed out at the Modi government over the farmers’ protest. Jha said that the government of the day only believes in lecturing people and not listening to them. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rajnath-singh-says-india-ready-to-supply-defence-equipments-to-ior-nations-and-all-the-latest-news-101612421318658.html
04-02-2021||India||Governor takes dig at Maharashtra govt over job for athlete||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has taken potshots at the state government over not giving a job to long-distance runner and Asian Games medallist Kavita Raut, saying there is something wrong somewhere.The governor, who has in the past been critical of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on certain issues, made the remarks on Wednesday at an event in Nashik district.Raut (hailing from Nashik) was among eight sportspersons whom the state government offered jobs in 2016.Koshyari said Raut has a job in the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation inDehradun, a postingwhich people vie for."But, she wants to live in her village and serve there. I wrote to the sports minister (Sunil Kedar). He told me that he would give a job to Kavita," the governor said.But, she is saying she has not got the job yet, he said."The governor talked about it, the minister too talked about (giving the job). Still, she did not get it. So, there is something wrong somewhere," Koshyari said.He assured Raut that she will be given the job.It will take some time because the "government works in a way that people create some or the other problems", the governor said.How will they (sportspersons) work if you are not going to encourage them? he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/governor-takes-dig-at-maharashtra-govt-over-job-for-athlete-101612420102193.html
04-02-2021||India||'Disclaimer put on WHO website': Govt on incorrect map of India||The government said on Thursday that the issue of wrong depiction of India's map on World Health Organisation's (WHO) website has been raised strongly, including at the highest level.Speaking on the issue, Minister of State of the ministry of external affairs (MEA) V Muraleedharan said the WHO has now put a disclaimer on its portal."The issue of wrong depiction of map of India on World Health Organisation's website has been raised strongly with WHO including at the highest level. In response WHO has informed Permanent Mission of India in Geneva that they've put a disclaimer on portal," the minister said."The disclaimer says designations employed and presentation of these materials don't imply expression of any opinion on part of WHO concerning legal status of any country, territory or area or of its authorities or concerning legal status of any country, territory or area of its authorities or concerning delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted/dashed lines on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not be full agreement," Muraleedharan added.Nevertheless, government of India's position on right depiction of boundaries is unambiguously reiterated, he concluded.India has conveyed its "deep displeasure" to WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus over the issue. The government has sent three letter so far to the WHO chief, through its mission in Geneva.In the last letter sent on January 8, India asked the world body to replace the incorrect maps.The maps, including those in the coronavirus dashboard, show the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in a different shade than the rest of India. The Shaksgam Valley spread across 5,168 sq km, which was illegally ceded by Pakistan to China in 1963, is shown as part of China. The Aksai Chin region occupied by China in 1954 is shown in light blue strips, a shade similar to the colour used to depict Chinese territory.Publishing inaccurate maps of India is a criminal offence under Indian law, punishable with a six-month jail term and fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disclaimer-put-on-who-website-govt-on-incorrect-map-of-india-101612423119330.html
04-02-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi attends prayer meet of farmer who died during R-Day violence||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur on Thursday to meet the family of a farmer who died in the clashes between the police and protesters during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. The Congress general secretary attended the prayer meet of Navreet Singh whose tractor overturned in Delhi’s ITO area after ramming into a police barricade.The protesters, however, alleged that the police shot at his tractor during the clashes on January 26. The claim was rejected by the police who cited the post-mortem report to say Singh died from injuries received in a tractor accident.Follow latest updates on farm stir here In a video tweeted by Congress’s national convener Sarah Patel before reaching Rampur , Vadra was heard discussing the state of farmers in the country with her colleague while on their way to offer condolences to the kin of the deceased farmer..@INCIndia General Secretary @priyankagandhi Ji on her way to Rampur, Uttar Pradesh to meet the family of Late Navreet Singh and offer her condolences. pic.twitter.com/5zVcZ4cIe5Earlier this morning, at least two vehicles in the cavalcade of her party collided at Hapur bypass. No injuries were reported in the incident that took place near Garh Mukteshwar area, police said.Congress leaders have backed the farmers agitation against the three contentious agricultural laws cleared by the government in September last year amid uproar in Parliament over their passage. On Wednesday, Rahul Gandhi had accused the government of “shattering” the country’s image globally due to its treatment of protesting farmers. He alleged that the Centre has “crushed basic rights of farmers” in the course of the ongoing demonstration.Also Read: Protesters treated as anti-nationals, says Harsimrat Badal after Ghazipur visit with opposition teamHis remarks came in the backdrop of several international figures, including pop star Rihanna and Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, taking to Twitter to extend their support to farmers. The government, however, said criticism by foreign celebrities and attempts to “mobilise international support against India” on the government’s handling of the farmers’ protests without ascertaining facts were “neither accurate nor responsible.”Thousands of farmers have been camping at the borders of the national capital demanding that the government repeal the three agri laws that liberalise farm trade. The government, however, has ruled out a complete roll back and has offered to make amendments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-way-to-meet-family-of-farmer-who-died-priyanka-gandhi-discusses-stir-101612421566324.html
04-02-2021||India||Fresh snowfall in Kashmir, weather to improve from Thursday afternoon||Kashmir received another spell of snowfall beginning late Wednesday night; however, the weather department has predicted improvement in weather from Thursday afternoon.Light snowfall was reported from different parts of Kashmir, the third spell of snow in the Valley in the month of February. Light to moderate rain and snow occurred at most places of Jammu and Kashmir during the past 24 hours, said regional India Meteorological Department director Sonum Lotus."There could be significant improvement in weather from Thursday afternoon. The temperature remained near normal and mainly dry weather is expected for the next one week from tomorrow," Lotus said, and added that there was a possibility that temperature will fall by two to three degree Celsius from tomorrow.Srinagar airport tweeted that morning flights were likely to be delayed as the snowfall was still going on. The airport later tweeted to say that it was expecting that movement of flights will start after noon in line with the prediction of 'improved weather' made by the weather departmentTraffic officials said snowfall is going on both sides of Jawahar tunnel since morning and it could hamper traffic on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway.Srinagar recorded night temperature of 0.4 degree Celsius. The tourist resort of Pahalgam in the south recorded minus 6.1 degree C. Ski resort Gulmarg was the coldest place in Kashmir with minus 7.6 degree Celsius.The 40-day intense winter period Chillai Kalan, which started in Kashmir Valley on December 21, has now ended and it is followed by 20 more days of less intense cold weather known as ‘Chillai Khurd’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-snowfall-in-kashmir-weather-to-improve-from-thursday-afternoon-101612421631435.html
04-02-2021||India||Foreign celebs’ support for farmers’ protest sparks govt censure: What we know||India on Wednesday described criticism by foreign celebrities and attempts to “mobilise international support against India on the government’s handling of the farmers’ protests without ascertaining facts” as “neither accurate nor responsible”. Here is what has prompted the response:• The comments came after musician Rihanna and environmental activist Greta Thunberg, lawmakers in the US and UK, and several actors, activists and influencers sparked global clamour over the farmer issue.• A statement from the external affairs ministry contended that “vested interest groups” were trying to enforce their agenda on the protests to derail them and have tried to mobilise global support against India. • The statement referred to “sensationalist social media hashtags and comments” by “celebrities and others” but did not name anyone.• It is rare for the external affairs ministry to respond to tweets by foreign celebrities critical of events within the country, though it has, in recent weeks, pushed back against comments by leaders such as Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and lawmakers in the UK and other countries supporting the farmers’ protest.Also Read | Parliament proceedings halted amid protest over farm laws: All you need to know• The ministry’s statement, for the first time, included two hashtags - #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda.• As protests against three contentious farm laws have snowballed, they have attracted attention around the world, including among celebrities and lawmakers.• Though some celebrities who aren’t well known in India have made social media posts on the issue over the past few days, singer Rihanna was the most high-profile personality to take up the issue on Twitter on Tuesday.• Rihanna has 101 million followers on Twitter and is among the highest-selling recording artistes in history• She triggered a storm on Tuesday by tweeting “why aren’t we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest”, along with a link to a CNN article about the farmers’ protest that was also part of a subsequent tweet on Wednesday by 18-year-old environmental activist Greta Thunberg.• Thunberg tweeted: “We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India.” • The tweet was both supported and criticised by sections within India. • India’s foreign ministry said in response to these statements that it “would like to emphasise that these protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse”.• Union home minister Amit Shah wrote on Twitter: “No propaganda can deter India’s unity! No propaganda can stop India to attain new heights! Propaganda cannot decide India’s fate only ‘Progress’ can. India stands united and together to achieve progress.”• External affairs minister S Jaishankar tweeted: “Motivated campaigns targeting India will never succeed. We have the self confidence today to hold our own. This India will push back.”• James Costa, a Democratic congressman who serves on the influential US house foreign affairs committee, too supported the farmers’ right to protest. • Since last month, US actor John Cusack, a group of 36 lawmakers in the UK and a spokesperson for UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres have backed the farmers’ protest and taken up the matter on social media and other forums.• Indian celebrities Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, Karan Johar and Suniel Shetty said citizens should focus on the government’s efforts to resolve the ongoing farmer crisis rather than paying attention to “half truths” and those creating differences. • Former Indian cricket star Sachin Tendulkar too tweeted: “India’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let’s remain united as a nation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-celebs-support-for-farmers-protest-sparks-govt-censure-what-we-know-101612421341935.html
04-02-2021||India||BJP aims to halt BJD's temple run amid Bhubaneswar heritage demolition row||As the outrage over demolition of heritage structures in Bhubaneswar rages on, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Odisha may have chanced upon an opportunity to stall the BJD's temple politics through renovation of heritage temples like the Jagannath temple in Puri and the Lingaraj temple in Bhubaneswar.Last week Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), entrusted with the upkeep and maintenance of 28 monuments, with some dating back to the 8th century, found a 10th century monument close to the 11th century Lingaraj temple, the largest temple in Odisha’s capital. The ASI officials found three subsidiary shrines dating back to the 10th century near Suka-Sari temple, a 13th century temple near the Lingaraj temple. The joy of discovering an old monument soon turned into outrage as ASI officials found that the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, in its eagerness to develop the area around the Lingaraj temple, had vandalised several old monuments.Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage claims to have found evidence of blatant violations of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act by the civil body, which undertook the demolition work through mechanical devices, it said.BJP, which has been watching the BJD's growing interest in state's temples for the last two years with unease, was quick to jump into the fray. Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday wrote to Union culture minister Prahallad Singh Patel requesting him to send an expert team from the ASI in Delhi to carry out a detailed study and thorough scientific excavation of the area around Lingaraj temple."There is an urgent need to act quickly in order to salvage and preserve what remains of this priceless ancient Odisha architecture. I seek your urgent intervention for preservation of the rich cultural and architectural heritage of the country by protecting the centuries old temples in Bhubaneswar,” Pradhan wrote. Soon after, a team of BJP leaders visited the site and demanded a halt to the ongoing work till the entire area surrounding the complex is excavated.As the demolition work around the Lingaraj temple comes to a halt, political observers say the BJP may no longer be a silent spectator to BJD’s efforts to corner all the credit for development of heritage temples in what is also seenas the Naveen Patnaik government’s bid to counter BJP's Hindutva edge and growing influence in the coastal districts of the state.“BJP is aware that BJD is trying to snatch its religious card through development of old temples in a deeply religious state like Odisha. So it may be pleased at the turn of events last week as it effectively meant a hold on civil work around the Lingaraj temple for the next few months," said political science professor Gyana Ranjan Swain of GM University in Sambalpur. "But how far will it be successful in countering BJD's plan is a matter of debate."A senior BJP leader said BJD's plan to use the temple card to neutralise the BJP's vote base may not succeed. "The people have seen through the BJD's gemeplan. The people know that the government went out of its way to stall Rath Yatra last year till the SC intervened. This is a question of faith and people would not forgive the party for its misadventures. Their politics would be exposed soon," said Lekhashree Samantsinghar, BJP leader.Also Read: Bhubaneswar civic body destroys heritage structures around Lingaraj templeBJD leader and former mayor of Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, Anant Narayan Jena said it would be wrong to see the development of the area around Lingaraj temple purely from the religious angle. "The chief minister is a heritage lover and that's why he is stressing on the development of such places. It is also giving a huge boost to tourism," said Jena.Over the last 2 years, Naveen Patnaik government has taken a special interest in development of temples such as Jagannath temple of Puri, Lingaraj temple of Bhubaneswar, Baladevjew temple of Kendrapara and Samaleswari temple of Sambalpur. While it has announced projects worth ₹3,500 crore for development of Puri into a heritage city, a special act for Lingaraj temple along with the Ekamra Kshetra project for development of the area around the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-aims-to-halt-bjd-s-temple-run-amid-bhubaneswar-heritage-demolition-row-101612420062423.html
04-02-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Family says sanitary worker died after Covid vaccine, moves court||A 40-year-old sanitary worker’s family has filed a First Information Report (FIR) and a petition in the Madras high court, blaming his Covid-19 vaccination on January 21 for his death even as officials denied the claim.V Manoharan, a father of five, died on January 31 after he collapsed at a bus stand while he was in Virudhunagar district on a personal visit. “An FIR was filed on Monday night under Section 174 of CrPC [inquiry into cases of unnatural death] after which a post-mortem was done on Tuesday morning and video-graphed,” said police superintendent T Perumal.Also Read | AIADMK moves to deny Sasikala access to Jayalalithaa’s memorialsJoint director (health services) Dr R Manoharan said the sanitary worker’s death has nothing to do with the vaccine. “We got to know from his medical history that he was a chronic alcoholic and has had a history of hematemesis [vomiting of blood],” he said. He added based on the family’s claim, they performed an autopsy and analysis is pending.” I also took the [Covishield] vaccine... So far there have been no adverse reactions reported.”V Manoharan’s widow, M Ambika, said her husband was not an alcoholic. “He was never sick or went to the hospital. Only after taking the injection, he complained of headache, hot flashes, and chills,” Ambika said. “I need help in taking care of them [children].” Ambika sought compensation and a government job as her husband was the only breadwinner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-family-says-sanitary-worker-died-after-covid-vaccine-moves-court-101612420022132.html
04-02-2021||India||What happened in Chauri Chaura was treated as minor incident, but the message was huge, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that the Chauri Chaura incident was not only limited to a police station being set on fire and added that the message conveyed by it was huge. Modi said that the fire was not just in that police station but also in the hearts of people.“Incident of Chauri Chaura was not limited to a police station being set on fire. Message of the incident was huge. Due to various reasons, it was treated as minor incident, but we should see it in context. The fire was not just in the station but in the hearts of people,” the Prime Minister said during the inauguration of the ‘Chauri Chaura’ centenary celebrations.The incident which took place in the Gorakhpur district of Uttar Pradesh- is regarded as a crucial event in India’s independence movement against the British Raj. On February 4, 1922, A crowd of the Non-Cooperation Movement clashed with Police personnel who opened fire.The demonstrators in retaliation set fire to the Chauri Chaura police post in which 23 personnel were killed. The killing of the police personnel led to arrests of numerous demonstrators with 228 put on trial, 172 of them were ordered to be executed, six of them died during the trial while the remaining demonstrators were sentenced to long-term imprisonments.We have taken several steps in the interest of farmers. To make mandis profitable for farmers, 1,000 more mandis will be linked to e-NAM: Prime Minister Narendra Modi https://t.co/kDkapLGKuUAddressing the centenary celebrations through video conferencing, PM Modi said that the martyrs of Chauri Chaura had not been talked about as much as they should have been. “Although, they have not been given significance in pages of history but their blood is in the soil of the country and keeps inspiring us,” he said. Accompanied by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Modi also released a postage stamp to mark 100 years of the episode.While talking about the agriculture sector, the Prime Minister said that farmers had been behind the country’s progress and they had also played an important role in the Chauri Chaura struggle.“The Center has undertaken several steps in the past 6 years to make farmers ‘Atmanirbhar’ and due to this, the agriculture sector continued to grow despite the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19),” he said.Towards the end of the event, Modi announced that 1,000 more mandis would be linked to the National Agriculture Market (e-NAM) in order to make mandis more profitable for the farmers.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-happened-in-chauri-chaura-was-treated-as-minor-incident-says-pm-modi-101612419765986.html
04-02-2021||India||India ready to supply defence equipments to other IOR countries: Rajnath Singh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday that India had to play an active role to ensure a peaceful and prosperous co-existence of all other countries in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) since it was the largest country and had a vast coastline in the region. A total of 22 countries including Indonesia, Bangladesh, Australia, South Africa, Yemen, the United Arab Emirates Somalia, Madagascar and Tanzania are a part of the IOR.Speaking at the IOR defence ministers’ conclave, Singh said that the convention should focus on security, commerce, connectivity, fight against terrorism and inter-cultural exchanges among participating countries.He said that India’s defence and aerospace industry presented a significant and attractive opportunity for international companies across the supply chain to take their cooperation to newer levels. The Centre was also ready to provide various kinds of defence equipment such as missile systems, radars, tanks etc to other foreign countries, he added.India is ready to supply various types of Missile systems, LCA/Helicopters, Multi-Purpose Light Transport aircraft, Warship & Patrol Vessels, Artillery Gun systems, Tanks, Radars, Military Vehicles, Electronic Warfare Systems & other weapons systems to IOR countries: Defence Min https://t.co/IAkJ6eQwaC“India is ready to supply various types of Missile systems, LCA/Helicopters, Multi-Purpose Light Transport aircraft, Warship & Patrol Vessels, Artillery Gun systems, Tanks, Radars, Military Vehicles, Electronic Warfare Systems & other weapons systems to IOR countries,” the defence minister had said.The IOR conclave is an initiative to promote dialogue to foster the development of peace, stability and prosperity in the Indian Ocean region. This time the theme of the convention was ‘Enhanced Peace, Security and Cooperation in the Indian Ocean’, according to a release issued by the Union defence ministry. Singh had said on Wednesday that India could take on the role of being the net security provider in the IOR.Also Read| Attempts by Chinese to transgress LAC met apt response: MEA tells ParliamentUnder this year’s Union budget, the funds allocated towards defence had been increased to ₹4.78 lakh crore of which ₹1.35 lakh crore had been set aside for capital outlay to buy new weapons, aircraft, warships and other military hardware, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said on Monday.While hailing the budget for the country’s defence sector, Rajnath Singh pointed out that there was nearly a 19 per cent increase in the capital expenditure, and the highest ever increase in the capital outlay for defence in more than a decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ready-to-supply-defence-equipments-to-other-iorcountriesrajnathsingh-101612419407505.html
04-02-2021||India||Rajya Sabha: Patriotism is not just raising slogans, says RJD MP Manoj Jha||Patriotism is not just raising slogans and is not worn on the sleeves, said Rashtriya Janata Dal lawmaker Manoj Jha in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday while participating in the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President’s address. He said patriotism is speaking about the well-being of the nation. Jha criticised the government’s response to the farmers’ protest and the tendency to dub anyone with a contrary opinion as anti-national. He quoted from Macbeth: “Boundless intemperance in nature is a tyranny; it hath been the untimely emptying of the happy throne and fall of many kings.”Also Read | Farm debates marked relatively smoother day of Parliament: All you need to knowJha said, “The biggest tukde tukde gang [alleged sympathisers of separatists] is that which does not understand the pain of the people.” Taking a jibe at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has 303 members in the Lok Sabha, he added: “... they have 303, but numbers do not decide history. Your sensitivity decides your highs and lows.”Jha called the decision by 18 opposition parties to boycott the President’s address “painful”. He added the address was distanced from the current situation. He referred to the government’s discussions with the farmers’ representatives and added that there is a difference between a monologue and a dialogue.“A country is not a map drawn on paper. It is not the army and police and slogans but the building of relations. The government has to build bridges, “ he said. He accused the government of creating divides.He referred to the government’s response to the tweets by international pop star Rihanna and environmental activist Greta Thunberg in support of the farmers’ agitation. “...our democracy is strong. It will not be weakened by anyone’s tweet.”Swapan Dasgupta, a nominated member of Rajya Sabha, underlined that the farmers’ condition is not uniform in the country. “There are two lakh farmers in Punjab and Haryana who are in the top 8% of incomes in India. About 20,000 of them have incomes in the top 2%. This is not to berate them. This is only to admire their hard work, integrity and persistence, and adoption of technology. Unfortunately, this is not a situation that prevails in the whole country,” he said.He added in West Bengal, most are marginal farmers with land holdings that are not enough to survive and only 9-10% of the farmers secure the minimum support price.Dasgupta defended the farm laws and added the legal sanctities that they give are important for lifting communities. “I urge people to look at the whole country, not in terms of what a few successful have done.’Telugu Desam Party’s Ravindra Kumar said the government should be magnanimous to accommodate the demands of the farmers. BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia called 2020 a challenging year, which saw many ups and downs. He added India rose like a phoenix from the ashes of the Covid-19 pandemic. “...the President spoke about how India handled the crisis. It was an enemy that could not be seen. Our first power was PM [Prime Minister Narendra Modi]’s leadership; 36 states were brought together. A policy on a war footing was drafted...” he said.He spoke about the government’s response to the pandemic and to check the spread of the virus. He added the second wave of the infection could not even touch India. “The reason is that the government took the right decisions at the right time. The PM said Jaan hai toh jahan hai. Without worrying about financial implications, cash transfers were made to people,” he said. “There was a lockdown in 1975 when Emergency was imposed when the whole country was turned into a jail. Truth is the truth...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-patriotism-is-not-raising-slogans-says-rjd-mp-manoj-jha-101612418521358.html
04-02-2021||India||‘To give details in Parliament’: Harsimrat Badal explains Ghazipur border visit||Former Union minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who on Thursday arrived at the Ghazipur border to meet the farmers protesting against the three agricultural laws, said that the Lok Sabha Speaker was not allowing the Opposition parties to raise the issue. The purpose of the visit, she added, was to give him details of ‘what is happening here.’Delhi: The delegation of opposition leaders that had gone to meet the protesting farmers at Ghazipur border is returning back. pic.twitter.com/Z3f3nDbx8o“We are here so that we can discuss this issue in Parliament. Speaker is not letting us raise the issue. Now all the parties will give details of what is happening here,” Badal told news agency ANI at the Ghazipur border. More than a dozen MPs from ten political parties, as tweeted by Badal earlier in the day, are at the border to meet the protesters.“Leaving with 15 MPs from 10 political parties to Ghazipur border in a bus to see the ground situation,” she tweeted, announcing the visit.Leaving with 15 MPs from 10 political parties to #GhazipurBorder in a bus to see the ground situation.#FarmersProtestBesides Badal, others in the delegation of Opposition MPs included Supriya Sule of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), DMK’s Kanimozhi and Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) Saugata Roy etc. The MPs, however, were stopped by the police from meeting the farmers.Last September, when the three laws were passed, Badal had resigned from her portfolio in prime minister Narendra Modi’s Cabinet, in protest against the passage of the laws. Days later, the SAD announced its exit from the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) coalition, which is led by PM Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The SAD was the BJP’s oldest ally, with ties dating back to the 1990s. Badal was her party’s only representative in the central government.While the protests have been largely ‘apolitical,’ several political leaders have visited the Ghazipur border in recent days. Rashtriya Lok Dal’s (RLD) Jayant Chaudhary, Delhi deputy chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manish Sisodia and a Shiv Sena delegation, led by Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut, have visited the protest site in the last week. Protest here is being led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait.Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders of Delhi have been the epicentre of the anti-farm law protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-give-speaker-details-harsimrat-badal-explains-ghazipur-border-visit-101612417677925.html
04-02-2021||India||'Nails on Ghazipur road being repositioned': Cops on protesters' claim||The police on Thursday ordered the repositioning of nails that were hammered into the Ghazipur border road to keep protesting farmers from entering Delhi. In a video tweeted by news agency ANI, a man was seen pulling out the irons nails. "The nails fixed over that point are being repositioned because that was a spot where people wouldn't venture earlier. But now that some people are around that point, we fear that the nails could be dangerous for them. So, just to ensure their safety, we are removing them from there and fixing them elsewhere," said Deepak Yadav, DCP (East).Follow latest updates on farm stir hereAfter the video surfaced on social media, Yadav said, "Videos and photos are getting circulated in which it's shown that nails are being taken off Ghazipur. These are just being repositioned. Position of arrangement at the border remains the same."#WATCH | Nails that were fixed near barricades at Ghazipur border (Delhi-UP border) are being removed. pic.twitter.com/YWCQxxyNsHIron nails were studded on roads, multi-layer iron and concrete barricades, concertina wires were fixed in Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border as a large number of security personnel were deployed.Security at the borders, where farmers have been camping for the past two and half months to agitate against Centre’s agricultural legislation, was stepped up after thousands of protesters stormed the national capital during their tractor rally and clashes broke out between them and the police in which one farmer died while several policemen were injured.Many video clips and photographs also surfaced on social media showing protesters clashing with the security personnel and hoisting the religious flag on the Red Fort. A total of 44 cases have been registered in connection with the violence at the heritage building and other places in Delhi and an incident on January 29 when a group of persons, claiming to be locals, entered the protest site at Singhu border and clashed with farmers and police.Earlier on Wednesday, former Union minister Harsmirat Kaur Badal had slammed the government over the treatment of protesters and lack of facilities at farm laws protest sites. “Concrete, spikes, trenches, barbed wire, trucks, barricades & heavy deployment of police in anti riot gear- WHERE was all this when required on Jan 26? Today food water electricity have been cut off for those who ensure National Food Security, as if they are enemies of the state!,” she wrote on Twitter. She had accused the Centre of turning the place into a fortress.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-say-police-removing-nails-studded-on-ghazipur-road-101612417697277.html
04-02-2021||India||AIADMK expels its Karnataka in-charge for planning to meet Sasikala||AIADMK on Wednesday night removed its Karnataka secretary M P Yuvaraj for ‘bringing disrepute to the party’ by “trying to meet VK Sasikala”. AIADMK has been cracking down on supporters of Sasikala, a close aide of former Tamil Nadu chief minister late J Jayalalithaa. In the past week, since Sasikala was released from jail, the party has sacked several functionaries for putting up posters welcoming her as the ‘party general secretary’. The party had expelled Sasikala in 2017. “He tried to meet Sasikala,” said a senior AIADMK leader seeking anonymity. “We got to know that he has been planning for the past two days; that is wrong.” Sasikala is set to return to Chennai on February 7. She completed her four-year prison term in Bengaluru in the disproportionate assets case on January 27 while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the city’s Victoria hospital. After discharge, she is under quarantine in a resort in Bengaluru. Also Read | TN govt fortifies places with Jaya link ahead of Sasikala’s arrivalTamil Nadu chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami made it clear in January, after his meeting with PM Narendra Modi, that the party will not take back Sasikala. Following which, the AIADMK issued an unofficial gag order to party members not to speak about Sasikala. However, their silence broke when Sasikala left the hospital in a car bearing the AIADMK flag which, they said, is illegal. After Jayalalithaa’s death in 2016, Sasikala was elected the party general secretary. She was set to become the chief minister but, after her imprisonment, the warring factions of Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam united. In 2017, they expelled Sasikala and her nephew TTV Dhinakaran who had launched a breakaway faction- Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam. The election commission also recognised the Palaniswami government as the true AIADMK which Sasikala plans to challenge on her return. AMMK cadre are planning a grand welcome for Sasikala from the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border all the way to Chennai’s T Nagar where she plans to reside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-expels-its-karnataka-in-charge-for-planning-to-meet-sasikala-101612417261106.html
04-02-2021||India||IAF chief hails increase in capital outlay of Defence amid pandemic as huge step||Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Thursday called the increase in the capital outlay of Defence budget "a huge step", which will provide adequate budgetary support amid the Covid-19 pandemic."We all know the pandemic effect and its impact on the economic scenario. To get this level ( ₹20,000 crore) increase in capital outlay, it's a huge step by government to provide that kind of budgetary support," IAF Chief told ANI on whether budget hike for modernisation would meet IAF requirements."Last year also, additional funds of ₹20,000 crores were provided. That helped the emergent procurement plans of the three forces and that really helped us. I think it is adequate for our capability building," said IAF chief.This statement comes after defence forces received an overall hike of around 7.4% over last year as ₹3.62 lakh crore were provided to them excluding pensions amid the China military standoff.Additionally, the defence forces received more than 18% hike over last year in capital outlay meant for acquisition of new weapon systems as ₹1.35 lakh crore have been provided over the ₹1.13 lakh crores last year.However, the budget documents also revealed that the Defence Ministry spent an extra amount of ₹20,776 crore for buying new weapon systems and spares for the armed forces in the present fiscal over and above the funds allocated for the purpose.The additional ₹20,776 crore has been spent on buying weapons and other spares under the special financial powers given to services under emergency and other provisions.The money has been used to acquire equipment like the Spice-2000 bombs, Spike anti-tank guided missiles, SiG Sauer assault rifles, Excalibur ammunition, multiple types of aircraft spares from Russia along with the ammunition for tanks and fighter jets.In the 2021-22 Union Budget, the Defence Ministry has been allocated ₹4,78,195.62 crore. ₹1.15 lakh crore have also been allocated for defence pensions which are disbursed to both military and civilians who have worked for defence Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-hails-increase-in-capital-outlay-of-defence-amid-pandemic-as-huge-step-101612415200370.html
04-02-2021||India||95% beneficiaries of take home ration scheme on paper, says NCPCR chairman||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has claimed that 95% of the beneficiaries under Madhya Pradesh government’s take home ration scheme for adolescent girls, who had dropped out of school, were there only on paper and asked the state government to conduct a probe into this scam.The state’s women and child development department gave take home ration (THR) to 1.71 lakh out of school adolescent girls in 2019 but only 8,600 girls were found to have dropped out of the school, according to the MP school education department data, NCPCR said, in a communication to the state government.National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) chairman Priyank Kanoongo said the data clearly shows that there is a scam in administering of the scheme in MP. She also wrote to the economic offence wing (EOW) on February 2 asking for probe in the financial irregularities after the Comptroller Auditor General (CAG) and the school education department confirmed it.Kanoongo said, “This is just a tip of the iceberg. This scam is at least of more than ₹100 crores.”She said, “I made a surprise visit to an aganwadi centre in Vidisha district in March 2019 and found a list of girls, who were getting THR. As I used to know some of the girls, I called their family members and asked them to enrol the girls back in the schools. I came to know that these girls were not getting THR and were attending schools. In the name of these girls, THR is being consumed by someone else.”“Later, NCPCR sought a data from the Women and Child development department about beneficiaries under THR programme. WCD informed us in April that there were 1.71 lakhs girls, who were getting THR. I asked them to provide names of the girls to probe but they didn’t provide specific data,” she added.“NCPCR sought the same data from school education department to know the number of drop out girls aged 11 to 14 years. The school education provided data that there were 8,600 girls, who left the school. As there were huge differences in the data, I wrote to Comptroller Auditor General (CAG) to probe the data. The CAG report of four districts- Betul, Gwalior, Dindori and Singrauli revealed financial irregularities of ₹4 crore in the THR programme in one year,” said the chairperson.Also Read: BJP leaders buy alcohol with Ram temple funds, says Congress MLA in MPThe NCPCR wrote to the state government and also asked the EOW to probe the matter.Meanwhile, women and child development department reviewed the data in 2020 and the beneficiaries reduced by 56% to only 96,000. MP Women and child development department commissioner Swati Meena Naik said, “We have started mapping the beneficiaries with their Aadhar card. We are also looking into the matter of alleged irregularities in 2019.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/95-beneficiaries-of-take-home-ration-scheme-on-paper-says-ncpcr-chairman-101612414641650.html
04-02-2021||India||India’s active caseload drops below 156,000; recoveries surpass 10.48 million||India’s active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) dropped below 156,000, down by 5,032 cases from the previous day, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s dashboard on Thursday morning. The country reported 12,899 fresh cases in the last 24 hours while 107 people died of the viral disease during the same period, the ministry said.Of the total 10,790,183 cases in India, only 155,025 are active, which accounts for 1.49% of the total caseload. A total of 10,480,455 people have recovered from the disease across the nation. According to the health ministry, the recovery rate stands at 97.08%.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereAs many as 14 states and Union territories including Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Mizoram, Nagaland, Lakshadweep, Ladakh (UT), Sikkim, Manipur, Puducherry, Goa, Odisha and Assam have not recorded any Covid-19 related death in the last 24 hours, according to the ministry’s dashboard.Also, 44,49,552 health and frontline workers have been vaccinated so far in the world largest immunisation drive. On Wednesday, the health ministry said, India is the fastest country to reach the four million Covid-19 inoculation mark in 18 days. “India’s trajectory of leaping across landmarks in its fight against the global pandemic continues. In a significant achievement, India has become the fastest country in the world to reach the 4 million COVID19 vaccination mark. The country has achieved this feat in 18 days,” it said in a statement.In the first stage of the campaign, health and frontline workers are being administered the jab whereas in the second phase those above 50 years of age and those in the high risk groups.During an address to students of a Delhi University college, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday sought cooperation and assistance from the country's youth in providing right information about the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive and other related policy actions of the government regarding the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-active-caseload-drops-below-156-000-recoveries-surpass-10-48-million-101612414093255.html
04-02-2021||India||How #IndiaTogether became top trend after Rihanna's tweet on farmers' stir||Twitter has been abuzz with celebrities - both India and global - posting about the farmers' protest in India. While the international icons like Rihanna and Greta Thunberg tweeted about "standing in solidarity" with these protests and starting a debate around them, those at home said "external forces can be spectators but not participants".The point highlighted by Sachin Tendulkar and other Indian celebrities was 'let's stay united'.The buzz started after Rihanna's tweet, and led to trending of two hashtags.The originThe Twitter storm started after a tweet by international pop icon Rihanna who posted a news article about the suspension of internet at sites where farmers are protesting. "Why aren't we talking about this?!" she said adding #FarmersProtest hashtag.Swedish environment activist Greta Thunberg too joined in saying “We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India.” She also used the same hashtag. She also posted a toolkit for those who want to amplify the issue of farmers' protest in India. The toolkit - link to a document - contained plans about January 26 protest and other planned stir across the globe.After uproar, she deleted the post and tweeted an update.But by this time, several Indian celebrities lashed out at the Rihanna, Mia Khalifa and others and called for staying united.The government's responseAs the issue gained prominence, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) issued a statement to highlight that Parliament of India had passed "reformist legislation" for the agricultural sector, which "a very small section of farmers" have some reservations about and therefore the laws have been kept on hold while talks are held.It also said that some vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against the country. "Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken. The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible," the MEA said posting the statement alogn with two hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda.Celeb pushMany cricketers and other Indian celebrities quickly used the hashtags to show their support to the government and propagate the message of peace."India’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let's remain united as a nation. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda," tweeted Sachin Tendulkar.India’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let's remain united as a nation.#IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropagandaThe current captain of the Indian cricket team also used the hashtag and said farmers are an integral part of our country. “Let us all stay united in this hour of disagreements. Farmers are an integral part of our country and I'm sure an amicable solution will be found between all parties to bring about peace and move forward together. #IndiaTogether,” he tweeted.Let us all stay united in this hour of disagreements. Farmers are an integral part of our country and I'm sure an amicable solution will be found between all parties to bring about peace and move forward together. #IndiaTogetherMany other cricketers and sportspersons - like PT Usha, Rohit Sharma, Ajinkya Rahane, and Hardik Pandya - also used the same hashtags.We are proud of our own culture and heritage and are the true model of Democracy. Don't interfere in our internal matters, we know how to resolve our own issues because we are one and only nation in the world upholding UNITY IN DIVERSITY.#IndiaTogether#IndiaAgainstPropagandaIndia has always been stronger when we all stand together and finding a solution is the need of the hour. Our farmers play an important role in our nation’s well being and I am sure everyone will play their roles to find a solution TOGETHER. #IndiaTogether 🇮🇳India has always been stronger when we all stand together and finding a solution is the need of the hour. Our farmers play an important role in our nation’s well being and I am sure everyone will play their roles to find a solution TOGETHER. #IndiaTogether 🇮🇳India has always been stronger when we all stand together and finding a solution is the need of the hour. Our farmers play an important role in our nation’s well being and I am sure everyone will play their roles to find a solution TOGETHER. #IndiaTogether 🇮🇳The list of ministers and BJP leadersSeveral ministers also reacted to the international criticism of farm laws, saying it was part of an international propaganda."No propaganda can deter India’s unity! No propaganda can stop India to attain new heights! Propaganda can not decide India’s fate only ‘Progress’ can. India stands united and together to achieve progress. #IndiaAgainstPropaganda #IndiaTogether," tweeted Union home minister Amit Shah.No propaganda can deter India’s unity!No propaganda can stop India to attain new heights!Propaganda can not decide India’s fate only ‘Progress’ can.India stands united and together to achieve progress.#IndiaAgainstPropaganda#IndiaTogether https://t.co/ZJXYzGieCt"Motivated campaigns targeting India will never succeed. We have the self confidence today to hold our own. This India will push back. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda," posted foreign minister S Jaishankar.Motivated campaigns targeting India will never succeed. We have the self confidence today to hold our own. This India will push back. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda"Times are changing. Influencers on the digital media platforms have immense power when they talk to their followers. One must be mindful of that power and the responsibility that comes with it. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda #GenerallySaying," tweeted Union minister VK Singh.Times are changing. Influencers on the digital media platforms have immense power when they talk to their followers. One must be mindful of that power and the responsibility that comes with it.#IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda #GenerallySaying pic.twitter.com/WCyMDO2vQa"For 1000 of years India was defeated, occupied, looted & ruled by the invaders not because India was weak but there was always a Jaichand. We need to ask who’s behind this international propaganda to defame India. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda," said Union minister Kiren Rijiju.For 1000 of years India was defeated, occupied, looted & ruled by the invaders not because India was weak but there was always a Jaichand.We need to ask who’s behind this international propaganda to defame India.#IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda https://t.co/qsgafQrIMb"We stand together. We stand United against all attempts to malign India through propaganda and fake narratives. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda," BJP chief JP Nadda said on Twitter.We stand together.We stand United against all attempts to malign India through propaganda and fake narratives. #IndiaTogether#IndiaAgainstPropagandaHow the trends startedThe two hashtags were first posted by the MEA on its Twitter handle along with the statement it issued on tweets from international celebrities.#IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda https://t.co/TfdgXfrmNt pic.twitter.com/gRmIaL5GuwThough it is rare for the MEA to react to such things, but it has pushed back against leaders like Justin Trudeau on farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-indiatogether-became-top-trend-after-rihanna-s-tweet-on-farmers-stir-101612413131483.html
04-02-2021||India||Aero India: HAL set to get order for 15 light combat choppers||After being awarded a ₹48,000-crore contract for supplying 83 LCA Mk-1A jets to the air force, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) is all set to receive its first order for the locally-made light combat helicopter, officials familiar with the development said at Aero India-2021 on Thursday.HAL is likely to be awarded the contract to supply 15 LCHs to the Indian military in March, in a boost to the Make in India initiative, the officials said.The state-run plane maker is expecting an order for 10 choppers for the IAF and another five for army. The IAF and the army together require 160 LCHs.The LCH figures on the government’s negative import list that seeks to ban the import of 101 different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years. Though not ordered yet, the twin-engine helicopter has been deployed in the Ladakh sector to support the IAF, in the midst of the border row with China. The deployment of the twin-engine LCH in the Ladakh sector is symbolic in nature and an acknowledgement of the potential that the platform holds but it is yet to be fully weaponised to meet the air force’s requirements.HAL has already launched limited series production in anticipation of the orders at its Bengaluru facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aero-india-hal-set-to-get-order-for-15-light-combat-choppers-101612413780626.html
04-02-2021||India||IAF deputy chief to monitor new ₹48,000 cr Tejas project||A three-star Indian Air Force officer will head the team that will monitor the ₹48,000 crore LCA (light combat aircraft) Mk-1A contract awarded to state-run plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), a senior defence ministry officer said at Aero India 2021 on Thursday.The monitoring team will ensure timely delivery of the 83 aircraft.“Right from the contract signing, an integrated project monitoring team headed by the deputy chief of air staff will closely monitor the implementation of the contract. Biannual review by all stakeholders is planned to undertake course corrections needed to enable HAL to deliver the rated production,” said VL Kantha Rao, director general (acquisition) in the ministry.Also Read | India can act as net security provider in Indian Ocean Region: Defence ministerThe Rafale project is also being monitored by the deputy chief.The defence ministry on Wednesday awarded HAL the ₹48,000-crore contract to supply 83 LCA Mk-1A jets to the IAF. The first Mk-1A aircraft will be delivered to the air force in three years, with the rest being supplied by 2030. The deal involves the supply of 73 Mk-1A fighter jets and 10 LCA Mk-1 trainer.On Tuesday, defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated HAL’s second LCA plant in the city to increase the yearly production rate of the fighter jet from eight to 16.The deal for the 83 Mk-1A jets will take the total number of Tejas variants ordered to 123. The 40 LCAs already ordered by IAF are in the initial operational clearance (IOC) and the more advanced final operational clearance (FOC) configurations. The LCA Mk-1A will come with additional improvements over the FOC aircraft, making it the most advanced Tejas variant so far..This facility will produce the trainer aircraft for IAF in IOC, FOC and LCA Mk-1A configurations, Rao said. With current level of supply chain and vendor base, HAL will meet the delivery timelines for the 83 aircraft, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-deputy-chief-to-monitor-new-rs-48-000-cr-tejas-project-101612412639985.html
04-02-2021||India||Farm debates marked relatively smoother day of Parliament: All you need to know||The debate on the President’s speech started relatively smoothly in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday a day after protests and disruptions in both Houses of Parliament on Tuesday even as Lok Sabha proceedings were washed out for the second day as the Congress stuck to its demand for a separate debate on farmer protests. Here is a recall of the proceedings:• The debate in Rajya Sabha began after all parties agreed to suspend Question and Zero Hours to allow 15 hours for the discussion.• A united Opposition demanded the repeal of the three farm laws passed in September during the debate.• Leader of the Opposition (Rajya Sabha) Ghulam Nabi Azad said the “might of the farmers is the biggest force in the country and we cannot reach any conclusion by fighting with them”.• He demanded the repeal of the laws and restoration of statehood in Jammu & Kashmir.• Azad said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was present in the House, is the only person who can find a solution to both the problems of Jammu & Kashmir and the farmers’ agitation.• He condemned the violence and chaos during a tractor rally on January 26, when a section of farmers raised a Sikh religious flag at the Red Fort.Also Read | Parliament proceedings halted amid protest over farm laws: All you need to know• Speakers from the treasury benches accused the opponents of the laws of spreading “misinformation” among the farmers and “stoking fears”.• Telangana Rashtra Samithi MP K Keshava Rao pressed for minimum support prices to be written in the law, which is one of the demands of the farmers• Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP Elaram Kareem said the government policies were only intended to appease corporate firms. He added that farmer leaders were booked under fake charges for the incidents of January 26. • Biju Janata Dal MP Prasanna Acharya said the role of the police and the local administration and the farmers’ leaders needed to be questioned in the context of what happened on January 26.• Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Thiruchi Siva said that the government came to power with a slogan of “minimum government, maximum governance but what we have experienced are minimum governance and maximum mishaps”.• Bharatiya Janata Party MP Vijay Pal Singh Tomar said those criticising the farm laws were spreading misinformation as the new laws only stand to help small and marginal farmers. • He said the laws were passed after extensive deliberations and there have been 12 expert committees in the past two decades on the farm reforms.• The government has offered that the laws be put on hold for 18 months to facilitate discussions.• Tens of thousands of farmers camped at three Delhi entry points for over two months have rejected the offer.• Modi is expected to reply to the debate in the Upper House on Monday.• In Lok Sabha, the government wanted to address the farm laws in the all-encompassing debate on the President’s speech.• Speaker Om Birla was forced to repeatedly adjourn the House as MPs trooped to the Well. They raised slogans and flashed placards while demanding that the farmers’ issue be given top priority. • Congress leader Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the farmers’ agitation was harming the image of the country.• The Speaker insisted that the Question Hour must go on, but Opposition members refused to relent, leading to the House being adjourned for the day after three attempts to begin proceedings. • Modi is scheduled to address the Lower House on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-debates-marked-relatively-smoother-day-of-parliament-all-you-need-to-know-101612412040262.html
04-02-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: Remarks by global celebrities proof of propaganda, says BJP||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has called comments by international celebrities on the farmers’ agitation as evidence of global propaganda against the Narendra Modi government and an attempt to spread misinformation about the farm laws.The BJP has been carrying out an outreach on the ground and on social media to counter the accusations by the Opposition and a section of farm leaders that the three farm laws passed in September benefit big corporations. It is making a concerted attempt to project the criticism of the laws as a “conspiracy”.“There is a trend that was noticed when the Citizenship (Amendment) Act [CAA] was passed. Though the act does not anywhere imply that the citizenship of any community in India will be impacted, yet attempts were made to project CAA as anti-minorities. A similar conspiracy is now being seen in the attempt to create falsehoods about the farm laws,” said a BJP functionary.Also Read | One arrested for violence at Red Fort during farmers’ tractor parade on R-DayOn Wednesday, BJP leaders and ministers responded to the comments on social media made by singer Rihanna and environmental activist Greta Thunberg over the farmers’ agitation.Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted, “No propaganda can deter India’s unity! No propaganda can stop India to attain new heights! Propaganda cannot decide India’s fate only ‘progress’ can. India stands united and together to achieve progress.”On whether the accusation of international propaganda is an attempt to control the narrative, a second leader said, the BJP was hauled up for suggesting that the agitation has been infiltrated by “anti-national forces.”“Eventually what happened [violence] on January 26 [during the farmers’ tractor rally] was evidence that those who have the nefarious intentions are using the farmers. On more than one occasion, the farmer representatives were ready to call off the stir after the government agreed to make several amendments including putting the farm laws in abeyance for 18 months,” the second leader said.The Opposition has slammed the government for not accepting the farmers’ demand for repealing the laws. On Wednesday former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said India’s image has taken a beating because of the BJP. He said the BJP’s policies have shattered India’s soft power.BJP leader Bhupendra Yadav said it is wrong to accuse the government of not following the due process. He said the government is abiding by the court order and respects its viewpoint to put the laws in abeyance. “The government is ready for talks whether inside Parliament or outside,” he said.A few BJP leaders said that comments labelling the farmers’ secessionists vitiated the atmosphere for talks. “This is a very sensitive constituency [farmers]. Labelling farmers as Khalistanis or anti-national created a lot of bad blood. During our interactions with people in rural areas especially, it became clear that perhaps such statements were best avoided,” said a third functionary from Uttar Pradesh.The ongoing agitation has set off concern that the party’s electoral prospects in Uttar Pradesh could be impacted if the Jat vote bank in western parts of the state continues to support the agitation.Jawaharlal Nehru University professor Ajay Gudavarthi called the tendency to dub any opposing view as a conspiracy unfortunate. “You may disagree with a position that people have taken on a particular issue but why smell a conspiracy? It demonstrates a lack of confidence and a lack of sense of history.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-remarks-by-global-celebrities-proof-of-propaganda-says-bjp-101612411440460.html
04-02-2021||India||Kerala to gets its first human milk bank on Friday||The southern state of Kerala will get its first human milk bank on Friday. The state-of-the-art facility will be inaugurated by health minister K K Shailaja at state-owned Ernakulam general hospital in Kochi.The facility will provide breast milk to newborn babies who are deprived of it because of various issues, including the sickness of their mothers.According to the state government, 3,600 babies are born in the general hospital a year and out of those, 600 to 1,000 sick babies are admitted into the Neonatal intensive care unit (NICU)."The breast milk from the bank will reduce the risk of infections and boost the immunity of the newborn babies," Dr Paul P G of Rotary Cochin Global told news agency PTI.The hospital authorities said that all safety protocols and procedures for collecting, preserving and providing the breast milk to needy children will be ensured as per government guidelines. The collected milk can be stored up to 6 months safely in the bank, if needed, before it is given to an infant, they said.In the beginning, the milk will be provided free of cost to only the babies admitted in NICU of the hospital. Later on, a network of hospitals for multiple collection and safe distribution points will be planned.The donors will be the mothers from the hospital who have delivered babies there and will have all their health statistics available at the hospital. It is being set up in partnership with Rotary Club of Cochin Global.A similar milk bank - the Northeast's first - opened at Guwahati's Satribari Christian Hospital in December last year.It was the 15th milk bank in the entire country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-gets-its-first-human-milk-bank-on-friday-101612410514211.html
04-02-2021||India||CoWIN glitches hit vaccination drive; turnout drops to 36% in West Bengal||Technical snags leading to a slow pace of the CoWIN app, meant for monitoring and tracking the Covid-19 inoculation process, is taking a heavy toll on the vaccination drive in West Bengal, with the state recording just around 36% turnout on Wednesday. “The portal is running very slowly and this is seriously hampering the vaccination programme. Around 70- 80% of the target beneficiaries do not receive the messages and so, don’t turn up on time,” said a top official of the state health department. Also Read | 14 regions log zero Covid deaths in 24 hrs: GovernmentOn Wednesday the state had set a target to vaccinate 35,000 beneficiaries from across 350 centres. Only 12,725 [around 36%], turned up. Till date, 300,437 beneficiaries have been vaccinated, which is around 64% of the target of 463,972 in the state. West Bengal has registered 570,581 Covid-19 cases with 10,195 deaths. On Wednesday, 201 new cases were reported apart from seven fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-glitches-hit-vaccination-drive-turn-out-drops-to-36-in-west-bengal-101612410479930.html
04-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Internet curbs lifted in 2 Haryana districts, to continue in 5 others||The Haryana government on Wednesday lifted mobile internet curbs in two of its districts - Panipat and Charkhi Dadri - imposed in the wake of ongoing farmers' protest. The services will, however, continue to remain suspended in five other districts of the state till 5 pm on February 4, news agency PTI reported quoting govt officials.Any person found guilty of violation of aforesaid order will be liable for legal action under relevant provisions, the order from Haryana government stated.The mobile internet services were suspended "to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order" amid a protest by farmers against three farm laws.The state government had initially suspended internet services in 17 districts, but later extended the suspension in some districts. The move was criticised by opposition parties and farmers who protested against it by blocking national highway.The issue was also raised by a group of 140 lawyers in a letter to Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde on Wednesday. They urged the CJI to take cognizance of the government's direction to impose internet shutdowns at Delhi borders where farmers are protesting against the three farm laws.The letter urged the CJI to take suo motu cognizance of the order of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar described putting up of more barricades and suspending internet in and around agitation sites as law and order issues related to local administrations.He also said that the Centre is not holding any informal talk with protesting farmers.The last and 11th round of meeting between the government and 41 protesting unions, held on January 22, was inconclusive. The Centre had asked unions to reconsider the government's proposal to suspend new farm laws for 18 months.On Tuesday, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) - the umbrella body of farmers' unions protesting the central farm laws - had said that there can be no "formal" talks with the government until the "harassment" of different kinds against the farmers' movement by the police and administration is "immediately stopped".(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-internet-curbs-lifted-in-2-haryana-districts-101612409293528.html
04-02-2021||India||‘Peaceful protests hallmark of thriving democracy’: US amid row over farm stir||A day after several global celebrities backed farmers protests against Centre’s agricultural laws, a move condemned by the Indian government and popular sportsmen and actors, the United States on Wednesday hinted its support to the legislation saying it welcomes steps that would improve efficiency of India's markets and attract more private sector investment.The United States State Department spokesperson said peaceful demonstrations are a “hallmark of thriving democracy.” “We recognize peaceful protests as a hallmark of thriving democracy, and the Indian Supreme Court has stated the same...US welcomes steps that would improve efficiency of India's markets and attract more private sector investment,” the spokesperson was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on farm stir hereOn the difference in stance of various political parties on the laws that liberalise farm trade, the spokesperson said, "We encourage that any differences between the parties be resolved through dialogue.”Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at Delhi borders for the past two and a half months demanding a complete roll back of the three contentious laws enacted by the government in September last year. On January 26, protesting farmers conducted a tractor rally in the national capital, which turned violent as clashes broke out between the protesters and the police.Following the violence on Republic Day, security at the borders has been stepped up. The blockades at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders have restricted access to toilets, sanitation facilities, and water, agitators at the three border spots have said.On Wednesday, international figures including Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg and pop icon Rihanna had expressed concern over suspension of the internet at sites where farmers are protesting. "Why aren’t we talking about this?!" Rihanna tweeted with the hashtags #FarmersProtest.The ministry of external affairs, however, contended that “vested interest groups” were trying to enforce their agenda on the protests to derail them, and have tried to mobilise global support against India. The statement also referred to “sensationalist social media hashtags and comments” by “celebrities and others” but didn’t name anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peaceful-protests-hallmark-of-thriving-democracy-us-amid-row-over-farm-stir-101612409329124.html
04-02-2021||India||Bihar: Discoms propose tweaking power tariff for industries||Bihar’s power distribution companies have proposed to alter the time-of-day tariff for industries as a part of the state’s differential power tariff scheme. Under this scheme, industries would get incentives for power consumption during the day and will be charged more than the usual tariff for consumption in the evening. Industrial consumers are presently charged normal tariff during the day and the rates are lower at midnight.Senior power officers in the state pointed out that consumption peaks in the evening and goes down during the day. This is so, they say, because of increased power theft after dusk and fewer service consumers, including office establishments and industries, even as usage by domestic and agriculture consumers peaks in the evening. As a result, the demand for power begins to surge in the evening and remains high till early morning. The consumption graph then comes down and hits a trough during the day, said officials. Also Read | Power tussle on in Maharashtra: Consumers, MSEDCL both wait for reliefGiven this trend, the north and the south Bihar power distribution companies have surplus power during the day that they have to either trade or surrender, as it cannot be stored. It is to utilise this surplus power that the discoms have proposed lower power tariff for industries during the day. The discoms have proposed to change the normal tariff slab, applicable between 5am and 5pm, to 11pm – 11am, to optimise the power demand curve of the state. The existing off-peak hour slab from 11pm to 5am, when industrial consumers are charged 85% the normal tariff, will change to 11am -5pm. The existing peak hour slab from 5pm to 11pm, when industrial consumers are charged 120% the normal tariff, will remain unchanged, said officers. The existing tariff for industrial consumers ranges between ₹6.40 and ₹6.55 per unit (kVAh). “As part of time-of-day tariff, we propose to incentivise our industrial consumers by offering them lower than normal tariff for consuming power during the day, instead of late evening. It’s a win-win-situation for us as well as our industrial consumers, who do not have to pay additional wages to their employees for working at night,” said Sanjeev Hans, Bihar’s energy secretary and chairman-cum-managing director of the Bihar State Power Holding Company Limited. Officials do not perceive any problem in getting the regulator’s nod to the proposal. The new tariff will then come into effect from April 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-discoms-propose-tweaking-power-tariff-for-industries-101612408740062.html
04-02-2021||India||Delhi HC to hear Future’s plea against status quo on Reliance deal||The Delhi High Court will on Thursday hear a plea by Future Retail Limited (FRL) challenging the status quo on its $3.4 billion sale of retail assets to Reliance Industries Limited.FRL’s lawyer, Darius Khambata, mentioned the matter urgently before the court on Wednesday and asked it to hear the matter on the same day after the status quo order was passed by a single bench of the high court. Opposing the urgent mentioning, senior advocate Rajiv Nayyar, who appeared for Amazon, said the procedure of the court should be followed. Following this, the matter was posted for hearing on Thursday.An Amazon spokesperson said contrary to reports carried in a section of the media, the company has not only been committed to an early resolution of the dispute with the FRL but had continued to be willing to support it even during the temporary financial challenges posed by Covid-19.Also Read | Police register cases against social media users for peddling ‘misinformation’In an interim order on Tuesday, Justice JR Midha ordered FRL to maintain the status quo on the assets starting at 4.50 pm on Tuesday until “the pronouncement of the reserved order”. It was passed on a petition by Amazon, which has alleged that the deal was in violation of its contract with FRL.The court said it was of the prima facie view that a Singapore tribunal order, which asked FRL not to proceed with the deal, was enforceable in India.On October 25, the Singapore International Arbitration Centre passed an interim order in favour of Amazon, barring FRL from taking any steps to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to seek any funding against them.The high court rejected FRL’s submission that Amazon’s petition was not maintainable because an Emergency Arbitrator (Singapore)cannot be considered an arbitrator under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act.“This court is of the prima facie view that the Emergency Arbitrator is an Arbitrator; the Emergency Arbitrator has rightly proceeded against FRL; the order dated October 25, 2020 is not a nullity; the order dated October 25, 2020 is an order under Section 17(1) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,” Midha said in his Tuesday’s order.Citing the Emergency Arbitrator’s order, the high court said it was subject to appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act as well because it was an “enforceable” order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-to-hear-future-s-plea-against-status-quo-on-reliance-deal-101612408439953.html
04-02-2021||India||Greta Thunberg's toolkit on farm protest creates uproar; she takes it down, posts 'update'||Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg is in the middle of a controversy over her tweets on the farmers' protest in India.Her tweets also included a toolkit (a document) which talked about widespread protests across the world over the issue. As Twitter erupted, the access to document was restricted and post deleted.The document in Thunberg's tweet had details about January 26 protests and other street protests. The screenshots of the documents were widely shared on social media.This dumbo kid made the biggest blunder for left pimps... attached the confidential document of international plan to systematically unstable India ... sab Pappu ek he team mein hain ha ha ha ... bunch of jokers https://t.co/6svqedfv3RThe buzz was around the fact that there is a conspiracy afoot at the international level to defame India over the farmers' protest.HT Editorial: On global criticism, tread with cautionThunberg later posted an update, claiming that the document was removed because it was dated. She also posted a link to 'updated toolkit'.Here’s an updated toolkit by people on the ground in India if you want to help. (They removed their previous document as it was outdated.)#StandWithFarmers #FarmersProtesthttps://t.co/ZGEcMwHUNLOther celebrities who tweeted about the issue are international pop icon Rihanna who shared a CNN article about suspension of internet at sites where farmers are protesting. "Why aren’t we talking about this?!" she tweeted adding the hashtags #FarmersProtest.Watch: Govt slams Rihanna, Thunberg and other celebrities' tweets on farm lawsThis led to a barrage of tweets from other celebrities like former Indian cricket captain Sachin Tendulkar who said that India's sovereignty cannot be compromised and external forces cannot become participants."India's sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let's remain united as a nation," tweeted Tendulkar adding hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda, made popular after government statement on the issue.India’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let's remain united as a nation.#IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropagandaA statement from the ministry of external affairs (MEA) said that criticism by foreign celebrities and attempts to “mobilise international support against India” on the government’s handling of the farmers’ protests without ascertaining facts were “neither accurate nor responsible”.The MEA statement contended that “vested interest groups” were trying to enforce their agenda on the protests to derail them, and have tried to mobilise global support against India. In this context, the statement referred to “sensationalist social media hashtags and comments” by “celebrities and others” but didn’t name anyone.The statement was shared by all the ministers with #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda, turning it into a a social media movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/greta-thunberg-s-toolkit-on-farm-protest-creates-uproar-101612407421761.html
04-02-2021||India||Light rain, thunderstorm warning for Delhi, other parts of NW India today||There is a light rain and thunderstorm warning for Delhi and many parts of northwest India today.A Western Disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is lying over East Afghanistan & adjoining Pakistan. An induced cyclonic circulation is lying over northwest Rajasthan and neighbourhood.Also Read | Climate change may change rainfall patterns in south India: StudyUnder the influence of the above systems; fairly widespread light to moderate rain/snow with thunderstorm, lightning and hail is likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad on February 3; over Himachal Pradesh on February 3 and 4 and over Uttarakhand on February 3, 4 and 5.Interaction between this Western Disturbance and lower level southeasterlies from the Bay of Bengal is likely to cause widespread light to moderate rain/thundershowers with isolated lightning and hail over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan, northwest Madhya Pradesh and west Uttar Pradesh on February 4 and over east Madhya Pradesh and north Chhattisgarh on February 5, according to India Meteorological Department.“We are expecting light rain in some parts of Delhi today,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-rain-thunderstorm-warning-for-delhi-other-parts-of-nw-india-today-101612407839652.html
04-02-2021||India||145 fell ill after having biryani at Assam govt event; probe ordered||As many as 145 people were hospitalised due to suspected food poisoning in Assams Karbi Anglong district after having biryani at a government function attended by chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, prompting the authorities to order an inquiry on Wednesday, officials said. Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who was also present at the programme held in the Diphu Medical College on Tuesday, said he had fallen ill after having the food but he is fine now. Sonowal inaugurated the academic session of the MBBS course at the medical college and around 8,000 people who attended it were served packed biryani. The health minister said at a press conference in Guwahati that 145 people were admitted to hospital since Tuesday night and 28 of them were discharged. He said that 117 people are still under treatment and they are all doing fine. Sarma said that he also had food from the "same kitchen and no doubt, I too suffered from stomach upset but am fine now". Karbi Anglong Deputy Commissioner Ng Chandra Dhwaja Singha said that a magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the circumstances leading to the incident. One person who attended the event died at a hospital on Tuesday night but it was yet to be ascertained whether food poisoning was the cause of his death, he said. Food samples were collected and sent for testing. Those who were admitted to the hospital complained of abdominal pain and vomiting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/145-fell-ill-after-having-biryani-at-assam-govt-event-probe-ordered-101612407297164.html
04-02-2021||India||Soldier killed in Pakistani firing along LoC in J&K||A soldier of the Indian Army was killed in Pakistani shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district late Wednesday. The deceased soldier has been identified as Sepoy Laxman of Bilara, Jodhpur, Rajasthan. “Pakistan Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation on the Line of Control (LoC) in Sundarbani sector late Wednesday. Own troops responded strongly to the enemy fire. In the incident, Sepoy Laxman was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries”, said defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand.Also Read | Pakistan effectively using drones for smuggling, surveillance: BSF DG“Sepoy Laxman was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” added the spokesman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldier-killed-in-pakistani-firing-along-loc-in-jk-101612407359600.html
04-02-2021||India||In 10 days from now, Punjab to hold civic polls; farmers' stir big challenge||Political parties in Punjab face a major test as the state goes to urban local body (ULB) polls in 10 days from now and unrest in and around the states continues due to agitation against three laws enacted by the central government in September last year.Months after Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) withdrew its support to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre in September to express its dissent against the agricultural legislation, several BJP leaders in Punjab have decided to go solo in the civic body polls fearing backlash.Follow latest updates on farm stir here“We want to avoid any conflict with farmer unions in the electoral battle. Farmer unions are opposing the BJP from holding any political or social programme, hence I am contesting as Independent,” BJP’s Bathinda district president Vinod Kumar Binta, who is contesting as an Independent from Bhucho Mandi municipal council, told HT.Of the 22 urban local bodies in Doaba, comprising Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar districts, the BJP has not been able to field candidates on all seats in 18 ULBs. BJP office-bearers, who are in-charge of polls, said the party has fielded all candidates in Nawanshahr (19 in 19 wards), Mukerian (15 in 15) and 49 in 50 wards of Hoshiarpur.Also Read: Increased police blockades cut protesters off from toilets, waterWhile several BJP leaders in Punjab accused the SAD and Congress of threatening its representative, Congress general secretary and Kartarpur improvement trust chairman, Rana Randhawa, denied the claims, saying “The BJP has lost ground in Punjab due to anti-farmer policies.”Meanwhile, SAD has accused the state election commission of having failed to perform its duty in the run up to the civic body polls and said it should be “wound up”. The remarks come after party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal's car was damaged in a clash between Congress and Akali workers in Jalalabad. The SAD terms the incident as a "murderous attack" on Akali workers and Badal by "police-backed Congress goons,” according to news agency ANI.Also Read| Protest, blockades: Locals have to take long way homeThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) stood up against the ruling Congress party alleging it was preventing AAP candidates from filing nomination papers at several places in the state. AAP legislator Aman Arora alleged that the “blatant misuse” of power and government resources by the Congress was “reprehensible and oppressive”. He also accused the grand old party of :kidnapping an AAP candidate at Sunam, according to ANI.Elections will be conducted to eight municipal corporations, 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in Punjab on February 14. This will be the first poll exercise in the northern state amid farm stir called by farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, against the Centre’s agricultural laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-10-days-from-now-punjab-to-hold-civic-polls-farmers-stir-big-challenge-101612406289256.html
04-02-2021||India||Pakistan effectively using drones for smuggling, surveillance: BSF DG||Pakistan is very effectively using drones for surveillance and smuggling arms, explosives and narcotics across the border, BSF Director General Rakesh Asthana said on Wednesday."In 2019, there were 167 recorded sightings of drones on the Western front (with Pakistan). In 2020, there were 77 sightings of drones on this front," he said at a seminar organised by industry body FICCI at Aero India 2021 exhibition.There have been instances of dropping of arms, ammunition, explosives and narcotics through the drones, particularly in Punjab and Jammu sectors, he mentioned."Pakistan is very effectively using its drone technology for not only smuggling activities, but also for surveillance purposes," Asthana said."As per intelligence inputs, the Pakistan Army is looking for mini or small UAVs which can stay for several hours in the air to monitor the borders with a preferable range of 150 kms," he added.The Border Security Force (BSF) chief also said that the neighbouring nation is using drones from China, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Germany and Italy.In addition to this, Pakistan is seeking to augment its counter drone capability, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-effectively-using-drones-for-smuggling-surveillance-bsf-dg-101612400576070.html
04-02-2021||India||One arrested for violence at Red Fort during farmers' tractor parade on R-Day||The Delhi Police on Wednesday arrested a person in connection with the violence at Red Fort during the farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day, officials said.The arrested person has been identified as Dharmendra Singh.His role in hoisting a religious flag at Red Fort on January 26 is also being ascertained, police said.Thousands of protesters had clashed with the police during the tractor parade called by farmer unions on January 26 to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws.Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some of them even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-arrested-for-violence-at-red-fort-during-farmers-tractor-parade-on-rday-101612399542992.html
04-02-2021||India||Soldier killed in Pakistani firing along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||An Army soldier was killed on Wednesday in Pakistani firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district, a defence spokesperson said.Sepoy Laxman, a resident of Jodhpur in Rajasthan, was the fourth soldier killed this year in ceasefire violations by Pakistani troops along the LoC."The Pakistan Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation on the LoC in Sundarbani sector of Rajouri. Our troops responded strongly to the enemy fire," the spokesperson said.He said Laxman was critically injured in the firing and later succumbed to his injuries."Sepoy Laxman was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty," he said.Earlier, three Army personnel were killed in Pakistani firing along the LoC in January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldier-killed-in-pakistani-firing-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-rajouri-101612399268024.html
04-02-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi to visit kin of farmer who died in R-Day tractor rally violence||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is scheduled to visit Uttar Pradesh's Rampur district on Thursday to offer her condolences to the family of late Navreet Singh, the farmer who reportedly died in an accident during the Kisan tractor rally here on January 26.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is likely to accompany her on the visit.The Congress Party has been continuously supporting the farmers' movement against the Modi government's new agricultural laws and have demanded their repeal.On Republic Day, farm unions were given permission to hold a tractor yatra but a group of farmers broke through police barricades and entered the ITO area clashed with police.Navneet Singh died in the clash after his tractor overturned after ramming into a barricade. Delhi Police had released CCTV footage showing the farmer's tractor overturning after ramming into barricades at ITO.According to a leader familiar with the programme, other leaders from Uttar Pradesh will also accompany Gandhi on her visit. It is not yet clear whether she has sought and obtained the permission of the local administration. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has conducted three press conferences in the last 15 days and had put forth the demand of repealing the farm laws.Congress has been continuously maintaining its stand on Farm Laws against the government and demanding a repeal of the laws. Parliament was reconvened on Wednesday after protests on issues related to farmers by Opposition and multiple adjournments of both Houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-to-visit-kin-of-farmer-who-died-in-r-day-tractor-rally-violence-101612398742022.html
04-02-2021||India||SC junks petition seeking stay on ‘love jihad’ laws||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to entertain a petition seeking stay on anti-conversion laws passed by Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh to regulate interfaith marriages, and asked the petitioner to approach the high court.This was the third petition filed in the top court challenging the contentious laws. On January 6, the top court issued notice on two separate petitions challenging the validity of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020, and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018.Also read: Shashi Tharoor, Rajdeep Sardesai file plea in top courtOn Wednesday, NGO Peoples Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) sought to expand the ambit of consideration of the court to a third law in Himachal Pradesh, known as the HP Freedom of Religion Act, 2019.A three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, refused to issue notice on the PUCL plea, but gave the NGO the liberty to approach high courts.“Senior counsel Sanjay Parikh for the petitioners seeks permission to withdraw the writ petition with liberty to approach the high court. The writ petition is dismissed as withdrawn with liberty as prayed for,” said the bench. The pleas come at a time the laws have stoked controversy, especially over the issue of love jihad -- a term used by right-wing groups to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-junks-petition-seeking-stay-on-love-jihad-laws-101612397649857.html
04-02-2021||India||Usmani will soon be arrested over Elgar speech: Maha home minister||Former Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) student leader Sharjeel Usmani will soon be arrested for his alleged provocative speech at the second Elgar Parishad conclave in Pune last week, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday.“Police have investigated the video clippings of the Elgar event held on January 30 in Pune and have registered a case against Sharjeel Usmani. He is not in Maharashtra currently but we will arrest him from whichever state he is in, be it Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat or elsewhere,” the minister told reporters.Also read: FIR against Usmani over speech at Elgar Parishad eventOn Tuesday, an FIR was registered under section 153(A) (promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion etc) of the Indian Penal Code following a complaint by Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) general secretary and advocate Pradeep Gawade at Swargate police station.“Yes, a case has been registered under Section 153(a) of IPC based on a complaint by advocate Pradeep Gawade over a speech made at Elgar Parishad. The case is registered at Swargate police station. A probe is underway,” Pune Police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said.Former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis had warned the state government of a statewide agitation if the former student leader was not arrested. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday, Fadnavis had questioned the permission granted to organise the conclave. BJP leaders have also demanded that the organisers of the Elgar Parishad be booked for sedition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/usmani-will-soon-be-arrested-over-elgar-speech-maha-home-minister-101612397295857.html
04-02-2021||India||India slips two positions to 53rd spot in EIU’s Democracy Index||ndia slipped two places to 53rd position in the 2020 Democracy Index’s global ranking, according to The Economist Intelligence Unit, which said the “democratic backsliding” by authorities and “crackdowns” on civil liberties has led to a further decline in the country’s ranking.However, India is ranked higher than most of its neighbouring countries. India’s overall score fell from 6.9 in 2019 to 6.61 in the Index that provides a snapshot of the current state of democracy worldwide for 167 countries. “With mounting pressure on India’s democratic norms, India’s score fell from a peak of 7.92 in 2014 to 6.61 in 2020 and its global ranking slipped from 27th (in 2014) to 53rd as a result of democratic backsliding” under the current regime, The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) said.Also read: Centre defends police use of tear gas on protestersNorway topped the report titled “Democracy in sickness and in health?”, with Iceland, Sweden, New Zealand and Canada making up the top five.Out of 167 countries, the Democracy Index classifies 23 countries as full democracies, 52 as flawed democracies, 35 as hybrid regimes and 57 as authoritarian regimes. India has been classified as a ‘flawed democracy’ along with countries such as the US, France, Belgium and Brazil.The EIU report said that in India and Thailand, “democratic backsliding by the authorities and crackdowns on civil liberties led to a further decline in their global rankings”. It further alleged that the Narendra Modi-led government has “introduced a religious element to the conceptualisation of Indian citizenship, a step that many critics see as undermining the secular basis of the Indian state”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-slips-two-positions-to-53rd-spot-in-eiu-s-democracy-index-101612396238531.html
04-02-2021||India||BJP shattered India’s global image: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Wednesday that India’s international image has taken a “massive hit” and the country’s biggest strength, its soft power, has “been shattered” by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) because of the manner in which the government has “crushed basic rights of farmers” in the course of the ongoing farmers’ agitation.In response, the BJP accused Gandhi of instigating farmers and using the agrarian stir for his political gains. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said Gandhi was using the farmers’ cause to stoke fear in the country.Gandhi said, “Today, Delhi is surrounded by our farmers. They are the people who give us sustenance... the people who work for us. Why is Delhi being converted into a fortress? Why are we threatening our farmers, beating our farmers, killing our farmers?” He also said that the country is “lacking leadership”.Also read: Government fends off global clamour on farm stirDemanding a restart to the talks with farmers, Gandhi said: “PM (Narendra Modi) is saying that the offer is still on the table to postpone these laws... what does that mean? Either you believe that you need to get rid of the laws or you don’t.”In counter, the BJP said the Congress leader was inciting people. “He (Gandhi) is trying to incite people. This is a farmers’ agitation and they are saying they are not associated with any political party, and that this is not a political movement, so why are you speaking on their behalf?” BJP’s Patra said.The Congress leader, however, refused to comment on international celebrities, including international pop star Rihanna, extending support to the farmers’ protest, saying “this is our internal matter”.“They (the government) have messed up the economy, they have messed up the harmony, they have messed up the defence and they want to keep distracting India with non-events. I am saying that the country is in a dangerous position,” Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-shattered-india-s-global-image-rahul-gandhi-101612395906322.html
04-02-2021||India||Senior Mumbai cop sues Arnab Goswami for defamation||A senior Mumbai police officer has sued Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, his wife and ARG Outlier Media Pvt. Ltd, the news channel’s parent, for criminal defamation, saying the news anchor had harmed his reputation in broadcasts and Twitter posts on the investigation into the June 2020 death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.In the suit filed in the sessions court on Tuesday and made public on Wednesday, deputy commissioner of police Abhishek Trimukhe sought to prosecute Goswami and his wife under section 500 (punishment for defamation) and section 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of the Indian Penal Code, and sought compensation for defamation.A statement put out by a legal advisor for Republic TV on Wednesday night said the channel’s initial reading of the complaint was that the officer was referring to tweets from a fake Twitter handle impersonating as Goswami’s, and said it would respond legally, “as per due process .”Also read: Govt notice to Twitter over restored handlesTrimukhe claimed that Goswami made several defamatory statements against him during a panel discussion pertaining to the phone records of Rhea Chakraborty, an actor and Rajput’s girlfriend, in connection with the June 14, 2020 death of Rajput by suspected suicide. Trimukhe claimed that the discussion was posted on the YouTube channel of the company on August 7.The police officer alleged that the same content was also published on the microblogging site Twitter by Goswami later on. “Accused No. 1 (Goswami) has published several defamatory tweets and has essentially reiterated and re-circulated the contents of the defamatory telecast to an even larger audience by means of Twitter. The Tweets are without context and have been wilfully circulated to damage the complainant’s reputation,” states the complaint.“The accused persons are well aware that investigation into the death of late Mr. Sushant Sing Rajput (being a well-known Bollywood star) will garner significant public interest. The accused persons, instead of conducting themselves as responsible journalists (self-proclaimed) / citizens, have chosen to profit from the situation by sensationalising and scandalising the same, and using Mr Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and photograph (by tagging him) to disseminate the story to as many people as possible, all the while intending to defame the complainant,” read the complaint.Trimukhe said he sought permission from the state government to file the defamation complaint against Goswami, his wife and the company that owns the channel. Trimukhe filed the complaint only after the state government allowed him to go ahead with the suit on October 23 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-mumbai-cop-sues-arnab-goswami-for-defamation-101612395475660.html
04-02-2021||India||Praveen Sinha named acting CBI chief after Shukla’s ‘quiet’ tenure||The Centre on Wednesday appointed the Central Bureau of Investigation’s deputy chief, 1988 batch Gujarat cadre Indian Police Service officer Praveen Sinha, as the acting director of the federal agency with “immediate effect”, according to an order issued by Department of Personnel and Training.Sinha, currently additional director in the agency, will look after the duties of CBI director till the high powered selection committee led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi chooses the replacement for incumbent , Rishi Kumar Shukla, whose fixed two-year term ended on Wednesday, or “until further orders”, the order added.The decision was taken as the high powered panel comprising the PM, Chief Justice of India S A Bobde and leader of Congress in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury have not been able to meet to choose the agency’s next chief.Also read: What’s the value of a tree? Age multiplied by ₹74.5kHT reported on Monday that the decision could be delayed by a few weeks given the ongoing budget session of parliament, and the farmers’ protest, both of which are keeping the government busy.It is for the third time in last five years that an interim chief will head CBI. Additional director Rakesh Asthana (currently director general of Border Security Force) was appointed interim director of CBI in December 2016 for two months. Later, following an open ugly spat between former CBI Director Alok Kumar Verma and Asthana (when he was Special Director) in mid 2018, the government appointed M Nageswara Rao as interim director from October 2018 till January 2019. Shukla, a 1983 batch Madhya Pradesh cadre officer, who was brought to lead the agency at a time when it was coming out of a crisis caused by an internecine fight between its two senior most officers, took some steps to improve CBI’s image: the transfer of around 700 officers to different branches across India; keeping his doors open to hear any grievances; and avoided taking controversial decision.Described as a thorough “gentleman” by many of his subordinates and batchmates, Shukla made sure that what happened in the agency, stayed within it.The media-shy, soft spoken officer made it his policy to never interact with journalists. In fact, he didn’t give a single interview during his two years tenure.Among the few bold decisions taken by him were the arrest of former finance minister P Chidambaram in the INX Media case, raids on senior Congress leader from Karnataka D K Shivakumar, and the move to prosecute senior IAS officer Shashi Kant Sharma in the AgustaWestland case.Other than that, as described by an officer in the agency , “Rishi Kumar Shukla had a quiet tenure, which was further complemented by the Covid-19 induced lockdown”.Some of the high-profile cases he inherited from his predecessors, such as the probe into two former CBI Directors , Ranjit Sinha and A P Singh, the investigation of former ICICI Bank managing director Chanda Kochhar, and the Air India case did not see too many developments.The agency, however, tasted some successes during Shukla’s tenure in the form of securing the extradition of Vijay Mallya from the UK, currently held up due to his asylum plea, and India being selected to host the Interpol General Assembly of 2022.CBI registered record number of bank fraud cases during his tenure. It is estimated that CBI has registered bank fraud cases worth total ₹90,000 crore over the past two years, including against some big business houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/praveen-sinha-named-acting-cbi-chief-after-shukla-s-quiet-tenure-101612393613040.html
04-02-2021||India||Any ‘senior, responsible’ Facebook staff can appear before Delhi panel, SC told||The Delhi assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee’s summons to Facebook vice president Ajit Mohan is meant to call for deposition “any senior, responsible officer” of the company, the panel’s lawyer told the Supreme Court on Wednesday, during a hearing on a petition by the social media company’s executive who has challenged the move.Mohan has been summoned by the Committee to answer questions over whether the social media company’s content and how it was moderated played any role in the February 2020 communal riots in the Capital. The executive has moved the top court against the summons on September 10 and 18.In his petition, Mohan claimed the summons required him to appear and make a statement on oath with regard to the Delhi riots. Being a sensitive issue, he was not willing to go before the panel and make a statement.Also read: Govt notice to Twitter over restored handlesSenior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who opened arguments on Wednesday for the Delhi Legislative Assembly, told the judges that the only intention behind summoning Mohan was to ensure somebody responsible on behalf of the company can depose before the Committee.The three-judge bench headed by Justice SK Kaul asked Singhvi if the Assembly insisted on Mohan’s name or it was open to others appearing for the company. “The argument on behalf of Mohan is that by issuing notice to him, you are compelling him to come,” remarked the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy. Singhvi replied, “I have never said only Mr. Mohan should appear….We did not want just anybody to come but a senior, competent person.” The bench recorded this statement by Singhvi.In his prefatory statements, Singhvi told the Court that the petition by Mohan raises a larger question about powers and privileges of not just the Delhi Assembly but more than 25 State Assemblies in the country.“The petitioner cannot say I will go to some Committee but not to the other. He has not challenged the order constituting the Peace and Harmony Committee or the subsequent notification setting out its terms of reference. There are special affections when Facebook deposes before similar Committees of Parliament but refuses to come here,” Singhvi submitted.For Mohan, senior advocate Harish Salve submitted that his client had a right to remain silent under his right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a). As an intermediary for exchange of information on his platform, he cannot be compelled to come and state on oath before a non-statutory Committee, Salve argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/any-senior-responsible-facebook-staff-can-appear-before-delhi-panel-sc-told-101612391326444.html
04-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand to begin 2nd phase of vaccination; police, civic workers up next||The Uttarakhand health department has started preparing for the second phase of vaccination which is scheduled to start from the second week of February.In the second phase, over 2 lakh frontline workers will be vaccinated in the state.Dr. Saroj Naithani, director of the National Health Mission in the state said, “We will be able to complete vaccinating a maximum number of healthcare workers by Sunday after which vaccination of other frontline workers will start from Monday. Frontline workers like police, officials and other workers employed by urban local bodies; officials with revenue department will be covered in the second phase of vaccination.”The senior health official further said that the state will receive 1.40 lakh more doses of the vaccine by Thursday for the second phase of vaccination.“Till now, details of almost 64,000 frontline workers have been uploaded on the CoWIN application. With the third consignment of vaccines with 1.40 lakh doses, we will be able to vaccinate 70,000 frontline workers and our preparations are underway for the same,” she added.Health officials also said that all healthcare workers are not likely to be covered by Sunday, as many are not turning up for vaccination during their turn.“We might not be able to cover all healthcare workers for vaccination by Sunday, as many are absent during their turns for vaccination. Despite double reminder, they are not coming; but we have to start vaccinating others also. We are looking into the reasons as to why the healthcare workers, mostly Anganwadi workers are not turning up,” said Dr. Naithani.A total of 43,230 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the state till now.Kuldeep Martoliya, state extended programme for immunisation officer in the state said, “From now, daily target and number of sessions will be increased gradually as we are trying to pick up pace of vaccination process in the state.”On Tuesday a target of over 10,900 was set for vaccination in the state against which 55% vaccination was conducted in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-begin-2nd-phase-of-vaccination-police-civic-workers-up-next-101612382356780.html
04-02-2021||India||Both Congress and CPI(M) have lost credibility in Kerala: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda on Wednesday came down heavily on the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) and opposition Congress in Kerala, saying they were ideologically bankrupt and compete with each other in corruption and scandals.Talking to the media at the state capital, Nadda, who is on a two-day visit to kick start the party’s campaign for the assembly elections, said both were thick friends in West Bengal and in Kerala they were sworn enemies and it exposed their double standard and ideological bankruptcy. Kerala and four other states are expected to go to polls in April-May.“They are two sides of the same coin. While Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is struggling with gold smuggling and corruption cases, a sex scandal accused Oommen Chandy has been projected as the leader by the Congress. People have lost faith in both and they will go for an alternative this time,” he said. When the media pointed out that BJP national vice-president A P Abdullhakutty’s name also figured in the solar scandal he said investigative agencies were free to probe all angles.He said the CM has lost credibility and was not fit to continue in power. “Of late he has been attacking constitutional bodies like the CAG to hide his omissions and commissions. Involvement of his office in the gold smuggling case invited enough embarrassment for Malayalies world over. The role of more ministers will come to light as investigation progresses,” he said. He said central agencies came to the state after the CM invited them and it was unfair to criticise them now.This is Nadda’s first visit to Kerala after becoming the party president. Also a former Union health minister he criticised the state’s role in combating Covid-19. “It is sad that the state is the epicentre of the pandemic now. The government’s inept handling vitiated the situation. It was after publicity and it resulted in a surge,” he said adding despite strong health infrastructure the state failed to live up to its expectations. He said during the Nipah virus outbreak in 2018 he was the Union health minister but this time the state failed to heed repeated warnings of the Union government and paid a heavy price.He also ridiculed the Congress plan to rake up the Sabarimala issue. He said during the agitation three year ago, party leader Rahul Gandhi never supported it and BJP workers took the maximum brunt leading to the agitation. He said since the issue was before the apex court the Union government’s options were limited. At the height of the agitation, both Prime Minister Modi and then party chief Amit Shah had promised that the Centre will do everything to assuage hurt feelings of believers. On Thursday Nadda will go to Thrissur where he will address a public rally in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/both-congress-and-cpi-m-have-lost-credibility-in-kerala-nadda-101612381454978.html
04-02-2021||India||Opposition, Centre spar in Rajya Sabha over farm laws; Lower House still stalled||Opposition MPs stood united in the Rajya Sabha on their demand that three contentious farm laws be repealed, during a debate on the President’s speech on Wednesday, with Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad telling the government that the “might of the farmers is the biggest force in the country and we cannot reach any conclusion by fighting with them”.Speakers from the treasury benches, meanwhile, said that those opposing the laws were spreading “misinformation” among the farmers and “stoking fears”.After a day of protests and disruptions in both Houses on Tuesday, the debate on the President’s speech started relatively smoothly in the Upper House on Wednesday, with all parties agreeing to suspend Question and Zero Hours to allot 15 hours for the discussion. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to reply to the debate in the Upper House on Monday.Also read: Government fends off global clamour on farm stirLok Sabha proceedings, however, were washed out for the second day as the Congress stuck to its demand for a separate debate on farm protests even as the government wanted to address the issue in the all-encompassing debate on the President’s speech. The opposition leaders held a meeting on Wednesday morning to discuss their strategy. According to two Congress MPs who asked not to be named, party leader Rahul Gandhi also held a separate discussion with some Congress leaders on the floor strategy.Demanding repeal of the laws and restoration of statehood in Jammu & Kashmir, Azad said PM Modi, who was present in the House, is the only person who can find a solution to both the problems of Jammu & Kashmir and the farmers’ agitation.“The logjam between the farmers and the government is not for the first time; it has been going on for hundreds of years that farmers have had to struggle for their rights — sometimes against feudalism and zamindari and sometimes against the government,” Azad said.He condemned the violence and chaos during a tractor rally on January 26, when a section of farmers raised a Sikh religious flag at the Red Fort. “The whole Opposition and the Congress condemn the incident. It should have never happened; it is against democracy; it is against law and order. Those who were involved in this should be given strict punishment but at the same time those who are innocent should not be implicated,” Azad said, while also urging the PM to set up a committee to find out who are the people who had gone missing on January 26.Initiating the discussions, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Assam, Bhuwaneswar Kalita, said the farm laws were passed after extensive discussions in Parliament and the Opposition “should not make the farmers agitation another Shaheen Bagh”. His reference was to an anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protest that began last year in the heart of Delhi and escalated into an occupy movement that lasted for over 100 days, cutting off an important arterial road in the Capital.The ruling party has been alleging that the opposition parties have “stoked fears” about the new farm laws just as they did with CAA. The BJP leader reiterated an earlier speech by Modi and said “the benefits of these important farm laws have started reaching more than 10 crore people and small farmers” and told the House that “the doors are always open for farmers for discussion so that the issues can be resolved”.Watch | ‘Fight China & Pakistan, not our farmers’: Ghulam Nabi AzadThe government has offered that the laws be put on hold for 18 months to facilitate discussions but farmers — tens of thousands of whom are camped at three Delhi entry points for over two months — have rejected the demand. Samajwadi Party MP Ram Gopal Yadav criticised the government for showing “insensitivity” towards the farmers. He said had the government agreed to send the bills to a standing committee, the crisis would have been averted. He also questioned why there was tight security on the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders, and said that security there was tighter than at Parliament and the India-Pakistan border. “Are the farmers going to attack Delhi?” he asked.BJP MP from Uttar Pradesh, Vijay Pal Singh Tomar, who seconded the motion, said those criticising the farm laws are spreading misinformation as the new laws only stand to help small and marginal farmers. He said the laws were passed after extensive deliberations and there have been 12 expert committees in the past two decades on farm reforms.Biju Janata Dal MP Prasanna Acharya said the role of the police and the local administration and the farmers’ leaders needed to be questioned in the context of what happened on January 26, while DMK’s Thiruchi Siva said that the government came to power with a slogan of “minimum government, maximum governance” but what we have experienced is “minimum governance and maximum mishaps”.Telangana Rashtra Samithi MP K Keshava Rao pressed for minimum support prices to be written in law, which is one of the demands of the farmers, while Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP Elaram Kareem said the government policies were only intended to appease corporate firms. He also said that farmer leaders were booked under fake charges for the incidents of January 26. Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu agreed to suspend question hour on Wednesday and Thursday, and private member’s bills on Friday, to make time for the discussion. In the Lok Sabha, Speaker Om Birla was forced to repeatedly adjourn the House as MPs trooped to the Well, raised slogans and flashed placards, and demanded that the farmers’ issue be given top priority. Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the farmers’ agitation was harming the image of the country.The Speaker insisted that the Question Hour must go on but Opposition members refused to relent, leading to the House being adjourned for the day after three attempts to begin proceedings. Modi, who customarily replies in the Lok Sabha first, is scheduled to address the Lower House on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-centre-spar-in-rajya-sabha-over-farm-laws-lower-house-still-stalled-101612380700484.html
04-02-2021||India||Government fends off global clamour on farm stir||India on Wednesday said criticism by foreign celebrities and attempts to “mobilise international support against India” on the government’s handling of the farmers’ protests without ascertaining facts were “neither accurate nor responsible” after comments by musician Rihanna and environmental activist Greta Thunberg, lawmakers in the US and UK, and several actors, activists and influencers sparked global clamour over the issue.A statement from the external affairs ministry contended that “vested interest groups” were trying to enforce their agenda on the protests to derail them, and have tried to mobilise global support against India. In this context, the statement referred to “sensationalist social media hashtags and comments” by “celebrities and others” but didn’t name anyone.It is rare for the external affairs ministry to respond to tweets by foreign celebrities critical of events within the country, though it has, in recent weeks, pushed back against comments by leaders such as Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and lawmakers in the UK and other countries supporting the farmers’ protest.The ministry’s statement, for the first time, included two hashtags - #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda.As protests against three contentious farm laws have snowballed, they have attracted attention around the world, including among celebrities and lawmakers. Though some celebrities who aren’t well known in India have made social media posts on the issue over the past few days, singer Rihanna was the most high-profile personality to take up the issue on Twitter on Tuesday.Rihanna, who has 101 million followers on Twitter and is among the highest-selling recording artistes in history, triggered a storm on Tuesday by tweeting “why aren’t we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest”, along with a link to a CNN article about the farmers’ protest that was also part of a subsequent tweet on Wednesday by 18-year-old environmental activist Greta Thunberg.Thunberg tweeted: “We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India.” The tweet was both supported and criticised by sections within India. Author Meena Harris, the niece of US vice president Kamala Harris, too, joined those criticising the government’s handling of the protests on Wednesday, drawing a link between the demonstrations in India and the assault on the US Capitol by supporters of former president Donald Trump.“It’s no coincidence that the world’s oldest democracy was attacked not even a month ago, and as we speak, the most populous democracy is under assault. This is related. We ALL should be outraged by India’s internet shutdowns and paramilitary violence against farmer protesters,” Harris tweeted.India’s foreign ministry said in response to these statements that it “would like to emphasise that these protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse”.“Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken. The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible,” it added.Union home minister Amit Shah wrote on Twitter: “No propaganda can deter India’s unity! No propaganda can stop India to attain new heights! Propaganda cannot decide India’s fate only ‘Progress’ can. India stands united and together to achieve progress.”External affairs minister S Jaishankar tweeted: “Motivated campaigns targeting India will never succeed. We have the self confidence today to hold our own. This India will push back.”James Costa, a Democratic congressman who serves on the influential US house foreign affairs committee, too supported the farmers’ right to protest. “The unfolding events in India are troubling. As a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I am closely monitoring the situation. The right to peaceful protest must always be respected. #FarmersProtest,” he tweeted.Since last month, US actor John Cusack, a group of 36 lawmakers in the UK and a spokesperson for UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres have backed the farmers’ protest and taken up the matter on social media and other forums.Indian celebrities Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, Karan Johar and Suniel Shetty said citizens should focus on the government’s efforts to resolve the ongoing farmer crisis rather than paying attention to “half truths” and those creating differences. While Kumar said that efforts by the government to solve the issue were “evident”, Devgn urged people to be wary of “false propaganda against India or Indian policies”. Johar and Shetty, too, supported the Indian government’s statement.Watch: Akshay Kumar vs Rihanna as Bollywood backs government on farm rowFormer Indian cricket star Sachin Tendulkar too tweeted: “India’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let’s remain united as a nation.”India cricket captain Virat Kohli tweeted: “Let us all stay united in this hour of disagreements. Farmers are an integral part of our country and I’m sure an amicable solution will be found between all parties to bring about peace and move forward together.” The farmers’ protest began on November 26, and after several rounds of negotiations with the government failed to end the impasse over the three farm laws, farmer unions backing the agitation decided to intensify their stir.They organised a tractor rally in the national capital on Republic Day that descended into violence and chaos. Authorities responded by shutting down the internet at border points, digging ditches, driving spikes into roads and topping barricades with razor wire to prevent farmers from entering Delhi again.The farmers have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, and the external affairs ministry said these “reformist legislation” were passed by Parliament after a “full debate and discussion”. “These reforms give expanded market access and provided greater flexibility to farmers. They also pave the way for economically and ecologically sustainable farming,” it said, explaining the government’s position on the laws.It said “a very small section of farmers in parts of India” had reservations about the reforms and the government initiated a series of talks with their representatives. Union ministers were part of the negotiations in 11 rounds of talks. “The government has even offered to keep the laws on hold, an offer iterated by no less than the Prime Minister of India,” it said.“Yet, it is unfortunate to see vested interest groups trying to enforce their agenda on these protests, and derail them. This was egregiously witnessed on January 26, India’s Republic Day. A cherished national commemoration, the anniversary of the inauguration of the Constitution of India, was besmirched, and violence and vandalism took place in the Indian capital,” the statement said.The ministry said “some of these vested interest groups have also tried to mobilise international support against India”. Instigated by such “fringe elements”, Mahatma Gandhi statues were desecrated in parts of the world, and this is “extremely disturbing for India and for civilised society everywhere”.The BJP hit out at “propaganda and fake narratives” and also attacked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, alleging that he conspires with anti-India elements during his trips abroad. Gandhi, meanwhile, said India’s reputation has taken a “massive hit” and its biggest strength, its soft power, has been “shattered” by the BJP and the RSS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-fends-off-global-clamour-on-farm-stir-101612379873466.html
04-02-2021||India||Coins worth ₹14.86 lakh missing from Union Bank in Odisha, staff under scanner||A whopping ₹14.86 lakh in coins of denominations between Re 1 to ₹10 have gone missing from a branch of the Union Bank of India in the port town of Paradip, prompting the bank authorities to lodge a complaint with the local police.Paradip Lock police inspector Prabhas Sahoo said the matter came to light during an internal audit of the branch. “Around 3 lakh coins have been usurped by 4 bank officials between 2016 and 2020. The coins were kept in a vault,” said Sahoo.Police officials said Santosh Kumar, who joined as branch manager on January 21, detected the discrepancy. Kumar lodged an FIR in this regard at Paradip Lock police station against two former bank managers, Amarjit Panda, Shiva Shankar Padhi and two employees Sangaram Kishore Behera and Saurav Soren. A case has been registered under Sections 420, 409 and 34 of IPC against them.“It is likely that the bank officials stole the coins everyday over the last 4 years. The CCTV camera feed of the bank may not be available,” said the inspector.A police team will conduct a probe into the matter. Last month, ₹2.61 crore was misappropriated from the bank’s Sadeipur branch within Balikuda police limits. The funds were allocations towards projects under Ama Gaon Ama Bikash scheme and Critical Grant Funds of the block.Senior officials from the bank’s headquarters have also started a separate probe into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coins-worth-rs-14-86-lakh-missing-from-union-bank-in-odisha-staff-under-scanner-101612380151472.html
04-02-2021||India||Motivated campaigns targeting India will never succeed: EAM S Jaishankar||Motivated campaigns targeting India will never succeed, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday, in comments that came on a day his ministry hit out singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg for their support to farmers agitating against the new agricultural laws.A tweet by Rihanna extending support to protesting farmers triggered a wave of support for them by a number of global celebrities, activists and politicians."Motivated campaigns targeting India will never succeed. We have the self confidence today to hold our own. This India will push back," Jaishankar said on Twitter with hastags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda.In a strong response to the remarks made by Rihanna and other celebrities and activists, the Ministry of External Affairs earlier said the "temptation" of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments is "neither accurate, nor responsible".Besides Rihanna, Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg, Meena Harris, an American lawyer and niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, actress Amanda Cerni, singers Jay Sean, Dr Zeus and former adult star Mia Khalifa too voiced their support to the protesting farmers.Rihanna on Tuesday became the first global name to voice her support to the ongoing farmers agitation while criticising the Internet shutdown at the protest sites at Delhi border.In its reaction, the MEA also said some "vested interest groups" are trying to enforce their agenda on the protests and that a very small section of farmers in parts of the country have some reservations about the farm reforms which were passed by the Parliament after a full debate and discussion."Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken," the MEA said in the statement on 'recent comments by foreign individuals and entities on the farmers' protests'.Tens of thousands of farmers have been protesting at three border points on the outskirts of Delhi demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/motivated-campaigns-targeting-india-will-never-succeed-eam-s-jaishankar-101612378516214.html
04-02-2021||India||India, Saudi Arabia to set up joint working groups on defence and security||India and Saudi Arabia on Wednesday held the first meeting of a bilateral committee on political, security, social and cultural cooperation and agreed to create joint working groups on issues ranging from defence and security to the Haj pilgrimage.The committee comes under the India-Saudi Arabia agreement on a Strategic Partnership Council that was launched during a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman in October 2019.The inaugural senior officials’ meeting, which was held virtually, discussed and reviewed cooperation in various areas and existing mechanisms.“Both sides agreed to give impetus to the work of existing mechanisms and establish joint working groups for regular dialogue covering various fields such as political, consular, Haj, defence, security, culture, health and education,” the external affairs ministry said.Discussions have also been held under the committee on economy and investment between the two sides.The Indian side at Wednesday’s meeting was led by Sanjay Bhattacharyya, secretary (overseas Indian affairs) in the external affairs ministry, while Adel Siraj Merdad, deputy minister of foreign affairs, led the Saudi team. The two officials noted the close cooperation between the two countries during the Covid-19 pandemic.Bhattacharyya thanked the Saudi side for taking care of the Indian community during the pandemic and hoped both sides would finalise an air bubble arrangement soon.The Saudi side thanked India for standing by Saudi Arabia during the pandemic, including on facilitating travel of Indian healthcare professionals to Saudi Arabia, and looked forward to supply of India-made Covid-19 vaccines, the external affairs ministry said.Both sides referred to Modi’s visit to Saudi Arabia in October 2019 and “highlighted that the Strategic Partnership Council reflects the desire of the leadership of both sides to impart further momentum to this important relationship”, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-saudi-arabia-to-set-up-joint-working-groups-on-defence-and-security-101612377608237.html
04-02-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor, Rajdeep Sardesai file plea in top court to quash FIRs||Congress Member of Parliament Shashi Tharoor has approached the Supreme Court challenging the registration of FIRs against him in several states arising out of his “misleading” tweets over the death of a young protestor during the tractor rally organized in the Capital on January 26.His petition seeks quashing of the nine first information reports (FIRs) pending against him in Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. Along with him, journalist Rajdeep Sardesai has also petitioned the top court for quashing of criminal cases. The petition was filed on Wednesday and the Supreme Court is yet to number the case for listing.In the petition, Tharoor and Sardesai have sought protection of their fundamental right to free speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The genesis of the cases against them was a fleet of tweets in which Tharoor and Sardesai attributed the death of a protestor during the tractor rally in the Capital to police firing. Tharoor later deleted the tweet after coming to know that the reported incident was false as the death was due to an accident involving the protestor who had rammed the police barricades.On January 30, the Delhi Police lodged a case against Tharoor, Sardesai and several others for alleged misreporting and spreading disharmony. Simultaneously, cases were lodged at Gurugram in Haryana and in Madhya Pradesh under serious charges of sedition (IPC Section 124A) besides provisions of promoting enmity (IPC Section 153A), making assertions prejudicial to national integration (IPC Section 153B), among other provisions under the Information Technology Act.Tharoor and Sardesai have further stated that the multiple FIRs against them were a malafide exercise that was politically motivated as the contents of the FIRs were identical. The other people who have been named in these FIRs also have reportedly approached the top court seeking similar relief. They include journalists Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Anant Nath and Vinod Jose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-rajdeep-sardesai-file-plea-in-top-court-to-quash-firs-101612376080810.html
04-02-2021||India||What’s the value of a tree? Age multiplied by ₹74.5k: SC panel||A tree’s monetary worth is its age multiplied by ₹74,500, a Supreme Court-appointed committee has submitted in a report, setting a guideline, for the first time in India, on the valuation of trees.The five-member committee of experts added that a heritage tree with a lifespan of well over 100 years could be valued at more than ₹1 crore -- and that the monetary value of a project, for which hundreds of trees are cut, is sometimes far less than the economic and environmental worth of the felled trees.The report was submitted before a Supreme Court bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, that had asked the committee members in January 2020 to determine the economic value of trees, based on cost of oxygen they release, and other benefits to the environment.Also read: Coins worth ₹14.86 lakh missing from Union Bank in OdishaThe bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, stressed on the necessity to do away with the evaluation of trees only on the basis of their timber value and rather focus on the positive impact of trees on the environment.For this purpose, the court, while hearing a case relating to cutting down of 356 trees for construction of five railway over-bridges (ROBs) in West Bengal, appointed a committee of five experts -- Nishikant Mukerji (managing director, Tiger Environment Centre), Soham Pandya, (secretary and executive director at the Centre of Science for Villages), Sunita Narain (director, Centre for Science and Environment), Bikash Kumar Maji (assistant chief engineer, ROB unit, West Bengal government) and Niranjita Mitra (division forest officer, North 24 Parganas).According to the report filed in February last year but made public on Wednesday, a tree is worth ₹74,500 a year. Out of this, the cost of oxygen alone is ₹45,000, followed by cost of biofertilisers, which are worth ₹20,000. Upon adding costs of micronutrients and compost, the report stated, living trees will more often than not outweigh the benefit of most of the projects they are felled for.Commenting on the West Bengal government’s plea to cut 356 trees, some of which were heritage trees, the committee evaluated their worth at ₹220 crore.The Supreme Court has not accepted the report yet, and sought the responses from the central government, West Bengal government and an NGO involved in the case.“The committee’s recommendation will make every government go bankrupt. So, we need to fine tune a few suggestions,” the court observed on Wednesday.The committee also suggested that instead of cutting trees for highway projects, the governments should first explore alternatives such as using existing waterways and railway lines to facilitate traffic and transport infrastructure.In case trees must be removed, the committee said, the first endeavour should be to relocate them, making use of modern technology, and if they must be felled; it also added that planting five saplings in lieu of one tree was not good enough since a 100-year-old tree cannot be equated with a few fresh saplings. It recommended that for a tree with small crown size, 10 saplings should be planted; 25 saplings for a tree with medium crown size; and 50 saplings for a tree with large crown size.Crown is part of the tree from which branches grow above the trunk.The bench, during the hearing on Wednesday, commended the committee’s efforts, adding that it was inclined to lay down certain new guidelines for all future projects which required felling trees in view of the report. It found favour with the recommendation that a developer must look to use existing waterways and railway lines before insisting on a road project that required cutting trees.The top court further expressed its displeasure at a central government notification that did away with the need for an environment impact assessment (EIA) for a road project of less than 100km.“Your notification is untenable. It is based on an assumption that no damage is done to the environment if a project is less than 100km in length. We will examine validity of your notification,” the bench told additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, who appeared for the Union government in the matter.Apart from Bhati, the court also asked the West Bengal government and advocate Prashant Bhushan, who represented the NGO Association for Protection of Democratic Rights, which challenged the decision to cut the trees for the ROB project, to submit responses to the committee’s report. The bench will hear the matter next after two weeks.Speaking to HT, Sunita Narain, a committee member, said: “It is very important to identify and assess the historical and ecological significance of the heritage trees. They cannot be equated with fresh saplings, given the exceptional historical, cultural aesthetic values such trees they have because of their age or their association with an event or a person. All efforts must be made to accord them special protection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whats-the-value-of-a-tree-age-multiplied-by-74-5k-sc-panel-101612377235565.html
04-02-2021||India||AIADMK moves to deny Sasikala access to Jayalalithaa’s memorials||Ahead of V K Sasikala’s return to Chennai on February 7, Tamil Nadu’s ruling party AIADMK is ensuring that it is firmly in control of some of the physical manifestations of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s legacy -- her burial place and residence.Late Tuesday, the public works department (PWD) temporarily closed entry for the public at the ₹80-crore memorial built for Jayalalithaa on the Marina beach citing unfinished work just a week after it was opened.In a huge show of strength, chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami had inaugurated it on January 27 - timed carefully on the same day as Sasikala's release from prison. Though she completed her four-year prison sentence in the disproportionate assets case in Bengaluru on that day; she was being treated for Covid-19 at the city’s Victoria hospital and is currently in quarantine.“The work will take at least 15 days to complete,” said a senior PWD official not wishing to be named. Though the main structure built like a phoenix is complete, adjacent to it works are on for a museum and an educational room for students.“It is difficult to complete this work with crowds thronging,” AIADMK spokesperson D Jayakumar said at a press conference on Wednesday. He said that it was inaugurated because the first phase of the mausoleum was complete.Jayalalithaa’s memorial is likely to be one of the stops for Sasikala when she returns. In February 2017, while she was on her way to Bengaluru to surrender, she had halted at the memorial and thumped her palm thrice on the ground, seemingly taking a vow.The government has boosted security around Jayalalithaa’s sprawling residence ‘Veda Nilayam’ at the upscale Poes Garden. A day after opening Jayalalithaa’s mausoleum, Palaniswami inaugurated her residence as a memorial with several riders from the Madras high court including not to open it to the public.Assistant commissioner of police, KPS Devaraj said that security arrangements were made from the day Jayalalithaa's residence was turned into a memorial on January 28. "There are 20 policemen including an inspector guarding the place since its opening because of high court's order not to allow the public," said Devaraj of Teynampet police station which has jurisdiction over Poes Garden.The government’s acquisitions and transformation of the property is being challenged in court by Jayalalithaa’s legal heirs - niece J Deepa and nephew J Deepak. Sasikala had moved into the residence with Jayalalithaa in 1988. She lived there permanently even after Jayalalithaa’s death except for brief periods in 1996 and 2012, when Jayalalithaa had banished her. Sasikala was building a bungalow opposite this property but it was attached by Income Tax department in October 2020.Sasikala will be staying in Chennai’s T Nagar near the house of her niece Krishnapriya. Her mother, Sasikala's sister-in-law J Ilavarasi who was convicted in the same case will be released from a Bengaluru prison on February 5.“From Hosur to her T Nagar house she will receive a grand welcome,” Sasikala's nephew TTV Dhinakaran told reporters. “We will bring a major change to Tamil Nadu,” said Dhinakaran who floated Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) with a breakaway faction of Sasikala’s supporters who want her to reclaim the AIADMK.Sasikala also plans to file a curative petition to claim the AIADMK's iconic ‘two-leaves’ symbol. The AIADMK has declared that Sasikala who was expelled from the party in 2017 will not be be taken back into the fold.“In the 2019 parliamentary elections and assembly by-polls, AMMK contested against two-leaves symbol and tried to divide the AIADMK so no cadre or people of Tamil Nadu will accept them,” said Jayakumar.Political observers feel may not be able to galvanise supporters in large numbers to bring in decisive change quickly“AIADMK wants to pre-empt the Sasikala faction from encashing on Jayalalithaa’s legacy and the memorial is a symbol of those efforts,” said political commentator Maalan Narayanan. “Sasikala may also show her strength by making a trip to the memorial to counter the AIADMK but it will be a one-day show and may not have a lingering effect.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-moves-to-deny-sasikala-access-to-jayalalithaa-s-memorials-101612375528903.html
04-02-2021||India||SC refuses to order probe into violence during tractor rally||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to order a probe into the violence and chaos that engulfed the national capital during the tractor rally by farmers on Republic Day, citing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement that “the law will take its own course”.An SC bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde declined to entertain a bunch of three petitions that demanded an investigation either by a committee under a retired Supreme Court judge or by an agency such as the National Investigation Agency (NIA).The bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, expressed confidence that with the government looking into the matter, the apex court did not need to wade into the issue at the moment.Also read: Govt will help find missing farmers, assures Delhi CM“We are sure the government is inquiring into it. They are investigating into it. We also read the Prime Minister’s statement on the incident that the law will take its own course, which means that the government is investigating into it and will take appropriate action,” the CJI observed.At an all-party meeting on January 30, PM Modi had referred to the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day when groups of farmers protesting against three laws aimed at opening up agricultural markets clashed with the police.He asserted that “the law will take its own course.” The PM was responding to opposition demands for a special probe of the incidents at the Fort.On Wednesday, advocate Vishal Tiwari, one of the petitioners, urged the court to order a probe by a judicial committee. He pleaded that the bench ensure the probe was not conducted in a one-sided manner.The bench retorted: “Should we assume it is going to be one-sided. Obviously, they will investigate everybody.”Another petitioner in the case, advocate Shikha Dixit, sought to highlight the problems of commuters and those who were not connected with the protests.“There is a sense of insecurity among the people. Policemen were brutally beaten up. How will a common man feel safe?” she questioned.“Sense of insecurity need not be there. We are not condoning anything, but there is already an investigation taking place. Let there be an investigation first,” added the CJI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-order-probe-into-violence-during-tractor-rally-101612376878857.html
04-02-2021||India||Global tweets energise rural, tech-savvy social media team||A surge in global support for the months-long farmers’ agitation against three agricultural pro-reform laws, led by popstar Rihanna and Swedish climate-change icon Greta Thunberg, has energised a small, rural, tech-savvy team behind the agitation’s international outreach. It has also brought fresh challenges: internet clampdowns and suspended social-media accounts.Social-media platforms such as Facebook, YouTube and Twitter have played a central role in the farmers’ protests going global, as supporters scattered around the world have amplified the protests.The government directed Twitter to act against about 250 Twitter accounts that posed a “grave threat to public order”.Also read: Government fends off global clamour on farm stirTens of thousands of farmers, mainly from Sikh-dominated Punjab and Haryana, have blocked entry points into New Delhi for more than two months, demanding the repeal of three pro-reform laws passed in September last year.Farmers say the laws will allow corporate giants to take control over a vast, antiquated agricultural sector that supports half of all Indians.Farmers have tapped an array of social-media and messaging platforms – SnapChat, Firechat, Signal and so on – to spread information and disseminate videos and photos from the protests in five sites around the national capital. Social media tools have given the protesters an edge in reaching supporters globally.The idea of a digital wing, alongside the physical protests, was not among plans of the farmers until “misinformation” and “propaganda” to tarnish the agitation went viral, said Baljeet Singh Sandhu, the head of the digital team and vice-president of the Majha Kisan Committee, a farm organisation.“We have been called Khalistani terrorists and what not? We knew that we had to counter it,” Sandhu said. Khalistani is a reference to supporters of a Sikh separatist movement.Early in December last year, a team of five tech-savvy farmers went back to their villages, brought their laptops and got going under a rain-slick tarpaulin tent, known as the “hub,” at the Singhu border, a major protest site north of Delhi.The digital arm of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions leading the protests, called the Kisan Ekta Morcha, has a five-member team --: two farmers are from Punjab, two from Haryana and one from Rajasthan.The team records videos, devises hashtags, takes photographs and streams press conferences. They tweet slogans and videos in their thousands every day.Its Twitter account by the same name, ordered to be shut down by the government, has 186,288 followers while its Instagram account has 219,169 followers. The farmers’ YouTube channel is subscribed by 1.2 million people.On December 21, the Facebook page of the Kisan Ekta Morcha was gaining followers so rapidly within a span of a few hours that Facebook’s internal algorithms mistakenly flagged it as spam, leading to a shutdown.A plethora of anti-Walmarters and opposers of big corporations in the US and elsewhere, apart from independent farm organisations, have also picked up the thread.Cities where demonstrations have been held include global financial hubs, New York, Sydney and London. Protests have also been organised in other overseas towns and cities including Leicester in the UK; Sacramento, California; Houston, Texas; Melbourne, Australia; and Ontario, Canada.In November, Ludhiana-based software engineer Bhavjeet Singh launched the @Tractor2twitr Twitter account to garner global protests.“Big corporations have common global policies that hurt interests of consumers and small growers,” said Anastasia Elliot of Walmart Watch, a Washington-based NGO.“So, anti-capitalists of the world must unite to protect larger interests of society whether in developed or developing countries. We support Indian farmers,” she said in an email.Mewa Singh, the head of Non-Resident Indian Council in Punjab’s Ropar, said his office constantly coordinated with Indians abroad on making the protests global. “My son, a resident of Houston coordinated the protests there,” he said.Sikhs make up 1.4% of Canada’s population, but their close- knit community is an influential voting block. “We stand by Punjab’s farmers because that’s who our ancestors were,” said Banda Singh, a resident of Brampton, Ontario.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-tweets-energise-rural-tech-savvy-social-media-team-101612376816143.html
04-02-2021||India||Govt notice to Twitter over restored handles, warns firm of action||The ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) has served notice on Twitter Inc. to again block over 250 accounts and posts to which the microblogging site restored access after blocking them briefly for using a false and controversial hashtag in connection with the ongoing farmers’ protest on the capital’s borders, officials said.The notice states that Twitter, by unblocking the accounts and posts, was in violation of Section 69 (A) of the Information Technology Act that carries a maximum punishment of seven years’ imprisonment , officials familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity. The notice, the officials said, was sent Tuesday evening.Twitter on Monday blocked access to accounts associated with the farmers’ protest to Indian users on the government’s demand.The blocks, which only applied for viewers based in India, came after the Indian government hit Twitter with a legal demand. Many of the blocked accounts used the hashtag “ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide,” Following criticism of the move, Twitter unblocked them by late Monday.“This is a clear violation of Indian law that Twitter is supposed to follow,” said one of the officials cited above.Also read: Government fends off global clamour on farm stirAmong the handles temporarily withdrawn in India on Monday were those of Kisan Ekta Morcha, an affiliate of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella group leading the ongoing farmers’ protest. Action was also taken again the Twitter accounts of media outlet Caravan, Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar (who was merely highlighting the hashtag to authorities) , activist Hansraj Meena, former Lok Sabha MP and Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Mohammed Salim, and actor Sushant Singh.MeitY, in the notice, a copy of which has been seen by Hindustan Time, said: “Having considered in totality, the contents of the interim order, the oral submissions of the advocate/representative of Twitter at the Committee meeting, and also the mail from Twitter expressing its disobedience of the legal blocking orders, the competent authority is satisfied that it is necessary and also expedient in the interest of public order and also for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence relating to public order that Twitter, as an intermediary under section 2[1][w] of the act is once again directed to block for access by the public, the said Twitter handles and also the said hashtag with immediate effect (attached as Annexure-I).”The committee meeting refers to an inter-ministerial panel’s sitting that allows a third party to seek a review of government directions.Thousands of farmers have been camping on the borders of Delhi since November 26 to demand the repeal of three farm laws that cultivators say would potentially weaken their bargaining power, leave them and the mercy of big agribusinesses and lead to the dismantlement of a system of minimum support prices for foodgrains.“You are aware of the prevailing situation, which not only has the potential, but has in fact, resulted into a major public order issue on 26.01.2021,” the MeitY notice said, referring to the violence that took place in Delhi during a tractors’ rally on Republic Day. “The statutory authorities are doing everything possible to ensure that no adverse public order situation takes place and no cognizable offences are committed.”“In light of these developments and as apart of due process, and as per the settled practice, an order was passed under Rule 9 of the Information Technology [Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public] Rules, 2009,which have ensued in the exercise of powers under section 69A[2] of the Information and Technology Act, 2000.”.Under Section69(A) {2}of the Information Technology Act, the government can suspend accounts that pose a threat to public order.The notice also stated that Twitter has no “no constitutional, statutory or any legal basis whatsoever to comment upon the interplay of statutory provisions with constitutional principles or to unilaterally read down the scope of statutory provisions as per its own limited private understanding of the constitutional and statutory laws of India”.“This a is motivated campaign to abuse, inflame and create tension in society on unsubstantiated grounds. Incitement to Genocide is Not Freedom of Speech; It is Threat to Law & Order,” the notice said.The government added that it considered the submissions of Twitter but found that it is necessary to take down the accounts in public interest.Twitter declined to comment on the issue. The accounts, however, were accessible until late Wednesday night.Last week, the government wrote to the microblogging site to take down posts and accounts that ran the controversial hashtag. Twitter blocked the accounts but restored them and said that they constitute free speech and are newsworthy.“The farmer’s protest has been going on for months but the government has not blocked a single account before now,” said a second official familiar with the matter. “If such a decision was taken, it would have factored in the consequences of running a hashtag that alludes to senior people in the government planning being involved in some sort of conspiracy.”MeitY issued the directions to block the accounts under section 69 (A) of the Information Technology Act after the ministry of home affairs (MHA) stepped in, the people quoted above said. “The home ministry said that the tweets could lead to an adverse law and order situation. The accounts have been withheld to prevent an escalation of violence,” an official familiar with the matter said on Monday.Raman Chima, Asia Pacific Director at Access Now, a digital rights organisation, said: “For initiating the imprisonment sentence, the government will have to take Twitter to court. Twitter can always challenge it by saying what is happening isn’t legal. This will open up a problematic can of worms because since 2005 governments have been cautious about not making tech company executives liable for content posted by users.”He added: “The government has not provided the actual 69(A) order. It is perverse in the Indian republic to censure somebody without providing the actual document. The SC, on internet shutdowns, has said that you cannot deprive anybody of their rights online without making the order public. There is no legal mandate for confidentiality with the government other than the rules they have framed themselves. These are not constitutional.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-notice-to-twitter-over-restored-handles-warns-firm-of-action-101612376755832.html
04-02-2021||India||Jind mahapanchayat adopts five resolutions on farm laws||Thousands of people thronged a mega rally of farmers in the heart of Haryana on Wednesday as leaders of the ongoing protest against three agriculture laws called on young people to join the stir and demanded the government remove restrictions around the agitation sites in Delhi and repeal the controversial legislation.The kisan mahapanchayat in Jind’s Kandela village, known as the political nerve centre of the influential Jat community, drew the participation of 50 khaps, or clan-based bodies, and more than 30 thousand people.The event ended with the adoption of five resolutions: repealing of the laws passed in September, legal backing to the minimum support price regime, implementation of the 2004 Swaminathan Commission recommendations, farm loan waiver and withdrawal of police cases against farmer protesters.The mahapanchayat was addressed by over two dozenpeople, including farm leader Rakesh Tikait, whose emotional appeal for support last week attracted thousands of people from western Uttar Pradesh to a protest site outside Delhi and rejuvenated the two-month-long stir.Also read: Increased police blockades cut protesters off from toilets, water“We have so far talked about “bill wapsi” (repealing the farm laws). The government should listen carefully. What will you do if the youth call for “gaddi wapsi” (removal from power)?” he said.Tikait, a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), also attacked the government over heavy barricading of the three main protest sites on Delhi’s outskirts: Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur. The sites have turned into fortresses with police digging trenches, putting up barbed wire fences, concrete barricades and hammering beds of nails on roads. The police action came after farmers ran riot during a tractor rally on Republic Day, storming the Red Fort and hoisting the Sikh flag from its ramparts. Since then, at least 115 farmers have been held by police.“Our khaps have decided to remove these nails and barbed wires,” he said. “Jab-Jab Raja darta hai, kilebandi karta hai (Whenever a king feels threatened, he fortifies),” he added, the crowd chanting the slogan with him.“I want to assure you that your turban will not bend before anyone and the government will have to repeal the farm laws. We are ready to protest till October and will observe this year as Yuva kranti [youth revolution],” he added, to loud applause.Tikait also called on young people to visit fields and bring soil and water to their houses. “ I urge you to visit your fields and touch the soil with your body. If you do this, no one will sell your land to anyone in extreme situations too in the next 50 years. We have to save our lands. You give me your anger and we will win this battle.”His speech was cut short when the main stage collapsed under the weight of the people standing on it. No one was seriously hurt.This was the first mahapanchayat in Haryana since the farm protests began last year and was held in the politically sensitive Kandela village, considered a rebel belt of Haryana farmers. The village shot to limelight in 2002 when nine farmers died in police firing during protests against the state government’s refusal to waive power bills. The farmers banned then chief minister OP Chautala and his family from the village, and only relented in 2019 current deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and his uncle Abhay Chautala of apologised.Tekram Kandela, head of the Kandela khap, said Tikait called him and asked to hold a mahapanchayat. “It was the people of Kandela, who blocked the Chandigarh –Hisar highway within an hour after seeing the weeping video of him on January 27 evening. Hundreds of farmers from our village reached the Ghazipur border that night. Rakesh Tikait took part in the meeting to thank the khaps and other farmers,” Kandela said in the meeting.Tikait’s brother, BKU chief Naresh Tikait, held a similar mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar last week when farmers -- many of whom hailed from the Jat community -- vowed to join the stir.In his speech, Tikait put to rest any speculation about a rift between the farm unions and said 40 leaders who are part of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body leading the agitation, will continue to hold negotiations with the government. “We will support the Punjab leadership. The Punjab leadership will head the delegation,” he added.“We will not change any of our 40 members, who are part of delegation. In this war, we will not change our horses but fight this battle with injured horses,” he added.The protest was set off by three laws passed September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules.Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. The government has refuted the concerns, and offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months, but talks are currently locked in a stalemate..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jind-mahapanchayat-adopts-five-resolutions-on-farm-laws-101612376755370.html
04-02-2021||India||India likely to get 97.1 million Covid-19 doses through Covax||India may get 97.1 million doses of vaccines against Covid-19 through the World Health Organization's (WHO) COVAX facility, as it has been indicated at COVAX's interim distribution forecast, published on February 3. The vaccines will be from Pune's Serum Institute of India, which India has already bought for the first phase of vaccination that started in the country from January 16. These doses will be in addition to India's direct deal with Pune's Serum Institute of India as this is being done by Covax facility, which will also cover several other countries.India fastest nation to reach 4 million Covid-19 vaccination mark in 18 days: GovtThe amount of the doses are in proportion to population size. According to the document, Pakistan will be getting 17.2 million doses, Nigeria 16 million, Indonesia 13.7 million, Bangladesh 12.8 million and Brazil 10.6 million.Covax was set up to counter vaccine nationalism, keeping in mind the situation of the lower-income countries which might be left behind in the global vaccine race. It is backed by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, WHO and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations.Covax will be distributing Oxford vaccine and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine but India will get Oxford vaccine from the facility.According to its document, it will distribute 240 million doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, licensed to Serum Institute, 96 million doses of Astrazeneca-Oxford vaccine, under the advance purchase agreement between Gavi and Astrazenecam and 1.2 million doses of Pfizer vaccine. This will be the first vaccine distribution under Covax estimated to begin late February, depending on WHO's emergency-use licence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-get-97-1-million-covid-19-doses-through-covax-101612371366469.html
04-02-2021||India||Parliament library to continue home delivery of books despite lukewarm response||In May last year, as the country battled with the onset of the coronavirus pandemic, the Parliament Library came up with a novel suggestion to aid MPs in their quest for research — home delivery of books. The move, said officials familiar with the matter, was an idea floated by none other than the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. Officials added that the Speaker takes a special interest in the library, even going so far as to invite suggestions to improve the conditions of the library last year. Almost a year since, the library has issued nearly 1500 books (between June and December 2020), but only a few of these have been delivered to residences of the parliamentarians in Delhi, officials familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times. According to a bulletin circulated among the members of Parliament, the facility will continue for now.“Around seven or eight MPs [members of Parliament] requested the books be delivered to their residences,” said a Parliament official, who did not want to be named. “...others had the books collected by their personal assistants. There is no separate record maintained for the books delivered to the homes of MPs.”The official added many MPs returned to their constituencies because of the pandemic, which may be the primary reason why fewer books were requested. Former Lok Sabha speaker Shivraj Patil; Congress MPs Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary, and Jairam Ramesh; Bharatiya Janata Party lawmakers Rakesh Sinha and Bhupendra Yadav were among those who requested the books/periodicals to be either home delivered or shared online.Also Read | Parliament proceedings halted amid protest over farm laws: All you need to know“We get many telephonic queries. ...we have worked from home and worked a lot to keep up with the demands. The reading room was reopened around September and to ensure social distancing norms, we asked the MPs to keep every second seat vacant,” second a second official.The entries in the register in the reading room have gone down with Sinha’s name figuring the most.A third official, who has worked at the library for nearly 15 years, said the MPs would saunter in [frequently] during the pre-Covid times. “Now we see a lot less of them... the sessions have been very short,” said the official.The third official said around 150-200 MPs would visit the library daily during sessions before the pandemic. The library issued over 3,000 books from May 2019 to March last year when the Parliament was adjourned as India introduced the lockdown to check the Covid-19 spread.The Winter Session of Parliament was cancelled in November because of the pandemic. Parliament normally holds three sessions in a year. The Budget Session is held from the end of January to early April, Monsoon from July to August, and Winter between November and December. Last year, the Budget Session was cut short by eight days, and a shortened Monsoon Session was also reduced by the same duration due to the pandemic. The ongoing Budget Session began on January 29.The first official said most MPs sought references to add value to the debates. “Most books issued are on the subjects of economics, finance, constitution, law, debates, acts, and bills,” the first official said. “Many MPs also request newspapers. We have even shared the information on WhatsApp.”Access to foreign dailies such as The New York Times has also been granted. Last year in March, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla wrote to MPs such as Sinha and Ramesh seeking suggestions on how to make the Parliament library the best.Sinha said the library staff has been very cooperative and even helped him get many rare books. “They would purchase the books and even home deliver them,” he said. “I got a copy of [Leo] Tolstoy’s Hum Karein Kya [the Hindi translation of What Is to Be Done describing contemporary Russia] and The Indian Ideology by Anderson Perry.”Ramesh said his main suggestion was the library should be opened to students and scholars. “The present procedures are far too cumbersome. I have suggested that MPs should be able to access the library digitally from home. For instance, if I want to search the catalogue, I have to physically go to the library and do the search there. I have told the parliamentary affairs minister in the past that MPs at least should be allowed to search from their residences. In fact, anybody should be able to.”Officials, however, said that the database can be accessed from anywhere in the country. The library allows access to 1.8 million journals, periodicals, newspapers, and books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-library-to-continue-home-delivery-of-books-despite-lukewarm-response-101612342251125.html
