05-02-2021||India||Delhi govt floats tender to set up 500 EV charging points at 100 locations||Delhi Power Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday announced that the government has floated a tender to set up 500 EV charging points at 100 locations."Delhi government has floated nation's biggest tender for EV (electric vehicle) charging today, with provision for 500 charging points at 100 locations in Delhi so that EVs can be charged outside homes too," Jain said at a press conference.The estimated timeline to complete the project is one year, he said.Taking to Twitter, he tweeted: "With a vision of Shri Arvind Kejriwal Ji to make Delhi the EV capital of the country, have floated a tender today to set up 500 EV charging points at 100 locations, which will have at least 10% minimum fast charging points and the rates of which will be kept very nominal."Earlier on Thursday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal launched 'Switch Delhi', an electric vehicle mass awareness campaign, to sensitize citizens about the benefits of switching to electric vehicles.Delhi government has rolled out incentives on the purchase of electric vehicles (EVs) among all the states."Our vision is that by 2024, 25 per cent of new vehicles must be electric. Approximately ₹30,000 subsidies are to be given for 2/3-wheelers while ₹1.5 lakh for 4-wheelers. We are starting the 'Switch Delhi' campaign today to make people aware of clean vehicles," Kejriwal had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-floats-tender-to-set-up-500-ev-charging-points-at-100-locations-101612545707172.html
05-02-2021||India||Congress says ‘nails’ at Delhi’s border will not deter farmers||The Indian National Congress while reiterating its support to the farmers and their 'Chakka jam' scheduled on February 6 criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party and said that farmers will not be afraid of the barricades installed at Delhi’s borders.“The farmers who have made a place in the 'hearts' of India will not be afraid of the 'nails' of the BJP government,” Congress’ tweeted on its social media handle, referring to the barricades and spikes placed at Delhi’s borders aimed at stopping farmers from crossing into Delhi. Delhi Police have stated that these barricades have been put up as a precautionary measure after a planned tractor march turned violent on January 26.The party has already extended its support to the road blockade proposed by the protesting farmers, which will be held between 12pm to 3pm across the nation, except in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The farmers’ unions have assured that essential services will not be affected during the blockade.Opposition parties have criticised the government after Delhi Police set up barricades and voiced their protests against the farm laws in Parliament which led to the several disruptions in Lok Sabha proceedings for the fourth day in a row.Congress MP from West Bengal Adhir Ranjan Choudhury demanded that the government should hold a standalone session to discuss the farm laws. “We've urged the government for a separate discussion in Lok Sabha over farmers’ agitation. All kinds of things are discussed in Motion of Thanks to the President’s address. Our only demand is that separate discussion be held over farmers’ issue after Motion of Thanks,” Choudhury was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“We do want a discussion but the government should say that there will be a stand-alone discussion on agriculture,” Choudhury further added.People familiar with the developments told news agency ANI that the government on Friday agreed to discuss the issues related to the farmers’ agitation and farm laws in Parliament when the session reconvenes.Union minister for agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar criticised the Opposition and said that during discussions held in the Lok Sabha none of the lawmakers was able to point out the flaws in the farm laws. He said, “As far as the farm laws are concerned, I was in Rajya Sabha today and I noticed that no one is ready to say what is ‘black’ in the ‘black laws’. If you are protesting against the law, then discussion should be held on its provisions. Unfortunately, this is not happening.”Farmers have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 for more than two months at Delhi’s borders. They fear that these laws will decrease farmer incomes and pave the way for corporate farming along with hurting government procurement of crop yields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-says-nails-at-delhi-s-border-will-not-deter-spirit-of-farmers-101612544737159.html
05-02-2021||India||Mamata presents vote on account, announces pension for all ahead of Bengal polls||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Friday sought a vote on account for ₹2.99 lakh crore as she opened the doors of state exchequer for common people ahead of the assembly polls, showering the farm sector with sops and wooing the elderly and widows with pensions.The opposition BJP staged a noisy walkout shouting 'Jai Shri Ram' slogan, while the Left-Congress combine boycotted her speech. Both termed the largesse an "election manifesto".Banerjee presented the vote on account in the absence of Finance Minister Amit Mitra, who is not keeping well.The estimates for the first few months of the new fiscal, starting April, will be taken up for discussion over the next two days before the assembly passes it.Banerjee, while criticising the Centre for not extending "necessary help", insisted the state tirelessly undertook welfare measures for its people.The TMC supremo, who is locked in a tug of war with challenger BJP ahead of the elections over claiming the legacy of Bengal icons, said her government will construct an Azad Hind Munument in Kolkata, Jai Hind Bhavans in districts and a State Planning Commission after legendary freeedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose. She announced an overall outlay of ₹215 crore for the projects.Seeking to reach out to a vast section of the electorate, Banerjee announced old age pension for all people above the age of 60 years and widows aged over 18. An amount of ₹1,000 crore was earmarked for this. She, however, did not specify the amount they would get as pension.She said her government proposed to create 1.5 crore new jobs.Recalling Bose's famous slogan "Give me blood, I will give you freedom", she asked the people to "keep faith in me, and I shall give you unconditional and selfless service with utmost dedication".She said 20 lakh houses will be built for scheduled castes and scheduled tribes and their dwellings upgraded for which ₹1,500 crore will be allocated.Banerjee said ₹50 crore has been allocated for madrasas recognised by the government but not aided by it.Seeking to reach out to farmers against the backdrop of peasants' protests, Banerjee said annual assistance to each farming family under the 'Krishak Bandhu Scheme' will be raised from ₹5,000 to ₹6,000."We also request the central government to immediately release and distribute the financial assistance under the Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana," she said. The West Bangal government had only recently agreed to implement the scheme in the state.The chief minister said the Swasthya Sathi card scheme of the state government which provides for cashless health cover, will be renewed every three years. ₹1,500 crore has been allocated for the scheme, she said.She said 100 new schools will be set up in tea gardens of the state besides 100 new English medium schools in areas with concentrated population of SC and ST communities.Free rations to people distressed because of Covid-19 will continue even after June 2021 for which ₹1,500 crore has been allocated.She also announced setting up of community kitchens named 'Maa' for the state's poor and earmarked ₹100 crore for it. These kitchens will provide food at a nominal price, but did not specify the amount a beneficiary will have to pay for each meal.Banerjee announced creation of West Bengal Highway and Bridge Corporation which will be entrusted with construction of new bridges and highways. She also said ₹150 crore will be spent on upgrading the Andal airport.Rural roads spanning 46,000 km will be built over the next five years, she said."It seemed like the CM was presenting the annual budget and not a vote on account. It was absurd as she was making announcements without proper budgetary allocation," state BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said.Left Front's leader in the House Sujan Chakraborty said it was "laughable" to see her announce ambitious schemes when the tenure of her government was to expire in a couple of months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-presents-vote-on-account-announces-pension-for-all-ahead-of-bengal-polls-101612544759422.html
05-02-2021||India||'India, Bangladesh have unique model for regional cooperation': Shringla||India and Bangladesh have forged a unique model for regional cooperation that withstood the problems of the Covid-19 crisis and facilitated robust exchanges in recent months, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday.Addressing the inaugural function of the 3rd Bangladesh Film Festival at Kolkata that Bangladesh information minister Hasan Mahmud attended, Shringla said the two countries were cooperating closely in dealing with the pandemic, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is looking forward to his visit to Dhaka in March to join the celebrations marking 50 years of Bangladesh’s independence.“India and Bangladesh have together charted a unique model for regional cooperation, quite unparalleled in South Asia. The India-Bangladesh bilateral relationship has withstood the test of time, and even as the world undergoes great upheaval in the post-pandemic era, our relationship grows from strength to strength, a fact clearly demonstrated by the robust exchanges that both sides had in recent months,” he said.Despite the limitations imposed by the pandemic, both countries had a successful prime minister-level virtual summit and a meeting of the Joint Consultative Commission co-chaired by the two foreign ministers.Also read: 4G Mubarak! tweets Abdullah with mobile internet services being restored in J-K“I was also able to travel twice to Dhaka last year to exchange views with our partners in Bangladesh. Cooperation is moving forward inexorably. Our prime minister is looking forward to his visit to Dhaka,” Shringla said.Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina had also attended a virtual conference of leaders of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) hosted by the Indian premier to evolve a coordinated response to the pandemic in the region.“Following the conference, we have had exchanges and training programmes for healthcare personnel and worked with Bangladesh for supplying PPE kits, masks and test kits. India-made vaccines are being supplied for the benefit of the people of Bangladesh,” Shringla said.A 122-member tri-services contingent from Bangladesh had joined the Republic Day parade last month, evoking the “inspiring memories of 1971, when the people of India and Bangladesh fought shoulder to shoulder against grave injustice and tyranny,” he added.Bangladesh’s father of the nation, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, played a key role in building bilateral relations and Shringla quoted from his speech in Kolkata on February 6, 1972, “This victory would not have been ours if the people of West Bengal, Tripura, Assam, Meghalaya did not extend their unstinting support to my people...This victory would not have been possible if the government of India had not been behind us. What you have done, we can never repay.”Shringla described 2021 as a momentous year for both countries, as Bangladesh is celebrating the birth centenary of Rahman, and commemorating the 50th anniversary of its Liberation War. The year also marks the 50th year of diplomatic ties and Prime Ministers Modi and pm Hasina have decided to jointly celebrate these events, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-have-unique-model-for-regional-cooperation-shringla-101612544476534.html
05-02-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination pace deliberately kept slow, explains ICMR doctor||Taking questions from social media users, Indian Council of Medical Research's Dr NK Arora on Friday clarified several issues regarding Covid-19 vaccination. Union health ministry shared those video messages on its official Twitter handle.On the pace of vaccination, the National Task Force member said that the pace, which is fastest in the world, has been kept slow as the ministry wanted to take stock of the hiccups and gradually iron them out. "India has the capacity of immunising five to eight million people per day. We have inoculated over 17 crore children in a week several times a year during our pulse polio drive. But the pace has deliberately been kept low," he said.#LargestVaccineDrive #VaccineVarta Hello @_Sethi_Rishabh, here is my response to your question on the pace of COVID immunisation 👇 https://t.co/s9UiyE2oob pic.twitter.com/1vAK92NNUgOn the need of vaccination for those who have already had Covid-19, he said, "It has been found out in India that 1/3 of those who have contracted Covid-19 do not develop antibodies required. And even if one does, no one knows how long those antibodies are going to protect you," Dr Arora said.Second Covid-19 vaccine shot to be administered from Feb 13Talking about 'herd immunity' in Delhi, he said, "Nothing can be said with certainty on herd immunity and so this can't be an excuse to skip vaccination."Allaying fears over Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, which does not yet have the efficacy data, Dr Arora said, "Drug regulators across the world have this provision to grant emergency use authorisation to vaccines which have their phase one and phase 2 data. No corners have been cut in giving the authorisation. In fact, it has been found that Covaxin develops more immunity than many other vaccines."Answering questions on whether people suffering from co-morbidity issues should take the vaccines, Dr Arora said, "People with co-morbidity issues should take the vaccine as they are at a higher risk of contracting Covid-19. But if you have some doubts, one can consult a doctor before getting the dose."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-pace-deliberately-kept-low-explains-icmr-doctor-101612543998566.html
05-02-2021||India||Delhi Police write to Google, seek data on toolkit shared by Greta Thunberg||Delhi Police on Friday wrote to Goggle seeking details of the toolkit that was shared on social media by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, news agency ANI reported. The police have approached several platforms seeking registration details and activity log of the account through which the document was uploaded. Details of email IDs, one Instagram account and one URL have also been sought by the Police. This comes a day after Delhi Police filed an FIR against person/persons who created the toolkit containing information of a "digital strike" over farmers' protest.As the farmers' protest and internet suspension drew international attention following American pop singer Rihanna's tweet, Greta Thunberg also tweeted in support of the protest. She later tweeted a toolkit which sparked off a debate on whether international celebrities were asked to tweet.Farmers' protest: India may seek help from Canada in Greta toolkit probeDelhi Police on Thursday said there was a "copycat" execution of what was mentioned in the toolkit. "We have recovered a document about the planned execution. We have found out that is a copycat execution. As of now, we have registered cases against the authors of that account. The case has been handed over to the cyber cell. Investigations are underway," Delhi Police Special Commissioner Praveer Ranjan said. He also mentioned 'khalistani' links with the document.Even before the tractor march, for which Delhi Police were not granting permission initially, police mentioned of over 300 Twitter accounts based in Pakistan, trying to create confusion over Republic Day tractor march. The initial document that Greta uploaded was later deleted and she posted the link of another document. Union minister Prakash Javadekar said the toolkit points to a serious issue. BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi too said the toolkit offers evidence that an "international conspiracy" to hurt India's democracy is being hatched. A toolkit is a social media document explaining how to support a particular cause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-write-to-google-seek-data-on-toolkit-shared-by-greta-thunberg-101612541919875.html
05-02-2021||India||Disruptions continue to affect Lok Sabha proceedings on Day 4||Lok Sabha proceedings were a virtual washout on Friday as relentless protest by Opposition members against the Centre's three farm laws continued for the fourth consecutive day, even as signs emerged that normal functioning could resume from Monday.The government has always been ready for discussion and we are hopeful that Lok Sabha will function smoothly from Monday, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said.On February 3, Locket Chatterjee of the BJP had initiated the discussion on the Motion of Thanks but she could not complete her speech due to disruptions.She has not yet resumed her speech.While demanding repeal of the three laws, Opposition parties are also insisting on a stand alone debate on the farmers' issue. The government has maintained that Opposition can raise the farmers' issue during the debate on the Motion of Thanks.On Friday, Lok Sabha was adjourned first till 6 pm after Opposition members disrupted the proceedings demanding repeal of the laws and shouted slogans from the Well of the House.As soon as the House convened at 4 PM, members from the Congress, Left parties and the DMK rushed to the Well raising slogans against the new agri laws and holding placards.Speaker Om Birla continued with the Question Hour with Health Minister Harsh Vardhan responding to supplementary questions on COVID-19 vaccination.As Opposition members continued to raise slogans, Birla appealed to them to participate in the Question Hour as an important issue related to vaccination was being discussed.While Congress, DMK and Left members were in the Well, members from the TMC did not participate in raising slogans. Trinamool Congress members remained seated on their benches.Around 4.15 PM, Birla adjourned the House till 6 PM.With no letup in the protests when the House reconvened in the evening, the Speaker adjourned its proceedings till Monday after his plea to opposition members to go back to their seats went unheeded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disruptions-continue-to-affect-lok-sabha-proceedings-on-day-4-101612541328288.html
05-02-2021||India||4G Mubarak! tweets Abdullah with mobile internet services being restored in J-K||High-speed mobile internet is being restored across Jammu and Kashmir after almost eighteen months. J-K government spokesman Rohit Kansal stated the same on Friday evening.In a tweet, Kansal, who is principal secretary PDD and spokesman of the J-K government, said, "4G mobile internet services being restored in entire J&K"."4G Mubarak! For the first time since Aug 2019 all of J&K will have 4G mobile data. Better late than never," tweeted NC vice president and former J-K chief minister, Omar Abdullah.4G Mubarak! For the first time since Aug 2019 all of J&K will have 4G mobile data. Better late than never.The demand for the restoration of high-speed internet has been growing in the Union territory from past many months, not only the local BJP leadership, Apni Party leader Altaf Bukhari and NC president Farooq Abdullah had also demanded restoration of 4G internet in J-K. Bukhari had recently met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi. Recently, in the Unified Command headquarters meeting in winter capital Jammu, the decision to restore 4G in J-K was taken by the government.In August last year, highspeed internet was restored in two districts of Jammu and Kashmir after it was snapped by the government when the special status under Article 370 of the erstwhile state was revoked on August 5, 2019, and the region split into two Union territories.High-speed internet was restored in Ganderbal and Udhampur districts based on the parameters laid down by the Special Committee constituted by the Supreme Court on May 11, 2020.Also read: For flouting Covid-19 norms, organisers of Nadda’s meeting booked in KeralaEarlier, the two districts had been identified based on the inputs from the law enforcement agencies in the context of the parameters laid down by the Special Committee for considering calibrated easing of restrictions in limited and comparatively less sensitive geographical areas.Last year on August 11, the Centre had informed the Supreme Court that it will lift restrictions on high-speed 4G mobile internet services in one district each of Jammu and Kashmir divisions after August 15 on a trial basis. The Supreme Court was hearing a petition in June, filed by the Foundation for Media Professionals, a non-government organisation, which sought the initiation of contempt proceedings against the Centre and J-K administration for the failure to comply with the top court’s May 11 directions to review restrictions on mobile internet speed in the Union territory.Mobile phone, landline and internet services were disconnected in Jammu and Kashmir on August 4, 2019, a day before the Centre withdrew its special status and divided it into two Union territories — Jammu and Kashmir with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one.The government gradually restored the communication lines. Landlines were restored between mid-August and September 2019 and postpaid mobile services were back on October 14. Short messaging service (SMS) on all mobile phones in Kashmir, and broadband internet services in government-run hospitals were restored from January 1, 2020. 2G mobile internet services were restored across the Valley on January 25, 2020, around six months after the revocation of the special status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4g-mubarak-tweets-abdullah-with-mobile-internet-services-being-restored-in-jk-101612538733474.html
05-02-2021||India||India fastest to cross 5 million-mark on Covid vaccination, says health ministry||India has vaccinated more than five million beneficiaries against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since the launch of the nationwide vaccination drive on January 16, the health ministry on Friday revealed. "As on February 5, 2021, 6pm, a total of 52,90,474 beneficiaries have been vaccinated for Covid-19 and for which a total of 1,04,781 sessions have been held," said Manohar Agnani, additional secretary at the health ministry.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Comparing the pace of the vaccinations in the country with other countries, the additional secretary said that India is the fastest to inoculate more than 5 million beneficiaries against the deadly virus. In just 21 days, India vaccinated over 5.2 million beneficiaries, while the US took 24 days, the UK 43 days and Israel took 45 days to reach the figure of five million.The additional secretary also informed about the system of notifying the beneficiaries of their vaccination status. "A link for downloading the certificate will also be part of the confirmatory SMS sent to the beneficiary post-vaccination," Agnani said. "Certificate can also be downloaded by the vaccinator and district immunisation officer and be handed over to the beneficiary," he said.India had vaccinated 3,31,029 beneficiaries on Friday, as per the data of the health ministry.The ministry said till date total hospitalizations post the vaccination amount to 27, which is 0.0005 per cent. No hospitalisation has been recorded in the last 24 hours.Also Read | Vatican urges UN Security Council meeting on Covid-19 vaccine accessThe number of total deaths post the vaccination has reached 22, one being reported in the last 24 hours. "A 77-year-old male, a resident of Agra, was hospitalised seven days after vaccination. He has diabetes," Agnani said."None of the deaths has been causally linked with Covid-19 vaccination," added the additional secretary.No severe or serious case or death has been linked to Adverse Effect Following Immunisation (AEFI) till date, according to the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-fastest-to-cross-5-million-mark-on-covid-vaccination-says-health-ministry-101612533387682.html
05-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Organisers of Nadda’s meeting booked in Kerala for flouting Covid norms and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.For flouting Covid-19 norms, organisers of Nadda’s meeting booked in KeralaThe Kerala police on Friday registered a case against organisers of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) public meeting in Thrissur addressed by party president J P Nadda for alleged violations of Covid-19 protocols. Read moreFive bridges between India and Nepal in Pithoragarh allowed to open for trafficThe Pithoragarh district administration has ordered the opening of all five bridges on the Indo-Nepal border on a daily basis from Friday. Read more'Nails on BJP’s political coffin..': RLD leader on farmers' protestRashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice president Jayant Chaudhary said on Friday that the government’s policies will not work against farmers. Read moreOdisha unveils welfare projects for villages caught in border row with AndhraOdisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday unveiled a slew of developmental projects for the villages bordering Andhra Pradesh in Koraput district. Read more'I am getting better': Rhea Chakraborty's response to paparazzi when asked how she's doingActor Rhea Chakraborty was spotted at her gym on Friday, and asked by the paparazzi how she was doing, she replied in Hindi, "I'm getting better." Read more'When is he going to play': Michael Vaughan slams 'ridiculous decision' made by Team India in first Test against EnglandThere was a big surprise when India named their playing XI for the first Test match against England at the MA Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai. Read moreMadhuri, Kiara, Samantha, Tara: Bollywood divas stun in Arpita Mehta designsAce Bollywood couturier Arpita Mehta has not only dressed celebrities including A-lactors, but she is also now releasing a coffee table book, The Mirror. Read moreApple iPhone SE is more popular than newer iPhone modelsApple launched the iPhone 12 series smartphones in October last year. Yet, it isn’t as popular as the company’s four-year-old iPhone SE. Read moreHis adopted dog saved his life when he had a stroke. Here’s what the canine didPet parents know all too well that they’ll go any lengths to ensure their furry friends are happy and safe. Read moreWatch: 'LJP did a contemptuous thing': JDU chief RCP Singh | On The Record﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-updates-from-hindustan-times-organisers-of-nadda-s-meeting-booked-in-kerala-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-and-all-the-latest-news-101612536192457.html
05-02-2021||India||For flouting Covid-19 norms, organisers of Nadda’s meeting booked in Kerala||The Kerala police on Friday registered a case against organisers of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) public meeting in Thrissur addressed by party president J P Nadda for alleged violations of Covid-19 protocols. Police said more than 5000 people participated in the meeting on Thursday and there was no social distancing and participants crowded the venue.Thrissur police commissioner Aaditya R said the case was registered against thorganisers and 1000 participants under the Prevention of Epidemic Diseases Act. But he said no case was registered against the BJP president. The BJP state unit has criticised the move and said it was part of political vendetta.“Two days back thousands participated in Health Minister K K Shailaja’s ‘adalat’ in north Kerala. It is double standard and hypocrisy. It is part of the ruling CPI (M)’s vendetta politics,” said state president K Surendran. Earlier police also registered cases against organisers of the ‘Aisawarya Kerala Yatra’ led by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.When asked about this Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan justified the action saying the police were doing their duty. He said in minister’s public meeting all participants were checked and mandatory distancing was kept. "We have seen recently that the opposition leader was carried to the stage by party supporters. Such events never take place in CPI(M). He should have restrained over enthusiastic workers,” the CM said. Later Chennithala said there were two sets of law, one for the ruling party and another for opposition and his party will oppose it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-flouting-covid-19-norms-organisers-of-nadda-s-meeting-booked-in-kerala-101612535822445.html
05-02-2021||India||Will you get your driving license without test? Check here||The ministry of road transport and highways on Friday has issued a draft notification for the accreditation of driving training centres which will allow drivers to get their licenses without appearing for a test if they are from those particular centres. While the rule, which is still in draft, may seem that it intends to make getting driving licenses easier, it actually aims at producing specially trained drivers."Further, the Ministry has also provided that, any individual on successful completion of driver training from such centres, will be exempted from the requirement of driving test while applying for a driving licence," as per the official ministry release.The road transport ministry is celebrating road safety month from January 18 to February 17, 2021 to spread public awareness regarding road accidents and fatalities caused due to the negligence of road safety.The theme of the Road Safety Month this year is 'Sadak Suraksha-Jeevan Raksha'."The step will also help the transport industry to have specially trained drivers, which will improve their efficiency and reduce road accidents," the ministry in the release added.Also Read | Road safety network appeals for launch of new missionThe ministry also said that the draft notification dated January 29, 2021, has been uploaded on the official website of the ministry for public consultation and will be formally issued after this stage.The ministry aims to reduce road accidents in the country by half by the next four years. Union minister Nitin Gadkari addressing the National Road Safety Council meeting earlier this week said that reducing accidents is not a gradual process and every stakeholder should treat it as a top priority with immediate effect.The minister suggested a three-day compulsory training of engineers of the ministry, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Public Works Department (PWD) and several other agencies associated with road construction and management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-you-get-your-driving-licence-without-test-check-here-101612525907669.html
05-02-2021||India||Odisha unveils welfare projects for villages caught in border row with Andhra||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday unveiled a slew of developmental projects for the villages bordering Andhra Pradesh in Koraput district even as the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government stoked the on-going border dispute by allegedly including three villages of Odisha in its electoral roll and conducting gram panchayat elections there.Inaugurating several welfare projects worth ₹18 crore including laying the foundation stone of a ₹5 crore bridge through video-conferencing, Patnaik said Kotia gram panchayat on the Andhra-Odisha border would be developed into a model gram panchayat. “The state government has already implemented developmental activities in the sectors of education, health, communication, drinking water, and electricity,” he said, assuring that he would be visiting the panchayat soon.The CM's unveiling of projects worth ₹18 crore came in addition to the on-going projects of ₹150 crore for the development of 21 disputed villages in Kotia gram panchayat under Potangi block of Koraput where neighbouring Andhra Pradesh is also asserting its authority by distributing forest land rights and buildings roads.The Chief Minister’s programme came days after Andhra Pradesh upped the ante in the on-going border dispute by including three villages of Kotia GP in their panchayat poll notification. As per a notification issued by the AP government, panchayat polls would be held in 3 villages of Tala Ganjeipadar, Patu Sineri and Fagun Sineri villages under Kotia on February 13 and 17. The poll notification also changed their names to Ganjaibadra, Pattuchennuru and Pagulchennuru respectively.An embarrassed Odisha government on Thursday night transferred Koraput district collector Madhusudan Mishra and brought in Abdal Akhtar as the new collector.While over the last few years, Koraput district administration has extended mobile network and started road connectivity work to these disputed border villages, the Vizianagaram administration too started similar road development projects near the border at Salur.Odisha and Andhra Pradesh are locked in a territorial dispute over Kotia gram panchayat since 1960. Though Kotia Gram Panchayat has 28 revenue villages, Odisha mistakenly did not survey 21 villages during its formation in 1936. At the time of creation of Andhra Pradesh in the year 1955, those 21 villages were also not surveyed by Andhra resulting in perpetual dispute over those bordering villages.Meanwhile, opposition Congress slammed the state government for failing to take concrete steps to resolve the dispute. "If Andhra Pradesh conducts GP election and elects sarpanchs, Zilla Parishads and members here, nothing is more shameful than this. Most of the Kotia people are leaning towards Andhra as they are getting deprived of basic amenities from Odisha government. Andhra Pradesh is focussed on Kotia only for its gold mines. Locals of the region are also inclining towards the neighbouring State as Odisha government has done no concrete developmental works. Instead of just launching projects, CM Naveen should visit Kotia to review the ground situation,” said Congress MLA of Jeypore, Taraprasad Bahinipati.Former BJP leader from Koraput, Jayaram Pangi said earlier Andhra Pradesh used to nominate a sarpanch, ward members and samiti members in these villages. "However, from this year, they are formally conducting elections by setting booths, filing nomination and organising voting.”Union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the state may have failed to grasp the importance of Kotia. “We have not given due importance to the developmental needs of the people of the area. I had visited Kotia earlier and discussed with the local people. I had also requested CM to call an all-party meeting on the issue of border dispute. This is the right time to resolve the dispute,” said Pradhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-unveils-welfare-projects-for-villages-caught-in-border-row-with-andhra-101612534974872.html
05-02-2021||India||Supreme Court lawyer arrested for raping woman working in his office: Cops||The Madhya Pradesh police have arrested a Supreme Court lawyer from Delhi on the charge of raping a woman, who used to work in his office in Gwalior, police said on Friday.Accused Sanjeev Sehgal was arrested from his residence in Delhi on Thursday and brought to Gwalior on Friday, said Amit Sanghi, superintendent of police, Gwalior.“A 32-year-old woman, a resident of Indore, lodged a complaint against Sehgal at University police station in Gwalior on December 22. Sehgal had opened a law firm in Gwalior a few months ago and appointed the woman as an office manager. Sehgal used to visit his Gwalior office to discuss cases there. During his visit to Gwalior, the woman alleged that he raped her many times. Sehgal also threatened her with dire consequences if she disclosed it to anyone,” said Sanghi.Police investigated the matter and found the accusations of the woman true, he added.Sehgal was produced before the district court and the court sent him in judicial remand, the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-lawyer-arrested-for-raping-woman-working-in-his-office-cops-101612535331783.html
05-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Isro to launch Brazilian, Indian satellites and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Isro to launch Brazilian, Indian satellites in first mission of 2021In its first mission of 2021, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) plans to launch Amazonia 1 of Brazil and 20 other Indian satellites from Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC), Sriharikota at 10.. Read moreBattle to begin with repeal of farm laws, says Mo Dhaliwal who created ‘toolkit'Poetic Justice Foundation founder Mo Dhaliwal has said that their final objective wasn't just the repeal of farm laws. Mo Dhaliwal, the founder of the Vancouver-based Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) that created the controversial ‘toolkit’ tweeted by Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, is looking to use the farm protests in India to fuel the separatist Khalistani movement.. Read moreVaccination sites increased to 135 in Pune divisionThe administration has increased the Covid-19 vaccination sites from current 89 to 135 in Pune division. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will also increase the sites within its limits from 16 to 25 as per the directives by the health department.. Read more'Would've picked him any day': Gambhir 'massively surprised' with India's XIExplaining his reasons for calling India’s selection ‘a massive surprise,’ Gautam Gambhir said Kuldeep Yadav can turn it both ways and would have been an asset for India in the first Test against England.. Read moreIndia ignores Rihanna barb, donates vaccine to BarbadosThe Barbados Prime Minister had earlier written to Prime Minister Modi for the donation of the Indian vaccine for the Caribbean nation. At a time when Barbadian singer-activist Robyn Rihanna Fenty has invited global focus on farmers' protest in India.. Read moreKangana Ranaut attacks Rihanna again, says singer must have charged 'at least ₹100 crore' for tweetActor Kangana Ranaut has said that singer Rihanna must have charged at least ₹100 crore to tweet about the farmers' protest. Actor Kangana Ranaut has made several new claims about the ongoing farmers' protest.. Read moreMonster Hunter movie review: Milla Jovovich, Tony Jaa's video game adaptation is the death of cinemaMonster Hunter movie review: Paul WS Anderson's new film, starring Milla Jovovich and Tony Jaa, feels depressingly hollow, even by the standards of corny, unpretentious action movies.. Read moreElegance personified: Nora Fatehi adds a touch of modern magic to ethnic attiresNora Fatehi recently donned gorgeous ethnic outfits adorned with chikankari work and gave them a modern twist. The actor turned muse for designers Abu Jani and Sandeep Khosla and her fans cannot keep calm.. Read moreIndia’s pace ace Jasprit Bumrah ready to burst IPL myth at homeWith every IPL, Bumrah reinforces his T20 credentials. But he relishes breaking batsmen’s confidence with the red ball more. His pet peeve is being called an IPL find.. Read moreNASA shares stunning image of Morocco. Can you guess what it shows?If you’re someone who loves exploring the different space-related content on the Internet, then this image shared on official Instagram profile of NASA.. Read more Six yards of magic: Mouni Roy declares love for sarees in new pics, seen yet?For a recent event, Mouni Roy dressed in a beautiful classic sequinned saree and a matching blouse. The fashionista proved that there is nothing in which she does not look stunning.. Read more Abhay Deol lauds Taapsee Pannu, Swara Bhasker for stance on farmers' protest: 'You should be in next Rihanna video'Actor Abhay Deol has praised actors Taapsee Pannu and Swara Bhasker for their support for the farmers' protest. Abhay called them brave and suggested.. Read moreShraddha Kapoor in ₹8 lakh thigh-slit velvet dress is an absolute stunnerShraddha Kapoor was recently snapped in a quirky black velvet dress that is perfect for a red carpet event. The fashionista made our jaws touch the floor with her fierce look.. Read more Watch: Nagaland singer’s rendition of Kishore Kumar’s Bengali song wows people A video shared by a Nagaland singer as a tribute to legendary singer. Kishore Kumar has now left people amazed and amused, all at the same time. The clip shows the singer named NK Naga flawlessly.. Read more Watch: ‘Protesters couldn’t show flaws in farm laws’: Narendra Tomar in Rajya Sabha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-isro-to-launch-brazilian-indian-satellites-and-all-the-latest-news-101612527846234.html
05-02-2021||India||Five bridges between India and Nepal in Pithoragarh allowed to open for traffic||The Pithoragarh district administration has ordered the opening of all five bridges on the Indo-Nepal border on a daily basis from Friday.The order has been issued after the state government permitted the administration to open the bridges on the border in the district.“We have instructed sub-divisional-magistrates of Dharchula, Pithoragarh Didihat and Seema Suraksha Bal battalions guarding the border to open all five bridges situated on the Indo- Nepal border in the district in tune with the SOP issued by the Central government to check the spread of Covid-19,” said VK Jogdande, district magistrate Pithoragarh.According to district officials, the Nepal government had ordered the opening of all bridges on the Indo-Nepal border last week.“After receiving a letter from Nepalese officials, we had sent the same to our officers and we were waiting for their response. On Friday, we received the nod from the state government to open the bridges on a daily basis from our side. So now all the border bridges will remain open every day,” said AK Shukla, SDM Dharchula.The border bridges had been closed after the Covid-19 epidemic began to check the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-bridges-between-india-and-nepal-in-pithoragarh-allowed-to-open-for-traffic-101612531800053.html
05-02-2021||India||Couple suspects kin of practising 'black magic', kills their son||A married couple allegedly killed a six-year-old boy on suspicion that "black magic" performed by his family led to the death of their buffalo in a village in Beed district of Maharashtra, police said on Friday.The gruesome incident took place on Wednesday in Ratnagiri village and the accused, Rohidas Sapkal and his wife Devyeebai, were arrested on Thursday, they said.The accused are related to the boy, who went missing on Wednesday morning while playing with his friends near a school on the village outskirts, the police said.Later, he was found lying near the school and was rushed to a nearby hospital by local residents, but was declared dead by doctors, the police said.The police started a probe after the boy's family alleged foul play in his death.Assistant Police Inspector (API) Laxman Kendre said the couple owned a buffalo which died recently.The husband-wife duo suspected the boy's family of practising black magic and blamed them for the death of their buffalo, he said.The accused and the boy's parents are relatives, he said.To take revenge from the family, the couple picked up the boy and took him home, where they strangled him to death and threw the body near the school, Kendre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/couple-suspects-kin-of-practising-black-magic-kills-their-son-101612531867382.html
05-02-2021||India||5 including 2 women held for extortion bid of ₹50 lakh from Kumaon jeweller||The Nainital police claimed to have solved a case on Friday in which ₹50 lakh was demanded from a woman jeweller in Haldwani in an extortion bid, police said.According to the police, a phone call was made from Sitarganj jail by a caller who is serving life imprisonment.Preeti Priyadarshani, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Nainital said, “Five people including two women have been arrested in an extortion case. A call was made from the central jail so we will seek remand of the prime accused shortly.”Reeta Khandelwal of Jai Guru Jewellers of Haldwani had lodged a complaint with Haldwani police station on Monday that a caller had demanded ₹50-lakh from her. He introduced himself as Dallu and threatened her of dire consequences if his demand was not fulfilled, she added.The SSP said the caller’s number was put under surveillance and the number was tracked to the central jail of Sitarganj but it was registered in the name of Durga Prasad of Rudrapur who sells socks as a vendor in the main market. When he was questioned, he revealed that he never used the SIM of the number.He also revealed that two men Mahendra Gangwar and Narendra Gangwar who sell SIMs near his shop took the relevant documents to revive his old SIM.Later, it came to light that Mahendra and Narendra handed over the revived SIM to their friend Deepak Rathore whose brother Rahul has been serving life imprisonment in central jail of Sitarganj, said the SSP.Earlier, Rahul who was in jail had planned to demand money from the rich to enhance his dominance in crime in the area. To implement the plan, he shared his thoughts with his friends Ankita and Anjali and asked them to arrange a fake SIM. Both used to visit the jail frequently to meet him, the SSP said.Ankita and Anjali contacted Rahul’s brother Deepak and revealed Rahul’s plan. Deepak arranged a SIM through his friends Mahendra and Narendra and handed it over to Ankita. Ankita later gave the SIM to Rahul in jail.Deepak Rathore and Mahendra of Khera colony Rudrapur, Narendra of Rampur, Ankita of Azamgarh and Anjali of Agra (UP), have all been arrested. All of them have been booked under IPC Sections 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt) and 120B (whoever is a party to criminal conspiracy).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-including-2-women-held-for-extortion-bid-of-rs-50-lakh-from-kumaon-jeweller-101612529655530.html
05-02-2021||India||'Nails on BJP’s political coffin..': RLD leader on farmers' protest||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice president Jayant Chaudhary said on Friday that the government’s policies will not work against farmers. Referring to the nails planted at the farmers’ protest site in Ghazipur, Chaudhury said the same nails will end up marking the ‘political coffin’ of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)."These are not nails being put on the roads going to Delhi, these are nails being put into the political coffin that is being made for the BJP," Chaudhury said, as quoted by news agency PTI.Chaudhury accused the government of not paying heed to their own politicians on the ground, who are in touch with the common people and can sense their rising anger."It is a totalitarian administration. They are not even listening to their own political people on the ground. If you speak to BJP MLAs or MPs off the record, they are not happy and they can feel the angst rising in the people of India, in the common man who voted for (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi," the former MP said.Chaudhury who is quite active on Twitter criticised Indian celebrities for releasing statements of solidarity following the international outrage on the government’s handling of the protests.“Celebrities who have pawned off their brains and now are tweeting similar statements should first look up the meaning of sovereignty. A nation’s power is diminished when the government is cruel towards its providers. Friends, let’s exercise control over our governments instead of letting governments control us.” Chaudhury tweeted on Friday.The Ghazipur border which is one of the three protest sites has witnessed heavy fortification and nails have been affixed to keep farmers from entering the protest site. On Thursday the nails were relocated to ensure farmers’ safety. DCP (east) Deepak Yadav told HT that, “The nails were fixed initially at a spot where people wouldn’t venture earlier. But now that some people are moving around that point, we fear that the nails could become a hazard for them. So, just to ensure their safety, we are removing them and fixing them elsewhere.”Chaudhury has been attending Kisan mahapanchayats and protest sites and had extended support to Bharatiya Kisan Union when the union was thinking of withdrawing protest from the Ghazipur site after being pressured by the local administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nails-on-bjp-s-political-coffin-rld-leader-on-farmers-protest-101612529087276.html
05-02-2021||India||Chakka Jam tomorrow: Timing, services to be affected | All you need to know||Farmers who have been protesting against three farm laws passed by Parliament last year have called for a three-hour, all-India 'chakka jam' on Saturday. The Congress has extended its support to the chakka jam.This is the farmers' first major event after Republic Day tractor march which ended up in violent clashes with Delhi Police. Though farmers' unions have promised that the Chakka Jam will be peaceful and outside Delhi, Delhi Police, Haryana Police are tightening their security arrangements.Here is all you need to know about the Chakka Jam> It will be observed from 12 noon to 3pm.> National and state highways will be blocked, the Samayukt Kisan Morcha has said. It has said that the chakka jam will be held nationwide.> Emergency and essential services will not be stopped anywhere.> But if you happen to travel on a highway on Saturday between 12 and 3pm, you will probably get stuck.> Farmers have said they will provide food and water to those stuck at chakka jam.> There will be no chakka jam in Delhi after what happened on Republic Day. Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are also exempt from this protest as farmers from these two states may need to travel towards Delhi's protest sites. All roads leading to Delhi will remain open except where the protests are going on.> The chakka jam is a symbolic protest of the farmers against internet suspension at protest sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-tomorrow-timing-services-to-be-affected-all-you-need-to-know-101612529228226.html
05-02-2021||India||Amid rumours of KTR taking over as Telangana CM, KCR calls party meet on Sunday||An extended state executive committee of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi has been convened in Hyderabad on Sunday amid intense speculation that party president K Chandrasekhar Rao will step down soon and anoint his son K T Rama Rao as the next chief minister of Telangana.An official statement from the party on Friday said the meeting would be held at 2 pm on Sunday at Telangana Bhavan, the state headquarters of the TRS, under the leadership of KCR, as the chief minister is popularly known.Apart from the state executive committee members, the meeting would also be attended by all the cabinet colleagues of KCR, MPs, MLAs and MLCs, state-level corporation chairpersons, Zilla Parishad chairpersons, mayors, municipal chairpersons, district cooperative central bank chairpersons and district cooperative marketing society presidents.The meeting will discuss issues like membership renewal, appointment of party committees from village-level to the state-level and election of party president etc. “Besides, arrangements to be made for the conduct of the party’s annual plenary on April 27 and other institutional issues will also be discussed at length,” the party statement said.The sudden decision of the TRS president to convene the state executive committee meeting and invite all major party functionaries comes at a time when party leaders have been openly talking about KTR becoming the next chief minister of the state.For the last few days, several party leaders including ministers and MLAs have been pitching for KTR, presently the working president of the TRS, taking over as the next chief minister. They said KTR had all the qualities of becoming the CM.While assembly deputy speaker T Padma Rao described KTR as “chief minister-in-waiting” and extended advance congratulations to him on a public platform, state health minister Eatala Rajender said in an interview to a local television channel that KTR would definitely become the CM soon and he had already been discharging 90 per cent of his father’s responsibilities.A senior leader of the TRS, on condition of anonymity, said there is every possibility that the topic of KTR replacing his father as the chief minister might come up for discussion at Sunday’s state executive committee meeting.“It could be a strategy of KCR to see that the issue is raised at the meeting and he would seek their opinions before taking a decision on announcing KTR as his successor, so that the entire transfer of power from father to son appears to be a democratic process,” the leader said.The executive committee meeting might also discuss revamping of the party organisational structure so as to entrust new responsibility in the party to KCR’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha, who got elected as legislative council member recently, and nephew T Harish Rao.However, there is still uncertainty over the timing of KCR stepping down in favour of his son as the chief minister. The party leaders are planning to celebrate KCR’s 67th birthday on February 17 in a big way, including carrying out a massive “homam” with 10,000 invitees at Lal Bahadur Stadium in Hyderabad.“There is talk in the party that he might hand over the reins to his son the following day. But there is also talk that he will resign in favour of KTR at the TRS plenary to be held on April 27,” the party leader quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rumours-of-ktr-taking-over-as-telangana-cm-kcr-calls-party-meet-on-sunday-101612525697596.html
05-02-2021||India||Isro to launch Brazilian, Indian satellites in first mission of 2021||In its first mission of 2021, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) plans to launch Amazonia 1 of Brazil and 20 other Indian satellites from Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC), Sriharikota at 10.23am on February 28, subject to weather conditions, according to a statement.The mission is called PSLV-C51, the 53rd mission of PSLV (Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle). PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 is the first dedicated commercial mission of New Space India Limited (NSIL), a Government of India company under Department of Space. NSIL is undertaking this mission as part of a commercial arrangement with Spaceflight Inc. USA.Also Read | Students of college in Coimbatore develop satellite for ISROAmazonia-1 is the optical earth observation satellite of National Institute for Space Research (INPE). “This satellite would further strengthen the existing structure by providing remote sensing data to users for monitoring deforestation in the Amazon region and analysis of diversified agriculture across the Brazilian territory,” the statement added.The 20 co-passenger satellites include one from ISRO (INS-2TD), four from IN-SPACe (three UNITYsats from consortium of three Indian academic institutes and one Satish Dhawan satellite from Space Kidz India) and 15 from NSIL.“The next PSLV mission is special for the entire country. Recently, we have brought about space reforms and unlocked India’s potential in the space sector initiated by the government of India. Now, the first satellite by a start-up called Pixxel India called Anand which is an Earth Observation Satellite will be launched on PSLV C51. Along with Anand, two more satellites under the space reform are going to be launched, one by Space Kidz India and another by a university consortium called UnitySat,” ISRO chairperson K Sivan had said last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-to-launch-brazilian-indian-satellites-in-first-mission-of-2021-101612525828259.html
05-02-2021||India||Former bureaucrat’s book reveals behind-the-scenes of Covid-19 management||What is it like to run India’s Covid-19 management campaign or the flagship Swachh Bharat Mission? Former bureaucrat Parameswaran Iyer, who until August headed one of the empowered groups formed to respond to the pandemic, has revealed some behind the scenes details of the challenge in his newly-released book Method in the Madness.Iyer was the drinking water and sanitation secretary till last year and headed the Covid group for logistics management set up in April. An Uttar Pradesh cadre officer, he resigned in 2009 from the Indian Administrative Service to work with the World Bank. Prime Minister Narendra Modi brought him back in 2016 and assigned him the role of ending open defecation. Also Watch | On The Record with Modi’s ‘Swachh Man’ Parameswaran IyerIyer writes in the book that there were always unexpected surprises. For instance, Iyer writes about how roping in Bollywood star Amitabh Bachchan for the Covid-19 awareness campaign had at least one hiccup. Bachchan has been the star spokesperson for the Swachch Mission, an initiative to build toilets and stop open defecation across the country, from the start. Having an iconic star as a brand ambassador was a boost for the awareness campaign but Iyer did not start off all that well. “I did manage to trip a few times when it came to engaging with him. I still cringe about his response when I recall it: he wrote that I had got the spelling of his last name wrong.’’However, there were bigger embarrassments to deal with. During the [Covid-19] lockdown imposed on March 24, the government wanted to use a Lancet study that showed a longer shelf-life of the virus in human faeces. Iyer and his team thought they could use this to push their own messaging about the importance of using toilets instead of defecating outside. They approached Bachchan, who delivered a video message to them in just 24 hours. The government cashed in, they sent it to all channels, and also asked Bachchan to share it on his social media platforms. And then it started to go horribly wrong.Iyer writes that he got a call from health secretary Preeti Sudan just hours after channels started carrying the message. “We hadn’t counted on the panic it would cause. Each message was followed by TV anchors exclaiming that now even flies could carry the corona virus!’’ writes Iyer. “We had gone ahead and shaken everyone with the message that now, thanks to excreta-carrying flies, they were not even safe at home. The Ministry of Health spokesperson made a categorical statement that Covid-19 was not a vector-borne disease and could not be transmitted through flies.’’Iyer did not just have to delete all government posts related to that message but writes about making the call to Bachchan to ask him to delete it from his Twitter account too. “He did not once let on that he was upset or disappointed but simply did as I requested,’’ writes Iyer. Fortunately for the government, Bachchan did not stop making public service announcements.HT reached out to Bachchan’s office for comments but is yet to get a response.Iyer also worked with another Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar for the un-lockdown campaign. During the making of a public service announcement about returning to work in June, Iyer writes that he had to delete “an unparliamentary” line. Akshay’s character was supposed to scold someone wearing his mask incorrectly by saying: “Oh Sarpanchji, kachhe bhi kya aise pehente ho? Naak toh dhak lo! [Oh Sarpanch, do you also wear your underwear like this? Cover your nose please]!” Iyer writes that Akshay Kumar called him to say: “My wife is very annoyed with you right now.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bureaucrat-s-book-reveals-behind-the-scenes-of-covid-19-management-101612525345884.html
05-02-2021||India||Concerned about region, not protesters: Goa CM on infra projects||A day after claiming that the state was a victim of propaganda by “external forces”, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday reiterated that his government was committed to the conservation of biodiversity-rich regions like the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and the Mollem National Park. He said he was was “more concerned” about protecting the region than those protesting against projects there. Sawant’s comments come a day after he had alleged that ”external forces” were fuelling the protests by locals against the government’s plans for three linear infrastructure projects -- railway and highway expansion as well as a fresh power line cutting through the Western Ghats and protected sanctuaries. Also Read | In Goa’s water row with Karnataka, Sawant vows not to bow to any pressure“Today, Mollem has become not just nationally but internationally famous for various reasons.We wish to tell everyone that we are more concerned about Mollem, Goa and to save Mollem, the people of Goa are more than enough,” Sawant said. “If we preserve our treasures, like the Dudhsagar waterfall and the Mahadev temple, and show them to people, we can reap the benefits by attracting tourists,” he said.On Thursday, even as there has been nationwide pushback against international celebrities tweeting in support of the farmers’ protests on Delhi borders, Sawant had said, “Goa has been a victim of propaganda for the past several months, which has been significantly fuelled by external forces. Some of the Opposition parties in Goa have also been motivating such external forces to create an unrest in the state. No propaganda shall derail our sincere efforts towards building a progressive state.” Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary -- Goa’s oldest wildlife sanctuary declared as protected back in 1967, that was later bifurcated to carve out the Mollem National Park --is spread over 240 square kilometres of Western Ghats forest and includes attractions like the Dudhsagar Waterfall, a multi-tiered waterfall among the highest in the country, and the 12th century Mahadev Temple of Tambdi Surla. The standing committee of the ministry of environment and forests in April last year granted its approval to the diversion of forest land from notified wildlife sanctuaries in Mollem along Goa’s eastern frontier with Karnataka for three projects -- the doubling of an existing railway line between Hubli in Karnataka and Vasco da Gama in Goa, the expansion of the National Highway 4A between Belgaum in North Karnataka and Goa and a power line. The approvals were met with demands that the projects be scrapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concerned-about-region-not-protesters-goa-cm-on-infra-projects-101612525106134.html
05-02-2021||India||President Kovind expresses joy over HAL’s contract to manufacture Tejas aircraft||The President of India Ram Nath Kovind expressed his joy at the news of the Indian Air Force ordering 83 Tejas aircrafts from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) worth ₹48,000 crore on Friday.President Kovind was addressing the valedictory ceremony of the Aero India 2021 in Bengaluru and congratulated the organisers saying that the event was successful amid the difficulties presented by the Covid-19 pandemic.President Kovind said, “I am happy to note that Hindustan Aeronautics Limited has got the orders for 83 Tejas aircrafts from Indian Air Force valued at more than Rs. 48,000 crore.”Earlier on February 3, the Defence Ministry handed over a contract to manufacture 83 Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas fighters to the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) at the Aero India international air show.Defence minister Rajnath Singh, Indian Air Force chief RKS Bhadauria and Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) chief G Satheesh Reddy have hailed the government for handing over the contract to manufacture 83 Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas Mark-1A fighters to the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) saying that it will help the nation attain self-reliance in manufacturing of defence equipment and weaponry.President Kovind also said that the Aero-India event was one of the largest events which was held in a hybrid manner despite challenges presented by the ongoing pandemic. “Aero India2021 has been an unprecedented success. I have been told that high-level delegations from 43 countries and exhibitors from 530 companies participated, many more across the world were associated virtually. It is the world’s first mega event of this kind to be held in hybrid format.”He further added, “Past year has been a time of unprecedented hardships due to Covid-19. Its adverse impacts have been felt in all walks of life globally. Despite the challenges posed by the pandemic, I'm happy that Aero India 2021 has been organised successfully.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prez-kovind-expresses-joy-over-hal-s-contract-to-manufacture-83-tejas-aircrafts-101612524805588.html
05-02-2021||India||Appointment of CPI(M) leader’s wife at Sanskrit varsity triggers row||The appointment of R Ninitha, wife of MB Rajesh, former MP of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), as professor in Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit in Kalady (Kochi), has triggered a fresh row after one of the subject experts on the interview board alleged norms were flouted in the selection process.Many youth outfits have hit the street and some have also approached Governor Arif Mohamad Khan, who is also the chancellor, to cancel her appointment.Dr Umer Tharamel, one of the interview board members, on Thursday posted a comment on social media alleging that normal procedures were flouted and competent candidates were overlooked to accommodate the wife of the CPI(M) leader.“I never thought the rank list would be turned upside down like this. I was least concerned about the political affiliation of the selected candidate. The UGC and university norms were overlooked,” Dr Tharamel wrote in his post.However, university Vice Chancellor PK Dharmarajan has dismissed allegations as baseless and unwarranted. He said it was part of a campaign to portray the prestigious varsity in bad light.The Save University Campaign Committee, a body fighting corruption in varsities, which took the issue to the Governor said in the interview held on January 21 for the post of assistant professor (Malayalam), which was reserved for the Muslim community, many candidates with better qualifications and more research papers to their credit appeared.They were overlooked to appoint Ninitha flouting all norms, said M Shajir Khan of the Save University Campaign Committee.Rajesh later denied any involvement in the issue and said his wife had joined the varsity a week back and nobody had raised any objections when the rank list was published last month. He said since the VC had issued a detailed reply no other explanation was needed on his part.Opposition parties have also criticised her appointment. “Centres of learning excellence are getting reduced to centres to accommodate spouses of party leaders,” said BJP state president K Surendran, adding such backdoor entries were rampant.Youth Congress and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha workers carried out protest rallies at several places.Two-time MP Rajesh was defeated in 2019 elections from Palakkad.Last year the high court had annulled the appointment of CPI(M) MLA AN Shamseer’s wife Shahana as assistant professor in Calicut University. Higher Education Minister KT Jaleel had landed in a big row in 2018 after his cousin KT Adeeb was appointed the GM of the State Minorities Development Finance Corporation. Later he was forced to resign.The appointment of Jeeva Anandan, son of CPI(M) leader A Ananthan, as MD of the Kinfra Apparel Park last year also courted controversy.The ruling CPI(M) has denied allegations, saying in some cases people who spent 10-15 years in temporary posts have been made permanent on humanitarian basis and no party affiliation was involved in this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/appointment-of-cpi-m-leader-s-wife-at-sanskrit-varsity-triggers-row-101612521315824.html
05-02-2021||India||5 of family attempt self-immolation outside UP assembly||Five members of a family from Hardoi on Friday tried to immolate themselves in front of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly alleging inaction by police on their complaint about a land grab attempt.However, they were prevented from doing so by policemen who spotted one of the family members pouring kerosene on himself."Five of a family from Dhannu Purwa reached in front of the assembly and Lok Bhawan and tried to immolate themselves. When policemen saw one of them pouring kerosene over himself, they were caught," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Somen Barma said.Rajaram, Umesh Yadav, Veeru Yadav, Usha Devi and Maya were detained and taken to Hazratganj Police Station.During interrogation, Rajaram alleged that some people were trying to grab their house and despite lodging a complaint, the Hardoi Police had not taken action.Barma said the matter is being probed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-of-family-attempt-self-immolation-outside-up-assembly-101612522561639.html
05-02-2021||India||Pfizer withdraws application for emergency use of Covid-19 vaccine in India||Despite being the first company to have applied for emergency use authorisation of its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine to India’s drugs regulator, pharma major Pfizer has now withdrawn its application, the company spokesperson said in a statement on Friday.The company had forwarded its application to the drugs controller general of India office on December 7 but missed at least three slots since to make a presentation before the central drugs standard control organisation (CDSCO) subject expert committee..The decision was taken after the company was asked to produce more data during the CDSCO subject expert committee held on Wednesday, February 3. The company had made a presentation before the committee regarding its application for emergency use approval of its Covid-19 vaccine that it is manufacturing along with the German biotechnology company- BioNTech. However, it did not work out, and the company decided to withdraw its application for time being.Also Read | Study decodes how Sars-Cov-2 mutates, escapes antibodies“In pursuance of the Emergency Use Authorisation of its Covid-19 vaccine, Pfizer participated in the subject expert committee meeting of the Drug Regulatory Authority of India on February 3. Based on the deliberations at the meeting and our understanding of additional information that the regulator may need, the company has decided to withdraw its application at this time,” a Pfizer company spokesperson said in a statement.“Pfizer will continue to engage with the authority and resubmit its approval request with additional information as it becomes available in the near future. Pfizer remains committed to making its vaccine available for use by the Government in India and to pursuing the requisite pathway for emergency use authorisation that enables the availability of this vaccine for any future deployment,” the statement added. Officials in CDSCO in the know of things confirmed the development, and said that the main point of contention was that the company wanted waiver of local trials. “Their data is robust but it is always good to know how the product will work or behave in the local population, for which the regulatory authorities ask for bridging studies. So far, no foreign product has been allowed for import and to be marketed in India without a local study. It doesn’t have to be a large study, just a small study. But it is important,” said one of the officials, requesting not to be identified. Pfizer-BioNTech is a two-shot mRNA vaccine to be given 21 days apart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-withdraws-application-for-emergency-use-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-india-101612521325182.html
05-02-2021||India||Unusually warm January could be indirect result of global warming: IMD scientist||The average minimum temperature recorded in India during January 2021 was 1.09 degrees more than the month’s normal, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The average temperature in January is 13.6 degrees Celsius, whereas this year it was recorded at 14.7 degrees Celsius.Speaking about the weather conditions, DS Pai, scientist and head, climate research and services, IMD, Pune said that these are expected yearly climate variations.“This activity might be an indirect effect of climate change,” said Pai.“The main increase was in the minimum temperature, particularly in the northern part and southern part of the country. There was record rainfall in the start of January. This time in the north there were western disturbances. And in the south there were easterly winds. In some places they interacted. There was clouding. Because of this maximum temperature reduced and minimum temperature increased. Cloudy days are cooler than normal,” added Pai.Also Read | January was unusually warm for entire country except NW IndiaAlso, the weather department noted that the mean temperature in southern peninsular India was 1.07 degrees higher than normal this year. The mean temperature of the southern peninsula is 25.30 degrees Celsius. And in January 2021, the recorded mean temperature was 26.36 degrees CelsiusThe average minimum temperature for central India in January 2021, which includes Maharashtra, was recorded at its third-highest since 1901. The average temperature for central India is 13.56 degrees Celsius whereas the reported temperature this time was 14.82 degrees Celsius, 1.25 degrees above normal.Speaking about the variations, OP Sreejith, scientist, Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group, said the reason behind the variations is the Madden–Julian oscillation which the region experienced mainly in the beginning of January. The Madden–Julian oscillation is the largest element of the intraseasonal variability in the tropical atmosphere.“We also recorded exceptional rainfall due to Madden–Julian oscillation. The minimum temperature is higher so the mean temperature is also on the higher side,” said Sreejith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unusually-warm-january-could-be-indirect-result-of-global-warming-imd-scientist-101612521205408.html
05-02-2021||India||BJP urges Election Commission to deploy only paramilitary force during West Bengal polls||A delegation of West Bengal Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) leaders on Friday submitted a memorandum to the Election Commission of India demanding that Assembly elections in the state should be held in many phases and also requested it to deploy only paramilitary force at polling booths to give all parties a level playing field.The delegation comprising eight members including BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav also demanded the removal of officers working at the "behest of Trinamool Congress"."We met the Election Commission of India and submitted a memorandum. We put forth three demands in front of them. First, the Bengal Assembly polls should be held in many phases. The officers working at the behest of TMC should be changed and paramilitary force must be deployed at polling booths to give all parties a level-playing field," Yadav told reporters here after meeting the ECI officials."It was really important to bring these issues in the knowledge of the ECI because the misuse of state machinery is rampant by the state government," he added.In a letter to the Election Commission, the BJP leaders requested to "deploy members of only Central Police Forces (CPF), duly trained to ensure fairness, dignity, and sanctity of the process."Elections for 294 Assembly seats in West Bengal will take place later this year. The tenure of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government led by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal will come to an end on May 30, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-urges-election-commission-to-deploy-only-paramilitary-force-during-west-bengal-polls-101612520728214.html
05-02-2021||India||Nearly 50 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated against Covid-19||Nearly 50 lakh beneficiaries have been inoculated under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise, while India's total active cases have dropped to 1.51 lakh, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday.India's total active cases continue to follow a consistent downward slide consisting of just 1.40 per cent of total infections.Following a downward trajectory, 12,408 daily new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours."India's cases per million population (7,828) are amongst the lowest in the world. This count is much higher for countries like Russia, Germany, Italy, Brazil, France, UK and USA," the ministry said.It said 17 states and UTs have a lower case per million population than the national average. Lakshadweep has the lowest average of 1,722 cases per million among all states and UTs.Also read| Covid-19: UK hotel quarantine policy to start from February 15Till February 5, 49,59,445 beneficiaries have received the vaccination with 5,09,893 people receiving the shots in a span of 24 hours across 11,184 sessions, the ministry said.A total of 95,801 sessions have been conducted so far. The ministry said that 61 per cent of beneficiaries vaccinated are from 8 states and UTs. Uttar Pradesh accounts for 11.9 per cent (5,89,101) of the total beneficiaries vaccinated in India.A total of 1,04,96,308 people have recovered so far with 15,853 patients recuperating in a span of 24 hours. "The higher number of recoveries via-a-vis new cases has widened the gap between recovered and active cases to 1,03,44,848," the ministry underlined.It said 85.06 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6 states and UTs. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 6,341 newly recovered cases. A total of 5,339 people recovered in Maharashtra in a span of 24 hours followed by 517 in Tamil Nadu. The ministry said 84.25 per cent of the 12,408 new cases registered in a day are from 6 states and UTs.Also read| Covid-19 patients have higher risk of dying after cardiac arrestKerala continues to report the highest daily new cases at 6,102. It is followed by Maharashtra with 2,736, while Tamil Nadu reported 494 new cases. A total of 120 deaths were recorded in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said adding six states and UTs account for 74.17 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (46).Kerala follows with 17 daily deaths, while Punjab and Delhi reported 7 deaths each. Fourteen states and UTs have reported no deaths in a span of 24 hours, the ministry highlighted. These are Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Manipur, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Nagaland, Mizoram, Ladakh (UT), Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, A&N Islands, D&D & D&N and Lakshadweep.India's 112 deaths per million population are also amongst the lowest in the world, the ministry underscored.On the positive side, 19 states and UTs have reported lower deaths per million average than the national average. Lakshadweep leads with an average of 0 deaths per million.Seventeen states and UTs have reported higher deaths per million population than the national average. Delhi's figure of 581 deaths per million is the highest among all the states, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-50-lakh-beneficiaries-vaccinated-against-covid19-101612519251003.html
05-02-2021||India||Why did Twitter delete Kangana Ranaut’s tweets?||Microblogging site Twitter on Thursday removed two of actress Kangana Ranaut’s tweets related to the farmers' protests. "We have taken action on Tweets that were in violation of the Twitter Rules in line with our range of enforcement options," Twitter said in an official statement.In one of the now-deleted tweets, Ranaut was responding to cricketer Rohit Sharma’s statement of solidarity against the rising global criticism of the three farm laws that farmers have been protesting against. In another tweet that has been removed by Twitter, Kangana wrote: "I feel so elated. I don't remember being so happy/excited ever, the cancer in the body of this nation we were looking for has been located, identified and now the process of eradication will start, together we will see through this. Not just survive but also thrive. Jai Hind." Both tweets have been flagged and deleted by Twitter, with a message displayed at their places, saying. "This Tweet is no longer available because it violated the Twitter Rules".Why were the tweets deleted?The microblogging site removes tweets if they violate Twitter's policy. The policy states that if a tweet is found to be violating rules and yet to be deleted by the owner of the account, it will be hidden behind a notice. A country’s authorised entity — in most cases the government — can also request Twitter to remove tweets or entire accounts for justifiable reasons. India recently asked for certain accounts related to the farmers’ protest to be taken down, and Twitter had initially obliged. After taking internal cognisance of the accounts, they were not found to be violative of any Twitter policy and were restored.“We may sometimes add a notice to an account or Tweet to give you more context on the actions our systems or teams may take. In some instances, this is because the behaviour violates the Twitter Rules. Other times, it may be in response to a valid and properly scoped request from an authorized entity in a given country.” Twitter says on its website.Twitter can delete or remove a tweet if it falls under the following categories.Violence: Threatening to inflict violence on any individual or group can cause a tweet to be deleted or an account to be suspended, temporarily or otherwise. Ranaut’s tweet on OTT series Tandav was categorised as violent and her account was temporarily suspended. Twitter clearly states “We also prohibit the glorification of violence”.Hateful conduct: Promoting hatred against any ethnicity, race, gender, identity, sexual orientation invites action from Twitter. Ranaut has on occasion labelled the protesting farmers as ‘Khalistanis’ and ‘terrorists’.Abuse/harassment: Users face action if they are found to be engaging in the targeted harassment of someone, or inciting others to do so.Apart from these safeguards which Kangana's tweets violated, Twitter flags posts on terrorism, child sexual exploitation, suicide, or tweets with sensitive media, adult content etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-did-twitter-delete-kangana-ranaut-s-tweets-101612519063914.html
05-02-2021||India||Who is Munawar Faruqui? Why was he arrested?||Comedian Munawar Faruqui was granted interim bail by the Supreme Court on Friday, more than a month after he was arrested allegedly for hurting religious sentiments in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore city. The 30-year-old Faruqui and four other people were arrested on January 1 just before he was about to start his performance at a cafe in the popular 56 Dukan locality of Indore. One more person was arrested later. The case was filed based on a complaint by Eklavya Gaur, the convenor of the Hind Rakshak Sangathan and son of Bharatiya Janata Party legislator Malini Gaur.Faruqui, who is from Gujarat’s Junagadh, was booked under sections 188, 269, 34 and 295A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for organising the event without permission, flouting Covid-19 safety norms and hurting religious sentiments, according to Gaur’s lawyer. Gaur had said that he and his associates had gone to watch the show where the alleged indecent jokes were made about Hindu gods and goddesses and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. There is no confirmation for such a report as yet.Also read| Supreme Court grants interim bail to comedian Munawar FaruquiAnshuman Shrivastava, the lawyer for Faruqui and Yadav, said on Tuesday that the allegations levelled against his clients are "vague" in nature. He said the duo was booked under political pressure. He said Faruqui and others are actors and didn't make any comment that hurt the religious feelings of any person.The case was initially heard by Madhya Pradesh High Court which declined him bail saying, “liberty of a person has to be balanced with his duties towards other citizens.” He was accused of passing "indecent" remarks about Hindu deities during a show. Faruqui later moved a writ petition before the top court challenging Madhya Pradesh High Court’s order denying him bail.A Supreme Court bench headed by Justice RF Nariman also issued a notice to the Madhya Pradesh government on Munawar's plea challenging the high court order refusing to grant regular bail to him. In the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, the bench, also comprising Justice BR Gavai, also stayed the production warrant issued against the comedian in a separate case lodged in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly hurting religious sentiments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-munawar-faruqui-why-was-he-arrested-101612515403257.html
05-02-2021||India||UPSC aspirants who missed out on last attempt amid Covid to get extra chance||The Centre has told the apex court that it is willing to give an extra chance at a final attempt to candidates of the Civil Services Examination (CSE) who exhausted their last attempt after appearing in the preliminary examination conducted on October 4 last year.The Centre has filed a note before the Supreme Court through additional solicitor general SV Raju stating that the relaxation is going to be a one-time measure and will be restricted to those who exhausted their last attempt by appearing in the October 2020 exam. The Centre has also made it clear that age-barred candidates shall be allowed to sit for the examination.The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari posted the matter for hearing on Monday and has asked the Centre to circulate the note to all lawyers appearing for the 100-odd candidates who were demanding another shot at the examination.The petitioners had demanded an extra chance claiming that they were serving as frontline workers during the Covid-19 pandemic which did not give them adequate time to prepare for the exam. Few petitioners also claimed that they belonged to far-flung areas and due to lack of proper internet connectivity they were unable to access online study material.The Union Public Service Commission which conducts Civil Services Examination every year allows candidates belonging to the general category six attempts up to the age of 32, nine attempts for candidates belonging to Other Backward Classes category up to age of 35 and candidates belonging to the Scheduled Caste category and Scheduled Tribes category can avail unlimited attempts up to the age of 37.The Centre had earlier denied to allow aspiring candidates an extra chance for appearing for the examinations. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had informed the Supreme Court that Centre was reexamining the matter when the matter was listed previously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relief-for-upsc-aspirants-as-govt-allows-extra-chance-to-those-who-failed-to-sit-101612518853148.html
05-02-2021||India||In divided colours of Congress, emergence of ‘Kerala lobby’||For a long time, the “Kerala lobby” was synonymous with hardliners in the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M) who would oppose any tryst with the Congress, its arch rival in the state. In the past three days, the Congress too, has witnessed the emergence of a “Kerala lobby” in its parliamentary camp—hardliners who played a key role in deciding the party’s floor strategy in Lok Sabha. Fifteen out of 51 seats of the Congress in Lok Sabha belong to MPs from Kerala. According to at least five Congress MPs, even as a section of the party was not opposed to the idea of allowing a debate on the President’s speech in the Lower House, many MPs from Kerala, especially those who have been elected for the first time, preferred a harder stance on the demand for a separate debate on the farm laws. Also Read | Farm debates marked relatively smoother day of Parliament: All you need to knowOn Wednesday morning, the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha leadership of the Congress had received a missive from Rahul Gandhi: the party should continue protests if the government doesn’t accept the Opposition’s demand for a separate debate for farm issues. But minutes later, the Rajya Sabha leadership of the Congress, along with other Opposition parties, negotiated with government managers to extend the time for a debate on the President’s speech by another five hours. The debate started after the suspension of Question Hour and Zero Hour. Congress leaders in Lok Sabha, however, took a different tactical line and continued to disrupt the Lower House, asking for a separate debate on farm issues before the House began discussions on the general budget. Now, the Congress leaders of both Houses are blaming each other, widening fissures within the party that has often seen conflicts among senior and younger leaders. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has signalled his approval of the party’s stand in the Lower House. In a meeting with some Opposition leaders, negotiations gained pace hours after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi told a meeting of protesting Opposition leaders that they are on the “right path” and a separate discussion on the farm issues is “absolutely essential”. Gandhi also allayed apprehensions that many Opposition MPs might stop coming to the House if continuous disruptions persist, and said, “we will ensure that MPs come to Lok Sabha.” “We could have found a solution to the impasse and a debate would have also helped us to put forward our views. But many in the party believed that we must continue the protests,” said a senior Congress MP who hails from north India. Another Congress MP said, “Some of our colleagues argued that since elections are due in Kerala in April-May, such protests would help the party in the polls.” As the Lower House deadlock continued on Thursday, Birla called Congress floor leader Adhir Chowdhury, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi and his deputy Arjun Ram Meghwal for a marathon meeting. But a solution couldn’t be arrived at. Some Rajya Sabha leaders of Congress, however, maintained that their stand was “correct” and that their Lok Sabha counterparts were “too rigid”. “Parliament is for debate, not fight. We have made the same points in our debate. Rajya Sabha leaders did the right thing. We found a solution. Neither before nor after the President’s speech but during the debate,” said a senior Congress leader in Rajya Sabha. Taking a cue from Rajya Sabha, where the debate is going on smoothly, the government has proposed extending the allotted time from 10 hours to 15 hours in Lok Sabha too, but the Opposition hasn’t agreed. They want an exclusive discussion on farm issues before the House takes up the budget discussion next week. Lok Sabha is staring at a situation wherein the House could approve the President’s speech without any debate. Prime Minister Narendra Modi who was scheduled to reply on Friday, is unlikely to address the Lower House. Lok Sabha proceedings washed out for the third consecutive day as the Congress stuck to their demand for a separate debate on farm protests even as the government wanted to address the issue in the all-encompassing debate on the President’s speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-divided-colours-of-congress-emergence-of-kerala-lobby-101612518204999.html
05-02-2021||India||Chakka jam: Delhi Police monitoring social media, tightening overall security||After what happened in Delhi during farmers' tractor march on Republic Day, the Delhi Police are taking additional measures for the farmers' next proposed event on 'Chakka jam' to be held on February 6.Bharatiya Kisan Union, one of the unions representing protesting farmers, said that the 'chakka jam' will be held across India, except in Delhi. It will be a three-hour-long symbolic protest. People who will get stuck will be given food and water and will be explained the jam peacefully, the union has said.However, as their tractor march on January 26 broke the vow of a peaceful protest and led to a violent stand-off in the Capital, the Delhi Police are leaving no stones unturned to maintain the law and order situation in the Capital. Adequate security arrangements are being ensured at the borders so that no protester can enter the Capital, Delhi Police public relation officer Chinmoy Biswal said. The Delhi Police is also in touch with the forces in other states, he added.Will not enter Delhi, say farmers as police prepare for chakka jamSocial media platforms are also on the radar as the Delhi Police found external links through the social media toolkit that became the centre of controversies after Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg shared it on her Twitter account."We are monitoring content on social media to make sure rumours are not spread against Police or other things," Biswal said.The 'chakka jam' will be in protest against the snapping of internet connection at border areas. As part of their tomorrow's protest, farmers are planning to block highways. RSS-affiliate Bharatiya Kisan Sangh is not supporting the jam.Partial internet suspension was imposed on January 26 soon after protesters clashed with Delhi Police. Since then, there have been frequent internet suspensions on the border and surrounding areas, which drew the attention of international media, celebrities.On Thursday, Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting with Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava and took stock of the law and order situation. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval was also present in the meeting.The Haryana Police have also issued directives to deploy maximum forces on February 6. Intelligence network should be geared up, it said. Haryana home minister Anil Vij has also appealed to the union leaders to call off their strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-tomorrow-delhi-police-monitoring-social-media-tightening-overall-security-101612515828089.html
05-02-2021||India||Won't be intimidated, silenced: Meena Harris after protests over farmers' tweets||Meena Harris, an American lawyer and the niece of US vice president Kamala Harris, has defended her support to protesting farmers in India after her pictures were burnt by the activists of the United Hindu Front. Harris shared a photo of a protest against her over her posts in support of the farmers' agitation. The activists also burned the pictures of Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and pop star Rihanna, who have both supported the farmers protesting against the three farm laws."I spoke out in support of human rights for Indian farmers, and look at the response," Meena Harris tweeted on Thursday and also shared a photo by Reuters journalist Danish Siddiqui. "I won't be intimidated, and I won't be silenced," the 36-year-old said in another tweet.I spoke out in support of human rights for Indian farmers, and look at the response. https://t.co/5xzB6pxxA8Meena Harris has been tweeting on the issue for some days now. “I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest. No amount of hate, threats or violations of human rights will ever change that. #FarmersProtest,” Harris also tweeted as tagged Thunberg’ sport.Also read | US says it supports reform but cautions against curbs“It’s no coincidence that the world’s oldest democracy was attacked not even a month ago, and as we speak, the most populous democracy is under assault. This is related. We ALL should be outraged by India’s internet shutdowns and paramilitary violence against farmer protesters,” she had said in a February 3 tweet.Her tweet came after Rihanna wrote "why aren't we talking about this?!", with a link to a news story about an internet blackout at the protest camps where tens of thousands of farmers have been since November last year. Thunberg also tweeted a story about the blackout. “We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India,” Thunberg said on Tuesday, as she tagged a CNN news report headlined: "India cuts internet around New Delhi as protesting farmers clash with police." She also shared "a toolkit for those who want to help". "Here's a toolkit if you want to help," tweeted Thunberg, which takes the user to a document which has urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support farmers' protest. She later deleted the tweet and shared a link to a new document saying that the previous tweet had an outdated document.Also read | Battle to begin with repeal of farm laws, says Mo Dhaliwal who created ‘toolkitThe government issued a statement and several celebrities, sportsmen and other public figures also tweeted with the hashtags "IndiaAgainstPropaganda" and "IndiaTogether". The Delhi Police on Thursday said they have registered a first information report (FIR) to probe a “toolkit”. The FIR was registered by the cyber cell of the Delhi Police under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 124A (spreading disharmony), 153 (provocation with intent to cause riots) and 153A (promoting enmity between different groups).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-be-intimidated-silenced-meena-harris-after-protests-over-farmers-tweets-101612514535844.html
05-02-2021||India||Ahead of polls, Tamil Nadu CM offers farm loan waiver of ₹12,110 crore||The ruling AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu on Friday waived ₹12,110 crore loan taken from cooperative banks by 1.64 million farmers in the state. Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami made this announcement during the last day of the assembly session on Friday. The state is headed for assembly elections in April-May. The CM added that the scheme would come into immediate effect to reduce the burden on debt-ridden farmers who are currently affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, two cyclones in the state since November, and the monsoon. Also Read | Rajiv Gandhi assassination: President to take call on convict’s plea, says govt“I am also a farmer, I’ve a lot of affection for farmers,” said Palaniswami. “It is my responsibility to help farmers to continue their work.” In 2017, the government had provided ₹2,247 crore as relief to drought affected farmers, he added.The AIADMK government, which is in alliance with the BJP, has backed the three new farm laws. The DMK-led Opposition has criticised and questioned how Palaniswami as a farmer could support the bills. DMK president MK Stalin last month promised waiving of farm loans if his party was elected to power. The DMK has protested in support of the agitating farmers in Delhi and led a day-long hunger strike in December. The DMK boycotted the entire assembly session which began on February 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-polls-tamil-nadu-cm-offers-farm-loan-waiver-of-rs-12-110-crore-101612514904759.html
05-02-2021||India||Overground JeM worker arrested in Delhi upon deportation from Qatar||The Jammu & Kashmir police on Friday arrested an alleged “overground worker” of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) at the New Delhi airport following his deportation from Qatar, an officer aware of the matter said.The officer said Muneeb Ahmad Sofi from Anantnag district has been named in an alleged fund collection case. “...Muneeb Ahmad Sofi, who was in Qatar, was in contact with an active terrorist of JeM, Waleed Bhai, of Pakistan for the purchase of arms and ammunition from Pakistan,” the officer said on condition of anonymity.Also Read | India responds to Pakistan Army chief’s ‘hand of peace’ with call to end terrorEarlier, a lookout notice was issued against Sofi after a local court issued a non-bailable warrant against him.The officer said Sofi was being brought to Kashmir for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/overground-jem-worker-arrested-in-delhi-upon-deportation-from-qatar-101612514474645.html
05-02-2021||India||Anyone speaking truth dubbed as traitor, anti-national, repeal farm laws: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Friday charged that anyone speaking the truth is dubbed as a "traitor" or "anti-national" and that cases of sedition have been slapped against those criticising the government.Participating in the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's address in Rajya Sabha, Sena member Sanjay Raut said farmers fighting for their rights have been branded as anti-nationals or Khalistanis.He said the farmers, who were known as 'warriors' when they fought the Mughals and the British, are now dubbed as anti-nationals when they are fighting for their rights on Delhi's borders.Raut said farmers from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, who are sitting on the borders of Delhi, are fighting for the peasants from across the country and demanded that their voice be heard and the farm laws be repealed."We heard minister Dharmendra Pradhan asking us to listen to the truth. For the last six years, we have been listening to the truth, even the untruth dubbed as truth. The atmosphere in the country today is such that anyone writing the truth is dubbed as traitor and anti-national," he alleged."Cases of sedition are slapped on anyone asking questions from the government," he charged, citing examples of MPs like Sanjay Singh and Shashi Tharoor and journalists and writers.Raut said it seems that the government has changed the Indian Penal Code and replaced all its provisions with only those of sedition.He charged that cases of sedition are being lodged against everyone these days and people are booked under the law even for domestic violence cases.The Shiv Sena member further said that the government is trying to defame anyone trying to say something."Defaming the farmers' agitation is not a good thing for the country, for farmers and for all," he said.The Sena member said even though they respected the prime minister, who has got a majority to rule, "but, the majority is not run by arrogance," he said.He said everyone was ashamed by the incidents of violence that took place on Republic Day and asked why those behind the incidents of disrespecting the national flag have not been nabbed so far."Why is Deep Sidhu, responsible for disrespecting the national flag, not been caught yet. At whose behest he is acting?"Over 200 farmers are lodged in jail after being booked for sedition and not Sidhu. Over 100 youth are missing and whether they have been killed in encounters," he asked.Raut accused the government of sheltering those who violated the Official Secrets Act by leaking details about the Balakot strike while referring to a journalist and an actress.On the President saying no one can stop India from progressing if the country unites, he said when thousands of farmers have united for their rights why is the government trying to "break their unity and defaming" their agitation."When the farmers are uniting and fighting for their rights, you see anti-national acts in them and you term them as traitors. They are not anti-nationals or khalistanis.Till the time this movement is alive, the nation will remain alive and this 'andolan'," he said."If you would have built such barricades at the international borders, as those put up at Delhi borders, China would not have dared to come into Indian territory," the Sena member added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anyone-speaking-truth-dubbed-as-traitor-anti-national-repeal-farm-laws-shiv-sena-101612514123684.html
05-02-2021||India||Battle to begin with repeal of farm laws, says Mo Dhaliwal who created ‘toolkit'||Mo Dhaliwal, the founder of the Vancouver-based Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) that created the controversial ‘toolkit’ tweeted by Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, is looking to use the farm protests in India to fuel the separatist Khalistani movement, according to a police officer probing attempts to fan the separatist movement under the garb of the farmers' agitation. This lingering suspicion, the officer suggested, was confirmed by a recent video clip of Mo Dhaliwal where he is seen mobilising support for the agitation, as well as the separatist movement.“If the farm bills get repealed tomorrow, that is not a victory. This battle begins with the repeal of the farm bills, it does not end there. Let no one tell you that this battle is going to end with the repeal of the farm bills. That is because they are trying to drain energy from this movement. They are trying to tell you that you are separate from Punjab, and you are separate from the Khalistan movement. You are not,” Mo Dhaliwal says in this video clip, reportedly shot during the group’s protest outside the Indian consulate on 26 January.HT cannot confirm the authenticity of this video. Dhaliwal asked for his reaction to the police charge against his group, initially agreed to an interview with HT but later said he will issue a statement instead.Also Read: In probe against Khalistanis, NIA examines people linked to farmers’ protestsThe farm protests on the borders of national capital Delhi began on November 26 over three laws that aim to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce by setting up free markets. Farm unions, however, say they will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices and make them vulnerable to exploitation by corporate giants. They have rejected an offer to suspend the operation of the laws for 18 months, insisting that the laws be repealed.Mo Dhaliwal and his group, PJF, came into sharp focus this week after Swedish activist Greta Thunberg tweeted a document that detailed an action plan for online and offline protests linked to the ongoing farmers’ agitation that started in November end. The first document, complete with links to tweets that people could use on social media, was mostly focused on Republic Day celebrations in India on January 26 that the group intended to commemorate as a global day of protest. She deleted this document and later uploaded what a police officer described as an updated and sanitized version.The Delhi Police on Thursday cited the first document, or toolkit, to file a criminal case alleging criminal conspiracy and sedition. It didn’t name any suspects.The toolkit, the officer quoted above said, had to be seen in the context of the background and motivation of its creators. The video gives an insight into the objectives of the group that has been trying to build public opinion on social media against the Indian government.“The farm protests for them is just an excuse to mobilise support for their separatist agenda,” he said.Mo Dhaliwal’s video clip appeared to support this contention.In this, Dhaliwal attempts to persuade the younger members of his audience at the protest to keep an open mind to the demand for Khalistan.“The reason why the Khalistani people are so passionate about this (farm protests) is because 40-50 years later, we are seeing the truth that they predicted in the 1970s. In the 1970s, they wanted an independent land so that we wouldn't have to live through this movement. My request to all the young people is: Don't close your eyes to each other, don't close your heart to each other. Don’t close your minds to each other. If you see somebody with a sign that you don’t understand, that has this ‘bad word’, Khalistan, on it, ask questions, learn…understand... Nobody wanted to be a terrorist… They are trying to separate us from each other… We are here for the independence and sanctity of Punjab,” Dhaliwal is heard saying in the video.Dhaliwal isn’t the only one.Counter-terror officials, who have been talking about intelligence reports of separatist elements infiltrating the farm protests for weeks, said other pro-Khalistani individuals and groups had been active at various levels too.The Delhi Police had earlier declared that they had already identified at least 300 handles from Pakistan that were trying to mobilise protesters at the Delhi borders with the hashtag -- Support Khalistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battle-begins-with-repeal-of-farm-laws-says-pro-khalistani-mo-dhaliwal-who-created-greta-thunberg-toolkit-101612512728576.html
05-02-2021||India||Rajiv Gandhi case: DMK slams AIADMK for delay in decision on convict’s plea||The Opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam ( DMK) on Friday hit out at Tamil Nadu’s ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) for the delay in the decision over the remission plea of AG Perarivalan, who is serving a life sentence for his role in former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination in May 1991.“There will be a solution only if [DMK leader] Stalin becomes the chief minister. These people [AIADMK] are not courageous,” said DMK leader R S Bharathy.Chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami met Governor Banwarilal Purohit on January 29 with a petition reiterating the state government’s recommendation for the release of all seven convicts in the case. The recommendation was sent first in 2018 after the state Cabinet unanimously passed a resolution in this regard.Also Read | Rajiv Gandhi assassination: President to take call on convict’s plea, says govtPalaniswami on Thursday told the state assembly that Purohit will make a favourable decision soon and blamed the DMK for the delay. “We have consistently urged the Governor to decide favourably whenever we had the opportunity to meet him,” said Palaniswami.Perarivalan’s petition has been pending with the Governor since December 2015. He moved the Supreme Court in 2016 for an early decision on the plea. On January 21, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing Purohit, orally informed the court that the Governor will decide on Perarivalan’s petition within three to four days. The court’s short order later said four weeks, which was altered to a week the following day.But an affidavit submitted in the Supreme Court said that Purohit recorded on January 25 that the President is the “appropriate competent authority to deal” with the request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajiv-assassination-dmk-slams-aiadmk-for-delay-in-decision-on-convict-s-plea-101612511234664.html
05-02-2021||India||January was unusually warm for entire country except NW India||Only northwest India recorded below normal temperatures this January compared to the southern peninsula which was significantly warmer than normal; central India and northeast India.The mean temperature in January over northwest India was 11.75 degrees C (°C), 0.22°C below normal; the maximum temperature was 17.93°C, 0.40°C below normal and the minimum temperature was 5.57°C, 0.04°C below normal.When compared to the rest of the country, northwest India was the only region that recorded a harsh winter, but other regions recorded substantially above normal (average for 1971 to 2021 period) temperatures, according to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD’s) analysis. This was mainly a result of unusual rains in northwest India and south peninsula in January, experts said. The mean temperature over south peninsula was 26.36°C, 1.07°C above normal; over central India it was 21.55°C, 0.87°C above normal and over northeast India, it was 17.19°C, 0.69°C above normal.Overall, India recorded the fifth warmest January following 2016, 2009, 1958 and 1931, according to IMD’s analysis. IMD will be releasing a detailed report on temperature and rainfall patterns in January later today.Also Read | Char Dham shrines, hilly areas get fresh snowfall in UttarakhandThe average maximum, minimum and mean temperature for the country as a whole during December 2020 are 26.6°C, 15.1°C and 20.9°C respectively against the normal of 26.6°C, 14.4°C and 20.5°C respectively. In December, the temperatures were near normal for almost all regions.The report is also likely to show that south peninsula made a record in terms of rainfall this January. “In the first two weeks of January, there was widespread rain in northwest India due to an intense Western Disturbance and also extremely widespread and heavy rains in southern peninsula due to easterly activity. So there has been a lot of clouding. When there is a cloud cover, the heat is not able to escape from the surface at night. High moisture and clouding have resulted in above normal temperatures across the country except northwest India, “said DS Pai, senior scientist, IMD, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/january-was-unusually-warm-for-entire-country-except-nw-india-101612509737656.html
05-02-2021||India||Centre is ready to make changes in farm laws, but doesn't mean there is a problem with them: Tomar||As opposition parties continued to target the Centre over the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three new farm laws, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday that if the government wanted to make any changes in these laws, it didn’t mean there was any problem with them. “I made it clear that if Govt is ready to make amendments, it doesn’t mean there is any problem in farm laws. People in a particular state are misinformed,” Tomar said while addressing the Rajya Sabha.Tomar also said the farmers were being misled that others would occupy their lands if the laws were implemented. “Let me know if there is a single provision in Contract Farming law which allows any trader to snatch away the land of any farmer,” he said.With regard to the Minimum Support Price (MSP), which has been the core issue of the farmers’ movement, the Union minister said that it was being provided at 50% more than the production cost and the Centre ensured that requisite investment reaches the agriculture sector.We have started to provide MSP, 50% more than the production cost. Also, ₹1 lakh crore agriculture infrastructure fund has been given under Atmanirbhar package. We have tried to ensure the requisite investment reaches the agriculture sector: Agriculture Minister NS Tomar pic.twitter.com/Dgq2JdUKNrTomar reiterated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was committed towards the welfare of farmers and efforts were on to double their income and also increase the contribution of agriculture towards the country’s GDP rapidly.Also Read| ‘Farmers forced to fight for justice’: Congress’ Anand Sharma in Rajya SabhaUnder this year’s Union Budget, the Centre had allocated an amount of ₹2.83 lakh crore for agriculture with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman adding that the MSP regime underwent a change to assure price to farmers that is at least 1.5 times the cost of production across all commodities. “Our government is committed to the welfare of farmers. The MSP regime has undergone a change to assure a price that is at least 1.5 times the cost of production across all commodities,” Sitharaman had said during the presentation on February 1.Meanwhile, the protest against the farm laws entered day 71 with the protesters preparing for a three-hour nationwide highway blockade on Saturday. “Farmers would provide food and water to the people who will be stuck due to ‘chakka jam’,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait told reporters on Thursday adding that the highway blockade would take place everywhere but not in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clarified-if-govt-is-ready-to-make-changes-in-farm-laws-doesn-t-mean-tomar-101612509130906.html
05-02-2021||India||‘Farmers forced to fight for justice’: Congress’ Anand Sharma in Rajya Sabha||The three central farm laws were once again the topic of discussion in the Rajya Sabha on Friday, as Congress lawmaker Anand Sharma held the Centre responsible for the ‘situation that has arisen.’ Sharma also expressed sympathies for Delhi Police personnel, who sustained injuries after the farmers’ tractor parade turned violent on January 26.Also Read | New wall-like structure at Tikri, police reposition nails at Ghazipur﻿“Farmers were forced to fight for their rights and to get justice. The government of India is responsible for the situation that has arisen. I want to pay tributes to the 194 farmers who died during the protests,” news agency ANI quoted Sharma as saying in the Upper House.“We express sympathies for police personnel and officers who were injured during the January 26 violence. No one has the right to attack those who are discharging their duties. The Red Fort incident has sent shockwaves across the nation and it should be investigated,” Sharma said.We express sympathies for police personnel & officers who were injured during the Jan 26 violence. No one has the right to attack those who are discharging their duties. The Red Fort incident has sent shockwaves across the nation & it should be investigated: Cong MP Anand SharmaAccording to Delhi Police, more than 500 of its personnel were injured in the violent clashes with a section of farmers, who diverted from the route agreed between the police and farmers’ leaders, and entered the Capital for their march on Republic Day. One protesting farmer also lost his life in the January 26 clashes. His family members and eyewitnesses alleged he was shot dead by the police, who, in turn, claim that he died as his tractor turned turtle, and have released CCTV footage backing their claim.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Congress’ general secretary, had visited family members of Navreet Singh in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur on Thursday.Also Read | Priyanka Gandhi attends prayer meet of farmer who died during R-Day violenceThe three laws were passed in September last year amid chaotic scenes in Parliament, especially in the Rajya Sabha. Protests against the laws began in Punjab and shifted to Delhi in November. Eleven rounds of talks have taken place between the Union government and farmers’ unions and have been inconclusive. On Saturday, farmers will stage a pan-India road blockade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-forced-to-fight-for-justice-congress-anand-sharma-in-rajya-sabha-101612508146188.html
05-02-2021||India||Rajasthan HC issues notice on illegal mining hazard near Indo-Pak border||Taking a serious view of a petition alleging illegal mining near the Indo-Pak international border presented a major security risk to the country, the Rajasthan high court has sought response from the Central and state governments.The division bench of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Dinesh Mehta, while hearing the PIL filed by Seema Jan Kalyan Samiti, has asked additional advocate general Sandeep Shah and the assistant solicitor general Mukesh Rajpurohit to file their reply by February 19.The petitioner's counsel Sajjan Singh Rathore told the court that areas near the border are hot spots for illegal mining of Gypsum and other minerals. Growing rapidly, the illegal mining area now extends to within 500 meters of the international border fencing, the petition says.It alleged that the state government was issuing permits for excavation of minerals at some areas situated barely one km away from the international borders.Also Read: Rajasthan: Frontline workers will have to give reason for not getting vaccinatedThe petition further alleged that due to the illegal mining, huge pits have been created near the border area, which can be used for hiding or for construction of transborder tunnels. The pits near the border, mostly in Bikaner district, are 20ft to 40ft wide at some locations which can cover movement of suspicious persons, shielding them from the soldiers positioned at the BSF checkposts at the border.The petition further argues that these huge pits may also pose a serious hurdle to the movement of Indian Army soldiers near the international border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hc-issues-notice-on-illegal-mining-hazard-near-indo-pak-border-101612508504399.html
05-02-2021||India||Supreme Court grants interim bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui||The Supreme Court on Friday granted interim bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui, who is accused of hurting religious sentiments by allegedly passing objectionably remarks about Hindu deities during a show, on a petition challenging the rejection of his bail by Madhya Pradesh High Court. A bench of Justice RF Nariman and Justice BR Gavai also stayed the production warrant in a case against him in Uttar Pradesh.Faruqui had alleged in his petition that the police did not follow the procedure for arrest as laid down by the top court in its 2014 decision in Arnesh Kumar vs the State of Bihar. As per this decision, the arrest should be preceded by initial investigations by the police officer to assess the genuineness of the complaint.The 2014 decision also said that proper facts and reasons should be presented before a magistrate by the officer within 24 hours of the arrest. The magistrate, in turn, is to be satisfied that the condition precedent for arrest under Section 41 Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) has been satisfied and it is only thereafter that he will authorise the detention of an accused.Faruqui and four others were arrested on January 1 following a complaint by the son of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator, alleging he had passed objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Union home minister Amit Shah during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's Day. One more person was arrested after that.The high court, in its order passed on January 28, had refused to grant him bail noting that to "promote harmony" is one of the constitutional duties. It had also turned down the bail plea of another accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-grants-interim-bail-to-comedian-munawar-faruqui-101612505003674.html
05-02-2021||India||DRDE develop standard for Nuclear, Biological & chemical war protective clothing||After experiments and research for 30 years, Defence Research Development Establishment (DRDE) Gwalior developed a national standard for qualitative and quantitative method of determining breakthrough and permeation of Nuclear Biological and Chemical (NBC) permeable protective clothing, said DRDE officials.The Bureau of Indian Standards standardised the method, making India the fourth country after the US, UK and Germany to have its own national standard, claimed DRDE officials.NBC suits are meant to protect soldiers in a hostile environment with chemical/biological agents and against radioactive fallout dust. The suits are designed to be worn for extended periods while continuing to operate in a combat environment.DRDE joint director and head of test and evaluation Manisha Sathe said, “In NBC defence technologies, these are the first Indian Standards developed by DRDE. Earlier, the DRDE had developed various test methods for different NBC items as per the desired requirement and specification. After meticulous experimentation, methods have been developed and validated. Developed methods were further submitted for standardisation.”“Under the Protective Textiles Sectional Committee, Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) has published IS 17377 in two parts in 2020. This standard also provides relative ranking or material screening information about the ability of test materials to resist chemical war breakthrough,” she added.“This will also promote ‘Make in India’. It is expected to fulfil the long-pending needs of services. Developers, vendors and new startups in this field will assist them in streamlining their procurement and products. It will also ensure that only acceptable quality reaches the user which leads to a reduction in fatal casualties to the securities forces,” said AK Singh, director DRDE.This work has been successfully done by a team of DRDE scientists Manisha Sathe, joint director and head of Test & Evaluation Division, Shiv Prakash Sharma, Dr Prabhat Garg, Dr Virendra Vikram Singh, Pushpendra Sharma and other technical staff of TED.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drde-develop-standard-for-nuclear-biological-chemical-war-protective-clothing-101612504929368.html
05-02-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Pfizer withdraws emergency use application in India||Pharma major Pfizer on Friday said it has decided to withdraw its application for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) of its Covid-19 vaccine in India.Pfizer was the first pharmaceutical firm to seek an emergency use authorisation from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for its Covid-19 vaccine in the country, after it secured such clearance in the UK and Bahrain."In pursuance of the Emergency Use Authorisation of its Covid-19 vaccine, Pfizer participated in the Subject Expert Committee meeting of the Drug Regulatory Authority of India on February 3. Based on the deliberations at the meeting and our understanding of additional information that the regulator may need, the company has decided to withdraw its application at this time," a company spokesperson said in a statement.Pfizer will continue to engage with the authority and resubmit its approval request with additional information as it becomes available in the near future, the statement said."Pfizer remains committed to making its vaccine available for use by the Government in India and to pursuing the requisite pathway for emergency use authorisation that enables the availability of this vaccine for any future deployment," the spokesperson said.Pfizer in its application submitted to the drug regulator in December 2020, had sought permission to import the vaccine for sale and distribution in India, besides waiver of clinical trials on Indian population in accordance with the special provisions under the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, official sources had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-pfizer-withdraws-emergency-use-application-in-india-101612504010670.html
05-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest: India may seek help from Canada in Greta toolkit probe||India is likely to ask Canada for assistance in the investigation into the antecedents of individuals and groups responsible for creating a toolkit for those supporting the agitation against the farm laws, especially if it is linked to violence on Republic Day in New Delhi, Indian officials aware of the matter said. If the Delhi Police were to charge persons based in Canada in this regard, such a request is tenable under the mutual legal assistance treaty India has with Ottawa, they added. “We will take it up with the Canadian government when we need the cooperation of law enforcement agencies in Canada,” said an official, who did not wish to be named.The toolkit tweeted by Swedish activist Greta Thunberg and then deleted is linked to the Vancouver-based organisation Poetic Justice Foundation or PJF. HT reached out to the founder of PJF Mo Dhaliwal, who agreed to an interview but then said he will issue a statement instead.The toolkit is in support of the farmers’ agitation, and ostensibly to raise its profile internationally. PJF has also worked in coordination with the World Sikh Organisation, or WSO, which has been critical of India for several years, and, as per the Canadian Encyclopaedia, wanted to “create an independent nation — Khalistan”, when it was founded.PFJ’s co-founder, Anita Lal, joined WSO as its Director of Community Development on February 1. The organisations along with two others have also issued a press statement criticising actions of the Indian government following the violence on January 26, including arrests of journalists and cutting off of internet connectivity at points of the Delhi border where protesting farmers continue to gather.According to an interview with a campus journal, Dhaliwal is an alumnus of the University of Fraser Valley in British Columbia. He also worked briefly in Silicon Valley before returning to Vancouver. Dhaliwal also founded the Vancouver International Bhangra Celebration Society and was director of the strategy at Skyrocket, a branding web design agency in Vancouver.In an interview on January 26 to the Canadian network Global TV, Dhaliwal claimed the #AskIndiaWhy campaign was launched to “create awareness so that with the world’s eyes on India”, the government is “less likely” to undertake “any extreme violence” against the agitating farmers. Such “scrutiny”, he said, was required so that “India does not massacre the protestors standing against these laws.”The website launched to undergird the global campaign, AskIndiaWhy, was a recent development and PFJ asked people to “tag a celebrity, politician or influencer” to make some “noise” over the matter.PFJ’s website appears to be temporarily down. The AskIndiaWhy site displays a Sikh Sovereignty section, with its page linking to publications from the Khalistan Centre. The Centre’s web presence, at Khalistan.org, prominently says, “Mobilising the Khalsa panth to effectively achieve Khalsa Jee De Bol Baalay through the establishment of an independent Khalistan.”Dhaliwal, described as a community activist, was also the moderator for a panel discussion last year titled Khalistan, a conversation on trauma, racism, and sovereignty, organised by PFJ. Among the participants was Moninder Singh of the British Columbia Gurdwara Council, who also founded an organisation called the Sikh Liberation Front. In an interview with HT in 2018, he said, “The Khalistan movement doesn’t necessarily have to be associated with violence. Self-resistance, resistance against the state, self-defence — these modes sometimes require people to resist in many different ways including armed struggle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-protest-india-may-seek-canada-help-in-greta-toolkit-probe-101612504094299.html
05-02-2021||India||97% healthcare workers satisfied with Covid vaccination process: Govt survey||At least 97% of the 500,000 healthcare workers surveyed post-Covid-19 vaccination in the country have expressed satisfaction regarding the process, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. But at least 11% of them also said that they were not properly informed about the adverse event following immunisation (AEFI).After the vaccination drive was launched on January 16, the government started seeking feedback about it on the Co-WIN app from those vaccinated.“...Personalised SMSs are sent to all vaccinated beneficiaries a day after taking the first shot. A dedicated URL is sent through SMS with an option to upload answers to five questions. Those who do not reply to the SMS receive a call the next day, and if the call is not answered then there is a retry after four hours. Over 97% of the people were found to be satisfied with the overall vaccination experience,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary.Also Read | India’s 7-day average of daily Covid-19 tally falls below 13,000About 97% of those surveyed said that social distancing was maintained at the vaccination site. Around 98% said that they were informed about the vaccination process and given the vaccine properly. Close to 97% said that they were asked to wait for 30 minutes post-vaccination for monitoring.The percentage of people who said that they were informed about AEFI was the lowest (88.95%).“Out of 37 lakh [3.7 million] people whom we sent SMS, and followed it up by outbound calls, 512,128 replied. The replies have been analysed and 97% were satisfied with overall vaccination experience,” said Bhushan.Nearly 4.6 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered to healthcare workers across the country.Of the 10 million healthcare workers registered to be given a jab against Covid-19, about 45% have received the first dose of the vaccine so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/97-healthcare-workers-satisfied-with-covid-vaccination-process-govt-survey-101612500554234.html
05-02-2021||India||Another suit seeks transfer of Idgah Masjid land to Mathura’s Krishna temple||A priest has filed another suit seeking transfer of the 13.37 acre Shahi Idgah Masjid land near Mathura’s Sri Krishna temple complex to the deity.The fresh case has been filed months after a local court in September dismissed another suit filed on behalf of child deity Bhagwan Shri Krishna Virajman seeking removal of the Shahi Idgah Masjid near the complex.“This [fresh] case was filed on February 2 against the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board, the management committee of Shahi Masjid Idgah, Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi Trust, and Sri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan,” said R S Bhardwaj, the lawyer of the petitioner priest, Pawan Kumar Shastri. “The case was filed in the court of civil judge (senior division) in Mathura. Thursday was fixed for hearing. But the presiding officer was on leave. So, the case was heard by link officer, additional district judge (sixth)...”He added they argued on the maintainability of the case.Also Read | Four booked for offering namaz at Mathura templeAdditional district judge (Mathura) Chhaya Sharma earlier in September refused to admit another suit citing the bar under the Place of Worship (Special Provisions) Act. The law was passed at the height of the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute in 1991. It seeks to protect all religious structures as they existed at the time of Independence with the exception of the site at Ayodhya.The Supreme Court invoked the law in 2019 while awarding the disputed site at Ayodhya to child deity Ram Lalla. It reaffirmed that such similar cases cannot be entertained with respect to other sites in view of the law.The suit dismissed in September claimed ownership of the entire land of 13.37 acres land believed to be the birthplace of Lord Sri Krishna, the 8th incarnation of Lord Vishnu. It was filed on September 25 through the next friend of the child deity, Ranjana Agnihotri, an advocate and a resident of Lucknow. The suit sought cancellation of a settlement over the matter between the Shri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan, which is the governing body of the temple complex, and the Committee of Management of Trust of Shahi Idgah (Idgah Trust) in 1968.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-suit-seeks-transfer-of-idgah-masjid-land-to-mathura-s-krishna-temple-101612500013935.html
05-02-2021||India||India’s 7-day average of daily Covid-19 tally falls below 13,000||India’s seven-day average of the daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases went below 13,000 on Thursday, which has been the lowest since the last eight months when 12,881 infections were added on June 18. The average came out to be 12,712,857.On Thursday, 12,899 new Covid-19 cases and 107 related deaths were recorded which pushed the overall tally to nearly 10.8 million. The active cases further dropped below the 156,000 mark while more than 10.48 million people have recovered till now. On February 2 (Tuesday), only 8,635 cases of the coronavirus disease were seen - the lowest in more than eight months - and the 94 fatalities had been the lowest in nearly nine months.The Union health ministry had said on Thursday that two states of Kerala and Maharashtra added 70 per cent of the country’s total active cases. During the ministry’s press briefing, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan pointed out that 47 districts did not report any new coronavirus cases in the last three weeks, while 251 districts did not see any deaths during the same period.Also Read| One in 5 Indians exposed to coronavirus, says sero surveyThis downward trend of the outbreak in India comes after the country was in its worst shape in September. The daily cases were between a range of 75,000 to more than 90,000. More than one million cases were added in the first two weeks of September, which had been the highest globally.Even though the situation has been improving since October last year, Bhushan said that the global Covid-19 situation is still worrisome adding that some countries have witnessed multiple peaks. “In India, cases are declining. But this indicates that we still have to follow Covid appropriate behaviour,” he added.Meanwhile, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR’s) nationwide sero-survey, at least one in every five Indians had been exposed to Covid-19 with experts adding that a larger proportion still remains susceptible to the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-7-day-average-of-daily-covid-19-tally-falls-below-13000-101612499226054.html
05-02-2021||India||NCB makes two more arrests in Sushant Singh Rajput death case||In the ongoing case related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR), celebrity manager Rahila Furniturewala and businessman Karan Sajnani have been arrested, the Narcotics Control Bureau said.Both Sajnani and Furniturewala, who were in judicial custody in connection with the alleged drugs case, were brought to the NCB office on Thursday. NCB had confirmed earlier that these two men might have an alleged involvement in the case."Celebrity manager Rahila Furniturewala and businessman Karan Sajnani accused in connection with a drug case related to Sushant Singh Rajput, have been arrested," said NCB.NCB sources on Thursday had informed about the arrest of one other person in connection with Rajput's death case.The arrested man, Jagtap Singh Anand is the elder brother of Karamjeet alias KJ, who was earlier arrested in this case. Several transactions were found between Jagtap, KJ and others.Jagtap was also allegedly involved in the drug trade, according to NCB sources.The NCB, which has been probing the drugs angle in Sushant's death case, started the investigation after it received official communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage, and transportation.Sushant died by alleged suicide in his apartment here on June 14, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-makes-two-more-arrests-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-101612497264553.html
05-02-2021||India||Mercury rises in Kashmir after fresh snowfall||Srinagar recorded a minimum temperature of 1 degree Celsius (°C) after days of biting cold when the mercury plunged to a low of -8°C, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The fresh snowfall in Kashmir on Thursday has led to an improvement in the weather conditions.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccination of cops, frontline workers begins in KashmirThe ski resort town of Gulmarg was the coldest place in Kashmir as it recorded a minimum temperature of -6.7 °C followed by Pahalgam at 6.2°C.The 40-day period of harsh cold known as Chillai Kalan ended in Kashmir on January 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-rises-in-kashmir-after-fresh-snowfall-101612498993971.html
05-02-2021||India||India adds 12,408 Covid-19 cases, active cases fall below 152,000||India's tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases went past 10.8 million with 12,408 fresh infections, slightly lower than the previous day, and 120 related deaths in the last 24 hours even the recoveries surged to 10,496,308, according to the Union health ministry data showed on Friday. The number of deaths was, however, higher than Thursday's 107, data showed. According to the health ministry's dashboard at 8am, there have been 151,460 active cases and 154,823 deaths so far. The country’s active caseload remained below 200,000, which comprises 1.40% of the total cases.There have been more than 10.4 million recoveries after 15,853 patients of the coronavirus disease were discharged or cured between Thursday and Friday morning, the health ministry's data showed. The new discharges have pushed the national recovery rate to 97.16%.Also read | When will life return to normal? In 7 years at today's vaccine ratesThe 120 new fatalities include 46 deaths from Maharashtra, 17 from Kerala, seven each Delhi and Punjab. Of the 154,823 deaths reported so far in the country include 51,215 fatalities from Maharashtra followed by 12,375 from Tamil Nadu, 12,227 from Karnataka, 10,871 from Delhi, 10,199 from West Bengal, 8,680 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,157 from Andhra Pradesh, according to the health ministry's data.Also read | India’s 7-day average of daily Covid-19 tally falls below 13,000The dashboard also showed that 4,959,445 people have been vaccinated since January 16. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said that 19,99,31,795 samples have been tested up to February 4 with 715,776 samples being tested on Thursday.Meanwhile, Pfizer has withdrawn an application for emergency use authorisation of its Covid-19 vaccine in India, the company spokesperson said. The US company which was the first drugmaker to apply for emergency use authorisation of its vaccine in India, participated in a subject expert committee meeting of the Drugs Regulatory Authority of India (DGCI) on Wednesday, following which it has decided to withdraw its application at this time.Also read | One in 5 Indians exposed to coronavirus, says sero surveyThe company’s spokesperson said it will continue to engage with DGCI and resubmit its approval request with additional information as it becomes available in the near future. Pfizer had applied for the emergency use authorisation to DCGI on December 6.Reuters has reported that the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation had declined to accept Pfizer's request for approval without a small local trial on the vaccine's safety and immunogenicity for Indians. The government had in January approved a vaccine from Oxford University-AstraZeneca and another developed by Bharat Biotech with ICMR. Both companies had applied for approval of their vaccines after Pfizer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-adds-12-408-covid-19-cases-active-cases-fall-below-152000-101612498282365.html
05-02-2021||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Accused used UAE consulate seal to forge papers||A charge sheet filed last month by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in politically charged Kerala gold smuggling scandal reveals how the key players, PS Sarith Kumar and Swapna Suresh, used the seal and letter pad of Consulate General of UAE in Thiruvananthapuram for issuing forged authorisation letters for smuggling gold through diplomatic cargo. According to the charge sheet, reviewed by HT, when Sarith, who worked as public relations officer at the consulate between September 2016 and September 2019, was given the responsibility of clearing import cargo of diplomats and he found out that consignments of the Consulate were exempted from Customs inspections. Suresh, who was working as secretary to the Consul General, and Sarith decided to use this channel for smuggling gold for which they roped in a smuggler -- Ramees KT, who was earlier booked in a gold smuggling case in 2014 at Thiruvananthapuram International Airport. For facilitating smuggling through import cargo of the Consulate, Suresh and Sarith fixed their commission as $1,000 for every kg of smuggled gold. During a meeting in June 2019, it was decided that Ramees will form a gang to collect funds, provide logistical support and to recruit more people both within India and the UAE for smuggling gold in large quantity, according to the NIA charge sheet. Also Read | Kerala CM’s ex-principal secretary M Sivasankar gets bail in gold smuggling caseTo check the secrecy and reliability of diplomatic cargo route, the accused even sent two trial consignments without gold on July 14, 2019, from Dubai. Sarith, who had left the Consulate by September 2019, took with him a sample letter pad of the Consulate General, in which authorisation letters on behalf of Consul General of UAE were prepared with forged signatures of the diplomat and seal of the Consulate General, NIA says. The forged authorisation letters were issued by Sarith with the assistance of Suresh and were sent to Dubai for facilitating booking of consignments there. For sharing the forged letter and coordinating the smuggling activities, the accused persons had formed a Telegram channel “CPM Committee”. After the gold consignments were delivered to co-accused in Thiruvananthapuram, commission was handed over to one Sandeep Nair, of which a major part was taken by Sarith and Suresh “on the pretext of giving to the diplomat”, the charge sheet reveals. It was UAE Consul General who had written to various authorities including the Customs about Sarith’s forgery activities after noticing the same in April 2020. The UAE had informed that Sarith had resigned from the PRO job in September 2019 itself. In all, the accused persons had smuggled 167 kgs of 24 carat gold between November 2019 and June 2020. The scandal was unearthed after the last consignment of 30.244 kg gold, which arrived on June 30, 2020, was seized by the Customs. The NIA has also mentioned in the charge sheet that after tasting success in smuggling gold from the UAE, the accused persons were preparing to smuggle gold from Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Malaysia as well as African countries. NIA officials who didn’t want to be named said that they are further investigating the case to find out any political links of arrested persons. The agency had filed a charge sheet against 20 people, including Sarith and Suresh, on January 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-accused-used-uae-consulate-seal-to-forge-papers-101612498513896.html
05-02-2021||India||India farm protests: All you need to know about US’ stance on agitation||The US on Thursday called peaceful protests and unhindered access to information, including the internet, hallmarks of a “thriving democracy” even as it backed farm reforms in India saying that would increase the efficiency of Indian markets and attract more private investment. Here is all you need to know what Washington said on the ongoing farmers’ agitation at New Delhi’s borders for the first time since it began in November and continuing global spotlight on the issue:•The carefully worded response by Joe Biden’s administration also encouraged a “dialogue” between farmers and the government to end the agitation•The agitation has been getting global attraction with international celebrities such as pop star Rihanna and green activist Greta Thunberg tweeting in support of the protesters.• India said the comments by the US must be seen in their entirety while pointing out that State Department “has acknowledged” India’s steps towards reforms, which have emerged as a point of contention. • The government also appeared to draw parallels between a farmers’ rally on January 26 that plunged into chaos and the January 6 storming of the US Capitol by Donald Trump’s supporters protesting election results that declared his defeat in the presidential race.• The State Department did not mention anything specific to three new farm laws that have triggered the agitation.It appeared supportive of reforms. • Tens of thousands of farmers have camped at Delhi’s borders, demanding the repeal of the three laws passed by Parliament in September. Eleven rounds of talks between the protesters and the government have failed to break the impasse. Also Read | 43 FIRs in R-Day violence, 13 being probed by special cell: Delhi police to HCProtesters say the laws will hurt their livelihood and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government defends the laws as necessary for long-overdue reforms in the agriculture sector.On Republic Day, violence broke out during a tractor rally by farmers after a section of the protesters veered off the routes agreed with police and resorted to vandalism. Clashes broke out in several places, including the 17th-century Red Fort and the ITO intersection.On that day, internet services were suspended, albeit temporarily, at three key protest sites — Singhu and Tikri (on Haryana border), and Ghazipur (on Uttar Pradesh border). Services were suspended again on January 29 for two days and then extended till February 3.After the violence, authorities stepped up security at the protest sites, placing iron spikes and steel barricades to prevent the agitators from entering Delhi.• The agitation gained the global spotlight after Rihanna, who has 101 million followers, tweeted a CNN news report about internet curbs on Tuesday. • Valerie Vaz, an MP of Britain’s Labour Party, wrote a letter to foreign minister Dominic Raab to reiterate the concerns of her constituents regarding events related to the farmers’ protest.• Vaz asked Raab to contact the Indian government “as a matter of urgency regarding these concerning events”. The Indian-origin MP was among 35 British lawmakers to take up the farmers’ protest with Raab before he visited India in December.• On Wednesday, India said criticism by foreign celebrities and attempts to “mobilise international support” against the country on the government’s handling of the protests without ascertaining facts were “neither accurate nor responsible”. • In a rare statement, the external affairs ministry contended that “vested interest groups” were trying to enforce their agenda, referring to “sensationalist social media hashtags and comments” by “celebrities and others”. It didn’t name anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-farm-protests-all-you-need-to-know-about-us-stance-on-agitation-101612496653976.html
05-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi's air quality 'very poor' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s air quality very poor, could improve over weekendCentral Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall AQI of Delhi on Thursday was 316, in the “very poor” zone. This was, however, an improvement from Wednesday’s 330, also in the “very poor” category. Read moreIndia ignores Rihanna barb, donates vaccine to BarbadosBarbados Prime Minister Mia Amor Mottley has thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for 100,000 doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca anti-coronavirus vaccine. Read moreFarmers’ protest: Delhi borders remain closed; traffic likely to be affectedDelhi Traffic Police officers said Delhi and Ghaziabad would have to face traffic jams as the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border has been completely closed. Read moreIndia’s pace ace Jasprit Bumrah ready to burst IPL myth at homeIt has taken 37 months since his introduction to Test cricket in Cape Town, bursting deliveries at 140 kph, for Jasprit Bumrah to play his first Test in India. Read moreMonster Hunter movie review: Milla Jovovich, Tony Jaa's video game adaptation is the death of cinemaPaul WS Anderson's new film, starring Milla Jovovich and Tony Jaa, feels depressingly hollow, even by the standards of corny, unpretentious action movies. Read moreElegance personified: Nora Fatehi adds a touch of modern magic to ethnic attiresNora Fatehi recently donned gorgeous ethnic outfits adorned with chikankari work and gave them a modern twist. The actor turned muse for designers Abu Jani and Sandeep Khosla. Read more‘India ready to supply weapons systems to IOR countries’: Rajnath SinghRajnath Singh said India is ready to supply various types of weapons systems to IOR countries. The defence minister was addressing the Indian ocean region defence ministers' conclave. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-s-air-quality-very-poor-and-all-the-latest-news-101612492277330.html
05-02-2021||India||1 in 5 adults exposed to Covid-19: Key points of ICMR’s nationwide sero survey||At least one in five (21%) Indians aged over 18 has been exposed to the Covid-19, according to Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) third nationwide sero survey based on the testing of samples for antibodies from 28,589 people between December 17 and January 8. Here is all you need to know about the survey findings:• Experts said the findings show that a large proportion of the country – nearly 80% – remains susceptible to the virus.• In children aged between 10 and 17, the seroprevalence was 25.3%, and people above the age of 60 showed a prevalence of 23.4%.• The findings released on Thursday are from the third round of pan-India surveys conducted by ICMR. It was conducted in the same 700 villages, 70 districts from 21 states that were selected during the first and the second round of surveys.• Doctors and nurses were affected the most with a seroprevalence of 26.6%, followed by paramedical staff (25.4%), field staff (25.3%), and administration staff (24.9%).Also Read | Study decodes how Sars-Cov-2 mutates, escapes antibodies• In the general population, 28,589 individuals were tested for antibodies against Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Additionally, 7,171 healthcare workers were also covered. The second group included a hundred healthcare workers each from taluk hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres, etc, for each district covered in the country.• More women had antibodies compared to men, with a prevalence rate of 22.7% and 20.3%.• In the general population, the prevalence was higher in urban slums (31.7%), followed by non-urban slums (26.2%), and rural areas (19.1%).• Among healthcare workers, the seroprevalence was 25.7%.• The numbers represent a sharp jump from the previous rounds.• The first sero survey was conducted in May-June 2020. It showed 0.73% seroprevalence• The second one (August-September) showed an overall prevalence of 6.6%. • A serological test is to detect whether a person has antibodies to the Sars-CoV-2, which would indicate a past infection.• With a large population remaining vulnerable to the virus, vaccination is the key along with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour to stop the spread of the virus.• More than 4.6 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines have already been administered across the country in the past 18 days. • Of the roughly 9.7 million healthcare workers registered to be given a jab against Covid-19, about 45% have received the first dose of the vaccine so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-in-5-adults-exposed-to-covid-19-key-points-of-icmr-s-nationwide-sero-survey-101612495153615.html
05-02-2021||India||Light rain, snowfall expected over next 24 hours in parts of NW India||Parts of Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttarakhand are likely to receive light rain and snowfall over the next 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. It added light rain and thunderstorms with lightning was expected in eastern Uttar Pradesh, northern Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, and northern Chhattisgarh during the same time.Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh earlier received snowfall on Wednesday and Thursday due to a Western Disturbance.The Western Disturbance as a cyclonic circulation was lying over northern Pakistan and an induced cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan. Under the influence of these systems, widespread light to moderate rain and snow with thunderstorms, lightning, and hail was likely over the Western Himalayan region till Friday evening.Interaction of the Western Disturbance and lower level southeasterlies from the Bay of Bengal was likely to cause fairly widespread light to moderate rain and thundershowers with isolated thunderstorms, lightning, and hail in Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh on Friday and parts of central and east India till Saturday.Also Read | Wildlife officials feed birds in freezing KashmirDry north-westerly winds were likely to blow over northwest India from Friday onwards bringing chilly winds from the Western Himalayas. This will result in a fall in minimum temperatures by 4-6 degrees Celsius (°C) in northwest India during the next three to four days, IMD said in its bulletin on Thursday.“There has been snowfall over Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. When the wind direction changes on Friday temperatures are likely to fall significantly once again due to cold north-westerly winds which will be blowing from the direction of snowclad Himalayas. The minimum temperature in Delhi could be around 7°C on Saturday. But from Feb 8, temperatures will rise again because another Western Disturbance is approaching on Feb 12,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. He added that cold wave conditions are unlikely in northwest India.The minimum temperature in Delhi on Friday at 5.30am was 9°C, down from 12.4°C a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-rain-snowfall-expected-over-next-24-hours-in-parts-of-nw-india-101612494313862.html
05-02-2021||India||India ignores Rihanna barb, donates vaccine to Barbados||At a time when Barbadian singer-activist Robyn Rihanna Fenty has invited global focus on farmers' protest in India through a tweet, Barbados Prime Minister Mia Amor Mottley has thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for 100,000 doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca anti-coronavirus vaccine.In a letter to PM Modi on February 4, Mottley said: “On behalf of my government and people, I wish you to express gratitude to you, your government and the people of the Republic of India for most generous donation of the Covishield vaccine (under the auspices of Oxford AstraZeneca).”Also read | Creators of ‘toolkit’ booked for conspiracy and seditionThe Barbados Prime Minister had earlier written to Prime Minister Modi for the donation of the Indian vaccine for the Caribbean nation.Watch: Celebrities clash over farmers' protest on Delhi borders “The Minister of Health and Wellness and the Chief Medical Officer both have confirmed that the vaccine has been approved for use in Barbados and will be administered in accordance with the manufacturers’ guidelines,” PM Mottley said in her letter.Also read | 'Ascertain facts before rushing to comment': MEA on tweets over farmers' protestIndia has a list of nearly 152 countries asking for coronavirus vaccine and is expected to supply near 16 million doses to at least 60 by March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ignores-rihanna-barb-donates-vaccine-to-barbados-101612492721209.html
05-02-2021||India||PM Modi's niece fails to get BJP ticket to contest Ahmedabad civic polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's niece Sonal Modi, who had sought BJP nomination to contest the Ahmedabad civic body polls, on Thursday failed to get a ticket with the party citing new rules for candidates.The BJP announced its candidates for the upcoming elections to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), but Sonal Modi's name does not figure in the list.Talking to reporters on Tuesday, Sonal Modi had said she has sought BJP ticket to contest from Bodakdev ward of the AMC.Sonal Modi, a homemaker in her late 30s, is the daughter of PM Modi's brother Prahlad Modi, who owns a fair price shop in the city and is also the president of Gujarat Fair Price Shops Association.The BJP list released late in the evening on Thursday does not have the name of Sonal Modi as the candidate from Bodakdev or any other ward of the AMC.Rules are same for everybody, state BJP president C R Paatil said when asked about denial of ticket to Sonal Modi.The Gujarat BJP recently announced that relatives of party leaders will not be considered for ticket allocation for the upcoming polls.Sonal Modi had, however, claimed she had sought election ticket as a BJP worker, not as the niece of the PM."I have sought the ticket in my capacity as a BJP worker not as a relative of the PM. Even if I am not given the ticket, I will remain active in the party as a dedicated worker, Sonal Modi had told reporters.Prahlad Modi had justified his daughter's decision, saying all his family members are free to take their own decisions."This is not a case of nepotism. My family never used Narendra Modi's name for our benefit. We all earn our own bread and butter."Even I run a ration shop. I have not visited Narendra Modi's bungalow after he became the PM, let alone my children," Prahlad Modi had said.The BJP's state parliamentary board on Thursday finalised candidates for the six municipal corporations.A list of 576 BJP candidates for the poll-bound corporations Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar was released.On February 1, the BJP had said it will not give tickets to relatives of ruling party leaders.Also, the BJP had said it will not consider party workers who are above the age of 60 and those who have finished three terms as councillors for tickets.Elections to the half-a-dozen municipal corporations will take place on February 21, while voting for 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats will be held on February 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-niece-fails-to-get-bjp-ticket-to-contest-ahmedabad-civic-polls-101612490515647.html
05-02-2021||India||One in 5 Indians exposed to coronavirus, says sero survey||At least one in five (21%) Indians above the age of 18 years has been exposed to the coronavirus, according to Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) third nationwide sero survey that tested samples from 28,589 people for antibodies between December 17, 2020 and January 8, 2021. Among health care workers, the seroprevalence was 25.7%.The numbers represent a sharp jump from the previous rounds — the first sero survey (conducted in May-June 2020) showed 0.73% seroprevalence, while the second one (August-September, 2020) showed overall prevalence of 6.6%. A serological test is to detect whether a person has antibodies to the Sars-Cov-2, which would indicate a past infection.Experts said the findings of the report show that a large proportion of the country – nearly 80% – remains susceptible to the virus.In children between the ages of 10 and 17, the prevalence was 25.3%, and people above the age of 60 showed a prevalence of 23.4%, the report showed. In the general population, the prevalence was higher in urban slums (31.7%), followed by non-urban slums (26.2%), and rural areas (19.1%).More women had antibodies compared to men, with a prevalence rate of 22.7% and 20.3% respectively.In the general population, 28,589 individuals were tested for antibodies against Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Additionally, 7,171 health care workers were also covered. The second group included hundred health care workers each from taluk hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres, etc, for each district covered in the country.Doctors and nurses were affected the most with a seroprevalence of 26.6%, followed by paramedical staff (25.4%), field staff (25.3%), and administration staff (24.9%).Presenting the findings of the report at a media briefing, ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava pointed out that a large proportion of people remained susceptible to catching the infection.Experts echoed the views. “If 20% of the country has been exposed, then there are 80% who are still not exposed to the virus. That means we cannot afford to drop our guard. Covid vaccination has just started and there is still time before a significant percentage of population develops antibodies against the virus,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.The findings released on Thursday are from the third round of pan-India sero surveys conducted by ICMR. It was conducted in the same 700 villages, 70 districts from 21 states that were selected during the first and the second round of surveys, ICMR said.“(The results of the latest sero survey) reflect the situation in the pre-vaccination period as vaccination drive started on January 16. The most sensitive test was used, and it was the same test that was used in the United States and showed the sero prevalence of 14.3%,” said Dr Bhargava.“A large population still remains vulnerable to the virus, and vaccination is the key along with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour to stop the spread of the virus,” he added.More than 4.6 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines have already been administered across the country in the past 18 days. Of the roughly 9.7 million (9,631,637) health care workers registered to be given a jab against Covid-19, about 45% (4,391,826) have received the first dose of the vaccine so far.“We had estimated the number to be 10 million but when health care workers database was created on Co-WIN then it turned out to be 9,631,637 health care workers in all. So, this is the number that needs to be given both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the initial phase,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary.Thirteen states have covered at least 50% of their health care workers. Madhya Pradesh leads the states with 73.6% of health care workers being given the first dose in 18 days. It is followed by Rajasthan that has immunised 67% of its health care workforce, according to data from the Union health ministry.Some states are yet to catch up; and there are 11 such states that have not been able to vaccinate more than 30% of its health care workers. Puducherry is still at 12.6%, followed up Manipur at 12.8%, and Meghalaya at 15.2% of its health care workers. Among bigger states, Tamil Nadu is also currently at 23.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-in-5-indians-exposed-to-virus-says-sero-survey-101612490263785.html
05-02-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee's attempt to stall rath yatras cowardly, she fears losing power: BJP leader||Attempts by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) to stall Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) proposed rath yatras in poll-bound West Bengal exposes the weakness of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, according to N V Subhash, Telangana BJP senior leader."Creating obstacles for the five Parivartan Yatras which are scheduled to be flagged off by BJP senior leaders from February 6 in West Bengal is an act of cowardice. This indicates that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has lost her grip over the state and fear losing the throne," he said.In a statement on Thursday, Subhash said the 25-day rath yatras have been proposed to create awareness among the people, but the state government was making all-out efforts to stop the BJP programme by several means."Even before BJP gets approval for the yatras, TMC leaders filed a petition in the court seeking not to give permission considering the COVID-19 pandemic. It shows how the Mamata Banerjee government is trying to prevent BJP leaders from taking out yatras," Subhash said, adding that the campaign launched by the senior BJP leaders has sent ripples in the TMC leadership and hence they wanted to stop BJP 'by hook or by crook'.Reacting to Mamata Banerjee's comments that the defectors from the party were "greedy" and they left before she drove them out, the BJP leader said Banerjee was losing ground in the state and by declining permission for the Rath Yatras, she was giving wrong signals to the people on the faith of democracy."The visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Haldia on February 7 to participate in the BJP's 'Jan Sabha' would be a boost to the party cadre in West Bengal," he added. This Monday, BJP West Bengal president Dilip Ghosh has announced plans to roll out five 'Parivartan Yatras' across West Bengal from February 6."Five 'yatras' have been decided till now. The last one will go from Kakdwip to Kolkata," Ghosh told ANI after a meeting with members of the party's core committee at his residence in Delhi, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be invited for the conclusion of the last Rath Yatra.He further said that permission had been sought for the rath yatras from the state government, and if denied, the party may go to court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-s-attempt-to-stall-rath-yatras-cowardly-bjp-leader-101612485863521.html
05-02-2021||India||Fire breaks out in Hyderabad school, no casualties reported||A fire broke out at a school in Hyderabad's Gowlipura area on Thursday, Syed Abdul Khader Jilani, Inspector of Police, Chatrinaka Police Station said.According to Jilani, at least 23 students were inside the school when the incident took place but no casualties were reported."At about 10:45 am, a fire broke out at the Srinivasa High School in Gowlipura. It is suspected that a short circuit due to power fluctuations was the reason for the accident. The school management, who had already installed the fire control safety system, used fire extinguishers and water to douse the fire," Jilani told ANI over the phone."About 23 to 25 school children of Classes 9 and 10 were on the second floor of the same building and the fire accident took place on the Ground floor. They somehow managed to escape from the incident," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-in-hyderabad-school-no-casualties-reported-101612483779484.html
05-02-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait to address 2nd farmers’ mahapanchayat in Haryana’s Dadri on Feb 7||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait is scheduled to address a ‘Mahapanchayat’ in Dadri’s Charkhi village on February 7, said Sombir Sangwan, the Sangwan Khap chief.On Wednesday, Tikait received massive response at a similar meeting held in Jind’s Kandela village.Sangwan, an independent MLA from Haryana’s Dadri said, “We have called a meeting of all Khaps of the region at Kitlana toll plaza in Bhiwani to discuss the strategy related to the mahapanchayat. The agitation has picked up pace in the district and we are expecting a larger crowd than the Jind’s meeting here.”The three Khaps of Dadri district — Sangwan, Phogat and Sheoran — have socially boycotted Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh and former Dadri MLA Rajdeep Phogat.Experts said that Tikait’s decision to address mahapanchayats in areas dominated by the Jat community will send a signal to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-JJP alliance in the state.Rajendra Sharma, professor of political science at Maharshi Dayanand University, said, “The Kandela rally has sent out a loud and clear signal to the ruling BJP-JJP coalition government about the unrest among the Jats, the dominating farming community of Haryana.”Meanwhile, in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli district, officials denied the protesting farmers to hold a mahapanchayat in the district on Friday. The administration has also banned large gatherings till April 3.The farmers’ unions have said they will go ahead with the meeting against three controversial farm laws despite the administration’s refusal.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-tikait-to-address-2nd-farmers-mahapanchayat-in-haryana-s-dadri-on-feb-7-101612477335992.html
05-02-2021||India||Govt has empowered farmers: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday listed out all that his government has done to empower India’s farmers in the 2021 Budget and in prior years, in another outreach to protestors demanding the repeal of three contentious farm laws aimed at opening up agricultural markets.For one thing, the government has decided to connect at least 1,000 mandis (agricultural markets) to the eNAM online agricultural trading platform to turn the markets into centres of profit for farmers, the prime minister said in a speech by video link to mark the centenary of the Chauri Chaura event, a landmark moment in the history of India’s freedom struggle.“Now, when farmers go to mandis to sell their produce they will be able to do so with ease at any place across the country,” said the Prime Minister, who released a stamp to mark the centenary.In addition, Modi noted that the Centre had allocated ₹40,000 crore for the development of rural infrastructure in the budget for financial year 2021-22, which has been described by many economists as a growth-oriented package aimed at boosting the pandemic-ravaged economy.”Farmers will directly benefit from investment in the infrastructure sector,” the PM said. “The decision of the Centre will make farmers atmanirbhar (self-reliant). Agriculture will turn into a profitable venture for farmers.”February 4 marks 100 years of an event that took place in Chauri Chaura, a village in Gorakhpur district of Uttar Pradesh, known as United Province in British India, when a large group of protesters participating in Mahatma Gandhi’s non-cooperation movement clashed with the police, who opened fire. In retaliation, the protestors set fire to a police station. The incident left three civilians and 22 policemen dead. Days later, a saddened Gandhi halted the non-cooperation movement.Modi said the fire lit by the protestors was not confined to the police precinct. It reached the hearts of the people of India, infusing them with the desire for achieving independence from colonial rule.Modi’s speech has come amid protests by thousands of farmers massed on the borders of the national capital demanding the repeal of three contentious laws pushed through by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government.The laws aim to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce by setting up free markets, which will co-exist with regulated markets, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements.Farm unions say free markets under the laws will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices and make them vulnerable to exploitation by corporate giants. The Supreme Court put the three laws on hold on January 12.In his speech, Modi said farmers had contributed record foodgrain production during the pandemic year, and become the base of progress achieved by the country.Modi said the Swamitwa Yojana (Ownership Scheme) launched by the government in Uttar Pradesh last year will also benefit farmers, who will receive documents of ownership of their land and houses. The ownership document will not only raise the value of their property, but they will also get loan from banks with ease, Modi said.“Efforts of the government are changing the scenario in the Gorakhpur region, known as the land of revolutionaries. Earlier, factories were closed, roads were damaged and hospitals remained closed. Now, the Gorakhpur fertiliser factory is starting. Farmers will benefit and young people will get employment, :he said.Modi said the Budget will enable the country meet the challenges on the road ahead in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic.“Before the budget was presented, several experts said the country faces a crisis and the centre will have to increase taxes, put the burden on the common man. But the centre ensured that no burden was put on the people,” Modi said.The Centre has, instead, decided to increase spending to accelerate development. “Expenditure will be on construction of wide roads to connect villages with towns, mandis and markets; construction of bridges, laying of railway tracks, starting new trains, buses; improvement of education; to provide more opportunities of employment to the young,” he said.He also mentioned India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and its vaccination drive from which, Modi said, several countries were drawing lessons. Alongside manufacturing Covid-19 vaccines, India is exporting them to countries who need them, he said.“Now, the Centre is working to provide quality medical facilities to people in rural areas so that they do not have to go to cities for treatment of minor health problems. To ensure that they do not face any problem in getting medical services, a big decision has been taken in the budget -- now modern testing laboratories will be established in each district and people will get health services in villages too. The Centre has increased the budget allocation for the health sector,” he said.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu said the Prime Minister should also have paid tribute to the 150 farmers who have died in the course of the protest, accusing the government of betraying farmers. “Farmers across the country have united to launch a movement against the government, he said.Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati has demanded a repeal of the three laws in solidarity with the protesting farmers, the party’s general secretary Lalji Verma said. “Instead of talking with the farmers, the central government is trying to suppress their movement. It clearly shows the anti- farmer attitude of the central government,” Verma said.Samajwadi Party’s national president and former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav said the Bharatiya Janata Party should take a lesson from the Chauri Chaura movement, and repeal the three laws.Hem Chandra Singh, president of the Purvanchal Kisan Union, said that instead of talking to the farmers, the Centre was trying to suppress their agitation, which is against the spirit of the freedom struggle and the ideals of Chauri Chaura activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-has-empowered-farmers-modi-101612476548007.html
05-02-2021||India||Facebook, Twitter: Platforms or media companies?||Twitter’s decision to take down several posts in relation to the farm protests and its criticism has brought the spotlight back on a crucial debate relating to how social media companies are classified: they claim to be technology platforms, but how they moderate – and curate by way of algorithmic prioritisation — their content is similar to editorial decisions exercised by media companies.On Thursday for instance, the social media company took down tweets of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut. Earlier in the week, it temporarily blocked some accounts in India before unblocking them on the grounds that the company believes in “protecting public conversation and transparency”, according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be named. “We have taken action on tweets that were in violation of the Twitter rules in line with our range of enforcement options,” a Twitter spokesperson said in a statement.Growing intervention by tech ‘platforms’The classification of social media companies is crucial because they are at present beyond the regulatory scope that extends to media companies, requiring the latter to follow guidelines on speech and expression — a structure that experts have long held is crucial since mass media has large influence on politics and culture.Not only do these companies decide who gets to post what, they influence and regulate which content is amplified and which isn’t.The companies, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and others, base their characterisation as technology platforms on two main pillars: that the content they host is not generated by them, and that code – not human intervention – determines how it is displayed. Their moderation is based on self-drawn guidelines meant to combat hate speech and unlawful media.At the core of this characterisation is Section 230 of Communications Decency Act in the United States, which has physical jurisdiction over the world’s biggest tech companies. It lays down that internet companies will not be held liable for the content they host, and that they cannot be held liable for good-faith efforts to hide, remove or filter user-generated content. This law has been regarded as the bedrock for an open, free internet.Too much or not enoughBut increasingly, their moderation has been debated. One such example is the decision by Facebook and Twitter in 2020 to block access to a news article about then presidential candidate (and current President) Joe Biden’s son Hunter Biden. Critics condemned the companies for blocking a report that a news organisation deemed fit to publish, while the companies cited rules against carrying material obtained through hacking or illegal sourcing.At the same time, the platforms – particularly Facebook – have been criticised for not doing enough in some other circumstances: They were criticised for not curtailing conspiracy theory groups such as QAnon and hate collectives such as the Proud Boys, which were among those that laid siege to the US Capitol on January 6.In a 2017 paper published in First Monday, a peer-reviewed open access journal for research on the Internet, public and tech policy experts Philip Napoli and Robyn Caplan write that treating social media companies as tech firms ignores the social aspects and influence of their reach, as also the fact that their main revenue source is content, the same as media companies.“The framing of social media platforms and digital content curators purely as technology companies marginalises the increasingly prominent political and cultural dimensions of their operation, which grow more pronounced as these platforms become central gatekeepers of news and information in the contemporary media ecosystem” they write.In the paper, Napoli and Caplan argue that traditional media roles of “1) production (exemplified by content creators such as news outlets and television studios); 2) distribution (the process of moving content from producers towards consumers); and, 3) exhibition (the process of providing content directly to audiences)” have now merged and evolved due to digitization of media.They also target the defence that computer code is responsible for editorial functions, and that there is no human intervention. “The asserted absence of direct human editorial involvement helps to further this perception of distance from, and/or neutrality in, the content selection process — a model that is presumably fundamentally different from the kind of direct (and human) editorial discretion that has been a defining characteristic of traditional media companies.”But, they add, “simply because the mechanisms for exercising editorial discretion — for gatekeeping — have changed doesn’t mean that the fundamental institutional identity of the gatekeepers should be recast”.A crucial similarity between these social media companies and media companies is the centrality of advertising as a revenue source, Napoli and Caplan write.Changing nature of media, technologyThe debate, however, also needs to account for the changing nature of media and communications and the centrality of user-generated content – a factor the authors of the paper also recognise. “One could just as easily argue that it is necessary and appropriate for our understanding of media companies to evolve to fully encompass the structure and operation of these platforms”.But regulatory parity may be necessary, and appears to have been identified in some manner by big tech leaders. In December, 2016, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg described Facebook as “not a traditional media company”. Google in a 2005 regulatory filing stated, “We began as a technology company and have evolved into a software, technology, Internet, advertising, media company”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-twitter-platforms-or-media-companies-101612476121092.html
05-02-2021||India||Tandav case: Amazon official gets HC relief||The Allahabad High on Thursday provided an Amazon Prime Video official interim protection from any coercive action in the case filed against the makers of the web series ‘Tandav’ and officials of the streaming platform for allegedly hurting religious sentiments.The high court reserved order on the anticipatory bail application filed by Aparna Purohit, Head of India Originals, Amazon Prime Video, but said that no coercive action can be taken against her till the pronouncement of an order.Purohit counsel argued that the web series “Was a work of fiction. There was no intention of the applicant to outrage the religious feeling of any community”.On January 19, an FIR was lodged in the Rabupura police station of Greater Noida, accusing the series of deliberately denigrated Hindu gods and goddesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tandav-case-amazon-official-gets-hc-relief-101612475208738.html
05-02-2021||India||Study decodes how Sars-Cov-2 mutates, escapes antibodies||The Sars-Cov-2 evades antibody response due to deletions in its genetic structure, triggering minute changes in the spike protein that the virus uses to infect cells, according to a study published by researchers from University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine in the journal Science on Thursday.The findings offer some clues on how the virus changes: the researchers found that much of the mutation occurred at the same spots in a sequence, “spots where the virus can tolerate a change in shape without losing its ability to invade cells and make copies of itself”.The deletion occurs when the virus replicates and because the coronavirus has a faulty biological “proofreader”, the deletions are not caught. “You can’t fix what’s not there,” said study senior author Paul Duprex, director of the Center for Vaccine Research at the University of Pittsburgh. “Once it’s gone, it’s gone, and if it’s gone in an important part of the virus that the antibody ‘sees,’ then it’s gone for good.”The study was carried out by looking at the case of an immunocompromised patient, who had a recurrent infection for 74 days before ultimately succumbing to the disease. The authors say in the report that a “cat and mouse” game between the person’s immune system and the virus turns into a co-evolutionary dance that helps the fittest of mutations to eventually survive.At least three variants of the virus, carrying a constellation of mutations, are of concern globally at the present. Among these, two carry a mutation known as E484K that lab tests and clinical trials suggest could lead to a decrease in potency of vaccines.The researchers said it remains to be seen how much the virus will go on to mutate. “How far these deletions erode protection is yet to be determined,” said Kevin McCarthy, assistant professor of molecular biology and molecular genetics at Pitt, and an expert on the influenza virus. “At some point, we’re going to have to start reformulating vaccines, or at least entertain that idea.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-decodes-how-sars-cov-2-mutates-escapes-antibodies-101612475007824.html
05-02-2021||India||HT Interview: We’ve sought to address needs, efficiency, equity, says NK Singh||The Constitution, through Article 280 to 281, provides for finance commissions every five years as a mechanism for sharing of taxes and revenues vertically between the Centre and states; and horizontally among all states, based on levels of development, demographic outcomes, prosperity and regional needs.The final report of the 15th Finance Commission for 2021-26 has now been made public. The Union government, in its action taken report on the commission’s report tabled in Parliament, has accepted most of the recommendations, and overtly rejected none. The 15th FC had the onerous task of devolving resources at a time when the pandemic has devastated the economy, shrinking the resource pie. The chairman of the 15th FC, NK Singh, spoke to Zia Haq about the report. Edited excerpts:What were the philosophical underpinnings and approach of the 15th FC? Your report states that “stability and predictability of resources is an essential component of good long-term budgeting for both Union and States”. The history of the Finance Commission is embedded in the legacy of unalloyed confidence and trust. When the Constituent Assembly in its debates was unable to come to a conclusion of how the resources were to be divided between the Union and states, various mechanisms were considered at that time. Earlier it was said that nothing was shareable, except income tax, and you know the finance commission in a sense is older than our Constitution, because the Independence was in 1947, whereas the Constitution came into play only in 1950. So, there was a period they had appointed an interim chairman of the finance commission under CD Deshmukh because the Constituent Assembly had asked him to do it. He had given a certain framework on the division of resources. Then the Constitution got adopted and the 1st FC under KC Neogi was constituted. Since then it has had an unbroken legacy, an unbroken record embedded in bipartisanship, fair play and has been totally ideologically neutral.In terms of receiving the requests, each of the states and the Union government… and then looking at what would be their expenditure, looking at their likely revenue, what would be a fair distribution of these resources between the entities of the Union and the states, and thereafter what would be a reasonable basis for allocation. And if there were obvious gaps after the revenue expenditure of the state had been calibrated in an optimum way and the revenues had been projected in a somewhat optimistic way. Now, if there were inescapable gaps, what amount of it was reasonable to fill up by taking recourse to Article 275 of the Constitution, by way of revenue-deficit grants.Thereafter, two big changes took place. One was that the third tier (urban local bodies and panchayats) was brought into play by the two constitutional amendments (73rd and 74th), which assigned responsibilities to the FCs and second, the Disaster Management Act 2005 was enacted and it became customary for assignment of resources for disaster management. Also, it gave greater latitude to the President in asking the FC’s views on any other matter which the president may choose in the interest of sound finance. Over these 72 years or so, the dynamics of the Indian economy have changed enormously. From an economy originally depended on imported foodgrains and scrambling for shortage of foreign exchange to an economy, given the liberalisation and successive crisis, that has matured and evolved, we see that the needs and obligations from the states have increased.There are two important points. One is the recognition that the Union government had obligations that went beyond the strict interpretation of the 7th Schedule of the Constitution (which specifies allocation of subjects between Union and states, containing three lists: Union list, state list and concurrent list), namely what went beyond what was assigned to the Union government in terms of taking care of national priorities of the states. The birth of centrally sponsored schemes and the central outlays… these were important changes. Second was that the number of states increased rather significantly, many states required special treatment particularly, those who have a small population, hilly terrain etc. So these transformative changes have led to the evolution of the role, responsibility and obligation of the FCs.What states look forward to most in every report is the devolution formula, which you have maintained. It’s 41%, with a 1% downward adjustment (from 42% earlier) because of two new Union territories. You assigned a weight of 12.5% for demographic performance, which is the inverse of the fertility rate. You have said the 2011 Census better represents the needs of states. Was the biggest challenge for you was to not penalise efficient states, demographically speaking, at the cost of the inefficient? When the 15th FC was constituted, there were great worries. In the terms of reference, the President asked the commission to use the data of the 2011 Census in respect of the population criteria if population was to be used as a criterion for purposes of the assignment of the horizontal distribution. Then, there were strong protests by some states, particularly the southern states, because they would be big losers because they had controlled population well. It was argued that it would result in rewarding the inefficient and penalising the efficient. It was a challenge to therefore deal with this conundrum. We had no option because use of the 2011 data was a given fact by the president. It is the president’s right to assign a particular way in which we look at the criteria. Now, what are the options we had?One option, which was a hypothetical option, was... in total neglect of any past practice to ignore population completely as a criterion and to do it on the basis of some other criterion. The Constitution doesn’t bind me to use any particular criterion. But then we came to the conclusion that let us see what else could we have used.Some suggestions were made that maybe we could do it on the basis of per capita income. The result would have been that again the states that have the lowest per capita income would have the highest population density. In effect it would have meant that those states where rates of growth had been poor would get rewarded unduly and states with higher growth rates would get penalised. So the income distance criteria would begin to also mirror this phenomenon.So we went back to the drawing board and said, why not take the bull by the horn? Why not face the problem squarely and say, yes, there’s an X amount which used to be historically given on the basis of weightage to population in the horizontal formula and now we have to use the 2011 (population data) and break that into two parts. One part you give it on the basis of population, whatever weight you assign, and two, you actively reward states that have managed their demography better; which reflects what? Namely, greater investments they have made in girl-child education, managed their health parameters better, and have got a better governance matrix. So, in many ways assigning a positive weight in demographic management embedded the investments those states had made in the social sector particularly health and education. We found that in this way we would be able to mitigate any adverse consequences to some extent of what would be the outcome.Broadly speaking, in this horizontal distribution, there are three important factors which we have pointed out in the report. We have sought to balance need, efficiency and equity. The population reflects the need; the weight given to geographical area represents the need; the income distance criterion, namely the per capita income, represents the equity part. In what way are we rewarding efficiency? By giving weightage to the demographic criteria and also giving some weightage to the fiscal achievements to the state. So in some ways therefore if you look at these, each of these criteria...the forest area also represents the need... are evenly divided in some ways.Many of the southern states were extremely nervous about what would happen to them. They feared that they would be penalised for getting their population under control. Do you think you have adequately addressed those concerns now? Adequacy is a subjective norm. The best way this would have been addressed is a situation where we hadn’t used population as a criteria at all. But then I explained you would have had other kind of choices. Instead of saying ‘adequately addressed’, let me say ‘reasonably mitigated’, or ‘responsibly mitigated’. The concern of the southern states was not only the award of the 15th FC, but they looked a bit ahead -- that if, for the purpose of the delimitation of the constituencies, this was going to be the pattern of using the most contemporary population census data, what would happen in terms of the nature their representation in Parliament and the size of their Assemblies, and therefore the number of the seats they would elect to Rajya Sabha. That was fortunately not a concern with us but I know that embedded in their minds was also this particular concern.You could say that we have tried to in some ways redressed this in a manner we considered appropriate. In spite of what we did as we had done, to mitigate this , it turned out to be that many of the states would have had a huge yawning resource deficit. That is why, ₹2.95 lakh crore given by way of revenue-deficit grants... if you look at the states who are beneficiaries of this, huge amount has gone to Andhra Pradesh, huge amount has gone to Kerala.Kerala was one of the states where the demographic management was one of the best. Some has gone to Telangana. The way we have calibrated these revenue-deficit grants, we looked at this... as you can see there’s one full volume in the report devoted to the states. We subjected each of the states to very careful scrutiny, then we worked out what would be the minimum inescapable revenue expenditure, we compressed that and calculated the maximum amount of resources that they were likely to generate on a normative basis and concluded that this is the inescapable gap between the inescapable minimum expenditure and what is likely to be the optimum revenue. We have therefore assigned revenue-deficit grants. A fair amount of that has gone to states who would have been the unaddressed factor in spite of the mitigation on account of the use of the 2011 data. Have we succeeded totally? One classic example to be honest is that we have not been able to take care of, for instance, Karnataka because it has managed its finances in a reasonable way and their expenditures have very low and their revenues have been reasonable. So I have no answer to this question. A state like Karnataka I was not able to give revenue-deficit grant. I couldn’t reinvent a formula to overcome this handicap. I did try to address the concerns of Karnataka by giving them some state-specific grants for the rejuvenation of lakes and water bodies and some important places, particularly rejuvenation of Bangalore and Mysore.Do you think some states would still have reasonable grounds to complain? Sure, I think that is quite legitimate. We must also recognise that for many FCs, the weightage given to per capita income was much more than what we have given. If we had stuck to those weightages, their injury would have been far more significant. The issue of equity would have got greatly compromised. The lowest per capita income is of Bihar. Bihar, UP and Rajasthan, these are known as the really backward states. You would recall that in the earlier government, they appointed a committee under Raghuram Rajan to come up with the multiple index on the backwardness of states. In that multiple index Raghu had done at that time, Bihar and Odisha were at the rock bottom. In this case, Odisha has also done better subsequent to Raghu’s report; Odisha has managed its demography also well; so Odisha is not too happyMaybe this will get mitigated when some of their special projects, such as the cyclone, get addressed.You have recommended a fiscal glide path whose imprint is more or less clear in the Budget. You have also recommended a committee to review the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBM). What prompted this? In the FRMB committee, which I chaired, what we were aiming at then and also during the terminal period of the 15th FC, was to look at the debt-to-GDP (ratio) to be 60% -- 40 for the Central government, and 20 for the states. We had done a calibrated fiscal-deficit trajectory which would enable this level of debt to be reached. So that’s now embedded in history, and overtaken by events in a very dramatic way. We are no more in that world.The world has changed in some important respects: The pandemic permanently changed the structure of the global economy. When I chaired the FRBM committee, the focus was the central government and as far as the states were concerned the committee said this would be left to a subsequent FC. I didn’t know then I was going to head that FC. But investors look at the general government debt. FDI looks to general government. So that FRBM which had reference to the central government, where states were not in the picture, has changed. That’s why I proposed that we need to have a fundamental re-look at this overall framework, the changed global context and the changed national context in which we make the states and the central government equal partners. That is why I have not given a point (for fiscal deficit) both for the central government and the states, but a range (of fiscal deficit).Why had I suggested a fixed point in the FRBM committee? The reason is in parliamentary democracies, the tendency is to adhere to the upper end of the range given the populist pressures for public outlays.That logic doesn’t hold good anymore. Giving fixed number is to build in inflexibility and I am increasingly coming around to the view that this framework needs not to be pro-cyclical, it needs to work in accordance with the tandem of the cycle; and therefore a cyclically adjusted fiscal deficit and debt norm would be more appropriate. I have given the states a leeway to go up to 4% and taper down to 3% (fiscal deficit) much later. I have given a 0.5% leeway for purposes of reform in the power sector. Why did I select [the] power [sector]? When I visited all the states, the giant and the gorilla in the room is power. Look at any state’s finances, it is the power sector and unbridged financial gaps in the power sector that is critical. The 0.5% headroom for borrowing by states was quite in line with what we had experienced during our visit to states. If there is a shortfall in Goods and Services Tax compensation, and states have to borrow, that should not be debited against what we have proposed i.e. 4% and 0.5. The important thing I realised is that there no point in any debt framework which doesn’t involve the partnership of the states.Given the events of the last year, do you think our thinking of fiscal mathematics not just in India but the world has undergone a change? I would say yes. Who else, if you think among the global economists, write and have written continuously on this? I am not going to an extreme version like Larry Summers (former chief economist of the World Bank)... no Larry is not one who may be regarded as a fiscal fetishist, but there were others like Stanley Fischer (former vice chair of US Federal Reserve). Stan has been writing and saying that the entire literature in relation to the fiscal issue by eminent economists has undergone a rethink in terms of the importance of the role of public outlays, particularly on the need for them to play a proactive role on rejuvenating of infrastructure and more importantly employment, given in terms of what (labour-saving) technologies have done and also in terms of health and education. So I agree with you that the literature on fiscal policy has undergone a change.To give you an anecdote, I was invited to give a lecture to the finance ministers of all Commonwealth countries. The title of my lecture was fiscal forbearance. People talk of monetary forbearance. But I talked of fiscal forbearance in times of this kind, which represents in some ways the changing ethos. Similarly, in the last OECD fiscal networking conference, the thinking on this fiscal issue has been an evolving one. OECD has been one of the flag carriers with regard to adherence to fiscal policies. The Germans have had a very strong influence if you recall. So all that... I agree entirely has undergone and is undergoing a change. In our federation, it’s much more important for the states to become increasingly involved in all of this. If I were to ask you a hypothetical question, that if there was no implicit guarantee upon the charge of the consolidated fund of each individual state government, don’t you think that the market would have displayed their hesitation. For instance, if we looked anecdotally at the debt today of Punjab, it’s so high, and yet Punjab successfully borrows market development loans because there is an implicit state guarantee and unlike the US constitution, there is no such thing as federal bankruptcy. California can get bankrupt, I cannot imgaine any state becoming bankrupt. The issue of the sovereign guarantee -- that’s why I think we need to consider the states and the Centre in a holistic way.The hobbling implementation of GST has been a structural problem and the 15th FC has made key recommendations to reform it, including simplifying the inverted duty structure. Your comments. I have a feeling that there is deep realisation on the part of the finance minister, reflected in the statement I have seen by the revenue secretary on this issue of GST, and he was asked this pointed question maybe by your paper, about the 15th FC recommendation in our fairly robust chapter on resources (Chapter 5, Volume I), and what he intended to do. He said ‘these are all work in progress’ and because of the pandemic, the GST Council has not been able to deliberate on them. I think clearly on this whole story of invoice matching, you could see the budget talking on this, on invoice manipulation, and in terms of much better compliance... you see there are fundamental issues of the inverted duty structure, there are issues of moving towards a more standardised set of rates. I am not wanting to take the extreme view of one rate only but you can have one standard rate, one merit (goods) rate and one which may be called the penal rate but no more than three (rates) and we have said so. It is our expectation and sanguine belief that our key suggestions would be considered by the GST Council. It is of vital concern. I’m happy to say the finance minister and finance secretary are acutely aware of all of this and will take it as soon as things return to normalcy.You have said that the efficiency measure of the GST is around 50% and can be taken up to advanced economy benchmarks of 60%. What else will it take? The literature on how and what has been called the revenue-neutral rate and there’s been a lot of debate on this. I recall that years ago, when the idea of GST had begun to take shape and I was still the revenue secretary, we had worked out a revenue-neutral rate, which was in the region of 14-15%. The average rate what we see now is 11%. What I mean really is that these are not necessarily raising rates but these are within the entire basket that you need to recalibrate in a manner which would approximate what would be regarded by economists a revenue-neutral rate. That would mean a deeper rationalisation in many ways. So I believe that the GST Council which I had the privilege to address once also believed that future FCs should have a greater partnership with the GST Council because the two are very intimately connected.You have looked at the whole idea of defence in somewhat innovative way and recommended creation of a non-lapsable defence and security fund. On defence, we got special terms of reference. It was not, so to say, spontaneous. I had the experience of working in the ministry of home also looking after paramilitary forces. In that sense I have a little bit of hangover. I realised having been expenditure secretary that there was a huge mismatch between the expenditure cycle and financial cycle of the defence ministry. The procurements are so complicated and the need to be clear of any controversy that by the time they are ready, the finances are not there. There is this inherent mismatch with regards to capital expenditure. Also, I realised the need for predictability and stability for the capital expenditure on the defence side. Keeping pace with technology often meant that they need a resource. So I played with many ideas. The other thing was how to make states partners in this process.The issue of defence really transcends any list. I obtained many legal opinions on this. I obtained the opinion of (Kesava) Parasaran. When I had gone to the late Mr Jaitley, for whom I had great affection, I asked him that there is this complex issue which is troubling me; he said there is only one person who will know but will not give you the opinion. I said why, because he is 93 years old. Yet, I rang up Parasaran, who gave important opinions. One, he said I cannot play around what is in the divisible pool and there’s nothing I can to do to impose any condition on the resources from the divisible pool and that will have a constitutional infirmity. Second, he said there’s no question that the defence of India is of paramount responsibility.So then we were hard put to fund resources. I visited some of the defence establishments. I visited Pangong, Leh, I saw some of the stuff. We said we must create a non-lapsable defence fund and to bridge this asymmetric cycle. I had done so for the road cess. That’s how I came up with the non-lapsable fund and the funding of it. In defence funding what I have done, before the fund becomes a part of the divisible pool, you understand the gross revenue reciepts (GRR) and gross tax revenue (GTR), I calibrated the GRR by 1% and got the amount which I wanted, and added it to the monetisation of the surplus defence land, added it to the proceeds of the disinventment of defence units, and added it to the liabilities of different entities which owed to defence establishments. So four sources of income outlined towards the creation of a non-lapsable fund.Can you talk about any discomfort that states have right now with the new kind of fiscal federalist architecture that’s come in where it’s becoming increasingly difficult to sort of segregate matters of financial management of states? I think that area also needs a rethink. Do you think if I had asked you the hypopthetical question that the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution (the part which divides domains into central, states and joint Centre-states jurisdiction) has outlived its purpose, what would be the answer? In my view, yes. The Seventh Schedule decided to classify between the three categories... what would be in the exclusive category of the Union, exclusive domain of the states, and what would be in the concurrent list. There was a degree of clarity in that. Over a period of time, you have really transgressed from one end to the other. Most of the centrally sponsored schemes are subjects which are classic subjects in the domain of the states, such as employment, food, education. You have now standalone parliamentary legislation, which are justiciable, in areas such as employment like MNREGA, you have given a major boost to resources for right to education. Take for example a function number one for states, which is law and order. They have taken up a whole new centrally sponsored scheme under health. So the Seventh Schedule requires a revisit. So does the entry under Article 282 of the Constitution which has been used and misused for having all the centrally sponsored schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-interview-we-ve-sought-to-address-needs-efficiency-equity-says-nk-singh-101612474412528.html
05-02-2021||India||Rajiv Gandhi assassination: President to take call on convict’s plea, says govt||The mercy petition of AG Perarivalan alias Arivu, one of the convicts serving life sentence for the assassination of former PM Rajiv Gandhi in May 1991 will be decided by the President, the Centre informed the Supreme Court on Thursday.Perarivalan’s mercy petition was pending with the Tamil Nadu governor since December 30, 2015. After a delay of more than five years, the governor on January 25, 2021 decided that the competent authority to decide on Perarivalan’s remission was the President. Without specifying any time-frame, the Centre further stated, “The proposal received by the central government will be processed in accordance with law.”Perarivalan had moved the SC in 2016 for an early decision on his pending remission plea. The court took serious exception to the five-year delay on part of the governor to decide the convict’s plea. Finally, on January 21, 2021 Solicitor General Tushar Mehta representing governor Banwarilal Purohit informed the court that the governor will decide Perarivalan’s petition within a week. Ahead of the hearing of the case next week, the Centre in an affidavit informed the court saying,“The governor of Tamil Nadu considered all the facts on record and after perusal of the relevant documents, recorded that the President is the appropriate competent authority to deal with the said request.”Perarivalan was among seven persons convicted by a Special TADA court for being part of the conspiracy to assassinate Rajiv Gandhi on May 21, 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajiv-gandhi-assassination-president-to-take-call-on-convict-s-plea-says-govt-101612474090741.html
05-02-2021||India||Personality cult not great for republic: High Court on Jaya memorial||Personality cults are not great for a republic or a country’s Constitution, the Madras high court observed on Thursday, while hearing a case on converting late Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s residence in Chennai into a memorial.From Mahatma Gandhi to William Shakespeare and Winston Churchilll, famous personalities from history were drawn into the virtual courtroom of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy. They were hearing a petition filed by Jayalalithaa’s legal heir and nephew J Deepak against an act promulgated by the state government to convert her residence, Veda Nilayam, in Chennai’s Poes Garden into a memorial for the leader who died in December 2016.“Personality cult is not something great for a republic... or Constitution,” Banerjee said when advocate general Vijay Narayan, appearing for the state government, spoke about the late leader’s personality, leadership and role in empowering women. Narayan also said that several governments had preserved the homes of eminent personalities after converting them into memorials. When he mentioned Shakespeare’s home as an example, the chief justice countered that UK Prime Minister Churchill had no memorial to his name.The court made an oral observation that there could be one memorial for Gandhi, one for Jawaharlal Nehru and one for Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. “But if you keep extending it you would have memorials for deputy chief ministers also!”the judges remarked, as quoted by Bar and Bench.The high court had allowed the Tamil Nadu government to proceed with the January 28 inauguration of Veda Nilayam as a memorial but did not allow public entry until further hearings on the case. The court observed that it was constrained to allow the opening so that it does not cause difficulties to the government ,which had already made arrangements for the inauguration.On January 27, the state government also inaugurated a Rs, 80-crore mausoleum for Jayalalithaa at her burial place on Chennai’s Marina beach.The court agreed to the AG’s submission that Jayalalithaa had contributed greatly to Tamil Nadu, but said it can’t keep adding memorials. “There are several judges who make contributions. What will happen if court space is used to put up statues,” asked Banerjee. “There are already so many portraits in this chamber.” The next hearing in the case is after four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/personality-cult-not-great-for-republic-high-court-on-jaya-memorial-101612473874151.html
05-02-2021||India||Delhiwale: Thela, as his biography||Carts are regular sights in this city of street hawkers. Usually they are but a broad plank of wood plonked over four wheels. But Veeru Bhai’s fruit cart—or thela, as he calls it— is different. Yes it is of wood and wheels, but it is much smaller than the common variety, and looks like one of those trolleys that apron-clad maître d’s push around in elegant restaurants.“I made this cart on my own,” says Veeru Bhai. This afternoon he is going about a central Delhi street with his cart decked up with fruit salad, each disposable bowl containing sliced pieces of kiwis, strawberries and dragon fruit.A native of Allahabad in UP, Veeru Bhai, 53, has been wheeling about Delhi’s streets with his fruity offerings for decades. In fact, this cart is an important part of his biography. He made it in 1994, the year he arrived in the city. The cart looks its age, the tires are weary and almost flat. “They still work after all these years,” Veeru Bhai declares defensively. In a way, this shabby-looking cart is the map of his Delhi. He bought the wood from the Peti Market near Angoori Bagh. He bought the tires from the Cycle Market in Chandni Chowk—which in fact is a popular place to buy and repair cycle rickshaws. “I bought the nails and bolts to patch the cart together from the cycle market too,” he adds. Veeru Bhai brought it all together into a thela at his home in Choti Mor near Lajpat Rai Market, in two days flat.Showing a secretive closet underneath the cart, he says it’s a “tehkhana, where I keep the extra fruits.”Yet, it is true that this cart is not exclusive to Veeru Bhai, and that quite a few other fruit hawkers roam around with carts thus designed. The fruit salad seller agrees graciously, clarifying that none of these carts is mass produced. “Hawkers either make them themselves, like I did, or they get it made from people who know how to make it... somebody like me.”Indeed, he charges ₹1,200 for making such a cart. That his skill in this craft is outstanding is visible from his own work tool. In a time when everything comes with an expiry date, “my old thela is still going on,” he says, pushing the cart ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-thela-as-his-biography-101612473106264.html
05-02-2021||India||Delhi: FIR against two children’s homes for ‘abuse and irregularities’||A first information report (FIR) was registered on Wednesday against two care homes for children after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) reported a host of abuse and irregularities such as sexual abuse, using the children for anti-CAA protests, not providing them the right living conditions, Covid-19 norms violations, among others, the police said.The police identified the two homes as Umeed Aman Ghar, a home for boys, and Khushi Rainbow Home, a residence for girls -- both based south Delhi.“The NCPCR conducted inspections at the two homes on October 1 and submitted their findings to us. We did a preliminary enquiry after that and registered an FIR under the Juvenile Justice Act and the section 188 (disobedience to an order passed by a government servant) at Mehrauli,” Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south) said on Thursday.According to Priyank Kanoongo, chairperson of NCPCR, the two homes are run by Centre for Equity Studies where activist Harsh Mander is a director. Kanoongo accused the officials of the two homes of trying to “derail” the enquiry process by saying that Mander was not connected to them.While Mander remained unavailable for a response despite repeated phone calls and a text message, a response sent by the management of the homes said that Mander only conceived the Rainbow Homes Programme (HRP) under which the children are cared for.The management said the NCPCR was trying to malign the reputation of HRP as Mander is a “known critic of the government and its policies”, they added that Mander was no longer associated with the “day-to-day running” of the programme.Kanoogoo said there were shortcomings in how the children at the home for boys were kept and the arrangements for their toilets and bathrooms despite several incidents of sexual abuse.The management of the homes said none of the three known cases of sexual abuse between 2012 and 2016 involved the staff there and was perpetrated by inmates. They said all cases were brought to the notice of the authorities and led to registration of FIRs.But DCP Thakur said that there were reports of sexual abuse continuing and not being reported. However, no cases of sexual abuse was found in the home for girls.Kanoogoo, as well as the findings of an inspection by NCPCR on October 1, pointed to alleged irregularities in the financial aspects of the two homes, the living conditions of the children and flouting of several applicable laws.Other allegations, the DCP said, was of the children being sent to attend anti-CAA protests, not having necessary measures in place to deal with Covid-19 and foreign nationals visiting the homes.The management denied any financial irregularities, and said that no children were sent to attend any protests and there were no set rules or standard operating procedures (SOPs) for several shortcomings that the commission noted during the inspection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-fir-against-two-children-s-homes-for-abuse-and-irregularities-101612472859653.html
05-02-2021||India||43 FIRs in R-Day violence, 13 being probed by special cell: Delhi police to HC||The Delhi Police on Thursday informed the Delhi high court that 43 FIRs have been registered in the Republic Day violence, out of which 13 have been transferred to the special cell.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh was told by the police, represented by Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta, that provisions of UAPA have also been invoked in some cases involving banned organization “Sikhs for Justice” and investigations is on.The submissions were made while hearing a plea seeking a probe into the violence during farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day and the alleged lapse in security, which resulted in a religious flag being hoisted at the Red Fort.The court declined to hear the plea and asked the petitioners, three Uttar Pradesh residents, to withdraw the petition or face costs. It said that a crime can happen in a fraction of seconds but the investigation takes time, while adding that it was to analyse the mindset of such petitions.“So you started typing the petition right after the incident on January 26 noon? Do you know how much time is given for investigation under the Criminal Procedure Code? You are a lawyer. How much time is given for an investigation?”“You expect the investigations to be completed within two days of the incident? Does the government have a magic wand which it will wave and everything will be done? Should we dismiss it with cost or will you withdraw,” the bench asked advocate Vivek Narayan Sharma, appearing for the petitioner.Man arrested for R-Day violence gets bailA Delhi court has granted bail to a man arrested for allegedly being part of unlawful assembly and conducting riots in the Uttam Nagar area during the tractor rally on Republic Day. The court stated that “no fruitful purpose would be served by curtailing the liberty of the accused”.Additional sessions judge Dheeraj Mor, while granting bail to one Sandeep Kumar, said that the Investigating officer’s report is “conspicuously silent” about his previous criminal involvement.“Therefore, there is no reason to doubt the submissions on behalf of the accused that he has clear antecedents. He is no more required for the investigation of this case. In the aforesaid circumstances, no fruitful purpose will be served by further curtailing the liberty of the accused,” the judge said in his order of February 3.The judge also noted that co-accused Gurvinder Singh, with the similar allegations as that of the accused, was released by the police after giving a notice.Kumar, through his counsel, advocate Kapil Chaudhary, had contended his client was falsely implicated in this case and he was just a bystander at the spot of occurrence. He said that Kumar was neither part of the unlawful assembly nor he was involved in the riots.The counsel said that Kumar owns a shop of iron rods at Kakrola, Dwarka Mor, New Delhi and he was not part of any agitation.However, opposing the bail application, additional public prosecutor Satvinder Kaur, told the court that the accused was part of unlawful assembly that committed riots and caused injuries to nine police personnel. She said that the members of the unlawful assembly also damaged the public property including the cluster buses.The police had earlier released a list of over 120 arrestees after allegations that several protestors were illegally detained without even informing their families.Advocate Harpreet Singh Hora said that their legal team has been providing legal aid since the first day of the arrests of several farmers and this type of orders give them hope.“Additionally, the bail reinforces our faith that the people who have been wrongly implicated in these cases shall get justice. What we are doing is upholding the law and we will strive to fight cases of these farmers till this reaches a logical conclusion,” he said.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over two months now against the three farm laws.The tractor parade on January 26 that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/43-firs-in-r-day-violence-13-being-probed-by-special-cell-delhi-police-to-hc-101612471992469.html
05-02-2021||India||Creators of ‘toolkit’ booked for conspiracy and sedition||The Delhi Police on Thursday said they have registered a first information report (FIR) to probe a “toolkit”, or document, that allegedly detailed an action plan for online and offline protests linked to the ongoing farmers’ agitation, including those during a tractor rally in the national capital on Republic Day.The toolkit was tweeted by Swedish environment activist Greta Thunberg along with a post in support of the agitating farmers.At a news briefing, Praveer Ranjan, special commissioner of police (crime), said the FIR against the creators of the toolkit mentioned charges of criminal conspiracy and sedition, but did not name any individual. He was responding to a question that if police had registered a case against Thunberg.Hours earlier, as reports of an FIR against Thunberg were flashed by multiple news outlets — police later clarified the FIR was against unknown persons — the 18-year-old activist posted: “I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest. No amount of hate, threats or violations of human rights will ever change that. #FarmersProtest.”During the media briefing, Ranjan pointed to a “copycat execution of the action plan detailed in the toolkit” in the past few days, including the protests on January 26 that plunged into chaos. He said an initial probe revealed that the document was created by pro-Khalistani group Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF).HT could not find any verified social media handle or contact number of PJF. The group’s website did not have any contact details. Ranjan did not specify who exactly would be probed or how the investigators planned to go about it.The toolkit became a talking point after Thunberg shared a link to the document on Wednesday, deleted it, and then again posted an updated link on Thursday.“Here’s an updated toolkit by people on the ground in India if you want to help. (They removed their previous document as it was outdated.),” Thunberg, who has supported the farmers protesting against three controversial agricultural laws, said.The updated toolkit, which HT has seen, gave a brief description of the ongoing farmers’ agitation and called upon people to participate or organise on-ground protests, post tweets supporting the agitation, contact legal representatives and sign petitions. It did not appear to be out of the ordinary as guidelines for online protest campaigns go.The farmers’ agitation has been getting global attraction with international celebrities such as pop star Rihanna and activist Thunberg tweeting in support of the protesters. Actor Amanda Cerny, singers Jay Sean and Dr Zeus, and US sporting icons Juju Smith Schuster, Baron Davis and Kyle Kuzma supported the farmers. They were joined by lawmakers from the UK, the US and other countries.Police are probing the contents of the first “toolkit” that was brought down, according to officials who did not want to be named. Officials did not explain how international celebrities and lawmakers became a part of the campaign.Ranjan said the toolkit had an action plan that called for “digital strikes through hashtags” on or before January 26, “tweets storm” from January 23, and “physical action” on January 26, among others.“Design of the author of the toolkit is to create disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups and encourage disaffection against the government of India. It also aims at waging social, cultural and economic war against India,” he said.The FIR was registered by the cyber cell of the Delhi Police under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 124A (spreading disharmony), 153 (provocation with intent to cause riots) and 153A (promoting enmity between different groups).Ranjan said the toolkit was noticed by the police while monitoring social media accounts peddling “hateful and malicious content” related to ongoing the farmers’ protest.“During our negotiations with the farmer leaders (before the tractor march on Republic Day), we had made them aware that vested interests were using the agitation to spread disaffection and hatred towards the Indian government,” he said.Vikram Singh, former director general of Uttar Pradesh Police, said the FIR was “perfectly in order” as the toolkit was part of a “concerted international effort against the country”.“Agitations are welcome, but the toolkit was actually meant to serve as a call for violence even as it left many things unwritten,” Singh said.An Indian security assessment, seen by HT, suggested that a coordinated campaign involving “a number of global celebrities”, was being run in the backdrop farmer’s protest. According to the assessment, the “content and the campaign” were being designed and run through www.askindiawhy.com. It added that this website was managed through another platform called Poetic Justice Foundation, allegedly run by a Canadian Khalistani who runs a PR agency and is close to politicians in Canada.“While the campaign takes the cover of farmers protest, content is designed to play on the same three fault lines that have been used to target India particularly by Pakistan, viz. the Sikh, Muslim and the Dalit agenda...,” the assessment said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/creators-of-toolkit-booked-for-conspiracy-and-sedition-101612470028794.html
05-02-2021||India||Facebook gets new notice to appear before Delhi Assembly committee probing riots||The Delhi Legislative Assembly on Thursday issued a fresh notice to Facebook India, this time avoiding specific notice to its Vice-President Ajit Mohan, by asking a senior, responsible officer from the company to appear before the Peace and Harmony Committee examining the Delhi riots that took place in February last year.The fresh notice was placed by the Assembly before the Supreme Court, which is hearing a plea filed by Mohan and Facebook India challenging the notice summoning him to depose as a witness before the Committee. The three-judge bench headed by Justice SK Kaul took the fresh notice on record and said, “The specific challenge to the earlier notices of September 10 and September 18 would not stand as those notices stand substituted with the fresh notice.”For the Delhi Assembly, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi continued arguments for the second consecutive day. During the hearing, the bench, which also comprised of Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy, told Singhvi, “You have improved your situation with the new notice now.”On Wednesday, the bench had hinted that Mohan’s petition suggested that the notice issued to him by the Assembly compelled him to appear and depose as a witness before a non-statutory. The bench had raised queries on whether the Assembly intended to specifically call Mohan or anybody in his place. Singhvi had pointed out to the Court that the notice never required only Mohan to depose but any senior, responsible person from the company capable of assisting the Committee.In this backdrop, the fresh notice was issued requiring Facebook to depose before the Committee through a senior, responsible person. Singhvi argued the larger issue raised in the petition where Mohan has questioned the power of the Committee to summon him. This argument was based on the peculiar character assigned to the Delhi Assembly which has been denuded under the Constitution from legislating on three subjects – land, law and order and police.In his two-hour s arguments, Singhvi led the bench through various entries in the State List and Concurrent List, by which the Delhi Assembly derives its power to discuss and debate on the issue in question. “I (Assembly) am discussing a subject not to the pleasure of the Central government. To say that I can’t even discuss is a matter of legislative dignity.” He cited Entry 1 in State List dealing with public order, which is distinct from law and order. Again, he cited Entry 1 in Concurrent List which gives a sweeping power to State Assemblies to legislate on the subject ‘criminal law’. On Wednesday, Singhvi cited Entry 39 in State List by which Assemblies can enforce attendance of witnesses for purpose of recording statements.The bench told Singhvi, “Ultimately, what is to be decided is what the Peace and Harmony Committee is doing falls within those territories of which you (Assembly) have been excluded. There is peculiarity with Delhi due to exclusion of some entries (land, law and order, police). Reading of the entries have to be such that it will not amount to encroachment into excluded entries.”The arguments in the case will continue on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-gets-new-notice-to-appear-before-delhi-assembly-committee-probing-riots-101612468672035.html
05-02-2021||India||Rajya Sabha debates, but no end to Lok Sabha impasse||HRajya Sabha members debated the new farm laws for the second day on Thursday along with the government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis and the subsequent migrant workers’ crisis.The Upper House debate proceeded smoothly even as the Lok Sabha deadlock continued. Speaker Om Birla called Congress floor leader Adhir Chowdhury and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi and his deputy Arjun Ram Meghwal for a marathon meeting, seen as a last-ditch effort to salvage the debate in the Lower House where the PM is scheduled to reply at 5pm on Friday.“I want to draw the attention to the farmers’ agitation today, despite the adversities of the weather,” Congress MP Deepender Hooda said in the Rajya Sabha. “There have been 11 rounds of talks with the government. There has been no resolution to the issue, instead 194 farmers have been martyred.”Hooda said the government failed to express a single word of condolence for those who lost their lives.“This government has lost the faith of the people,” he said. Hooda drew Parliament’s attention to the barricades erected by Delhi Police at the borders of the national capital. “Despotism can never defeat democracy. The farmer of a country can never be a serf.”BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia lauded the Prime Minister’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis and other challenging issues since he came to power for the second time. “Jammu and Kashmir has been freed from historical chains and over 1.5 crore people have received the benefits of central schemes,” he said. He added that the PM had rolled out visionary reforms. “The Ram mandir will be a symbol of a new and strong India,” Scindia said.Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the PM had taken every crisis head-on. “The mandate of the country has been vested in the PM not once but twice in the national elections. Modi ji has worked for energy justice that the farmers will benefit from,” said Pradhan. “India is also working to develop alternate energy in the form of hydrogen fuel.”Congress MP Digvijay Singh raised the issue of the farm laws and said that democracy was being suppressed in the country. “We respect the mandate you have, but the way in which dissent, which is the backbone of a democracy, is being suppressed in our country is deplorable,” Singh said. “The foisting of cases against farmers, journalists, activists and such needs to stop.”He was backed by Trinamool MP Derek O’Brien who said the government had failed to uphold the sanctity of Parliament. “Members had asked, as is procedure, for the bills to be referred to a select committee, but the government never did that. Political administration is the purview of the Prime Minister and the home minister. This government has failed on many counts, including handling of the Covid-19 crisis and the economy.”O’Brien said he had prepared a draft to repeal the three farms laws.The DMK’s NR Elango said the government was violating the federal structure with the farm laws. “The farm laws occupy the field of the state’s power,” Elango said “The government legislated them in tearing hurry and farmers’ interest was not considered.”The laws, farmers say, will only aid private enterprises and hurt their livelihoods. The opposition has demanded a repeal of all three laws, but the government has agreed to a waiver for 18 months, during which it says the legislation will be re-examined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-debates-but-no-end-to-lok-sabha-impasse-101612467626231.html
05-02-2021||India||Budget proposal for investment limit to affect 0.3% of 45 mn EPF subscribers||The Budget proposal to impose ₹2.50 lakh annual limit for tax-free employee’s contribution in provident funds (PFs) will affect only 0.3% of total 45 million subscribers of Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) having combined deposits of over ₹62,500 crore, two finance ministry officials said.These 1.23 lakh employees provident fund (EPF) accounts have on an average a corpus of ₹5.92 crore per person. They are earning huge sum – on an average Rs. 50.3 lakh per account holder per annum – which is tax free with an assured 8% interest, they said requesting anonymity.“About 0.27% people are using the retirement fund in a very scheming manner at the cost of the salaried class and other taxpayers. This anomaly was required to be corrected,” one of them said.Out of this minority group, the highest contribution is made by an individual [name withheld] with over ₹103 crore in his account, followed by two with over ₹86 crore each. The top 20 high-net-worth individuals (HNIs) have about ₹825 crore in their accounts while top 100 HNIs contributed more than ₹2,000 crore, he said.The Budget 2021-22, presented in the Parliament on Monday by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, rationalised tax-free Income on provident funds.“In order to rationalise tax exemption for the income earned by high income employees, it is proposed to restrict tax exemption for the interest income earned on the employees’ contribution to various provident funds to the annual contribution of ₹2.5 lakh. This restriction shall be applicable only for the contribution made on or after 01.04.2021,” the annexure to her budget speech said.The decision to remove the tax exemption on provident fund contributions of ₹2.5 lakh and above in the budget has been based on the principle of equity among the contributors. “Since any tax exemption is provided through taxpayers’ money, it was unfair to allow a small group of HNIs to misuse a welfare facility and earn wrongfully tax free income as assured interest return, adding that average normal EPF or GPF [General Provident Fund] contributor would not be affected by the removal of anomaly in the system prevailing over a long period of time,” the official quoted above said.Quoting Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) chairman Pramod Chandra Mody, HT reported on Thursday that along with EPF, this rule will also be applicable to all government employees covered by GPF. India has three main provident funds -- EPF for the organised sector, GPF for government employees and PPF for all resident Indians.“The Budget proposal will not have any impact on PPF subscribers as PPF contribution cannot be more than ₹1.50 lakh per annum,” said Naveen Wadhwa, deputy general manager at Taxmann, a tax research and advisory firm. PPF is a social security fund for general public.The Budget has done away with this disparity of paying huge sum of tax-free interest to HNIs at the cost of honest average salaried class contributor and taxpayers, a second official said. “Several HNIs have been parking huge sums -- more than a crore of rupees per month -- to misuse the provision of assured high interest without paying any tax. This distortion has been corrected,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-proposal-for-investment-limit-to-affect-0-3-of-45-mn-epf-subscribers-101612467312433.html
05-02-2021||India||US says it supports reform but cautions against curbs||The US on Thursday weighed in on the ongoing farmers’ agitation at New Delhi’s borders for the first time since it began in November-end, saying peaceful protests and unhindered access to information, including the internet, were hallmarks of a “thriving democracy”, but at the same time backed reforms that would increase efficiency of Indian markets and attract more private investment.The carefully worded response by Joe Biden’s administration also encouraged a “dialogue” between farmers and the government to end the agitation that has been getting global attraction with international celebrities such as pop star Rihanna and green activist Greta Thunberg tweeting in support of the protesters.The external affairs ministry said the comments by the US must be seen in their entirety, while pointing out that State Department “has acknowledged” India’s steps towards reforms, which have emerged as a point of contention. The government also appeared to draw parallels between a farmers’ rally on January 26 that plunged into chaos and the January 6 storming of the US Capitol by Donald Trump’s supporters protesting election results that declared his defeat in the presidential race.“We recognise that peaceful protests are a hallmark of any thriving democracy and note that the Indian Supreme Court has stated the same,” a US State Department spokesperson said in Washington in response to a request for comment from US media. A version of it was provided to HT. “We encourage that any differences between the parties be resolved through dialogue.”In New Delhi, a US embassy spokesperson echoed a similar response.The State Department did not mention anything specific to three new farm laws that have triggered the agitation (now in its 71st day), but appeared supportive of reforms. “In general, the United States welcomes steps that would improve the efficiency of India’s markets and attract greater private sector investment,” the spokesperson said.“We recognise that unhindered access to information, including the internet, is fundamental to the freedom of expression and a hallmark of a thriving democracy,” the spokesperson added, a remark that came in the backdrop of internet curbs at protest sites.Asked about the US position at a news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “Any protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the ongoing efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse.”Describing India and the US as vibrant democracies with shared values, Srivastava added: “The incidents of violence and vandalism at the historic Red Fort on January 26 have evoked similar sentiments and reactions in India as did the incidents on the Capitol Hill on January 6 and are being addressed as per our respective local laws.”He said “temporary measures” on internet access in parts of the National Capital Region were “undertaken to prevent further violence”.Michael Kugelman, South Asia expert at leading think-tank Wilson Center, Washington’s comments were unlikely to trouble the Narendra Modi government.“What strikes me about these comments is their neutrality. Aside from some soft criticism that the State Department made about the internet blocks...they don’t convey anything that New Delhi would find disagreeable. Washington is essentially saying it agrees with India’s new farm laws and with any peaceful protestors that may oppose them,” Kugelman said.Milan Vaishnav, South Asia expert with Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said, “I actually found the State Department statement to be quite balanced. While the statement reiterates the right of Indians to peacefully protest, it also expressed its support for the underlying motivations of the farm reform bills. In my view, I think U.S. diplomats threaded the needle very well. I would also add that the MEA seems to have also picked up on this--highlighting, in its response, U.S. support for continued market reforms in agriculture. The MEA statement also links the Jan 26th incursion at the Red Fort to the January 6 Capitol insurrection, a not-so-subtle message that the U.S. is facing its own domestic infirmities.”Tens of thousands of farmers have camped at Delhi’s borders, demanding the repeal of the three contentious laws passed by Parliament in September. Eleven rounds of talks between the protesters and the government have failed to break the impasse. Protesters say the laws will hurt their livelihood and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government defends the laws as necessary for long-overdue reforms in the agriculture sector.On Republic Day, violence broke out during a tractor rally by farmers after a section of the protesters veered off the routes agreed with police and resorted to vandalism. Clashes broke out in several places, including the 17th-century Red Fort and the ITO intersection.On that day, internet services were suspended, albeit temporarily, at three key protest sites — Singhu and Tikri (on Haryana border), and Ghazipur (on Uttar Pradesh border). Services were suspended again on January 29 for two days, and then extended till February 3.After the violence, authorities stepped up security at the protest sites, placing iron spikes and steel barricades to prevent the agitators from entering Delhi.The agitation landed in global spotlight after Rihanna, who has 101 million followers, tweeted a CNN news report about internet curbs on Tuesday. Meena Harris, an American lawyer and niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, actor Amanda Cerny, singers Jay Sean and Dr Zeus, and US sporting icons Juju Smith Schuster, Baron Davis and Kyle Kuzma supported the farmers. They were joined by lawmakers from the UK, the US and other countries.On Wednesday, India said criticism by foreign celebrities and attempts to “mobilise international support” against the country on the government’s handling of the protests without ascertaining facts were “neither accurate nor responsible”. In a rare statement, the external affairs ministry contended that “vested interest groups” were trying to enforce their agenda, referring to “sensationalist social media hashtags and comments” by “celebrities and others”. It didn’t name anyone.While Indian movie stars such as Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn said citizens should focus on the government’s efforts to resolve the farmers’ crisis, others appeared to be on the opposite side of the debate. “If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief then it’s you who has to work on strengthening your value system not become ‘propaganda teacher’ for others,” actor Taapsee Pannu posted.The tug of war continued on Thursday. Opposition parties stepped up attack on the government even as leaders of the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) launched a counter-offensive.“The issue is not Rihanna or Greta Thunberg or any individual. The issue is the manner in which the government is countering the farmers’ protests as though they were an invading army,” senior Congress leader and former Union minister P Chidambaram tweeted. “There are many Gretas among Indian women and girls, but they are shackled by poverty, social constraints and fear. Sooner than later, India’s Gretas will find their voices and speak in favour of the farmers,” he added.Late on Thursday evening, farm leader Rakesh Tikait said, “If some foreigner is supporting the movement, then what’s the problem? They are not giving or taking anything from us.”In Nagpur, BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis told reporters that there was an international conspiracy to defame India and spark chaos and unrest in the country. “How an international conspiracy is going on has been revealed with the tweets. India is being defamed using the platform of farmers’ protest,” Fadnavis was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Valerie Vaz, a senior MP of Britain’s Labour Party and sister of former lawmaker Keith Vaz, wrote a letter to foreign minister Dominic Raab to reiterate the concerns of her constituents regarding events related to the farmers’ protest. The Indian-origin MP was among 35 British lawmakers to take up the farmers’ protest with Raab before he visited India in December.Vaz asked Raab to contact the Indian government “as a matter of urgency regarding these concerning events”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-says-it-supports-reform-but-cautions-against-curbs-101612466863173.html
05-02-2021||India||Bengal’s top Muslim clerics want paper ballots in polls, question EVMs||The West Bengal Imams’ Association and clerics from the famous Furfura Sharif shrine in Bengal’s Hooghly district want paper ballots to be offered as an option to voters in addition to electronic voting machines (EVM) in the assembly polls due in April-May.“I appeal to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and members of the state assembly to use provisions laid down in Article 328 of the Constitution and pass a law that will offer voters the option to use ballot paper if they do not wish to use EVMs. Article 328 empowers state legislative assemblies to frame laws in regard to assembly polls,” Md Yahiya, chairman of the state imams’ association told HT on Thursday.“The budget session of the state assembly will commence on Friday. We are writing to the chief minister and the assembly speaker, urging them to place a bill that will give voters an option. The Maharashtra government is working on this. India’s voters and opposition parties lodged complaints against use of EVMs several times in the past. Many countries have discarded the machines. In a country as big as ours, polls cannot be held solely with machines,” said Yahiya.Of about 40,000 mosques in Bengal, clerics from at least 26,000 are members of the association.Article 328 says: Subject to the provisions of this Constitution and in so far as provision in that behalf is not made by Parliament, the Legislature of a State may from time to time by law make provision with respect to all matters relating to, or in connection with, the elections to the House or either House of the Legislature of the State including the preparation of electoral rolls and all other matters necessary for securing the due constitution of such House or Houses.The Furfura Sharif shrine is one of the most popular places of pilgrimage in Bengal. It is built around the mausoleum of Pir Abu Bakr Siddiqui. It also has a mosque built in 1375 and draws millions during the Urs festival and the annual fair dedicated to the Pir. Urban development minister Firhad Hakim visited Furfura Sharif on Tuesday when the mazaar authorities distributed clothes and blankets among 10,000 people. Hakim also delivered a speech.“We support the imams. If people in Europe and America can use ballot paper why do we need machines? People should be given the option of voting in the traditional way since questions have been raised about EVMs,” said Pirzada Jiauddin Siddiqui, a scion of the Pir’s family and son of Allamah Kutubuddin Siddiqui, the most senior among the clerics at Furfura Sharif.The demand from the clerics attains significance since Bengal’s Muslim population stood at 27.01% during the 2011 census and is projected to have increased to around 30% now. According to surveys done by the TMC and the BJP, a swing in Muslim votes can influence poll results in as many as 120 assembly seats.Among the districts where the Muslim population is substantially high are Murshidabad (66.28%), Malda (51.27%), North Dinajpur (49.92%), South 24 Parganas (35.57%), and Birbhum (37.06%). There are a large number of Muslim voters in East and West Burdwan districts, North 24 Parganas and Nadia as well.Senior TMC leaders did not want to comment on record on the development. “This is a serious issue. The assembly polls are conducted by the Election Commission of India. The legal provisions need to be studied,” a cabinet minister said on condition of anonymity.Former advocate general of Tripura and now a Rajya Sabha member, eminent lawyer Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya welcomed the demand.“I do not see any reason to oppose it. We always welcome technology but freedom of the people is more important. The Maharashtra government is working on the process of reintroducing ballots. Why shouldn’t the Central government come forward and say that it will return to the ballot paper system? I also argued before the Calcutta high court in a recent case that candidates should be allowed to file nomination papers and fees online. This will reduce pre-poll violence to a large extent,” said Bhattacharya.Siddiqullah Chowdhury, a minister in the TMC government and president of the Jamiat Ulema -e–Hind’s Bengal unit, however, said there are too many legal knots.“The demand raised by the imams’ association is not something that can be met easily. I do not think anything will come out of it,” said Chowdhury.Union home minister Amit Shah has announced that his party will oust the Mamata Banerjee government by winning over 200 of the state’s 294 seats while Banerjee’s election strategist Prashant Kishor recently tweeted that he will give up his job if the BJP’s tally crosses 99.The Bengal BJP said the demand is part of an effort to steal the limelight and makes no sense.“We have full faith in the present system. The arguments put forth against EVMs are irrelevant since none of the parties that raised issues could prove anything. Those raising this demand again are only trying to hog the limelight,” said Samik Bhattacharya, chief spokesperson of the Bengal BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengals-top-muslim-clerics-want-paper-ballots-in-polls-question-evms-101612466343969.html
05-02-2021||India||India responds to Pakistan Army chief's ‘hand of peace’ with call to end terror||India on Thursday responded to the Pakistan Army chief’s offer of a “hand of peace” and call for the peaceful resolution of the Kashmir issue by saying the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror to facilitate good relations.Addressing a graduation ceremony at the Pakistan Air Force Academy on Wednesday, army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa had said Pakistan is firmly committed to the ideal of mutual respect and peaceful co-existence.“It is time to extend [a] hand of peace in all directions,” Bajwa said, according to an official statement. Pakistan and India must “resolve the longstanding issue of Jammu and Kashmir in a dignified and peaceful manner” in line with aspirations of the Kashmiri people and “bring this human tragedy to its logical conclusion”, he added.Asked about Bajwa’s remarks at a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava reiterated India’s stated position that there couldn’t be any talks as long as Pakistan failed to end cross-border terrorism emanating from its territory.“Our position is well-known. India desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence,” Srivastava said.“The onus is on Pakistan for creating such an environment,” he added.Bajwa’s remarks marked the latest overture by the Pakistani side for talks to address bilateral tensions and the Kashmir issue. Relations between the two sides nose-dived after the Indian government scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August 2019. In response, Pakistan decided not to post an envoy in New Delhi and asked the Indian high commissioner in Islamabad to leave.Even before that, relations were damaged by the February 2019 suicide attack at Pulwama, which killed 40 Indian troopers and was blamed on Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). India retaliated with an air strike on a JeM base within Pakistan, triggering aerial battles a day later that resulted in the shooting down of an Indian jet fighter.The two sides have not held any substantive dialogue since the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks by Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Track II and back channels contacts too have stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-responds-to-pakistan-army-chief-s-hand-of-peace-with-call-to-end-terror-101612464578678.html
05-02-2021||India||Punjab, UP lock horns over Mukhtar Ansari’s custody||The Uttar Pradesh and Punjab governments have locked horns in the Supreme Court over custody of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari.A Bahujan Samaj Party MLA from Mau in the UP assembly, Ansari is wanted in the state for trial in 14 criminal cases, but he continues to be lodged since January 2019 in a jail in Punjab where he was named in an extortion case.While the Yogi Adityanath government has complained about the trial not proceeding in UP because of Ansari’s absence, the Punjab government has now filed an affidavit in the top court, refusing to hand over his custody.The Punjab government has cited Ansari’s health -- he is reportedly suffering from hypertension, diabetes, back pain, skin allergy and depression,-- to shoot down the UP government’s plea.Demanding dismissal of the UP government’s writ petition in the SC, the Amarinder Singh government has maintained that it was acting as per medical opinion and that there was no “pre-conceived conspiracy” to keep Ansari away from UP.Filed through the jail superintendent of the Rupnagar prison where Ansari is currently lodged, the affidavit stated that the writ petition by UP was not even maintainable in law since the state could not claim infringement of its fundamental rights on account of Ansari’s detention in Punjab.The Punjab government acknowledged that Ansari was required in UP for trial in 14 criminal cases on charges of murder, extortion and under the Gangster Act, but remained firm that the law empowered the jail superintendent to abstain from complying with a judge’s order to hand over custody of a prisoner on account of sickness.“The responsibility of ensuring safe custody, wellness and good health of respondent no.3 (Ansari) while in custody is solely of the answering respondent (jail superintendent) and that all decisions taken were as per the mandate of the law, tempered with the express medical advice regarding the condition of the health of Ansari,” read the affidavit, filed last week before a bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan.Out of 26 production warrants issued by UP courts for Ansari’s appearance, the Punjab government has claimed that 10 were not received by the jail authorities. On many other dates of trial proceedings before the UP courts, Ansari had been advised “bed rest” by government doctors and medical boards in Punjab due to his health, as per the affidavit.The Punjab government has also admitted that Ansari has not even applied for bail in the extortion case registered nor have the police been able to file a charge sheet since registration of the FIR in January 2019. Notably, under the law, Ansari is entitled to come out on bail only on the ground that there has been no charge sheet filed in the case so far. But he has chosen not to apply for bail.The Supreme Court, which had in December issued notices to the Punjab government,and Ansari, will take up the matter next on February 8.Ansari, in an application to a trial judge in Agra in October 2019, stated that he apprehended he could be killed on the way if he was taken to a jail in UP from Punjab. He requested that he be allowed to appear through video-conferencing. In the cases where the trial courts have allowed his plea, Ansari was being produced through video-conferencing.Bharatiya Janata Party’s Mohammadabad (UP) MLA Alka Rai told HT: “This is unfortunate that a state government is impeding the course of justice and refusing to send Ansari to face trials in UP by citing diseases such as sugar and hypertension. Can these ever be ailments of the kind that can stop someone from travelling? The big question is why Ansari and his relatives are being shielded by Congress governments in Punjab and Rajasthan? Is it fair on a state to protect someone facing over a dozen criminal cases and deny victims of crime their right?”Alka Rai is the wife of the slain MLA Krishnanand Rai, who was shot dead in 2005. Ansari was accused of killing her husband but later acquitted in the case.“Medical advice should be respected, unless proven otherwise. But since the matter is subjudice, we will abide by the court’s order,” Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-up-lock-horns-over-mukhtar-ansari-s-custody-101612462030336.html
05-02-2021||India||Kerala approves scheme to provide pension, other benefits to MGNREGS workers||The Kerala Cabinet on Wednesday approved a scheme to ensure those employed under the Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in the poll-bound state get benefits like pension and medical assistance. It has recommended that governor Arif Mohammad Khan issue an ordinance in this regard.State finance minister Thomas Isaac said Kerala is the first state to introduce such a welfare scheme. “The state government and local bodies will give an equal contribution and ₹50 will be deducted from a worker’s salary every month for it. Besides retirement benefits, the workers will get the festival allowances and other facilities,” he said.An estimated 1.2 million people are employed under MGNREGS in the state. Workers aged over 60, who have contributed ₹50 monthly for the scheme for at least five years, will be eligible for the benefits. The families of those who have contributed for over 10 years will get the benefits in case of their death. The scheme seeks to also provide educational assistance to the children of MGNREGS workers and funds for their marriages, said an official.People aged up to 75 are eligible for employment under MGNREGS.Also Read | Kerala should continue to focus on labour, education, healthcare: Dr Amartya SenThe official said the new scheme will be a boon for workers and help empower them. “Those who are between 18 and 55 can register for membership and they can submit their contribution every month or on yearly basis,” he said. “The local self-government department will issue passbooks to all members and those who avail other pensions can also opt for this.”MGNREGS seeks to enhance the livelihood security of people in rural areas by guaranteeing at least 100-day employment in a financial year to a rural household.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-approves-scheme-to-provide-pension-other-benefits-to-mgnregs-workers-101612435084047.html
05-02-2021||India||KP Ramakrishnan, MGR’s long-time associate, passes away in Chennai||KP Ramakrishnan, the bodyguard and body double of matinee idol-turned-former chief minister and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) founder MG Ramachandran (MGR), passed away on Wednesday. Ramakrishnan, a nonagenarian who passed away due to illness in Chennai had been associated with MGR for more than four decades. Condolences poured in, including from chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami. Also Read | AIADMK moves to deny Sasikala access to Jayalalithaa’s memorialsRamakrishnan was born in 1930 in Palakkad and shifted to erstwhile Madras, now Chennai, for better opportunities where he met MGR. He first played MGR’s body double in Nadodi Mannan. He continued to do so particularly in movies where MGR played dual roles and in stunt scenes in several films such as Kudiyirundha Koyil, Maattukara Velan and Sundarapandian. He later became MGR’s personal bodyguard, accompanied him during campaigns and travelled with him across the country. He also accompanied former chief minister J Jayalalithaa during her campaigns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kp-radhakrishnan-mgr-s-long-time-associate-passes-away-in-chennai-101612418583172.html
05-02-2021||India||Bilaspur airport in Chhattisgarh upgraded, now 72-seater aircraft can land||Seventy two-seater aircraft will now be able to land at Bilasa Bai Kewtin Airport in Chhattisgarh's Bilaspur after its up-gradation to 3C category by the director general office of the civil aviation department, a press release issued by Chhattisgarh government stated on Thursday.“As a result of upgradation to 3C category, 72-seater aircraft will also be able to land at the Bilaspur airport in Chakarbhata. Earlier, only a 40-seater aircraft could land here due to its 2C category license. With the operation of 72 seater aircrafts, North Chhattisgarh, including Bilaspur’s air connectivity with the whole country will get strengthened,” said the press release.Also Read: Chhattisgarh: Maoists kill 2 villagers in RajnandgaonThe Chhattisgarh government claimed it took the initiative keeping in view the sentiments of Bilaspur residents and got the approval from the civil aviation department of the government of India.“The operation of 72-seater aircraft from Bilaspur airport will benefit the officers and employees working in industrial and mining units located at Bilaspur, Korba, Raigarh, Surguja, Chirmiri, Surajpur, Balrampur, Korea, while it will also promote trade and tourism in the region. Along with this, access to medical facilities, present in the metros, will become easier for this entire region,” said the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bilaspur-airport-in-chhattisgarh-upgraded-now-72-seater-aircrafts-can-land-101611814466440.html
