06-02-2021||India||Govt suspends two CBI DSPs for allegedly running 'bribe-for-relief' racket||In a rare move, the government has suspended two Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs), RK Sangwan and RK Rishi, of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) three weeks after it was discovered that the duo was running an organised “bribe-for-relief” racket within the premier investigation agency, highly placed officials said, requesting anonymity.The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), the supervisory department of the CBI, has ordered their suspension after an administrative action was recommended by the agency chief last month.The agency had even arrested RK Rishi on account of bribery worth ₹30 lakh being traced to him.Also read: 'Glad to see enthusiasm' - PM Modi ahead of his visit to Assam, Bengal tomorrowIt is alleged that the two officers, along with another inspector Kapil Dhankad and stenographer Sameer Kumar Singh of the CBI, were running a racket since 2018 where they were leaking confidential case-related information to some companies that were being investigated for bank frauds.The agency has identified bribes worth ₹55 lakh paid to RK Rishi ( ₹30 lakh) and inspector Kapil Dhankad ( ₹25 lakh), besides favours extended to at least three companies.Dhankad and Singh were suspended by the CBI director.In its FIR registered last month, the CBI had named nine people, including four of its officers, two advocates and office-bearers of a couple of companies.According to the FIR, reviewed by HT, the four CBI officers, along with the two advocates, and certain other accused have been found “compromising the integrity of the investigation of certain cases on extraneous pecuniary considerations”.The agency FIR says that “details of the investigation of many other cases, including confidential notes and directions, have been communicated by (Sameer Kumar) Singh to Sangwan and Rishi on pecuniary considerations to protect the interests of the accused”.The two DSPs, RK Rishi and RK Sangwan, facilitated the bribes by leaking the information to the companies, said an officer, speaking on condition of anonymity.“The leak of sensitive case-related information like raids, status of investigation, filing of charge sheet, etc., helps accused persons in destroying the evidence. There is a possibility that more officers are involved in the scandal as CBI investigations are monitored at various levels and documents are usually kept in respective branches. It is to be seen how Singh was leaking the documents without anyone’s knowledge,” a CBI officer, who didn’t want to be named, had told HT last month.The CBI is investigating the magnitude of the racket, as it could be much bigger considering the large number of bank fraud cases under investigation.In the last two years alone, bank fraud cases worth ₹90,000 crore have been registered by the agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-suspends-two-cbi-dsps-who-ran-bribe-for-relief-racket-in-agency-101612634968073.html
06-02-2021||India||Medical tourism to India on the up as Covid impact ebbs||New Delhi Twenty-one end-stage kidney, liver and heart patients from Myanmar arrived at New Delhi’s Apollo Hospital on Friday in a chartered flight arranged by the hospital, as medical tourism that was hit by the Covid-19 pandemic has started picking up again.Most of these patients are lined up to undergo organ transplants, and had been waiting for months for travel restrictions due to the pandemic to ease as transplant surgeries are not widely done in their country.“With initial lockdowns and travel restrictions imposed worldwide due to Covid-19, the condition of these patients had deteriorated to such an extent that a transplant was the only way out. These patients were chronic cases of kidney, liver and cardiovascular diseases and have been waiting for organ transplants for over six months now,” the hospital said in a statement.“Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals along with the Indian embassy has arranged for a special chartered flight to get these patients to India for immediate kidney/liver transplants and expedite treatment for patients requiring attention for cardiovascular ailments,” it added.The ministry of external affairs (MEA), government of India, did not officially comment on the arrival of these patients; however, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that special permission was given for airlifting the 21 ill persons on humanitarian grounds.Medical tourism in India had been steadily growing over the past few years. The government data for 2019 and 2018 showed at least 6% of the overall tourist flow to India was of people arriving for treatment. Foreign tourist arrivals for medical reasons in 2019 were 697,453 — 6.4% of the total; for 2018, the number was 644,036, 6.1% of the total tourist inflow.While the ministry of tourism is yet to make public data on international patients who arrived for treatment to India in 2020, most hospitals that had 10-15% of their patient rush from overseas said they did not see the usual rush of international patients last year because of the pandemic.“The percentage of international patients dropped substantially last year; it is picking up this year but very gradually. The normal rush is still not there. In our hospital we would see about 10-15% foreign patients annually, which is now as low as 2-3%, but patients have started coming in,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, Institute of Critical Care & Anesthesiology, Medanta hospital.Also, patients who travel to India for treatment currently are largely those needing critical care.“These are all patients suffering from chronic conditions that can be life-threatening such as organ failure, cancers or brain tumor. For the initial few months there were absolutely no patients from the overseas. By July critical patients started trickling in. Travel for elective procedures such as putting orthpaedic implants, etc, however, has vanished completely,” said Dr Sibal.Dr Mehta says, “Also, no patients are coming from countries that are called bubble safe such as the UK or the US. Most patients are from Asian or African countries. It will take some time before things actually get back to normal. After all, not everyone can afford to charter a flight.” Apollo Hospital has an information centre at Yangon, Myanmar, and on the request of patients, a special flight was arranged to fly them to India. “The Indian mission in Myanmar was of great help in transporting these patients. They had been waiting for a while, some even for over six months, to get treated. These are all critically ill patients who were on regular follow-up but couldn’t travel for treatment. We tried to treat them optimally through virtual consultations, but now they needed surgery,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director, Apollo Hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-tourism-to-india-on-the-up-as-covid-impact-ebbs-101612634859407.html
06-02-2021||India||Munawar release halted as jail doesn’t get order||Bhopal/Indore: Stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui continued to remain in jail on Saturday, a day after the Supreme Court granted him interim bail in a case registered against him in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. Officials of the Indore Central Jail, where Faruqui has been lodged for at least a month, said the 32-year-old was not released as they had not received an order from the Prayagraj court, which had also issued a production warrant against the comedian for allegedly offending religious feelings through his jokes. The top court had also restrained UP police from arresting him. “Faruqui was not released from Indore Central Jail as the jail administration didn’t receive any order from the Prayagraj trial court for staying the production warrant,” said LKS Bhadoriya, additional superintendent, Indore central Jail. Faruqui’s advocate Anshuman Srivastava said, “The Supreme Court certified copy has not been uploaded yet so the jail authorities didn’t receive the order. We have approached the district court in Indore and also the trial court in Prayagraj. ”Faruqui’s cousin Zaid Pathan, who reached Indore on Saturday morning, said the jail authorities were not giving them proper answers. “We have been waiting here since morning but the jail administration is not giving any satisfactory answer. Even after the apex court granted him bail, the authorities are not ready to free him,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/munawar-release-halted-as-jail-doesn-t-get-order-101612634799343.html
06-02-2021||India||Relief, anger as Valley gets back 4G net after 18 months||Srinagar: The residents of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday expressed relief over the restoration of high-speed mobile internet services in the region but maintained that it wasn’t a cause of celebration as they deserved an apology from authorities for denying them, what they called “their basic right”, for 18 months. Authorities suspended 4G mobile internet services in J&K on August 4, 2019, a day before the central government nullified the Constitution’s Article 370, which accorded special privileges to the region, and bifurcated it into two UTs — J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one. The government also suspended landline and internet services, fearing widespread protests in the restive region. The UT has moved several steps towards normalcy since then, with the gradual restoration of communication lines.In an order issued on Saturday, Shaleen Kabra, principal secretary (home), ordered restoration of 4 services in the region and directed inspectors general of police in Jammu and Kashmir divisions to ensure compliance and “closely monitor the impact of lifting of restrictions”. Tariq Ahmad, a 19-year-old college student from Srinagar, welcomed the move but said it was too little too late. “It is alright that they have restored the internet because it was the need of the hour but I don’t think there is any excitement as people are aware that they have lost a lot in these one and a half years. We lost our dignity, our statehood and most importantly our special status,” he said. Political analyst and author, Gowhar Geelani, said the authorities had not done them any favour by restoring 4G mobile services. “After having snatched your right to high-speed internet service for 18-long months, restoring internet is not something to celebrate about. It is actually a moment to reflect how compensation can be sought from the cellular companies who took money for the services they have failed to provide for so long,” he said.In August 2020, high-speed internet was restored in two districts of J&K — Ganderbal and Udhampur districts — based on the parameters laid down by the special committee, which recommended that the areas, where high-speed services are allowed, should have low intensity of terrorist activities. Anuradha Bhasin, the executive editor of a local daily, said she didn’t see any reason to thank the government for the move. “I actually see some going out of their way to thank govt [government] functionaries for 4G restoration. They’re not offering us charity. We should be asking for compensation for our deprivation and losses,” she said in a tweet.“It is better late than never. The government has realised how much losses our economy has suffered. This move will give a boost to the economic recovery now,” president, Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), Sheikh Aashiq told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relief-anger-as-valley-gets-back-4g-net-after-18-months-101612634739975.html
06-02-2021||India||SC judge hails Modi as ‘most loved Prime Minister’||Supreme Court judge MR Shah on Saturday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the “most popular, loved, vibrant and visionary leader” at a virtual public function to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Gujarat high court.“I am glad and feel proud and privileged to participate in this important function of release of commemorative stamp of Gujarat HC on completion of 60 years and that too by our most popular, loved, vibrant and visionary leader, Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendrabhai Modi,” said justice Shah at the beginning of the function, which had the Prime Minister as its chief guest.As the sitting Supreme Court judge was about to conclude his address, justice Shah, who hails from Gujarat, once again referred to Modi as the “most loved Prime Minister” at the virtual event, which also had Gujarat high court chief justice Vikram Nath, Union minister of law and justice Ravi Shankar Prasad, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and solicitor general Tushar Mehta in attendance.The remarks by justice Shah left some former judges of the Supreme Court divided on whether it was proper for a sitting judge of a constitutional court to express himself in such a manner at a public function. Former Chief Justice of India RM Lodha told HT that such comments by a Supreme Court judge at a public event should be avoided. “These things are absolutely avoidable. As a famous quote goes, restraint is the better part of valour,” he said.Justice Lodha added that he belonged to a different school of thought and practised restraint in his personal as well as judicial life, which was also bound by a code of conduct.Another former judge of the top court, justice Gopala Gowda said that he was “astonished” to see a sitting apex court judge showering praise on the PM when the government was the biggest litigant in the SC and had the highest stakes in policy matters.“Releasing of a commemorative stamp by the PM is a most welcome thing. But for a sitting Supreme Court judge, who is a constitutional functionary, to compliment the Prime Minister with such adjectives is unwarranted and uncalled for. The tremendous confidence of people in the judiciary will be eroded if Supreme Court judges start praising executives in this fashion,” he said.Justice Gowda said that when a judge of a constitutional court speaks, they must remember that the credibility of the institution is at stake and people’s faith must not be shaken by their remarks.However, justice BP Singh, another retired judge of the top court, did not find justice Shah’s remarks inappropriate. “He has not commented on any case in the Supreme Court. These could be his (justice Shah’s) personal views and he may genuinely feel like that for the Prime Minister. Why should it create any doubt? I don’t think it should become an issue,” said justice Singh. Last year, Supreme Court judge justice Arun Mishra (now retired) courted controversy by saying that “PM Modi was a versatile genius who thinks globally and acts locally”. The Supreme Court Bar Association had passed a resolution criticising justice Mishra’s comments as “reflecting poorly on judicial independence”.A Code of Conduct for the Supreme Court and high court judges called ‘Re-instatement of Values in Judicial Life’, was resolved in the chief justices’ conference of 1999. The 15-point code primarily recommends that a serving judge maintain an air of “aloofness” in their official and personal life.Point number 6 of the Code of Conduct lays down that a judge should practise a degree of aloofness consistent with the dignity of their office. Point number 8 states: “A judge must not enter into public debate or express his views in public on political matters or on matters that are pending or are likely to arise for judicial determination.”In his address, PM Modi said that the Supreme Court had become “number one” in the world in hearing cases through video-conferencing as he praised how the virtual hearings had facilitated ease of justice by not only increasing the ease of living of the citizens of the country, but also by facilitating the ease of doing business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judge-hails-modi-as-most-loved-prime-minister-101612634738770.html
06-02-2021||India||Jagan writes to PM Modi, requests him to drop plan to privatise Vizag Steel||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday appealed to the Centre to reconsider its proposal to privatise the Rasthriya Ispat Nigam Limited through 100 per cent strategic disinvestment of the shareholding of Government of India.Jagan’s letter comes in the backdrop of massive protests from the employees of the RINL and political parties. Senior Telugu Desam Party legislator from Visakhapatnam (North) Ganta Srinivasa Rao resigned from his assembly membership in the afternoon in protest against the proposed privatisation of the steel plant.In a late evening letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Jagan said the decision to privatise the RINL has created a lot of concern among the people of the state. He said the RINL, the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, was the largest public sector industrial unit in the state creating employment opportunities for nearly 20000 people directly and many other indirect employment opportunities.He said the steel plant was established after a decade-long agitation in which 32 people laid down their lives. The plant had performed well between 2002 to 2015 earning profits, making a turnaround after it was referred to the BIFR as a sick company. “The company has around 19700 acres of land currently and the valuation of these lands alone could exceed one lakh crore rupees due to the location of the plant in the urban area,” he pointed out.The chief minister further said the RINL with a production capacity of 7.3 million tonnes, had taken up plant modernisation and capacity expansion recently which led to the plant borrowing from banks to take up the expansion. Due to a slump in the steel market, the company had been making losses since 2015 and was finding it difficult to service the debt.One of the major structural issues that also led to high cost of production is the absence of a captive mine thereby affecting the profitability. The plant will again become a profitable venture given some support from the Centre such as allotting captive iron ore mines to bring down the input costs, swapping high-cost debt with low-cost debt, and converting debt into equity through equity conversion, Jagan said.“I assure you that the state government will closely work with the Centre in turning around the company and together, we can revive the plant for unlocking greater value to the society,” he requested the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-writes-to-pm-modi-requests-him-to-drop-plan-to-privatise-vizag-steel-101612633376783.html
06-02-2021||India||'PM Modi did not rest till solution was found': Vedanta Resources chairman||Amid the ongoing farmers' protest, Vedanta chairman Anil Agarwal on Saturday said farmers are Prime Minister Narendra Modi's greatest priority. Sharing an interesting anecdote, Agarwal said during last year's locust attack, PM Modi called all over the world to find a solution. He had insisted on airlifting machines from the UK so that the deliveries can be made first, Agarwal recounted.He had sleepless nights & called all over the world to find a solution. He insisted on airlifting the machines so that the deliveries of the machines from UK could be fast-tracked. He did not rest till a solution was found."Our PM Shri @narendramodi has greatest priority for the farmers and is always thinking about how he can help them. I remember an incident during the locust attack last year," Vedanta chairman wrote on Twitter."He had sleepless nights & called all over the world to find a solution. He insisted on airlifting the machines so that the deliveries of the machines from UK could be fast-tracked. He did not rest till a solution was found," he added.Northern and northwestern states of India witnessed a massive locust attack in March 2020. The ministry of agriculture signed a contract with the UK's Micron to modify two Mi-17 helicopters for spraying atomised pesticide which can arrest locust breeding. But the firm said it would be able to supply only from September 2020 because of Covid-19. Later, the Indian Air Force undertook the task of indigenously designing and developing an airborne locust control system for Mi-17 helicopters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-did-not-rest-till-solution-was-found-vedanta-resources-chairman-101612632608558.html
06-02-2021||India||BJP leaders elected DDC chairmen in Jammu, Kathua districts||Four BJP leaders were on Saturday elected District Development Council (DDC) chairmen and vice chairmen in Jammu and Kathua districts respectively, marking the beginning of a new phase in the panchayati raj institutions in Jammu and Kashmir.The maiden DDC elections to 280 seats -- 14 each in 20 districts of the UT -- were held in November-December last year with People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) sweeping the polls by winning 110 seats out of the 278 declared results.Results of two seats in north Kashmir are awaited as the issue of citizenship of two contestants prompted suspension of the counting.BJP emerged as the single largest party by winning 75 seats, mostly in the Jammu region, and enjoys a clear majority in five districts -- Kathua and Samba (13 seats each), Jammu and Udhampur (11 each seats) and Doda (eight seats). After an independent candidate extended his support to the party, it also has a majority in Reasi district where it had got seven seats on its own.The election to elect the chairperson and vice chairperson for DDC Jammu and Kathua in the first phase saw BJP leaders -- Bharat Bhushan (chairman) and Suraj Singh (vice chairman) (Jammu) and Col (Retd) Mann Singh (chairman) and Raghunandan Singh (vice chairman) (Kathua) -- getting elected unopposed.“We will live to the expectations of the people and will try our best to speed up the development of our district,” Bhushan, who was elected chairman of the DDC Jammu, told reporters outside the BJP headquarters here after his supporters took out a victory march in the city.He said his party has expressed faith in him and he will live to the expectations and would make all out efforts to address the issues of the public like strengthening the water supply network and road connectivity.“All round development is our priority,” he said.Three districts in the valley -- Srinagar, Shopian and Kulgam -- also elected their DDC chairpersons and vice chairpersons in the first phase.While J-K Apni party led by former finance minister Altaf Bukhari has won the elections to the post of chairperson of Srinagar and Shopian, the PAGD which among others include the National Conference and the PDP won Kulgam district.The PAGD has got a clear majority in six districts and has also got an edge in five other districts as it is just short of one or two seats for the majority.Independent candidates have won 50 seats and their support will be crucial for parties eyeing for DDC chairmen and vice chairmen posts in a number of districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-elected-ddc-chairmen-in-jammu-kathua-districts-101612632546741.html
06-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand forest department to buy 'smart sticks' for patrolling jungles||The Uttarakhand forest department has decided to buy “smart sticks” from New Delhi to do “smart” patrolling in the jungles of the state. These especially designed smart sticks have many safety and other useful features, which will help the department staff in day and night patrolling.Kundan Kumar, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Haldwani said, “Forest rangers including foresters and forest guards’ patrol through the dense forests while putting their life at risk with simple bamboo sticks. They frequently encounter dangerous wild animals like elephants, tigers, leopards and bear as well as forest smugglers and in many cases these encounters turn lethal.”“So we have decided to equip our staff with these sticks especially to tackle such situations. Hence, we are purchasing ‘smart sticks’ for patrolling,” said Kumar.He informed that the smart sticks have been specially designed for forest patrolling. They have stun guns along with three zone lighting, a panic button, in-built rechargeable battery and are equipped with basic wilderness survival kit and other features.“The stun gun in it can shock even the strongest of wild animal momentarily, leaving them confused and giving sufficient time to the staff to escape or call for help. This shock will only temporarily immobilize the animal and will not cause any permanent damage,” he said.Built with a robust aluminium body, the stick's design makes it easy to carry it even for longer hours. Also, its strong build makes it reliable and fit for rough use. Its three zone lighting includes spot light, throbbing light and pathway light, to help staff to patrol at night.“The panic button of the smart stick will help repel the wild animal in case of a dangerous encounter. When the staff presses the panic button, it will trigger a loud hooter and bright flash light to keep the wild animal away. Apart from this, the basic wilderness survival kit in it offers bandage, cotton box, antiseptic and rope,” said Kumar.“We have ordered four smart sticks which will reach us by next week. These will be used in the Nandhaur, Danda and Chakata forest ranges. If this is successful then all the patrolling staff in the division will be given smart sticks for patrolling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-forest-department-to-buy-smart-sticks-for-patrolling-jungles-101612631071327.html
06-02-2021||India||Assam: More than 10,000 health workers given Covid-19 vaccine||Assam administered COVID-19 vaccine to more than 10,000 health workers on the sixteenth day on Saturday, taking the total number of persons inoculated so far to 87,308, according to a bulletin issued by the National Health Mission, Assam. Covishield vaccine was administered to 9,011 beneficiaries at 185 session sites, while 1033 beneficiaries were given Covaxin at 20 sites taking the total number of those innoculated on Saturday to 10,044. There were no report of any adverse event following immunization during the day. Dibrugarh reported the highest administration of 943 vaccines, followed by 757 in Sonitpur, 732 in Kamrup and 632 in Tinsukia district. Meanwhile, the state reported on Saturday nine new positive COVID-19 cases, two more than Friday's lowest of seven cases, taking the total number to 2,17,202.No death was reported during the day, according to the NHM bulletin. The total deaths reported so far is 1084 with a current death rate of 0.50 per cent. A total 1347 COVID positive patients have died for other reasons, it said. The nine new cornavirus cases include five from Kamrup metropolitan district. The new cases were detected out of 15,262 tests with a positivity rate 0.06 per cent, the bulletin said. The number of active cases in the state is currently 348 and they are under treatment at different COVID hospitals in the state, it said. The total tests conducted so far have reached 65,61,527, including both RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test. The number of recovered patients discharged during the day is 20 while the recovery rate in the state is currently 98.72 per cent, the bulletin said. The total recovered patients so far is 2,14,423 and three migrated out of the state, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-more-than-10-000-health-workers-given-covid-19-vaccine-101612632027747.html
06-02-2021||India||Why Munawar Faruqui not released nearly 30 hrs after SC order, asks Chidambaram||As comedian Munawar Faruqui was not released on Saturday, a day after the Supreme Court granted him interim bail in a case for allegedly hurting religious sentiment, Congress leader P Chidambaram took to Twitter and raised questions over this delay.Officials on Saturday said that Munawar's release got delayed as a warrant by Prayagraj court was awaited. A court in Prayagraj had ordered Faruqui's production in a similar case on February 18. According to jail manual, an order from the Prayagraj court or a competent government officer is needed to release Faruqui, an officer of Indore's Central Jail told PTI.It is nearly 30 hours since the order was passed. Yet, the order is being undermined by the MP police and jail authorities.Is all this happening with or without the knowledge of the MP Chief Minister?The officer said Faruqui will be taken to Prayagraj on Sunday morning if they don't get the requisite order. Before that, a Covid-19 test will be conducted on him."It is nearly 30 hours since the order was passed. Yet, the order is being undermined by the MP police and jail authorities. Is all this happening with or without the knowledge of the MP Chief Minister?" Chidambaram tweeted.Faruqui and four others were arrested on January 1 after a BJP MLA Malini Laxman Singh Gaud's son Eklabya filed a complaint that objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Union home minister Amit Shah were passed during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's Day. Faruqui and others were arrested under IPC section 295-A (outraging religious feelings). They were also accused of holding the show amid COVID-19 pandemic without permission and were booked under section 269 (unlawful or negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), and other relevant provisions.His bail pleas have been rejected several times before the Supreme Court on Friday granted interim bail.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-munawar-faruqui-not-released-nearly-30-hrs-after-sc-order-asks-chidambaram-101612631017459.html
06-02-2021||India||'His personal view': Farmers' union on what Tikait said on UP 'chakka jam'||On Friday, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said that Saturday's 'chakka jam' will not be held in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. First, he said the decision has been taken as farmers from these states can be called to Delhi. Then he said he had evidence that few people might attempt to spread violence at these two states. Now his comments have led to what seems like a disagreement among the protesting unions as Samyukt Kisan Morcha spokesperson Darshan Pal Singh said it was Tikait's personal feeling that violence might occur in those two states. "I feel he should have made the statement after speaking with us. The statement was made in haste," Darshan Pal said to news agency ANI.He personally felt that violence might occur in UP & Uttarakhand. I feel he should have made the statement after speaking with us. The statement was made in haste: Farmer leader DP Singh on Rakesh Tikait's announcement regarding holding chakka jaam in UP & Uttarakhand https://t.co/5L2aHWnAZd pic.twitter.com/xv0zEMVvDZIn its statement, SKM, the umbrella body of the 40 unions protesting against the farm laws, said 'chakka jam' programme in Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand and Bihar was a complete success. "Roads were blocked by farmers all over the region including Champaran, Purnia, Bhojpur, Katihar. Farmers organised 'chakka jam' programs in more than 200 places in Madhya Pradesh. In Maharashtra, farmers led the 'chakka jam' in many places, including Wardha, Pune and Nashik. The success of Chakka Jam was also seen in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala and Tamil Nadu," the statement said."Yesterday, in Parliament, the agriculture minister insulted the struggle of farmers of India by saying that only one state's farmers are opposing the agricultural laws. But today's nationwide 'chakka jam' once again proved that farmers across the country are united against these laws. The farmers were completely peaceful and non-violent in these events," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/his-personal-view-farmers-union-on-what-tikait-said-on-up-chakka-jam-101612627441748.html
06-02-2021||India||Kolkata, Howrah, Salt Lake get new police commissioners ahead of assembly polls||New police commissioners were appointed for Kolkata and its adjacent cities of Howrah and Salt Lake on Saturday in a major reshuffle of senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officers ahead of the crucial assembly polls.Soumen Mitra has been appointed the new Commissioner of Police (CP) for Kolkata, and the incumbent CP Anuj Sharma has been shifted to the state Criminal Investigation Department as additional director general of police.According to an order issued by the state home department, 24 senior IPS and West Bengal Police Service officers were transferred.Prior to his posting as the city’s police chief, Mitra held the post of Additional Director General of state police (training) He had handled some key posts and cases including the American Centre terror attack in 2002 in Kolkata. He was then the deputy commissioner of the detective department of Kolkata Police.Earlier in 2016 before the assembly polls, the 1988 batch officer had taken over as the Police Commissioner of Kolkata after the then city police chief Rajeev Kumar was removed by the Election Commission. Later, after the polls, Kumar was reinstated.Supratim Sarkar who was the additional CP-II of Kolkata will now be posted as the commissioner of Bidhannagar (Salt Lake), a satellite city of Kolkata.C Sudhakar who was the DIG of Barasat Range in south Bengal has been posted as the commissioner of Howrah. The police commissioner of Barrackpore was also transferred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-howrah-salt-lake-get-new-police-commissioners-ahead-of-assembly-polls-101612628287021.html
06-02-2021||India||BKU’s Rakesh Tikait to address 2nd Mahapanchayat in Dadri tomorrow||After receiving an overwhelming response at Haryana's first mahapanchayat amid farmers protest at Haryana’s Jind district on February 3 (Wednesday), Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait is set to address the second one on Sunday in the state’s Dadri district. Internet services were restored in Dadri and Panipat on Wednesday that had been suspended in view of the violent clashes which broke out during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day in Delhi.Earlier on Saturday, Tikait said the Centre has "time" till October 2 to repeal the laws adding that discussions with the government would not be held under any pressure.During the mahapanchayat held in Jind on Wednesday, Tikait was accompanied by Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni and BKU leader from Punjab, Balbir Singh Rajewal along with 50 khap leaders. Addressing the rally in the Kandela village of the district, Tikait had warned the Centre that it could find it difficult to remain in power if the laws were not removed. He further asked for the creation of a new law to assure the continuation of the minimum support price (MSP) system.Also Read| ‘To uphold law’: Centre defends power cut at farmers’ protest sites“We have so far talked about 'bill wapsi'. The government should listen carefully. What will you do if the youth call for 'gaddi wapsi'?" he said.A total of five resolutions were passed during the gathering that appealed to the Centre to repeal the laws, provide a legal guarantee for MSP, implement the Swaminathan Commission report, waive farm loans and release farmers arrested post the Republic Day violence. Tikait had further urged all participants to keep protesting against the laws in a peaceful manner and assured that they would win.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday that MSP was being given at 50% more than the production cost and the government has ensured that requisite investment reaches the agriculture sector. He asserted that the offer to make changes in the laws did not mean there was any problem with them and said that farmers were being misled.“I made it clear that if the government is ready to make amendments, it doesn’t mean there is any problem in farm laws. People in a particular state are misinformed,” Tomar said during his address to the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bkus-rakesh-tikait-to-address-2nd-mahapanchayat-in-dadri-tomorrow-101612628171310.html
06-02-2021||India||'Glad to see enthusiasm': PM Modi ahead of his visit to Assam, Bengal tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday will visit both Assam and West Bengal and will inaugurate a host of development projects in the two poll-bound states. His last visit to both the states was on January 23, on the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose.Glad to see immense enthusiasm in Assam. Happy to be getting yet another opportunity to be in the state tomorrow. We will continue working for Assam’s all-round development. pic.twitter.com/b1Ve5iOGwfPM Modi to launch 'Asom Mala', lay foundation stone of two hospitals in AssamOn February 7, PM Modi will lay foundation stones for medical colleges and hospitals in Biswanath and Charaideo in Assam. "This will boost Assam's health infrastructure. In the last few years, the state has made rapid strides in healthcare. This has benefitted not only Assam but also the entire Northeast," PM wrote on his Twitter. He will also launch the 'Asom mala' project, which is aimed at helping improve state highways and major district road networks in the state. "I will be among the people of Assam tomorrow. At a programme in Dhekiajuli, Sonitpur district, the ‘Asom Mala’ programme will be launched, which will boost the state’s road infrastructure. This initiative will contribute to Assam’s economic progress and improve connectivity," PM Modi tweeted.From Assam, PM Modi will travel to West Bengal and at around 4.50pm will lay the foundation stone of a few infrastructure projects in Haldia."Tomorrow evening, I would be in Haldia, West Bengal. At a programme there, will dedicate to the nation the LPG import terminal built by BPCL. Will also dedicate to the nation Dobhi–Durgapur Natural Gas Pipeline section of the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga project," PM Modi tweeted sharing photographs of the facility. He has also tweeted his event plans in Assamese and Bengali.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will also be present at the event in Haldia. At Centre's Netaji birth anniversary event, Mamata Banerjee left the stage when before her speech, 'Jai Shri Ram' chants were raised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-west-bengal-assam-2nd-time-in-2-weeks-101612626918159.html
06-02-2021||India||Ladakh signs MoU with ONGC-EC to become carbon neutral||In its first step towards making the strategic region of Ladakh carbon neutral for clean power, the Union territory administration of Ladakh signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with ONGC Energy Centre in the presence of lieutenant governor Radha Krishna Mathur at Leh.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his recent address, had committed to making Ladakh a carbon-neutral region and also announced to develop GW solar power project in Ladakh.Chief executive councillor of Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC), Leh, Advocate Tashi Gyalson; BJP MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal, and Advisor to L-G, Umang Narula were present on the occasion.Also read: ‘To uphold law’ - Centre defends power cut at farmers’ protest sitesTripartite MoU signed by ONGC Energy Center Trust, @LAHDC_LEH and Administration of @ut_ladakh to establish the first ever Geothermal project at Puga in Changthang, Ladakh. pic.twitter.com/ARAKIra0ZwThe MoU aims at establishing the first-ever geothermal field development project at Puga in Leh.Secretary PDD, Ravinder Kumar; Sachin Kumar Vaishya, CEO, LAHDC Leh, on behalf of the UT administration and the LAHDC Leh, respectively, signed the MoU with ONGC Energy Centre.During the event, the L-G said that this is the first-ever geothermal project in India which will be established at Puga.He termed it as a proud moment for the people of Ladakh and said it was a big step towards achieving carbon-neutrality and clean power.He further added that Ladakh has greater potential for solar, wind, hydro and geothermal energy and these clean and green energy will help in neutralising carbon content in Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-signs-mou-with-ongc-ec-to-become-carbon-neutral-101612626136078.html
06-02-2021||India||‘To uphold law’: Centre defends power cut at farmers’ protest sites||Union power minister RK Singh on Saturday defended police cutting off electricity at sites in Delhi which are witnessing protests against the three central agricultural laws. Speaking to news agency ANI, Singh wondered if the protesters had taken any legal connection, adding that if not, they were committing electricity theft, due to which, he said, police acted to uphold the law.Also Read | 3-hour-long 'chakka jam' ends peacefully. What's next?“Did these protesters take any legal connection? If not, they were stealing electricity and electricity theft is a crime. So, if the police disconnected it, they were acting to uphold the law. People who stole electricity are liable to be prosecuted,” the minister told ANI. “Ask the Congress first if these people had any legal connection, only then they can talk about disconnection,” he further said.#WATCH | Did these protesters take any legal connection? If not, they were stealing electricity & electricity theft is a crime. So if police disconnected it, they were acting to uphold law. People who stole electricity are liable to be prosecuted: Union Power Minister RK Singh pic.twitter.com/Xur4SKGEmLLaw enforcement agencies have come under fire for a series of steps that, they say, have been taken to uphold law and order at the protest sites. This includes cutting off electricity, internet ban, disconnecting water supply, erecting barricades laced with barbed wires, fixing iron nails into roads etc. The measures were taken in the aftermath of violence that broke out in Delhi during the ‘Kisan tractor parade’ on Republic Day, when a section of protesters diverted from the route agreed between the farmers’ unions and Delhi Police, entered the city, and clashed with the police.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers’ unions leading the protests, has condemned these measures as ‘human rights violation’ and demanded immediate restoration of the supplies.Also Read | Chakka Jam: Internet suspended again at Singhu, Tikri, GhazipurSince November last year, farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the three farm laws which were passed in September that year. Delhi’s borders with Haryana (Singhu and Tikri) and Uttar Pradesh (Ghazipur) are the three epicentres of these protests.On Saturday, farmers held a pan-India ‘chakka jam’ against the legislations. This is also the 73rd day of their agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-uphold-law-centre-defends-power-cut-at-farmers-protest-sites-101612625512679.html
06-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre asks states to increase Covid-19 vaccine coverage, minimise wastage and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Minimise vaccine wastage, increase pace': Centre sets new targets for statesThe Union health ministry on Saturday reviewed the vaccination status of all states and union territories as India covered 56,36,868 beneficiaries under its vaccination drive till 6pm. Read more'I need to go back and work in the nets': Nadeem talks about his problems with no-balls in first Test against EnglandTeam India's bowling performance in the first Test was not up to the mark as England piled on the runs at the MA Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai. Read moreMalcolm & Marie movie review: Zendaya and John David Washington are mesmerising in incendiary new Netflix filmStructured like a boxing match and told with the intensity of a scream into an empty void, Malcolm & Marie finds writer-director Sam Levinson in peak introspection mode, both professionally and personally. Read moreTelegram is the most downloaded app in January 2021Telegram became the most downloaded non-gaming app in January 2021 surpassing the likes of TikTok, Facebook, and Instagram among others. Read moreGrandpa returns stolen handcuffs to police after 60 years due to this reasonA story of a grandpa who returned handcuffs he stole about 60 years ago has now won people over. Shared on the official Twitter account of the LAPD, the story shows that it is never too late to do the right thing. Read moreOctober warning on farmer stir; potato, sugarcane planted at Ghazipur siteFarmer leader Rakesh Tikait said that the ongoing stir would continue till at least October 2021. He said that the protesting cultivators are not 'short of time', and the government can make all the preparations it wants. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-asks-states-to-ensure-minimum-vaccine-wastage-101612623818047.html
06-02-2021||India||Bihar doctors on relay hunger strike against mixopathy; IMA may intensify stir||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) will intensify its agitation against mixopathy if the Central government does not take back its order allowing Ayurveda practitioners to perform surgeries said a motley group of doctors and medical students who sat on a relay hunger strike at Gandhi Maidan on Saturday.IMA national president Dr JA Jaylal, who was leading the protest, said the relay hunger strike would continue till the order to promote mixopathy, issued by the Central Council of Indigenous Medicine, was taken back.He said the national IMA, with the support of its state units, would be compelled to intensify the agitation if the Central government still did not heed its demands.“Modern medicine cannot be degraded by allowing Ayurveda practitioners to perform surgeries even if they were to be done in rural areas. Ayurveda practitioners are not as well trained as MBBS doctors, who go on to complete their post-graduation before performing surgeries. Those who practice indigenous medicines like Ayurveda should do research in herbs and plants and not be allowed to do surgeries,” said Dr Brajnandan, election commissioner of the national IMA.Doctors and medical students in batches of five each have been continuing with the relay hunger strike since February 1.National IMA president (elect) Dr Sahjanand Prasad Singh, IMA-Bihar president Dr Amarkant Jha ‘Amar’, senior vice-president IMA-Bihar Dr Ajay Kumar, former presidents of IMA-Bihar Dr Bimal Kumar Karak and Dr Sachchidanand Kumar were prominent among those who participated in the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-doctors-on-relay-hunger-strike-against-mixopathy-ima-may-intensify-stir-101612624233734.html
06-02-2021||India||States asked to complete 1st round vaccination of healthcare staff by Feb 20||The Union health ministry on Saturday reviewed the vaccination status of all states and union territories as India covered 56,36,868 beneficiaries under its vaccination drive till 6pm. In a video conference held on Saturday, the states and UTs have been asked to increase coverage, ensure beneficiary turnout per sessions, health secretary Dr Manohar Agnani said. Efforts are to be made to ensure minimum vaccine wastage, states and UTs have been told.The vaccination drive in India began with health care workers on January 16. From February 2, vaccination of frontline workers also started. Out of 56,36,868 beneficiaries, 52,66,175 are healthcare workers and 3,70,693 are frontline workers. So far, 54.7 per cent healthcare workers and 4.5 per cent frontline workers of all those registered have been covered.Second Covid-19 vaccine shot to be administered from Feb 13As the administration of the second dose of vaccination will start from February 13, the Centre has set a deadline of February 20 to complete first-round vaccination of all healthcare workers. Mop-up rounds to cover healthcare workers for the first dose, if left after February 20, can take place till February 25.So far, there have been 22 deaths — nine in hospital, 13 outside hospital, after vaccination but none of the deaths is linked with vaccination, Dr Agnani said.States which have covered more than 60% healthcare workers include Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Uttarakhand, Mizoram, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Odisha, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minimise-vaccine-wastage-increase-pace-centre-sets-new-targets-for-states-101612622482316.html
06-02-2021||India||PM Modi to launch 'Asom Mala', lay foundation stone of two hospitals in Assam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of two hospitals and launch 'Asom Mala', a programme for state highways and major district roads, at Dhekiajuli in Sonitpur district in Assam on Sunday.In a tweet, Prime Minister Modi, "I will be among the people of Assam tomorrow. At a programme in Dhekiajuli, Sonitpur district, the 'Asom Mala' programme will be launched, which will boost the state's road infrastructure. This initiative will contribute to Assam's economic progress and improve connectivity.""Foundation stones for medical colleges and hospitals in Biswanath and Charaideo will be laid. This will boost Assam's health infrastructure. In the last few years, the state has made rapid strides in healthcare. This has benefitted not only Assam but also the entire Northeast," he said in another tweet added.'Asom Mala', aimed at helping improve state highways and major district roads network in the state."The programme is unique for its emphasis on effective maintenance through continuous field data collection and its linkage with the Road Asset Management System (ROMS)," stated the press release by the Prime Minister's Office.Chief Minister of Assam, Sarbananda Sonowal will be present on the occasion.The two medical colleges and hospitals are being set up at Biswanath and Charaideo at a total estimated project cost of over ₹1,100 crores. Each hospital will have a 500-bed capacity and 100 MBBS seat capacity. The increase in the number of medical colleges and hospitals will not only mitigate the shortage of doctors in the state but also make Assam a hub for tertiary care and medical education for the entire North-Eastern region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-asom-mala-lay-foundation-stone-of-two-hospitals-in-assam-101612622944476.html
06-02-2021||India||25 countries in queue for 'Made in India' vaccine, says S Jaishankar||India has so far supplied Covid- 19 vaccine to 15 countries and another 25 nations are in the queue at different levels for the jab, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said here on Saturday. He said there are three categories of countries which are keen to get the vaccine from India- poor, price sensitive nations and other countries which directly deal with pharmaceutical companies that make the antidote. "I think right now we have already supplied to about 15 countries (as per my recollection). I would say there would be another about 25 countries which are at different stages in the pipeline. But what it has done is today it has put India on the map of the world," Jaishankar told reporters in a press conference. The minister said some poor countries are being supplied the vaccine on a grant basis while some nations wanted it on par with the price that the Indian Government pays to the vaccine makers. Some countries have directcontractswith the Indian vaccine producing companies and have negotiated commercially, he said. The Centre has already given the nod for two Covid-19 vaccines-- Covaxin of city-based Bharat Biotech and Covishield of Oxford, being manufactured by Serum Institute of India in Pune, which are being administered to frontline workers from January 16, under Emergency Use Authorisation. Drug maker Dr Reddys recently said it will approach the Drug Regulator for the EUA for Russian vaccine Sputnik V in March. Jaishankar said Prime Minister Narendra Modis idea was to establish the country as the "Pharmacy of the World", taking advantage of the domestic capabilities and the way India emerged as IT leader during the Y2K issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-countries-in-queue-for-made-in-india-vaccine-says-s-jaishankar-101612622085552.html
06-02-2021||India||Ganta Srinivasa Rao quits as MLA in protest against privatisation of Vizag Steel||Former Andhra Pradesh minister and senior Telugu Desam Party legislator Ganta Srinivasa Rao on Saturday resigned from his assembly membership in protest against the Centre’s decision to privatise the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), better known as Visakhapatnam Steel Plant.Rao sent his hand-written resignation letter to state assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram in the afternoon. Stating that he was tendering his resignation from the MLA’s post as a protest against the privatisation of RINL, he requested the speaker to accept it immediately.On Wednesday, the secretary of the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted that the Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs (CCEA), in its meeting on January 27, had cleared 100 per cent strategic disinvestment in RINL by completely privatising it.Within hours, Rao, who represents Visakhapatnam (north) assembly constituency, reacted strongly on the social media platform, opposing the privatisation of Vizag Steel, which has sentimental value for the four crore Telugu people.He announced that he would soon form a non-political joint action committee to launch a massive agitation demanding that the Centre revoke its decision to privatise the steel plant.Stating that he would fight tooth and nail to see that the steel plant did not go into the hands of private parties, the TDP leader demanded that all the MLAs and MPs of the state, cutting across the party lines, also resign from their posts to fight for the steel plant.TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu said it was the responsibility of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy to save the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. He accused the chief minister of sealing the mouths of his party MPs to prevent them from speaking against the privatisation of steel plant.Naidu recalled that Visakhapatnam Steel Plant was established after a prolonged battle by the Telugus. “Over 30 people laid down their lives for this cause. Amaravati resident Amrita Rao's fast-unto-death had eventually won the steel plant back for AP in that landmark agitation. Lakhs of AP people had taken part in the steel plant agitation for several years,” he said.Terming Visakha Steel as an everlasting right of Andhras, the TDP leader suspected that Jagan Reddy may be trying to take over the steel plant through backdoor means at a cheaper rate.Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur, talking to the media in Hyderabad, defended the Centre’s decision to privatise the Vizag Steel Plant. “The decision was taken on the recommendations of NITI-Aayog. The government won’t disinvest in every public sector undertaking, but only in loss-making PSUs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganta-srinivasa-rao-quits-as-mla-in-protest-against-privatisation-of-vizag-steel-101612619813084.html
06-02-2021||India||Narrow escape: RPF saves disabled man trying to board running train||A video of how a differently abled man has been saved by Railway Protection Force while he was trying to board a running train has emerged earning praises for the services of the RPF. The incident took place at 3.44pm on Friday at Panvel station in Navi Mumbai.The 28-second clip — which went viral on social media — showed the man was trying to board the running train while a fellow passenger was helping him to get inside the compartment. However, the man lost his balance and was about to fall under the train when the RPF personnel came and pulled him back on time.Taking to Twitter, the RPF warned to never attempt to board a running train with the hashtags #SafetyFirst and #JaanHaiTohJahaanHai.Union railways minister Piyush Goyal too tweeted the video and said that attempting to climb on a moving train can be fatal and urged people to follow all rules and be safe.“The vigilance and quick action of RPF security personnel in Panvel, Mumbai saved a disabled passenger from getting hit by a train. Attempting to climb on a moving train can prove fatal for you. Your life is priceless, I urge you to follow the rules, and be safe,” Goyal’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.The Railway Protection Force was created by the Railway Protection Force Act, 1957. It falls under the authority of the Union railways ministry. Apart from ensuring the safety of commuters and any property of the Railways, the RPF also has the power to arrest, probe and prosecute offences committed under the Railway Property (Unlawful Possession) Act 1966 and the Railways Act, 1989.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narrow-escape-rpf-saves-disabled-man-trying-to-board-running-train-101612619047597.html
06-02-2021||India||Delhi court issues non-bailable warrant against Hafiz Saeed for money laundering||A Delhi court on Saturday issued non-bailable warrants (NBWs) against Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) chief Muhammad Hafiz Saeed, Kashmiri businessman Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali, separatist Altaf Ahmad Shah alias Funtoosh and businessman from the UAE Naval Kishore Kapoor while taking cognisance of the Enforcement Directorate’s money laundering charges in Jammu and Kashmir terror-funding case.Watali’s company M/s Trison Farms and Construction Pvt Ltd has also been arrayed as accused by the court while issuing the NBWs.While Hafiz Saeed, who is also the mastermind of 26/11 Mumbai attacks, roams freely in Pakistan and enjoys patronage of its spy agency – Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Watali, Funtoosh and Kapoor are lodged in Tihar jail.The ED’s Special Public Prosecutor, Nitesh Rana, submitted in the court of Special Judge National Investigation Agency (NIA), Praveen Singh, at Patiala House Courts that, “Watali was receiving money from Hafiz Saeed (founder of Jamaat-ud-Dawa, its military arm LeT, the ISI as well as Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi, which was further remitted to the Hurriyat leaders, separatists and stone-throwers in the Kashmir valley”.Naval Kishore Kapoor, mobilised funds from unknown sources in Dubai and remitted the same to Watali and his company Trison Farms and Construction Pvt Ltd, according to Rana.Also read: HT Interview - IAF chief RKS Bhadauria says indigenisation key to military mightThe anti-money laundering probe agency had launched an investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in Jammu and Kashmir terror-funding case on the basis of an NIA charge sheet against Saeed and others in 2018. It has already attached properties close to worth ₹8 crore belonging to Watali so far.In its charge sheet in 2018, the NIA had claimed that a former Pakistani prime minister (without naming) wrote a letter to Watali, which was recovered from the latter’s residence during the raids. Not just that, it said that the NIA had recovered from his place a list of ISI officials.Both the NIA and the ED have claimed in their official court documents, reviewed by HT, that Hafiz Saeed, another UN listed terrorist, Syed Salahuddin (Hizbul Mujahideen chief), Pakistan and its agencies provided funds via Dubai route by using bogus transactions carried out in several companies for terror activities in J-K.Subsequently, funds came through legitimate transfers from bank accounts of certain individuals, hawala, LoC (Line of Control) barter trade by under-invoicing of goods and bogus companies floated abroad, it stated.The NIA has said, “a threadbare scrutiny and analysis of documents and digital devices seized by it established that the Hurriyat leaders, terrorists and stone-pelters were carrying out terrorist attacks, orchestrating violence, stone pelting and other subversive and secessionist activities in the state as part of a well-planned criminal conspiracy hatched with the active support, connivance and funding from terrorist organisations based in Pakistan and its agencies to achieve their objective of secession of the state of Jammu and Kashmir by waging war against the Government of India”.“The secessionist leaders belonging to All Parties Hurriyat Conference have established a network of cadres throughout Kashmir valley who incite the youth to attack all symbols of Indian sovereignty, especially Indian security forces. Acting under the overall guidance of and instructions from Hafiz Saeed and Salahuddin and their ‘Pakistani handlers’, the separatists form strategies and action plans to launch violent protests and communicate the same to the masses in the form of ‘protest calendars’, released through newspapers, social media and religious leaders, creating an “atmosphere of terror and fear in J-K,” it added.HT could not locate the legal representatives of Watali and other accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-issues-non-bailable-warrant-against-hafiz-saeed-for-money-laundering-101612618120278.html
06-02-2021||India||No favour: J-K people demand compensation, apology after 4G internet restoration||By Friday midnight, many people in Jammu and Kashmir were glued to their mobile sets as the 4G internet was slowly restored by the authorities. Although there were usual teething problems with the restoration on Saturday as well, many youngsters were eager to experience unhindered streaming of videos and digital data after 18 months.While people were relieved over the restoration of what has become an important part of modern-day life, many in the region demanded apologies and compensation from the government and cellular companies for denying their right for so long.“It is alright that they have restored the internet because it was the need of the hour but I don’t think there isn't any excitement as people are aware that they have lost a lot in these one and a half years. We lost our dignity, our statehood and most importantly, our special status,” said Tariq Ahmad, 19, a college student of Srinagar.Also read: HT Interview - IAF chief RKS Bhadauria says indigenisation key to military mightAuthorities suspended 4G mobile internet services on August 4, 2019, a day before the central government abrogated Article 370, which accorded special privileges to Jammu and Kashmir, and bifurcated it into two Union territories — J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one. The government also imposed restrictions on movement of people, suspended landline and mobile calling services, fearing widespread protests in the restive region.While the restrictions were lifted after a few months, the postpaid mobile services buzzed back to life on October 14, 2019. Short messaging service (SMS) on all mobile phones and broadband internet services in government-run hospitals were restored on January 1, 2020.Political analyst and author, Gowhar Geelani said that the restoration of 4G was ‘no favour’. “After having snatched your right to high-speed Internet service for 18-long months (550+ days)—besides suspending all civil liberties— restoring internet (allegedly) is not something to celebrate about. It is actually a moment to reflect how compensation can be sought from the cellular companies who took money for the services they have failed to provide for so long,” he said.Habeel Iqbal, lawyer from south Kashmir’s Shopian district, said, the authorities should redress the wrong done due to ban on internet. “Kashmir demands ‘reparation’ which in legal terms is the process and result of remedying the damage or harm caused by an unlawful act. There are five forms of reparations which includes compensation as well as a guarantee that this should not be repeated,” he said.Senior journalist Riyaz Masroor said that a sincere apology was due while restoring 4G in Kashmir. “Fundamental right shouldn’t be billed as an incentive or concession,” he Twitted.The Jammu and Kashmir administration restored low-speed (2G) mobile internet and fixed-line connectivity in all districts with access to just a whitelist of around 301 websites in January 2020 following Supreme Court’s January 10 directive to review the ban on internet services in the UT every week. The move came after a petition by executive editor of a local daily, Anuradha Bhasin in August 2019.Bhasin had said that the government was not offering people charity. “I actually see some going out of their way to thank govt functionaries for 4G restoration. They're not offering us charity. We should be asking for compensation for our deprivation and losses,” she said in a tweet.“Why do I have this uncanny feeling that this 4G restoration is less about J&K people and more about international image due to farmer's protest,” she said.In August 2020, high-speed (4G) internet was restored in two districts of J&K — Ganderbal and Udhampur — based on the parameters laid down by a special committee after the central government told the Supreme Court that restrictions on high-speed mobile internet services will be relaxed in one district each of Jammu and Kashmir divisions of the UT after August 15 on a trial basis.The Supreme Court was hearing a petition filed by Foundation for Media Professionals, a non-government organisation, last June, seeking the initiation of contempt proceedings against the Centre and J-K administration for the failure to comply with the top court’s May 11 directions to review restrictions on mobile internet speed in the Union territory.Guftar Ahmad, a political activist from Jammu division who works for the welfare of tribals and nomads, said that after 4G restoration, now the government should also restore Article 370. “After creating history of 18 months shutdown Govt has restored 4g Internet in J&K. Last time on 4 August 2019 J&K accessed high-speed Internet. In last 18 months economy of J&K witnessed massive damage.GOI should also restore Special status of J&K, Article 370. #Kashmir #Internet,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-favour-j-k-people-demand-compensation-apology-after-4g-internet-restoration-101612615529425.html
06-02-2021||India||'Toolkit revealed a lot': Jaishankar on document shared by Greta Thunberg||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Saturday reacted to the toolkit row and expressed concern over what all has come out in the open after the 'toolkit' was tweeted by Sweden climate activist Greta Thunberg. "I think it has revealed a lot. We have to see what else comes out," he said to news agency ANI.The foreign minister also said that there was a reason why the ministry needed to issue a statement in the wake of farmers' protest getting international attention, which the ministry said was neither responsible nor accurate.#WATCH: EAM Dr S Jaishankar speaks on 'Toolkit' matter, says, "It has revealed a lot. We've to wait & see what else comes out. There was a reason why Foreign Ministry reacted to statements which some celebrities gave out on matters on which they obviously didn't know very much." pic.twitter.com/wWmqWtFkL8"You see there was a reason why the foreign ministry reacted to the statements which some celebrities gave out for whatever the reason on matters which obviously they didn't know very much," Jaishankar said.Here’s an updated toolkit by people on the ground in India if you want to help. (They removed their previous document as it was outdated.)#StandWithFarmers #FarmersProtesthttps://t.co/ZGEcMwHUNLAfter American pop star Rihanna tweeted a CNN article on farmers' protest and the following suspension of the internet in areas of the National capital, the protest has garnered international support. But among all those who supported farmers, a tweet by Greta Thunberg stood apart as the teen activist shared a toolkit, containing information on how to support the protest. Greta deleted one version of the toolkit only to upload another one saying the earlier version was outdated. Delhi Police registered an FIR against the creators of the toolkit and wrote to Google seeking details. Police said it found Khalistani links with the document and there have been "copycat" execution of the plans laid out in the toolkit.Union minister Prakash Javadekar and BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi have reacted to the toolkit row, both claiming that the document brings serious issues to the fore.A day after Rihanna and Greta Thunberg supported farmers protest, the ministry of external affairs issued a statement condemning such "rushed comments".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-revealed-a-lot-jaishankar-on-document-shared-by-greta-thunberg-101612614728616.html
06-02-2021||India||CM Mamata’s nephew Abhishek challenges Suvendu Adhikari on latter’s home turf||Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee has challenged Bharatiya Janata Party leader Suvendu Adhikari on the latter’s home turf in East Midnapore district and said that Adhikari would lose by 50,000 if he contests from any seat in the district in the coming assembly elections.“Even if all the people present in this rally vote in favour of the TMC, the security deposit of Mir Jafar and company would be forfeited in the elections,” he said while attacking Adhikari at a public rally at Kathi in East Midnapore district.Adhikari, a former minister and an ex-TMC leader switched over to the BJP at a rally addressed by Union home minister Amit Shah in the same district in December 2020.“He has joined the BJP by touching the feet of a person under whose leadership the bust of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar was vandalized. Wipe out the traitors who have sold the emotions of Midnapore to the bosses in Delhi,” Banerjee said, while sharpening his attack against Adhikari.In May 2019, the bust of Vidyasagar, a 19th-century educationist and social reformer was vandalised in Kolkata during a Lok Sabha campaign rally led by Amit Shah. It had become a raging issue in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Vidyasagar was born in Midnapore district. The BJP had, however, refuted the charges.“The TMC will get more than 250 seats and come to power for the third time. You vote for the TMC and I am taking the responsibility to make them (BJP) politically bankrupt within three months of winning the elections,” he said.Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee had announced a few days ago that she would contest the crucial assembly polls from Nandigram in East Midnapore. A day after that Adhikari had challenged the TMC chief that she would lose by 50,000 votes.On Saturday, Abhishek Banerjee in a counter challenge to Adhikari said: “Suvendu Adhikari will lose by 50,000 votes if he contests from any seat of Midnapore. East Midnapore will give Bengal its next chief minister.”East Midnapore district has often been said to be a stronghold of the Adhikari family. The district’s Kanthi and Tamluk Lok Sabha seats are represented by Suvendu’s father Sisir Adhikari and his elder brother Dibyendu Adhikari. Both have distanced themselves from the party. Suvendu and his brother Soumendu have already joined the BJP.“Go and tell your father that I am standing within five kilometres from your house. Do whatever you can. Do you have the guts? I am challenging you on your home turf. I have come today and in the next two months I will be here multiple times,” he added, as the crowd, comprising a few thousand people, cheered and applauded.The BJP leadership has been frequently attacking Abhishek Banerjee referring to him as Bhaipo (nephew).“He (Adhikari) is suffering from nephew-terror. Everywhere he sees nephew and speaks about nephew during most of his speeches. And now they are targeting my wife,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-mamata-s-nephew-abhishek-challenges-suvendu-adhikari-on-latter-s-home-turf-101612612897818.html
06-02-2021||India||3-hour-long 'chakka jam' ends peacefully. What's next?||The three-hour-long 'chakka jam' called by farmers on Saturday protesting internet suspension at borders in the aftermath of Republic Day violence ended peacefully. Many state and national highways were blocked, except in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, as decided earlier. Security was stepped up in Delhi, Haryana so that a rerun of what happened on Republic Day does not take place. The symbolic protest ended with Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait saying that the protests will continue until the demands are met. He said that the government has "time" till October to repeal the laws, implying that the protesters are planning to camp t Delhi borders till October.Here is what happened in the 3-hour chakka jam:> Before 'chakka jam' began, the entry and exit facilities of 10 Delhi Metro stations were closed. They remained closed for several hours until 'chakka jam' ended around 3pm. After that, the gates were opened.> The blockade was not observed inside the Capital. Highways leading to Delhi were also free from blockade so that farmers can come to the protest sites. For the same reason, there was no blockade in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.> In Chandigarh, Chandigarh-Zirakpur, Amritsar-Pathankot, Tarn Taran-Kapurthala, Ferozepur-Fazilka, Muktsar-Kotkapura, Bathinda-Chandigarh, Ludhiana-Jalandhar, Panchkula-Pinjore, Patiala-Kaithal, Jind-Karnal, Karnal-Kaithal, Ambala – Chandigarh Highway, Ambala- Hisar and Mansa-Sirsa were blocked.> The road blockade was observed in almost all states including Telangana, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Rajasthan. In some areas, protesters were detained.> Though there was no 'chakka jam' in Delhi, some protesters demonstrating at Delhi's Shahidi Park were detained.> Internet services have been temporarily suspended in border areas of Delhi till the end of Saturday.> The Congress extended its full support to the call of the road blockade.> Delhi Police kept water canons ready for any untoward situation. Drones were deployed to keep a watch on protesters at Delhi borders.> As far as the future of the protest is concerned, Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said the protest will go on until the demands of the farmers are met.> Tikait said the government has "time" till October 2 to repeal the laws.The protesters are under fire after their peaceful protest turned violent on Republic Day. Union leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav are on police radar for they promised a peaceful march. While Delhi Police is probing into the matter of Republic Day violence, the Supreme Court-appointed panel on farm laws is consulting with farmers from across the country. Mahapanchayats are also being held at several placed in UP, including Shamli, Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar, to bolster farmers' protest. If farmers continue camping till October, it will be 12 months of their protes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3hourlong-chakka-jam-ends-peacefully-what-s-next-101612613140419.html
06-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Javadekar, Tharoor spar on Twitter over farm laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Javadekar shares Tharoor's old tweet on farm laws; 'Misinformation,' says latterUnion minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday shared an old tweet of Congress leader Shashi Tharoor where Tharoor championed for the engagement of the private sector in the storage of grains. "And now Congress thinks exactly the opposite," Javadekar wrote on Twitter, accusing Tharoor of hypocrisy. Read moreShiv Sena expresses displeasure over Nana Patole's resignationNana Patole's resignation as Maharashtra assembly speaker on Thursday ahead of his nomination as the state Congress chief a day later has not gone down well with alliance partner Shiv Sena. Read more'How can a democratic govt act like this?': Cong MP Venugopal slams Centre as farm stir intensifiesCongress leader KC Venugopal targeted the Centre on Saturday over the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws and questioned the government's treatment towards the protesters. Read moreJapan conveys 'strong concerns' to China over new coast guard lawJapan conveyed its 'strong concerns' to China over Beijing's new law that allows its coast guard to use military force in waters the country claims, during a video meeting on maritime issues on Wednesday, reported the Japan Times. Read more'He looks 20 years older that he really is': Mark Butcher comments on R Ashwin's fieldingFormer batsman Mark Butcher feels R Ashwin is not the 'best mover' in the team after the off-spinner dropped a tough return catch of Ben Stokes on Day 2 of the 1st Test between India and England in Chennai. Read moreSona Mohapatra reacts as Twitter user asks ‘who is making a vaccine to protect us from Kangana Ranaut?’Singer Sona Mohapatra, keeping her ‘humour intact’, reacted to a tweet about actor Kangana Ranaut. As countries across the world are busy producing Covid-19 vaccines, a Twitter user asked, “Who's making a vaccine to protect us from Kangana Ranaut?” Read moreHow to restore your deleted Instagram postsInstagram earlier this week introduced a new feature that lets users recover their deleted posts. Instagram explained situations where hackers might gain access to your account and delete posts, and you don’t have any option to recover them. Read moreHappy birthday Nora Fatehi: Style evolution of the actor over years, in picsOne of the upcoming fashionistas in Bollywood is Nora Fatehi and there is no denying that. The Saki-Saki girl has a dreamy wardrobe that is full of swoon-worthy attires, designer bags and highest of the heels. Whenever the acclaimed dancer steps out, she always makes headlines. Read more94-year-old Canadian becomes world's oldest waterskier. Watch record making clipEver heard of the phrase “Age is just a number”? 94-year-old Bob Hutcheson hailing from Canada proved that by becoming the world's oldest waterskier (male). Read moreWatch: RPF personnel saves differently-abled man from falling under moving train||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-javadekar-shares-tharoor-s-old-tweet-on-farm-laws-101612609938364.html
06-02-2021||India||Javadekar shares Tharoor's old tweet on farm laws; 'Misinformation,' says latter||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday shared an old tweet of Congress leader Shashi Tharoor where Tharoor championed for the engagement of the private sector in the storage of grains. "And now Congress thinks exactly the opposite," Javadekar wrote on Twitter, accusing Tharoor of hypocrisy.In the tweet, which Shashi Tharoor had posted on January 23, 2010, he noted that India wasted more wheat every year to storage and distribution losses. And the amount of loss surpasses what Australia grows. "Real need for pvt sector 2move into grain storage," Tharoor had written, as seen in the screenshot shared by Javadekar.Prakash-bhai, Does my tweet mention or imply anything about removing MSP or amending ECA to allow hoarding? Or aren't you aware of farmers’ demands? Surely it’d be better for a Minister of Information & Broadcasting to stop Broadcasting Misinformation this way. @PrakashJavadekarTaking the accusation in his stride, Tharoor said the old tweet has no mention that he wants minimum support price (MSP) system to be abolished. "Prakash-bhai, Does my tweet mention or imply anything about removing MSP or amending ECA to allow hoarding? Or aren't you aware of farmers’ demands? Surely it’d be better for a Minister of Information & Broadcasting to stop Broadcasting Misinformation this way," Tharoor wrote.Centre has 'time' till October 2 to repeal farm laws, says BKU's Rakesh TikaitThe Centre and the BJP in its extensive campaigning for the farm laws have reiterated that the bills did not come to Parliament overnight. There have been years of consultations on this, Union leaders have said.The BJP also dug out an old letter of National Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar where Pawar in the capacity of the agriculture minister had written to chief ministers to amend APMC Act to allow private sector in agriculture. NCP clarified that Pawar was trying to form a consensus among state agriculture marketing boards in 2010-11. But the party (NCP) did not support the farm laws against which the present protest is going on.Farmers have been protesting the three laws as they apprehend that these laws will allow the entry of private players in the sector. Another contentious issue is MSP not being mentioned in the laws, though the Centre has reiterated that the system of procurement under MSP will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/javadekar-shares-tharoor-s-old-tweet-on-farm-laws-misinformation-says-latter-101612608757773.html
06-02-2021||India||Centre’s notification on eco-sensitive zone triggers protests in Wayanad||The Union Environment Ministry’s draft notification on an eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) in Wayanad (north Kerala) which runs around the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary has triggered a fresh round of protest with the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) calling a shutdown on Monday in the district.People living in fringe areas of the forest say many human settlements will come under the zone and the new announcement will cripple their lives. Workers of the ruling Left Democratic Front and UDF have burnt copies of the draft notification and staged demonstrations in the district on Friday. The Diocese of Sultan Bathery also threatened to hit the streets—since a majority of people living in the fringe areas are Christians.Congress leaders said they had informed who represents the parliamentary constituency, about the simmering unrest. With assembly elections just two months away, the issue has given enough fodder to parties and they are busy chalking out their strategies to exploit the situation.According to the draft notification published by the ministry last week, the ESZ will cover an area of 118.59 km which includes 8.89 km of the Tirunelly reserve forest of north Wayanad and 17.67 km of Chedelaythu range in south Wayanad. Rich in biodiversity, the 344 sq km Wayanad wildlife sanctuary is a favourite habitat of elephants and tigers. Green activists have been questioning the fast depleting canopy of Wayanad, also a favourite get-away. Last month a tourist who was staying in a tent put up by a resort inside the forest was trampled by an elephant.“If the notification is approved at least 30 per cent of Wayanad’s total area will come under the ESZ. Where will people go? Thousands of people will be displaced. We need forests but at the same time people should also be allowed to live,” said district Congress leader N D Appachan. He said the state government’s indifferent attitude led to the notification. But the government has denied this.State forest minister K Raju, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19, said the government would study the latest notification in detail and there is no need of any apprehension now. Last year the government had asked the Union Environment Ministry to amend ESZ provisions while fixing buffer zones around sanctuaries and excluding human habitat.Wayanad district collector Adeela Abdullah also said it was only a draft and the final notification will be issued after several rounds of discussions and revisions. But green activists have welcomed the notification. “It will help curtail human incursions into wildlife habitat and lessen man-animal conflict and preserve endemic flora and fauna,” said Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshana Samiti, a prominent group of environmentalists and nature lovers.According to the Union Environment Ministry, the draft will be taken up for consideration after 60 days and the public can send their comments and suggestions during this period to the secretary of the ministry. The state had witnessed violent protest in 2012 against two expert committee reports, Gadgil and Kasturirangan, aimed at protecting the fragile ecology of the Western Ghats.In Kerala, the Catholic Church was in the forefront of the agitation because a majority of the ecologically sensitive areas come under the Christian belt. When the country was facing acute food shortage after independence, Christian settlers were encouraged to move to forest areas under the ‘Grow more food campaign’. Now the church fears that believers would be evicted in the name of ecology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-notification-on-eco-sensitive-zone-triggers-protests-in-wayanad-101612608816004.html
06-02-2021||India||IRCTC launches its online bus booking services||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC) has launched its online bus booking services that went live for the service of the nation on January 29, informed IRCTC on Friday."IRCTC under the leadership of Ministry of Railways, Ministry of Commerce and Industry and Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution is gradually moving towards firmly positioning itself as the first government 'One Stop Shop Travel Portal' of the country," read a statement issued by IRCTC."In a recent development for providing a more holistic travel experience to the customers, IRCTC that is already in the business of online rail and flight tickets booking launched its online bus booking services that went live for the service of the nation on 29th January 2021," it added.The integration of this service over IRCTC Mobile-app is expected to be completed in the first week of March, which will enable the public to book bus tickets through Mobile too.According to the statement, the IRCTC has tied up with more than 50,000 state road transport as well as private bus operators covering 22 states and three union territories for proving the online bus booking services to the customers.The new feature of online bus booking will allow the customers to view a variety of buses and choose the appropriate bus for travel considering route, amenities, reviews, ratings and bus images available. Along with this, the customers will be able to choose their pick-up and drop points and timings and finally book their journey at a reasonable price with the ongoing bank and e-wallet discounts too.The new business initiative of IRCTC will enable the last mile connectivity to the travellers already using the services of IRCTC for train and flight tickets booking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-launches-its-online-bus-booking-services-101612607776111.html
06-02-2021||India||Some people are spreading confusion among farmers about MSP: Shekhawat||Amid a protest by farmers against the Centre's three farm laws, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Saturday alleged that some people are spreading confusion among farmers about the minimum support price mechanism, whereas the truth is there has been an increase of one-and-half times in the stipulated rate for crops under the Modi government.Speaking to reporters at the BJP Uttar Pradesh state headquarters, Shekhawat said, "The people who have termed the farm laws as black laws and have knowledge about agriculture, they should come and tell what is 'black' in these. The political parties who have been rejected by the people or who apprehend of being rendered useless in future, they are making it an issue and are spreading confusion like they had with the citizenship law amendment."He said The central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed to the welfare of farmers and doubling their income.On the Union Budget for 2021-22, Shekhawat said, "The budget was presented from the point of view of making the country self-reliant. And whenever the history of 'aatmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) will be written, this budget will prove to be a milestone. The budget was presented to transform adversity to opportunity."The Union minister said that in the budget, the Centre has launched the Jal Jeevan Mission for urban areas, and Uttar Pradesh will gain the most from it.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-people-are-spreading-confusion-among-farmers-about-msp-shekhawat-101612607469427.html
06-02-2021||India||India registers record of 20 crore total Covid-19 tests till date||India on Saturday registered a record by crossing the landmark 20-crore total cumulative Covid-19 tests. Out of 20 crore total tests the country has conducted 7,40,794 tests in the past 24 hours, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare informed.Progressive countrywide expansion in testing infrastructure has played a crucial role in the steep rise of testing numbers, an official statement by the ministry said."With 2,369 testing labs in the country including 1,214 government laboratories and 1,155 private laboratories, the daily testing capacity has got a substantial boost. The cumulative positivity rate is also declining and presently pegged at 5.39 per cent," it said.High level of comprehensive testing on a sustained basis has also resulted in bringing down the national positivity rate. The higher daily testing combined with low daily cases have resulted in low positivity rate.However, the country's total active caseload continued to follow a consistent downward slope. It has dropped to less than 1.5 lakh (1,48,590) today and is the lowest in eight months.The present active caseload now consists of just 1.37 per cent of India's total positive cases. The country has seen less than 100 fatalities (95) in the past 24 hours.A total number of vaccinated beneficiaries surpassed 54 lakhs (54,16,849) under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise, as per today's record till 8 am.The number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day has shown a consistent and progressive increase.The ministry said India is the fastest country to reach the five million mark in Covid-19 vaccination. This feat was achieved in merely 21 days. Several other countries have had a head start of more than 60 days in the Covid-19 vaccination exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-record-of-20-crore-total-covid-19-tests-till-date-101612606552513.html
06-02-2021||India||'How can a democratic govt act like this?': Cong MP Venugopal slams Centre as farm stir intensifies||Congress leader KC Venugopal targeted the Centre on Saturday over the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws and questioned the government's treatment towards the protesters. On one hand, the Centre was ready for talks with them and on the other, it withdrew water and electricity connection at the protest sites, Venugopal said underlying the dichotomy.“Farmers are on streets for 71 days, they’re struggling. On one hand, the government is ready for talks, while on other hand they are withdrawing water connection, electricity connection. They are harassing farmers, how can a democratic govt act like this?,” Venugopal said while speaking to reporters.Venugopal said on Friday that the Congress fully backed the protest and further appealed to the Centre to climb down from the “high horse of false and misplaced pride” and agree to all the justified demands of the protesters by repealing the laws — which were passed by Parliament in September.Farmers are on streets for 71 days, they're struggling. On one hand, govt is ready for talks, while on other hand they're withdrawing water connection, electricity connection. They're harassing farmers, how can a democratic govt act like this?: KC Venugopal, Congress MP pic.twitter.com/bo56pU9SswHe further pointed out that the farmers’ movement was not only aimed at protecting agriculture and farming but also towards saving the public distribution system. “However, the power-drunk Modi government is trying every mean trick of the trade to tire out and defame the protesting millions.” the Congress MP added.Meanwhile, the farmers began their countrywide highway blockade, called ‘chakka jam’, for three hours (12pm-3pm) in order to protest the ban on internet services at protest sites along with other difficulties they had been facing.Security was beefed up at the Ghazipur, Tikri and other such border points and the Delhi Police detained several protesters in the Shahidi Park area in the national Capital. The Police added that nearly 50,000 security personnel, including paramilitary and reserve forces, were deployed in the Delhi-NCR region to maintain law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-can-a-democratic-govt-act-like-this-congress-mp-kc-venugopal-101612606510646.html
06-02-2021||India||Differently abled, but with an indomitable will||Anant Vaishya operates his touchscreen cell phone with his nose, operates laptop with his one finger and cannot walk.Yet this second-year student of engineering at BR Ambedkar University, Kanpur for the differently-abled, has navigated all obstacles to develop an application ‘Gud Ka Saathi’ for farmers.“The farmers, particularly those dealing in jaggery, can trade easily after they register on the app,” said Vaishya.Vaishya’s prowess can be gauged by the fact that the Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), which got 157 entries under its ‘one district one product’ project, placed the prototype of his app among the top six. The AKTU had asked technical institutes to submit ideas and technical solutions to help boost ‘one district one product’ project. The university received 157 entries from different institutes. Vaishya also sent his and it easily made it to the top six.“I felt jaggery producers don’t get the right price and are left with little choice, have to sell for one-fourth (of the price),” said Vaishya.The app could expand their market and bring the producers and big buyers together at one place, he said. “They can easily market their produce, something they haven’t been able to do and get better prices that they will control,” he said.The app that is in advance stages would also illustrate the technique to make flavoured jaggery.Chocolate, vanilla and ice cream flavoured jaggery was in vogue and anyone could learn the recipe using the app, Vaishya said.Also Read: Schools for Classes 6-8 to reopen from Feb 10 in UPDifferently-abled since birth, Vaishya cannot hold anything with his hands or walk on his own. But his teachers said he was a young man with immense confidence who worked day in and day out to develop this app.And while people may think life is difficult for him, Vaishya, who wants to become a software developer, does not think so. The plucky student said he was unmoved by the difficulties he faced in his day-to-day life. “They motivate me to find solutions. Whatever the problems, I always find a solution,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/differently-abled-but-with-an-indomitable-will-101612606479335.html
06-02-2021||India||Idli seller killed by 3 customers after argument over ₹20 in Thane||A 26-year-old road-side idli vendor was allegedly killed by three unidentified customers at Mira Road in Thane district following an argument over ₹20, police said on Saturday.The incident occurred on Friday morning, they said.The victim, identified as Virendra Yadav, used to sell idlis. On Friday, three customers came to his road-side joint and told him that he owed them ₹20. Soon, an argument broke out and escalated into a scuffle, a police official said.Also read| Thane civic body budget: Ambitious projects kept on hold for now, says TMC chief"The trio pushed the vendor, due to which he fell down and suffered head injuries. Other people rushed him to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead," he said.His body was later sent for post-mortem, the official said.A case of murder was registered against the three accused at Naya Nagar police station in Mira Road.The Mira Bhayandar-Vasai Virar police have launched a search to trace the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/idli-seller-killed-by-3-customers-after-argument-over-rs-20-in-thane-101612589097417.html
06-02-2021||India||Nafed to buy 2L MT maize, 60K MT pulses in Bihar||After a decade, the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed) plans to buy around 2 lakh metric tonnes of maize from farmers in Bihar this season from April.The central agency is also expected to set up procurement centres in central and west Bihar districts to purchase around 60,000 metric tonnes of pulses, particularly masoor from the farmers on minimum support price (MSP).Officials said the agency has arranged sufficient funds to ensure instant payment to the farmers, who were earlier forced to sell their farm produce on throwaway prices in the absence of procurement on the MSP.Also read| Farmers block roads across Punjab to drive home protestThe Nafed agreed to revive its network after the civil supplies and consumer protection department requested the agency to relaunch the procurement process for crops other than paddy and wheat.“We are in touch with the state cooperative department and primary agriculture cooperative societies to set up procurement centres for pulses at Ara, Buxar, Nalanda, Gaya, Aurangabad, and Nawada. Districts for setting up maize procurement are being identified,” said Nafed branch manager, Patna, Yatendra Singh.According to agricultural experts, the estimated production of maize and pulses is likely to cross around 6 lakh metric tonne and 5 lakh metric tonnes this season.In the absence of a mechanism for state-sponsored procurement, the area for pulses’ production declined to 4.39 lakh hectare in 2019-20 as compared to 10.83 lakh hectare in 1991-92.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nafed-to-buy-2l-mt-maize-60k-mt-pulses-in-bihar-101612603474792.html
06-02-2021||India||Centre has 'time' till October 2 to repeal farm laws, says BKU's Rakesh Tikait||On a day farmers protesting against the Centre's three contentious agricultural laws are stag a pan-India 'chakka jam' against the laws, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said that the farmer leaders have give the central government 'time' till October 2 to withdraw the legislations."We have given time to the government till 2nd October to repeal the laws. After this, we will do further planning. We won't hold discussions with the government under pressure," said Tikait, the spokesperson of the BKU, according to news agency ANI.We have given time to the government till 2nd October to repeal the laws. After this, we will do further planning. We won't hold discussions with the government under pressure: Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union pic.twitter.com/HwqBYDIH5CSignificantly, October 2 marks the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, known as the 'Father of the Nation.'Tikait's tears at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh Ghazipur border last week revived the anti-farm law protests, after violence during the 'Kisan tractor parade' in the capital city on Republic Day threatened to turn public sentiment against the farmers, who had, till then, protested peacefully against the laws. Tikait, the son of late farmers' leader Mahendra Singh Tikait, who himself led a farmers' movement in Delhi in 1988 against the Rajiv Gandhi government, had broken down in the face of an impending crackdown by the Uttar Pradesh Police.However, the video of Tikait breaking down went viral and more farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana rushed to the protest site, forcing the police to retreat.Also Read | Supporters flock to UP Gate at night as Tikait’s emotional appeal goes viralFarmers across India held a 'chakka jam' or road blockade on Saturday, demanding a complete repeal of the laws which were passed by the Centre last September amid chaotic scenes in the Parliament. The 'chakka jam' was observed everywhere except Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand from 12pm-3pm.Saturday marks day 73 of the farmers' protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-time-till-october-2-to-repeal-farm-laws-says-bku-s-rakesh-tikait-101612606146282.html
06-02-2021||India||My goal to give job opportunities to 80% J&K youth in 5 years: LG||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha Saturday said that his administration’s goal was to provide job opportunities to 80% of the young population of the Union Territory within the next five years to make them an engine of growth for the overall socio-economic transformation of Jammu and Kashmir.Sinha said this while delivering a keynote address at the Harvard US-India Initiative (HUII) annual conference via virtual mode.“I would like to see each child of J&K prosper into a mature, successful and good human being; the potential of each young person is harnessed in a way that everyone contributes towards the prosperity of the UT. Together we will achieve”, said Sinha.HUII aims to engage students around the world in a dialogue about India’s most pressing political, social, economic, and environmental challenges, providing youth the opportunity to hear from inspiring leaders and be a part of the discussion with them."I sincerely believe that with a huge young talented population, friendly ecosystem and the trust we have managed to build that we can deliver on promises, has allowed India to emerge as the popular destination for global entrepreneurs and corporate," L-G Sinha said during the address.“The world’s biggest power is Youth,” the L-G said quoting Chanakya and emphasised that they need not follow conventional wisdom or a crowd and must realise who they are and what they want. "Be yourself. Your knowledge is about creating a new vision of life."Also Read: Army prepared to take on the security challenges, says top generalAcknowledging that youth power can shape the society, L-G Sinha said that remarkable qualities like spontaneity, leadership, adaptability and capability, bless the youth with power to build character, moral strength and intellectual prowess for creation of a better civilization.Talking about the phases in the lives of youth, LG said, “I believe our evolution in student days passes through three most crucial stages-Action, Revolution and Reform".Youth is the most aware being on this planet, having potential to awaken humanity, he said, "It is this call that entrusts a duty on the youth to persuade errant youth lost in conflicts world over to come back to mainstream marking another unrealized dimension of youth potential," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-goal-to-give-job-opportunities-to-80-j-k-youth-in-5-years-lg-101612604847287.html
06-02-2021||India||Chakka Jam: PAC, paramilitary forces deployed at state, national highways in UP||About 144 UP-PAC companies, six paramilitary companies, along with senior officers, have been deployed at the state and national highways and everything is being recorded in the wake of 'chakka jam' call by the farmer unions who were protesting against the farm laws for over two months at the national capital's border, said Prashant Kumar, Additional Director General (ADG) Law and Order in Uttar Pradesh."About 144 UP-PAC companies, six paramilitary companies along with senior officers have been deployed at state and national highways. We have imposed sector/zonal schemes. There is foot patrolling, drones, and everything is being recorded," said Kumar."UP Police and administration have maintained security since farmers' protest began. We have got support from farmer organisations, with their cooperation and our effort no untoward incident has happened so far. Today also we have deployed adequate security force," he added.A pan-India 'chakka jam' call has been given by farmers from 12 pm to 3:00.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-pac-paramilitary-forces-deployed-at-state-national-highways-in-up-101612603285311.html
06-02-2021||India||Chakka Jam: Internet suspended again at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur||On a day, farmers held a three-hour-long symbolic protest of chakka jam against the Centre's frequent orders of suspending internet connection at border areas where farmers have been camping since November, the ministry of home affairs order an internet suspension, which will continue till the end of the day.The suspension of internet services has been announced in the interest of "maintaining public safety and averting public emergency", the order issued on February 5 said. Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri borders are surrounding areas come under the purview of this suspension order.Follow live updates of farmers' protestThe MHA ordered the first suspension of internet connection amid the ongoing farmers' protest on January 26, when farmers' tractor march led to a violent stand-off between protesters and the Delhi Police. A group of protesters entered into the Capital deviated from the pre-agreed route of their tractor march and entered the Red Fort, climbed on it to hoist religious flags. Soon after the incident, internet connectivity was suspended. Since then, there have been regular suspensions of internet connection at the border areas.Saturday's three-hour 'chakka jam', in which state and national highways across the country were blocked between 12 noon and 3pm, except in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, was in protest against these internet suspensions.Similar orders blocking internet services had been passed in Haryana and Punjab as well — after January 26.The service disruption in national Capital and surrounding areas has drawn the attention of international media and international celebrities as American pop star Rihanna, Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, on their social media accounts, extended support to farmers' protest, sharing a CNN article which talked about India's internet suspension.Since the three-hour 'chakka jam' was the protesters' major event after Republic Day march, the Centre, Delhi Police, Haryana Police stepped up security measures. Union home minister Amit Shah had met Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava and NSA Ajit Doval on February 4 to review the security situation ahead of 'chakka jam'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-mha-suspends-internet-connection-at-sites-of-farmers-protests-101612604158159.html
06-02-2021||India||Soaking wet, sharing cup of tea: Bear Grylls posts ‘favourite’ pic with PM Modi||The host of ‘You vs Wild’ Bear Grylls shared one of his favourite throwback photos with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday from when the two shot an adventure episode for Discovery channel’s series in August 2019. “One of my favourite photos: soaking wet and sharing a cup of tea with Prime Minister Modi after our @Discovery jungle adventure together. This moment reminds me of how the wild is the ultimate leveller. We are all the same behind the titles and masks. #adventureunitesus,” Grylls wrote in the Twitter post. One of my favourite photos: soaking wet and sharing a cup of tea with Prime Minister Modi after our @Discovery jungle adventure together. This moment reminds me of how the wild is the ultimate leveller. We are all the same behind the titles and masks. #adventureunitesus pic.twitter.com/9EQPAeUOLOThe episode of “Man Vs Wild with Bear Grylls and Prime Minister Modi” was shot in the jungles of Jim Corbett National Park in Uttarakhand where the two walked through the wild and took a ride on a cold river in a makeshift boat. Speaking about the show, Prime Minister Modi had said, “For years, I have lived among nature, in the mountains and the forests. These years have a lasting impact on my life. So when I was asked about a special programme focusing on life beyond politics and that too in the midst of nature I was both intrigued and inclined to take part in it.”When asked how the two of them interacted despite the language barrier, Modi revealed that technology was used extensively in the conversation between them in the Jim Corbett National Park. “Whenever I spoke, it was instantly translated into English. Bear Grylls had a small cordless instrument in his ear. So I used to speak in Hindi and he heard it in English... the communication became very easy. This is an amazing aspect of technology,” the Prime Minister explained. Grylls had called the PM a great sport and added that he was calm in times of crisis. “You are the most important man in India and my job is to keep you alive,” Grylls joked.Among the celebrities who have featured on the show are former US president Barack Obama, actors Kate Winslet and Julia Roberts, tennis player Roger Federer, and basketball star Michael B Jordan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soaking-wet-sharing-cup-of-tea-bear-grylls-posts-favourite-pic-with-pm-modi-101612603678583.html
06-02-2021||India||Andhra poll panel chief orders minister’s house arrest for threatening officials||In yet another move to confront the YSR Congress party government in Andhra Pradesh, state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar on Saturday ordered house-arrest of state minister for panchayati raj and rural development Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy till February 21.In his direction to state director general of police, Gautam Sawang, the SEC said Ramchandra Reddy should be confined to his residential premises till the completion of elections to the gram panchayats on February 21.Kumar’s order follows a statement issued by the minister on Friday evening asking all the state government officials not to follow the earlier directions of the SEC to withhold the announcement of results of the unanimously-elected candidates in gram panchayats in Chittoor and Guntur districts till further notice.The elections to over 13,000 gram panchayats in the state are being held in four phases this month. The first phase of polling will be held on Tuesday.The SEC directed that during the period of confinement to his house, the minister would not be given access to media to ensure that “he would not make possible inciteful utterances that will have an adverse impact on the ongoing elections to the local bodies as well as on the general law and order situation in Chittoor and elsewhere.”The SEC said the minister, however, could get access to medical aid and such other exigencies warranting inevitable movement as deemed reasonable. “He can also discharge his duties as a minister, have access to all official records and papers and can dispose of the matters,” the SEC said.At a press conference in Tirupati on Friday, the minister threatened to blacklist the collectors and returning officers of various districts, if they did not declare the results of the gram panchayats where unanimous elections were held.Ramachandra Reddy asked the collectors and returning officers not to obey the instructions of the SEC. “If any officials follow the SEC’s instructions not to declare the unanimous elections, serious action will be taken against them and they will be blacklisted,” he warned.He also pointed out that the present SEC would be there in the post only till March 31, 2021, but the YSRC government would continue beyond it. He asked the returning officers to ignore the SEC directions and declare all unanimous elections. “The people of the state are behind us and unanimous elections shall continue," he said.Also Read: Andhra Pradesh to set up 3 concept cities for IT related industriesKumar said the minister’s statement had created fear psychosis among the voters in the local bodies. “It amounts to not only interference with the election process, but also subversion of democratic election process to the local bodies underway,” he said.Describing Kumar’s orders for his house arrest as atrocious, Ramachandra Reddy said there was no need to follow Kumar’s orders. “He should first understand whether his orders would be implemented at all. It is evident that the SEC was acting under the directions of Telugu Desam Party president N Chandrababu Naidu,” he alleged and asked the officials not to follow the orders of the SEC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-poll-panel-chief-orders-minister-s-house-arrest-for-threatening-officials-101612603192286.html
06-02-2021||India||Nine rounds of military talks held with China, talks to continue: S Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said senior military commanders of India and China have held nine rounds of talks on the process of disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh and the parleys will continue in future also.Addressing reporters in Vijayawada, he said so far there was no "visible expression" of the talks on ground. "The disengagement talks, because it is a very complicated issue, because it depends on troops, you have to know the geography (like) which position and what is happening, this is being done by the military commanders," he said.The minister was replying to a query on whether there would be any ministerial level talks between both the countries on skirmishes between troops of the Asian giants. China and India are locked in a military standoff in eastern Ladakh since May 5 last.The two countries have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks to resolve the face-off, but no significant headway has been made so far. "So, military commanders have held nine rounds of meetings so far. We believe some progress has been made, but it is not, in a kind of situation where there is a visible expression of that on the ground," he said.Referring to the parleys he and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held with their respective chinese counterparts last year in Moscow, Jaishanakar said it was agreed that there should be disengagement in some points. "Right now the military commanders are talking and they will continue to talk," he said.On the recent union budget, he said there has been a significant additional outlay for the Defence, both in the financial year as well as capital expenditure. The minister said there is an 18 per cent increase in the capital expenditure which, according to him, is the highest during the past 15 years.During the Covid-19 induced lockdown last year, Jaishankar noted that as many as four million Indians stranded abroad were brought back by operating 17,000 flights. The workers who came back from gulf countries during the Covid-19 pandemic have now started returning, which is a good sign, he added.Explaining the salient features of the budget, he said it indicates the way between the "Covid-19 recovery and Economic recovery".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-rounds-of-military-talks-held-with-china-talks-to-continue-s-jaishankar-101612602256872.html
06-02-2021||India||'No visible expression on ground': Jaishankar on India-China talks||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said there has been no "visible expression" of the talks going on between India and China on the ground. The talks, however, will continue, the minister said. "The disengagement talks... because it is a very complicated issue... because it depends on troops, you have to know the geography (like) which position and what is happening, this is being done by the military commanders," he said replying to a question on whether there would be any ministerial-level talks between the two countries.Jaishankar lists 8 principles to repair ties with China, stresses mutual respectThere have been nine rounds of military-level talks over the disengagement of troops from eastern Ladakh since May 5, 2020, when India and Chinese troops got engaged in skirmishes on the border. Talking about the present situation, Jaishankar said, So, military commanders have held nine rounds of meetings so far. We believe some progress has been made, but it is not, in a kind of situation where there is a visible expression of that on the ground.""Right now the military commanders are talking and they will continue to talk," he added.Amid the ongoing talks, fresh clashes between Indian and Chine soldiers were reported in north Sikkim at Naku La in January when Chinese soldiers were pushed back after they made attempts to intrude into Indian territory. Indian Army said it was a minor face-off, which got resolved by local commanders.Jaishankar has recently spoken about eight principles to resolve the India-China issues, including mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-visible-expression-on-ground-jaishankar-on-india-china-talks-101612602685098.html
06-02-2021||India||Army prepared to take on the security challenges, says top general||Amid a spike in Pakistani drones dropping arms and digging of trans-border tunnels to push terrorists into Jammu & Kashmir, lieutenant general RP Singh, the general officer commanding-in-chief, Western Command, on Saturday said the army is well prepared to take on the security challenges.Speaking at a ceremony to honour gallant soldiers at Mamun Cantonment in Punjab's Pathankot, he complimented formations and units of the Western Command for their excellent performance in all spheres of military activity during the preceding year.Singh presided over the ceremony and felicitated 18 officers, three junior commissioned officers, 19 other ranks and four NOK with gallantry and distinguished service awards. The awards presented included 33 Sena Medals for gallantry, five Sena Medals for distinguished service, and six Vishisht Seva Medals.The commander also bestowed Unit Appreciation Awards on 18 units for their outstanding performance.He congratulated all the awardees and recipients of unit citations and commended all ranks for their selfless service and admirable devotion to duty. He asked all ranks to emulate the awardees and live up to the highest traditions and ethos of the army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-prepared-to-take-on-the-security-challenges-says-top-general-101612602574687.html
06-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand to limit crowd using cameras with head count software at Kumbh Mela||The Kumbh Mela administration has put cameras with head-count software at the Ganga Ghats, to keep an eye on the crowd.The cameras will immediately alert the police if the crowd increases beyond the limit.Inspector General of Kumbh Mela, Sanjay Gunjyal said that the measurement has been taken of the entire 107 Ghats, and accordingly the limit for the number of devotees has been fixed"The entire measurement of 107 Ganga Ghats has been done, according to which the number of devotees has been fixed. In view of following social distancing, the cameras are installed so that if there is more congestion than the fixed number, we get immediate information," said Gunjyal.Also read| Judiciary has always interpreted Constitution positively, says PM ModiThe police have decided that, in the 107 Ganga Ghats, 1.09 lakh people are allowed at a time, out of which 20,000 devotees will be able to take a holy dip at Har ki Paudi and 10,000 at Subash Ghat.Earlier, the central government instructed the Uttarakhand government for making the Covid-19 test mandatory for devotees coming for 'Haridwar Kumbh Mela', along with other strict standard operating procedures released by it for the mass religious gathering.The iconic 'Kumbh Mela' began in Haridwar on January 15 and is set to conclude on April 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-limit-crowd-using-cameras-with-head-count-software-at-kumbh-mela-101612596097434.html
06-02-2021||India||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh failed to perform responsibility towards farmers: SAD||Former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Saturday said the Punjab Chief Minister Captain (retired) Amarinder Singh has failed to perform the responsibility towards the farmers of the state.She alleged that innocent youth have been put behind bars without any FIR being filed in the January 26 episode and the Punjab government should do something to help them."It is CM Amarinder Singh's responsibility to go to Delhi and ensure that cases registered against innocent youth of Punjab are withdrawn. They've been imprisoned without any FIR. It is the Punjab government's responsibility to help them, what are they doing?" she said.She added that the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has started a helpline number on which the people at the protest can report for their missing members.While talking about the belief that only Punjab is agitating against the farm laws, Harsimrat Kaur said "Government of India has a misunderstanding that only Punjab is agitating. The entire country is protesting, farmers from all states are sitting at protest sites. If they still want to turn a blind eye claiming only Punjab is protesting, then one can't do anything".Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-failed-to-perform-responsibility-towards-farmers-sad-101612601127657.html
06-02-2021||India||Vaccinations pick pace, new mutants found: Covid-19 updates from India and world||Hinting towards a faster pace of recovery, India’s active Covid-19 caseload has been steadily declining and the recoveries from the viral disease have been on the rise. As of Saturday, there were 148,590 active cases in the country while the number of people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease has gone up to 10,510,796. The cases worldwide have shot up to 10,510,796 and 2,299,388 fatalities have been recorded due to the disease, according to Johns Hopkins University’s virus tracker. Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereHere’s a look at the Covid-19 situation in countries across the worldIndia: Covid-19 cases in India are steadily declining with only 11,713 fresh cases recorded in the past 24 hours. The daily toll from the disease fell below 100 on Saturday. With 95 related deaths, a total of 154918 people have died of the disease. As India is conducting the world’s largest vaccination drive, as many as 54,16,849 health and frontline workers have so far been administered the jab in the first phase. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said that the vaccination for first recipients among the general public is likely to begin in March. China: A team of the World Health Organization (WHO) is currently probing the origins of the virus that causes the coronavirus disease in China’s Wuhan. “We were asked where we wanted to go. We gave our hosts a list ... and you can see from where we’ve been, we've been to all the key places," Peter Daszak, part of the WHO expert team, told The Associated Press.Meanwhile, Mainland China reported 12 new Covid-19 cases on February 5, down from 20 cases a day earlier and the lowest daily increase since December 17, the national health authority said on Saturday. This takes mainland China’s infection tally to 89,681, while the death toll remained unchanged at 4,636.United States: The US, worst-affected country due to the pandemic, has recorded 26,808,454 infections. The death toll from the disease now stands at 2,299,388. As the country suffers a major economic setback, President Joe Biden said he didn’t think his proposed increase in the federal minimum wage to $15 per hour will survive congressional negotiations to pass his broader coronavirus-relief bill. New Zealand: New Zealand health authorities said on Saturday they were investigating a new community coronavirus infection, the fourth in two weeks among people who completed mandatory isolation at an Auckland quarantine facility for returned overseas travellers.The new case was diagnosed in a person self-isolating at home in Hamilton, who was released from a two-week hotel quarantine on January 30 after testing negative twice for the virus, reported news agency Reuters.Israel: Israel, which has vaccinated the maximum number of people against Covid-19 in the world, has found it took three weeks for the Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE shot to start curbing new cases and hospitalisations, according to news agency Bloomberg. Improvement in the number of new cases and hospitalised patients occurred 21 days following the vaccination campaign, the scientists said, noting that the real-life effect of vaccines may take longer than what was demonstrated in clinical trials.United Kingdom: The UK said it plans to offer all over-50s the first dose of coronavirus vaccine by May, the first time that Boris Johnson’s government has set a target for the next stage of its vaccination program.The country is currently in the third national lockdown and Johnson hopes the vaccination rollout will allow ministers to start lifting restrictions from March 8, starting with the reopening of some schools, reported Bloomberg.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinations-pick-pace-new-mutants-found-covid-19-updates-from-india-and-world-101612600618729.html
06-02-2021||India||Raj Thackeray to appear before court in vandalism case||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray will appear before a local here on Saturday for a hearing in the Vashi Toll plaza vandalism case.The court last month summoned Thackeray over an alleged provocative speech before the vandalization in January 2014 by MNS activists.Gajanan Kale, MNS leader from Navi Mumbai, said Thackeray will meet the party workers after the hearing.MNS workers have installed posters welcoming Thackeray to the city, which is due to go to the civic polls this year.Thackeray will also visit party workers in Thane and address them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-thackeray-to-appear-before-court-in-vandalism-case-101612596916108.html
06-02-2021||India||Telangana reports 161 new Covid-19 cases, total count reaches 295,431||Telangana has reported 161 new COVID-19 cases, 147 discharges, and one death on Friday, as per the state Health department.The State Health Department in its Saturday bulletin said the total count of coronavirus cases in the state has increased to 2,95,431 including 2,91,846 discharges.The active cases in the state currently stand at 1,977. Besides, 1,608 deaths have been reported in Telangana till Friday.Out of the total of 2,95,431 cases, 2,06,802 are asymptomatic while 88,629 are symptomatic.As many as 35,421 samples were tested on Friday and 845 patients are kept under home/institutional isolation.Telangana's recovery rate stands at 98.78 per cent and the case fatality rate is at 0.54 per cent.Meanwhile, with 11,713 new COVID-19 cases, India's tally has reached 1,08,14,304, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Saturday.Also read: 2 Telangana MPs test Covid positive as list of infected VIPs becomes longer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-reports-161-new-covid-19-cases-total-count-reaches-295431-101612596906397.html
06-02-2021||India||In a first, 34 CRPF women commandos inducted into elite anti-Maoist CoBRA unit||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) for the first time inducted 34 women commandos in its elite Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) unit, which was raised in 2009 and is mainly deployed in states affected by left-wing extremism, officials said on Saturday.These 34 women personnel were inducted in the elite CoBRA wing during the 35th Raising Day of the force’s 88th Mahila Battalion, the first all-women battalion in the world, CRPF said in a release. "CRPF has taken another step towards women empowerment by inducting women commandos on the celebrations of 88th all-women battalion," the force said in a release.Also read | 16% rise in female cops, but share remains 2.98% in CAPFs: ReportThese women personnel from CRPF’s 6 Mahila Battalions will undergo a strenuous CoBRA pre-induction training for three months, the force said. “The training will reinforce their physical capabilities and tactical acumen by imparting next level training in firing and special weapons, tactical planning, fieldcraft, explosives, jungle survival skills etc,” CRPF said in the release.The women personnel will be posted in areas hit by left-wing extremism after they complete their training. "Mahila personnel of CRPF forming the first all-women brass band will also undergo a training course to acquire the requisite skills on the musical instruments. It deserves pertinent to mention that the force already has an all-women pipe band," CRPF said in a press release.CRPF’s director general AP Maheshwari said that the force has a history of empowered women warriors, “who have not just brought laurels to the force but have also made the country proud by conspicuous gallantry both at home in India and abroad in several UN peacekeeping missions”. “Gender neutrality adds to the diversity of the force empowered women make an empowered family which eventually empowers the nation," he said.Seven personnel of the 88 Mahila battalion have made sacrifices while performing their duties and are recipients of several gallantry medals including Ashok Chakra, the highest peacetime gallantry award.Currently, there are around 12,000 personnel in CoBRA, the unit which was raised for guerrilla warfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-34-crpf-women-commandos-inducted-into-elite-anti-maoist-cobra-unit-101612599273234.html
06-02-2021||India||BMC expected to get third vaccine consignment next week||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is likely to get the third consignment of Covid-19 vaccines next week, officials aware of the matter said. The civic body has around 17,50,00 Covishield and Covaxin doses.As the BMC has started inoculating both healthcare workers and frontline workers, it requires around 50,00,00 vaccine shots. Two doses of the vaccine are needed to be given 28 days apart.“We still do not know the number of vaccines the Centre will send us. But as per the preliminary communication, we will get the vaccines by next week,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.Also read| No poisonous substance in viscera of Bhopal man who died after Covaxin trialAs per the rules of the Indian Council of Medical Research, beneficiaries of both the vaccines will have to take two shots. The first dose helps the immune system create a response against Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The second dose boosts the response to ensure long-term protection.The BMC will have to start inoculating the beneficiaries from February 14, who took the first jab during the beginning of the mass immunisation programme from January 16. “We have the list of the beneficiaries. To be extra careful, along with the Co-WIN app, we will inform them individually through telephone,” said Kakani.As of Friday, BMC has vaccinated 69,590 beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-expected-to-get-third-vaccine-consignment-next-week-101612596412679.html
06-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Heavy police deployment on Haryana highways amid farmers' chakka jam call and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heavy police deployment on Haryana highways amid farmers’ chakka jam callHeavy police deployment has been made on the Chandigarh-Delhi national highway number 44 ahead of the three-hour chakka jam (traffic blockade) called by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha from 12 noon to 3pm on Saturday against the internet shutdown at the protest sites. Read moreJudiciary has always interpreted Constitution positively, says PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday hailed the Supreme Court for hearing cases virtually even during the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19). Read moreExpect double-digit, 11% plus growth in the coming year, says S JaishankarMinister of external affairs Dr S Jaishankar said on Saturday the country expects to witness growth in double digits in the next fiscal year. “Our expectation is that we will get double-digit 11% plus growth in the coming year," he said. Read more 'Fielding coach needs to give these situations': Sunil Gavaskar not happy after India drop Ben Stokes twice in two oversLegendary India cricketer Sunil Gavaskar and former England opener Mark Butcher were not pleased with India off-spinner R Ashwin for dropping the caught and bowled opportunity of Ben Stokes. Read more Susan Sarandon, Oscar-winning actor, is latest Hollywood name 'standing in solidarity' with Indian farmersSusan Sarandon, Hollywood star with multiple awards to her name, has voiced her support towards the farmers protesting against the three farm laws in India. Read more Priyanka Chopra in ₹60k blouse and lowers shows how to do an all-black lookFor a recent shoot, Priyanka Chopra opted to wear an OTT black silk blouse which she teamed with a matching lower. The Miss World 2000 taught us the correct way to do an all-black look with her ensemble. Read more Farmers' stir: Security tightened, many metro stations shut ahead of chakka jamDelhi Police has deployed additional security in view of 'chakka jam' called by farmers. Police intensified vigil at city borders to deal with situation arising out of 'chakka jam’. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-heavy-police-deployment-on-haryana-highways-amid-farmers-chakka-jam-call-and-all-the-latest-news-101612596394123.html
06-02-2021||India||Expect double-digit, 11% plus growth in the coming year, says S Jaishankar||Minister of external affairs Dr S Jaishankar said on Saturday the country expects to witness growth in double digits in the next fiscal year. “Our expectation is that we will get double-digit 11% plus growth in the coming year. The issue for us is between corona recovery and economic recovery. What is the future direction we should be going? This time, it was clearly indicated by the budget,” he told ANI. In her budget speech on February 1, Union finance minister Sitharaman said that the fiscal deficit for the current financial year is pegged at 9.5% and that there will be a borrowing of ₹80,000 crore in the next two months. She added that the fiscal deficit in 2021-22 is expected to be 6.8% of the GDP and the borrowing from the market next year will be ₹12 lakh crore. She also set a target of fiscal deficit less than 4.5% of GDP in 2025-26.Speaking to reporters in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada, Jaishankar said following the coronavirus pandemic, health has become one of the most important concerns, which he said, is also reflected in the budget presented by Sitharaman earlier this week. “India after corona is very different from before. For us today, health and wellbeing have become important and that is the reason why in the budget, the government has given such a big priority to the health and wellbeing sector,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Jaishankar also addressed the border standoff with China in the Ladakh area during his interaction with the media. He said that Indian military commanders have held nine rounds of talks with their Chinese counterparts during the past one year and they will continue in future. The minister had earlier made it clear that the only way forward for the two countries is for their armies to go back to their permanent bases along the 1597-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in east Ladakh as they existed in April 2020.Jaishankar said three so-called “mutuals” – mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests – are determining factors for the bilateral relationship and cannot be brushed aside as the two countries try to resolve the nine-month-long standoff on the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expect-double-digit-11-plus-growth-in-the-coming-year-says-s-jaishankar-101612595401165.html
06-02-2021||India||Judiciary has always interpreted Constitution positively, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday hailed the Supreme Court for hearing cases virtually even during the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19). Addressing an event to mark the golden jubilee of Gujarat High Court, PM Modi said, "Our Supreme Court has become number one in the world in conducting hearings through video-conferencing.""It makes us proud that our Supreme Court has heard the most number of cases through video conferencing in the world,” he added.The Prime Minister also lauded the high court and district courts for carrying out a large number of e-proceedings during the coronavirus pandemic.PM Modi also said that the judiciary has always interpreted the Constitution positively to strengthen it further. It always performed its duty, be it safeguarding the rights of people of the country or when a situation arose when national interest or when any situation arose where national interest needed to be prioritised, he said.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani was also part of the video conference.A commemorative postage stamp was released to mark the Diamond Jubilee of Gujarat High Court. "I want to congratulate Gujarat High Court for always working towards securing truth and justice in the country. In the past years, Gujarat high court and the Bar have carved a distinctive identity with their legal understanding, scholarship and intellectualism," PM Modi said while releasing the stamp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judiciary-has-always-interpreted-constitution-positively-says-pm-modi-101612592960760.html
06-02-2021||India||Chakka Jam: Delhi-Chandigarh highway blocked at 3 places in Haryana||National Highway 44 has been blocked at Kurukshetra, Panipat and Karnal districts in Haryana as farmers carry out a 'chakka jam' protest against the three Central farm laws, said the police. Farmers have also blocked Panipat-Rohtak highway near Panipat, Hisar-Chandigarh highway at Kaithal and Pehowa, Karnal-Jind highway near Assandh.Haryana police have diverted the traffic from NH 44 to alternative routes to avoid traffic jams. The protestors said that the highway blockade will continue for three hours till 3pm. However, they said they had made arrangements for food and water for commuters stuck in traffic jams on one of the busiest highways of the country, which caters to around 40,000 vehicles daily. Earlier heavy police deployment was made around Chandigarh-Delhi national highway 44.The authorities tried to convince the protesting farmers not to block NH 44, which connects three states of Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh and three union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and Chandigarh with the national capital of Delhi, but the union leaders insisted on the blockade of all major national and Haryana state highways, forcing the authorities to divert the traffic from NH 44 to link roads.Rakesh Bains, national spokesperson of BKU (Charuni) said block level coordination committees have finalised the locations for protests.He said instructions have been issued to local farmers to ensure protests remain peaceful and the movement of ambulances, marriage parties and media persons were allowed.Following the vehicle-blockade call, Haryana ADGP Law and Order Navdeep Virk has asked all district superintendents of police to make necessary security arrangements at all traffic junctions and important roads.The district administrations have made arrangements to avoid any face-off with the farmers, who have identified hundreds of locations, including 11 in Karnal district alone, to block the highways.Also Read: Farmers' stir: Security tightened, many metro stations shut ahead of chakka jamKarnal Superintendent of police, Ganga Ram Punia, said that police deployment has been made to prevent traffic jams and apart from release of a traffic advisory, arrangements have been made to divert the traffic on the link roads when the highways are blocked.The traffic from NH 44 is being diverted from Bastara toll plaza to Kutail and Gharaunda. Kurukshetra district police have issued an advisory too, diverting traffic from several highways to the link roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-heavy-police-deployment-in-haryana-to-deal-with-fallout-101612591835781.html
06-02-2021||India||First India-EU high-level dialogue on trade, investment held||The first High-Level Dialogue (HLD), co-chaired by the Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal and the European Union Executive Vice-President and Trade Commissioner Valdis Dombrovskis, was held on Friday.Commitment to the establishment of this Dialogue was a major outcome of the 15th India-EU Leader's Summit held in July 2020, with an objective for ministerial-level guidance towards the bilateral trade and investment relations, according to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.During the discussions, in the HLD, the ministers emphasized the importance of global cooperation and solidarity in a post-Covid-19 era and agreed for further deepening of bilateral trade and investment relationship through a series of regular engagements, aiming at quick deliverable for the businesses in these tough times.The ministers also agreed to meet within the next three months, with an objective for reaching consensus on a host of bilateral trade and investment cooperation issues viz. a bilateral Regulatory Dialogue; an India-EU Multilateral Dialogue to explore further possibilities of cooperation; etc.In a significant step forward, regular interactions for re-initiation of bilateral trade and investment agreements, with an interim agreement, to start with, were also discussed.The ministers concluded with confidence and commitment towards a renewed India-EU commercial and economic partnership reflecting the full potential of bilateral commercial relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-india-eu-high-level-dialogue-on-trade-investment-held-101612590043125.html
06-02-2021||India||No alimony when man not of marriageable age||He could not legally marry because he was only 20. But he was still ordered to pay alimony to a girl for a “deemed” marriage.The bizarre situation had Supreme Court judges in a quandary on Friday, and they decided to delve deeper to untangle the legal riddle.A Supreme Court bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, was left amused when advocate Rachitta Priyanka Rai unfolded the facts of her case.Rai’s client was 20 when he eloped with a woman, 18, from the same village in Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum district in March 2006.The couple went to Jamshedpur where they lived together for around a week. When they came back to their village, the petition stated, the panchayat tried to get them married, but a ruckus followed and the wedding never took place.Subsequently, the woman filed two cases against the man – one alleging cruelty, and another demanding maintenance on the ground that their live-in relationship had to be treated as a relationship in the nature of a marriage.The trial court, as per the petition filed through Lexolve Partners, sentenced the man to one year in jail under the charge of cruelty. He was also ordered to pay ₹5,000 to the woman every month as maintenance.When the man filed appeals against these orders, the Jharkhand High Court dropped the criminal case, holding that since they never got married, the charge of cruelty under Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code was not made out. But the order to pay maintenance was upheld.On Friday, Rai commenced her arguments before the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, highlighting the legal conundrum that surfaced due to the alimony order. She referred to her client’s educational certificate to show he was only 20 at the time of this relationship.“The law is clear that valid age for a man to marry is 21. When a man cannot enter into a valid wedlock because of the prohibition of age under the law, how can any relationship be treated as a ‘deemed’ marriage if the man is less than 21? How can my client be asked to pay maintenance when he was not even in the legal age to marry?” she questioned.The lawyer added that the high court also erred in treating this as a “domestic” relationship while the couple fled the village, was hiding at different places in Jamshedpur, and lived together only for a week.“Staying together for just a week cannot be a period good enough to consider this as a proper relationship, let alone treat this as a ‘domestic’ relationship under the law,” Rai contended.At first, the bench was of the view that Rai’s client should pay at least half of the sum ordered as maintenance but the lawyer convinced the judges that the high court order was wrong on several aspects.Rai’s persuasion made the court stay the order to pay maintenance, while the CJI added: “You may succeed in your case eventually.”Former additional solicitor general Pinky Anand and senior advocate told HT: “The high court seems to have committed a gross error in allowing maintenance in this case. It was at best a short live-in affair.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-alimony-when-man-not-of-marriageable-age-101612590808713.html
06-02-2021||India||Sunny Leone, vacationing in Kerala, questioned by police for missing 2 events||Police in Kerala questioned actor Sunny Leone on Friday evening after a complaint was registered against her alleging she accepted ₹29 lakh to participate in two programmes in Kochi but failed to turn up, people aware of the development said on Saturday.Leone, who is vacationing in Kerala for about a month, told the crime branch of Kerala police that she missed the events in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the people cited above said.While the complainant, R Shiyas of Perumbavur, has alleged that the contract involved ₹29 lakh, a person aware of Leone’s itinerary said the amount was ₹12 lakh, which he said would be returned.The people cited above also said that the programme was postponed five times and organisers were responsible for the delay. The actor was not immediately available for comments.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sunny-leone-vacationing-in-kerala-questioned-by-police-for-missing-2-events-101612588839989.html
06-02-2021||India||Drones, high alert: Delhi turns into a fortress as farmers call 'chakka jam'||Police are on high alert in Delhi on Saturday ahead of the three-hour nationwide blockade of state and national highways by farmers, who are intensifying their agitation against the three agricultural laws through the 'chakka jam'. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the farmers' unions protesting against the farm laws, said emergency and essential services such as ambulances and school buses will not be stopped during the 'chakka jam'.However, farmers leaders have said the chakka jam, which will begin from 12pm to 3pm, will not affect Delhi. Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh will also not witness any road blockade, however, farmers who are protesting there have been asked to stay on standby, farm union leader Rakesh Tikait had confirmed. Tikait is the spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union and is among the leaders spearheading the farmers' movement.Also Read | Farmer leaders ready for talks with Centre but without any conditionIn a bid to avoid the violence and chaos during the farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day, the Delhi Police is keeping a strict vigil in the city as it deployed thousands of personnel and additional forces. It said in a statement that around 50,000 personnel of the police, paramilitary and reserve forces are standing guard at various key points of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR). At ITO intersection, multilayered security measurements were seen as police put out barbed wires over their barricades. Heavy barricading was also placed at Minto Road which is near the Red Fort.The police have also deployed drone in the national capital to monitor the situation. At least 12 Metro stations in the national capital have also been put on alert.The 'chakka jam' is being staged as a symbolic protest against the internet suspension and the extra security around the protest areas at Delhi borders. From November last year, thousands of farmers from different parts of the country, including Punjab, Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh, have been demonstrating against the three farm laws brought in by the Centre. Calling the agriculture reforms anti-farmers, the protesters are demanding a repeal of the laws. They are also demanding a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for their produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-high-alert-delhi-turns-into-a-fortress-ahead-of-chakka-jam-101612588891598.html
06-02-2021||India||With 11,713 fresh Covid-19 cases, 95 deaths, India’s tally now over 10.8 million||India reported 11,713 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 95 related deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing the country’s tally to over 10.8 million, data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed on Saturday morning. The new Covid-19 cases and deaths were both lower than Friday’s 12,408 infections and 120 fatalities. India, which is the second worst-hit country in the world after the United States, now has 10,814,304 cases and its death toll stands at 154,918.The health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am that the country continued to witness a consistent downward slide in its active caseload, with 148,590 active Covid-19 cases on Saturday. The number of recoveries also climbed to 10,510,796 as 14,488 patients of the coronavirus disease were cured or discharged across the country between Friday and Saturday morning, data showed.Also read | Vaccination for general public likely to begin in March 2nd half, says ministerThe 95 fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours include 40 deaths from Maharashtra and 19 from Kerala. Out of the 154,918 deaths reported from across the country so far, 51,255 were from Maharashtra, 12,379 from Tamil Nadu, 12,230 from Karnataka, 10,873 from Delhi, 10,201 from West Bengal, 8,682 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,158 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,635 from Punjab and 4,393 from Gujarat. With this, the Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.43 per cent.Also read | Infection curve down at long last: Is the Covid-19 pandemic ebbing?According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 20,06,72,589 samples have been tested up to February 5 with 7,40,794 samples tested on Friday.The dashboard also showed 5,416,849 people have been vaccinated so far. Minister of state for health Ashwini Choubey informed the Lok Sabha on Friday that ₹123.49 crore has been released to the states and Union Territories as operational cost apart from free of cost supply of vaccines.Choubey said no time limit has been set for completion of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in any state or Union territory presently. The country’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease was launched on January 16.Meanwhile, Arunachal Pradesh did not report any fresh Covid-19 case for the last three days, news agency PTI reported citing a senior health department official on Saturday.The northeastern state’s caseload is 16,829, PTI cited State Surveillance Officer (SSO) Lobsang Jampa as saying. Arunachal Pradesh currently has eight active Covid-19 cases, 16,765 people have recovered from the disease and 56 have died.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-11-713-fresh-covid-19-cases-95-deaths-india-s-tally-now-over-10-8-million-101612586331624.html
06-02-2021||India||Light to moderate rain expected in central and eastern India||Light to moderate rain and thunderstorms with lightning is likely in northern Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Sikkim, and all north-eastern states over the weekend, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday.It added a cyclonic circulation over north-eastern Madhya Pradesh and lower level southeaster lies from the Bay of Bengal were causing moisture incursion and were likely to result in rain and thunderstorms in eastern India.IMD said northerly/north-westerly winds have set in over most parts of northwest India and will result in the fall of minimum temperatures by 2-4 degrees C during the next two to three days.It added dense fog was likely in northern Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, and Delhi for the next two days and Uttar Pradesh for three days.There was moderate fog in some parts of the country on Friday. Visibility recorded at 5:30 am at Guna and Purnea was less than 200 meters. Delhi (Safdarjung) and Kailashahar recorded visibility of less than 500 meters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-to-moderate-rain-expected-in-central-and-eastern-india-101612583557782.html
06-02-2021||India||Delhi govt declares 6 hospitals completely 'Non-Covid'||In view of the decreasing cases of Covid-19, the Delhi Government has declared six of its hospitals completely "Non-Covid" hospitals. Along with this, it has also been decided to reduce the number of reserve Covid-19 beds in five government hospitals.The order has been issued by the Health Department of the Delhi Government, which will come into force with immediate effect, according to the Delhi Health Department.According to the order, the hospitals of which have been declared completely Covid-19 free are--Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital, Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Acharya Shree Bhikshu Hospital and SRC Hospital.Hospitals in which the number of Covid beds have been reduced are--Lok Nayak Hospital (300 Covid-19 beds have been reduced), Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (500 beds reduced), Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital (50 beds reduced), Burari Hospital (320 beds reduced) and Ambedkar Nagar Hospital (300 beds reduced).Delhi has reported a total of 1,194 active Covid-19 cases, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-declares-6-hospitals-completely-noncovid-101612582704474.html
06-02-2021||India||Centre fielded Tendulkar to counter global support for farmers: RJD leader||RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari on Friday alleged that the Union government "fielded" Sachin Tendulkar to "counter" international personalities who recently commented on the ongoing farmers' protests, and said it was an insult to the nation. The RJD's national vice-president asked whether the Centre wants the world to turn a blind eye to the farmer's stir by "getting statements issued by people like Tendulkar".Cricketers like Tendulkar, Ravi Shastri, Virat Kohli, on Wednesday joined Bollywood superstars Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn to support the Centre's call on standing against "propaganda" against the Indian government and its policies after international personalities like Rihanna and Greta Thunberg extended their support towards farmer's protest.Also read: Sena flays Tiwari for questioning Bharat Ratna to SachinAlso read: Kangana asked about her credentials, replies ‘I am the best person to lead'"India's sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Lets remain united as a nation," Tendulkar had tweeted on February 3, 2021 with hashtag #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda."Farmers do not know about Twitter. This Twitter politics has started recently and everyone is doing it. What do the farmers know about Greta Thunberg or Rihanna? And you have fielded Sachin Tendulkar against them," the RJD leader said.Climate and environmental activist Greta Thunberg had come out in support of the farmers' protest at Delhi's borders against the Centre's new agri laws."We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India," she had tweeted soon after singer Rihanna shared a news article highlighting the Centre's crackdown on the farmers by cutting off internet services in many regions."Why aren't we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest," Rihanna had tweeted.Tiwari's remark came in for sharp criticism from the ruling BJP and its ally JD(U) which demanded an apology from him.However, the RJD distanced itself from the remark, terming it as Tiwari's "personal opinion".Condemning the RJD leaders statement, the BJP and the JD(U), describing it as "absurd and uncalled for"."Nowadays Shivanand Tiwari is representing a group of frustrated opposition leaders, crazy to grab headlines. His statement on Sachin Tendulkar is absurd and uncalled for. Shivanandji should apologise to the people of the country."The RJD is free to express grievances and demand Bharat Ratna for anybody but Shivanandji doesn't have the right to abuse anyone who is conferred with Bharat Ratna. We seriously condemn the statement and demand that Tejashwi Yadav should come up with a clarification on his party leader," Bihar BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said.Echoing similar sentiments, Bihar JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, "Showing respect for foreign celebrities like Greta Thunberg and Rihanna and insulting legendary cricketer Sachin Tendulkar, who is loved and admired by millions of people, can only be expected from a leader of the RJD". If Tiwari does not apologise, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav should take stern action against him, Prasad said.Bihar RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwary said, "It is his (Shivanand Tiwaris) personal opinion which he may have given considering the conditions and sufferings of the protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-fielded-tendulkar-to-counter-global-support-for-farmers-rjd-leader-101612581819224.html
06-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: UN human rights agency calls for 'maximum restraint' by farmers, govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UN human rights agency calls for 'maximum restraint' by farmers and authoritiesThe UN human rights agency on Friday called on both protesting farmers and authorities in India to exercise “maximum restraint” and to find “equitable solutions” that show respect for human rights. Read moreInfection curve down at long last: Is the Covid-19 pandemic ebbing?The global onslaught of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has started receding for the first time ever, with daily new infections seeing a steady drop for nearly a month – something that has never happened in the 14 months of the pandemic’s run across the world. Read moreChakka jam: Barricades, thousands of policemen on watch todayThe farmer protest sites at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders have been hemmed in with multilayered barricading and are being heavily patrolled ahead of Saturday’s three-hour long nationwide highway blockade, “the chakka jam”, called by farmers to intensify their protest against the new farm laws. Read moreHappy birthday Angad Bedi: When the actor had to ‘man up and speak’ to Neha Dhupia’s parents about his marriage proposalAngad Bedi is celebrating his 38th birthday today. The actor is not just having a successful run at work, but is also enjoying his time as a father. He has a two-year-old daughter, Mehr, with wife Neha Dhupia. Read moreShilpa Shetty's golden potion is great for immunity and digestion: RecipeThere has been a lot of talk about immunity in the last year, since the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. Read more'Last time people said 'Smith, Warner weren’t there, who did we have?,' Shastri hails India's win in AusHead coach Ravi Shastri hailed India's series win in Australia and said that an achievement such as this was never seen before in the world of cricket. Read more‘22 deaths reported so far post Covid-19 vaccination’: Health MinistryThe Union health ministry addressed a briefing on Covid-19 vaccination. Ministry's Additional Secretary Manohar Agnani said, "As of February 5, a total of 52,90,474 beneficiaries have been vaccinated. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-un-human-rights-agency-calls-for-maximum-restraint-by-farmers-govt-and-all-the-latest-news-101612580225879.html
06-02-2021||India||12-yr old Jammu girl donates earnings to fight Covid-19 pandemic||A 12-year-old girl from Jammu, Guhika Sachdev, has set an example for others to follow by donating ₹1.11 lakh, which she earned by uploading her singing video on Youtube, for a noble cause.Guhika donated the amount to Dr Shashi Sudhan Sharma, principal Government Medical College Jammu, for fighting coronavirus and to help the needy patients.As per Guhika, she posted her singing video on Youtube in November and it went viral after on the back of a huge response from the netizens. “During the lockdown I saw migrant labourers walking thousands of kilometers and my heart really sank on seeing them travelling without food and water,” Guhika said, and hoped that her donation will help the needy in a little way.“If God has given us everything, then we should also help others,” Guhika added and said that her act of charity was inspired by her grandfather and father.Also Read: 17 months on, 4G internet services restored in Jammu and KashmirThe principal of GMC & AH appreciated her humanitarian gesture and asked Guhika to continue helping the needy in a similar way.Hailing Guhika, Dr Sudhan said she was a role model for youth and society. She also urged people to join hands and help each other in the times of distress.“Our committee members will also contribute to this noble cause” the principal said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12yr-old-jammu-girl-donates-earnings-to-fight-covid-19-pandemic-101612579878536.html
06-02-2021||India||Farmers call for 3-hour ‘chakka jam’, say Delhi won’t be impacted||Farm unions have called for a three-hour nationwide highway blockade on Saturday afternoon to mark their protest against internet bans near demonstration sites and their alleged harassment at the hands of authorities among other issues. The protesting farmers, who have been agitating against the Centre's agricultural laws for the past two and a half months, will block roads and highways from 12pm to 3pm. Follow latest updates on farm stir hereThe protesters have assured that no disruptions will be caused in the national capital and that emergency and essential services such as ambulances and school buses will not be stopped during the blockade. However, the Delhi Police on Friday reiterated that they have not granted any permission to hold the ‘chakka jam’ in the city and have warned that legal action will be taken against those found disrupting the city’s traffic and law and order. Security at the farmers’ protest sites at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders have been stepped up with multilayered barricading using barbed wiring on top, concrete walls, trenches, nails boards drilled onto roads and netting to stop pelted stones. Heavy deployment of security personnel armed with anti-riot gear has also been done to stop the agitators from entering the Capital. Nearly 15,000 personnel of the paramilitary forces of Rapid Action Force (RAF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) – all armed with anti-riot equipment – will be on duty along with thousands of Delhi Police personnel to maintain law and order during the ‘chakka jam’, officers told HT. Officials said that the police are also keeping a tab on social media to keep a watch on those spreading rumours or instigating people against the government and the police. The move comes after farmers’ proposed tractor rally on Republic Day took a violent turn and clashes broke out between the protesters and security personnel. While one farmer died during the chaos, many participants on both sides suffered injuries. Following the clashes, internet services were also restricted in several districts of Haryana. Police said they have intelligence inputs that protesters may deflate tyres of vehicles to cause jams on roads, all the police stations have been asked to keep air pumps with them for filling up deflated tyres. “Cranes have also been arranged to remove such vehicles and clear the traffic. Videographers and photographers will also be present for capturing the activities of protesters. We will also be using drones for aerial surveillance,” said an officer.Workers of various political parties and student organisations have also planned a foot march from Shaheed Park near Delhi Gate to ITO during the ‘chakka jam’, according to intelligence inputs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-call-for-3-hour-chakka-jam-say-delhi-won-t-be-impacted-101612579205428.html
06-02-2021||India||Danger to secularism: Madras HC tells evangelist who derided Hinduism, junks FIR||While quashing FIRs against evangelist Mohan C Lazarus who apologised unconditionally for his statements against Hindu temples, the Madras high court on Friday came down strongly on religious leaders preaching superiority of their religion over others.“Spewing venom against another religious faith and developing hatred among the followers of a particular religion against another, defies the very purpose of religion, which is meant to help a human being evolve towards higher truths,” the court said.The case, which came up before a single judge bench of justice N Anand Venkatesh, brought focus on values of liberty, secularism and tolerance. “The responsibility lies more with persons who are involved in the propagation of religions,” the court said. “... Every word uttered by any person holding an influential status in their respective religion has the potential to make or mar the inner development of a person,” the court observed adding that the petitioner “is not involved in some competitive business” and if millions of his followers blindly follow what he propagates “it will only sow seeds of hatred among people across religious faiths.”The court added that it cannot be “at the cost of injuring the sentiments and rights” of fellow citizens who are “part of the rich culture and value system that our nation embodies”. The court warned, “If this is not followed, it will spell danger to the secular fabric of this country. It may even lead to eroding one of the basic structures of our Constitution.”While pointing out that it was faced with a “triangular issue of freedom of expression, secularism and tolerance”, the court found it relevant and “call aloud that we as a society have fallen and are falling into the hands of misconceptions and extremities in the name of securing and practicing our respective religious beliefs. These extremities have always known to incite hatred, violence, bloodshed and bitterness across history.”The court made a distinction between secularism in the West as emphasising on the separation between state and religion but in India “secularism stresses the equal tolerance of all religions.” The court said it deemed fit to express its mind towards all people placed in the position of the petitioner irrespective of their religious identities. Without taking names, the justice also made an oral observation about a BJP functionary, R Kalyanaraman, who was charged recently for making a hate speech against Islam in Coimbatore district. “Indian secularism is not one that is anti-religious but one that gives to all its citizens, equal freedom of conscience and religion,” the court said.Also Read: SC junks petition seeking stay on ‘love jihad’ lawsThe de facto complainants in the case also wanted to bring a ‘graceful end’ to the matter with an assurance from the petitioner that he will not make such statements in the future. While quashing the numerous FIRs filed to initiate criminal proceedings against the petitioner, the court also quoted Jesus Christ “that the religion or its ideals do not intend to, under any circumstances, incite its followers to judge or demean another religion for the purpose of its own growth and propagation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/danger-to-secularism-madras-hc-tells-evangelist-who-derided-hinduism-junks-fir-101612578374349.html
06-02-2021||India||UN human rights agency calls for 'maximum restraint' by farmers and authorities||The UN human rights agency on Friday called on both protesting farmers and authorities in India to exercise “maximum restraint” and to find “equitable solutions” that show respect for human rights.The UN office of the high commissioner for human rights joined lawmakers, organisations and governments from around the world that have weighed in on the farmers’ protest that began last November against the three farm laws. A spokesperson for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres had earlier said it was important to respect peaceful protests, freedom of assembly and non-violence.“#India: We call on the authorities and protesters to exercise maximum restraint in ongoing #FarmersProtests,” the UN human rights agency led by high commissioner Michelle Bachelet said on its official Twitter handle on Friday night.“The rights to peaceful assembly & expression should be protected both offline & online. It's crucial to find equitable solutions with due respect to #HumanRights for all,” it added.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the UN human rights agency’s comments.On Thursday, the US had called for a dialogue to address the farmers’ protest and backed peaceful demonstrations and freedom of expression. It also offered support for reforms that improve and open up India’s markets to attract private investments.These were the first public comments by the Biden administration on the farmers’ protest, and the external affairs ministry responded by saying the protest must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos. The ministry also sought to make a comparison between violence at a farmers’ rally on January 26 and the chaos during the siege of the US Capitol on January 6.The ministry has also pushed back against support for the farmers’ protest by foreign celebrities, describing the agitation as an internal matter. It has also dismissed criticism by celebrities of the government’s handling of the protest as “neither accurate nor responsible”.Also Read: India seeks Canada’s assistance in ‘toolkit’ probeThe farmers’ protest against three laws – Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 – began on November 26 last year.The government has defended the laws as necessary for long overdue reforms in the agricultural sector. After several rounds of unsuccessful negotiations with the government, the unions backing the protest decided to intensify their agitation and organised a tractor rally in the capital on Republic Day that descended into violence and chaos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-human-rights-agency-calls-for-maximum-restraint-by-farmers-and-authorities-101612576612402.html
06-02-2021||India||Govt blocked 296 mobile apps since 2014: Centre tells Rajya Sabha||As many as 296 mobile apps have been blocked by the government since 2014 in the interest of the country's sovereignty, security, and public order, Union minister Sanjay Dhotre told Rajya Sabha on Thursday."A total of 296 mobile applications have been blocked by government since 2014, under the provisions of section 69A of IT Act 2000 and its rules... in the interest of sovereignty & integrity of India, security of the State and public order," Dhotre, minister of state for electronics and IT, said in a written reply.The minister also said the ministry of home affairs (MHA) -- the requesting agency for blocking of these apps under section 69A of the IT Act -- had received "several reports about misuse of some Chinese mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms".He said several reports had been received about some of these apps being misused for "... for stealing and transmitting user data such as financial data, permission for accessing of all possible data available in device, etc and real-time activity surreptitiously to servers located outside India"."This has serious repercussions in light of national security and current tense border situation," he noted.Usage of these apps by a large number of people in India enables compilation of huge data that can be collated, analysed, profiled and mined by "elements who are hostile to the sovereignty and integrity of India and for activities detrimental to national security, security of India, defence of India as well as public order, apart from being detrimental to the interest of the general public, Dhotre said.In response to a separate query, the minister said that with increasing number of internet users, mobile apps and new evolving technology, the practice of collection of personal data by such apps and websites is also increasing.He also said the government has already moved the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 in Parliament and it is presently under the consideration of the Joint Parliamentary Committee formed by Lok Sabha.The Bill provides for safeguards of privacy and interests of the Indian citizens, Dhotre said.Social media platforms, including WhatsApp and Facebook, are intermediaries as defined in the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000.Dhotre noted that the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) is finalising draft Intermediaries Guidelines Rules."The draft Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2018 were put up for public consultation. All the suggestions and comments received on the proposed draft rules were also published on Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology website in February, 2019," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-blocked-296-mobile-apps-since-2014-centre-tells-rajya-sabha-101612576809769.html
06-02-2021||India||No indication that India has given up extradition of Headley: Ranas' attorney||There is no indication that India has given up on the extradition of David Coleman Headley, the Mumbai terror attack accused, attorney of his co-accused Tahawwur Hussain Rana has told a US court.Rana, 59, a childhood friend of Headley, is facing extradition request by India for his involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack in which 166 people, including six Americans, were killed. Rana, who has been declared a fugitive by India, is opposing his extradition.In a submission early this week before the US District Court Judge in Los Angeles Jacqueline Chelonian, opposing his extradition the attorney of Rana claimed that as of now there is no indication in the record that India has agreed to forgo Headley’s extradition to India.“India presumably could have agreed to forgo Headley's extradition in return for his assistance to the United States, but there is no indication in the record that it did so,” the court submission told the court."In fact, the opinion of the Indian prosecutor serving as the government's expert states: "The present opinion is specific to the extradition request in respect of fugitive Tahawwur Hussain Rana. This opinion may not be construed in any manner to indicate that the various extradition requests pending with different sovereign nations in respect of the above-mentioned case which includes the case in respect of Accused No. 1, David Coleman Headley, is either being given up or not being pursued vigorously," said the motion filed by his attorneys. Pakistani-American Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist Headley was involved in plotting the 2008 Mumbai terror attack. He was made an approver in the case, and is currently serving a 35-year prison term in the US for his role in the attack.Also read| Mossad team joins NIA in embassy blast probeRana’s attorneys said that the Court should not lightly assume (as the government appears to suggest) that the government circumvented its treaty obligation to India through “a sham interpretation” of Article 6 of the India-US Extradition Treaty as part of its deal with Headley.The government's conclusion in Headley's plea agreement that Article 6 defines offenses in terms of conduct rather than elements and thus bars Headley's extradition must be taken as its good-faith interpretation of the Treaty's terms, it said.Rana, in the court filing, describe his childhood friend Headley as a liar.Headley lied to federal agents, judges, and presumably prosecutors in relation to these cases. After his first heroin sentence (reduced because of his cooperation), he went back to dealing heroin despite promising that he would not.“He disregarded the agents' instructions regarding his dealings with targets and travelled to Pakistan without permission. After his second heroin conviction, he used his status as a DEA cooperator to deflect government scrutiny of his activities with Lashkar and his statements supporting jihad,” his lawyers alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-indication-that-india-has-given-up-extradition-of-headley-ranas-attorney-101612575273956.html
06-02-2021||India||Congress extends support to 'chakka jam' called by farmer unions||The Congress on Friday extended support to the countrywide 'chakka jam' called by farmer unions on February 6, saying party workers will stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers in their protest.The Congress also hit out at Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who defended the three new farm laws and criticised the Opposition while speaking in Rajya Sabha.Whatever the agriculture minister said was "not only totally bereft of facts" but also "grossly objectionable", the party claimed.Farmer unions on Monday had announced 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues.Also Read | Chakka jam: Barricades, thousands of policemen on watch todayCongress general secretary (organisation), K C Venugopal, said the party fully supports the farmers' movement and appeals to the government to climb down from the "high horse of false and misplaced pride", and accede to the justified demands of the farmers by repealing the three farm laws.On February 6, when the farmer organisations will hold a three-hour nationwide 'chakka jam' from 12 pm to 3 pm in a non-violent and peaceful manner on the national and state highways, the Congress will extend its full support to farmer groups, Venugopal said in a statement.Congress workers in solidarity with the protesting farmers will stand shoulder to shoulder in this "symbolic and Gandhian" way of protest, he said.Farmers' organisations have already exempted emergency and essential services from this protest, Venugopal noted."Joining in the spirit, Congress workers will take full care that the ambulance services, school bus, elderly, patients and women and children are not inconvenienced due to the bandh call," he said.Venugopal said that this farmers' movement, which is being steadfastly supported by the poor, farm labour, SCs, STs, OBCs as well as every "right- minded Indian", is not only aimed at protecting agriculture and farming but also saving the public distribution system."However, the power drunk Modi government is trying every mean trick of the trade to tire out and defame the protesting millions. Even today, the Union Agriculture Minister (Narendra Singh Tomar), while speaking in the Parliament, blatantly tried to mislead the House and the nation," Venugopal alleged.It is public knowledge that the farmers' organisations have held eleven rounds of talks with the government during which they provided point-wise detail of the deficiencies and lacunae in the three laws, "consequent to which even the government has openly agreed to bring about as many as 18 amendments to the said laws", he said."In the light of this, whatever the agriculture minister said today in Parliament is not only totally bereft of facts but is grossly objectionable," Venugopal said.Intervening in the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar alleged that farmers were being misled by the Opposition and the agitation was only in one state.Hitting out at the government, Venugopal alleged, "Driven by the sole motive of benefiting its corporate cronies and steamrolling the laws by the brute force of parliamentary arithimatical majority, the government neither consulted the opposition parties nor took any farmers organisation in confidence, before enacting the laws."Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-extends-support-to-chakka-jam-called-by-farmer-unions-101612571880071.html
06-02-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh to set up 3 concept cities for IT related industries||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday directed the officials to come up with an action plan to set up three concept cities near Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, and Bengaluru to house information technology and related industries in the state.As per an official release, the Chief Minister said that these cities should contribute to the IT progress and help in the development of the state by bringing in as many industries as possible and focus on creating a large number of jobs."The Chief Minister has directed officials to focus on ensuring uninterrupted internet service should be provided in every village. He had stressed on the construction of libraries with accessible bandwidth internet connections in every village. Apart from building libraries, the Chief Minister instructed that all the secretariats and Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) in the village should also be connected to the internet," it said.The release said that the Andhra government is also chalking out plans to develop an integrated industrial park in Visakhapatnam, which will includes high-end skill university, incubation centers, labs, departmental offices, data centre and IT towers."The government now plans to set up an institute of emerging technology and research university," it said.Reddy also directed officials to set up hubs for all e-governance applications in fields of education, health, agriculture and other services of the state. (||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-to-set-up-3-concept-cities-for-it-related-industries-101612570506477.html
06-02-2021||India||BSY calls for report on Lingayat sect’s socio-economic condition||Karnataka chief minister B.S.Yediyurappa on Friday ordered for a detailed assessment and report on the socio-economic conditions of the Panchamasali Lingayats, one of the largest sects within the most dominant and politically influential communities in the state.The order comes even as influential leaders and seers of the Panchamasali Lingayats continue their 450 kms ‘Padayatra’ or march from Kudalasangama in Bagalkote district towards Bengaluru, pursuing a two-decade old demand to be included in the 2A category of the backwards classes list and entitle them 15% reservations in government jobs and education.Panchamasali’s make up for the majority of the state’s Lingayat population that is estimated to be around 17%.The order comes at a time when 77-year-old Yediyurappa, who is from the Banajiga sect of the Lingayats, has been trying to consolidate his core support base, quell rebellion within his government and retain his status as the only mass-leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to not just help complete his term as chief minister but also bring the party back to power in 2023.Basangouda Patil (Yatnal) of the BJP, one of the staunchest critics of Yediyurappa who has made statements on the imminent ouster of the chief minister, had raised this issue in the legislative assembly on Tuesday. Yatnal is part of the campaign launched by the seers of the Panchamasali and is being seen as an attempt to blunt Yediyurappa’s influence on the community. Cabinet ministers Murugesh Nirani and C.C.Patil on Thursday met the seers to assure that their demands will be considered. Yediyurappa has already issued orders for constituting the Karnataka Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation with an allocation of ₹500 crore in November last year.In a separate statement, Yediyurappa clarified his remark in the assembly to a Panchamasali seer in which he claimed to be misunderstood by Jayamritunjaya Swamiji, one of the most influential leaders in the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsy-calls-for-report-on-lingayat-sect-s-socio-economic-condition-101612565603004.html
06-02-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Stalker sets 26-yr-old woman, her mother on fire||A stalker allegedly killed a woman and her mother by setting them ablaze and also ended his life by torching himself at her house here on Friday, police said.The man, who was later identified as Bhoopalan alias Satish, 31, was a contract technician and was said to be stalking the 26-year-old woman for seven years.After gaining entry into her house at Anantanayagi Nagar in Korukkupet early on Friday, Bhoopalan allegedly set the woman and her 45-year-old mother on fire, and also torched himself.Hearing their cries, the neighbours informed police who arrived to find three charred bodies.“On learning that the woman was engaged to be married, Bhoopalan, who was also from Anantanayagi Nagar, went to her house with a can of kerosene and resorted to the crime,” an official said.The police team also found a kerosene can.“The place reeked of kerosene when police entered the house. All the three people were identified and as per procedure the bodies were sent to the Stanley Government Hospital, here, for autopsy,” he told PTI.She was engaged to be married soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-stalker-sets-26-yr-old-woman-her-mother-on-fire-101612565399174.html
06-02-2021||India||17 months on, 4G internet services restored in Jammu and Kashmir||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday issued an order allowing the restoration of high-speed mobile internet services in the region, a move that came more than 17 months after 4G facilities were snapped ahead of the Centre’s controversial decision to withdraw the erstwhile state’s special status.The order by Shaleen Kabra, principal secretary (home), directed inspectors general of police in Jammu and Kashmir divisions to ensure compliance and “closely monitor the impact of lifting of restrictions”. Though the two-page order did not specify any timeline, officials who did not want to be named said services could be restored as early as midnight Friday.The order added that high-speed internet facility on prepaid SIM card holders would be provided “only after verification as per the norms applicable for post-paid connections”.The news broke earlier in the evening, cheering residents of the Union Territory (UT). “4G mobile internet services being restored in entire J&K,” government spokesman Rohit Kansal tweeted.Moments later, National Conference (NC) vice-president and former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted: “4G Mubarak! For the first time since Aug 2019 all of J&K will have 4G mobile data. Better late than never.”The order said an “objective assessment of the prevailing circumstances” was done by a special committee constituted on the directions of the Supreme Court order of May 11, 2020.On the Raj Bhavan’s Twitter account, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah for “acceding to our request and restoring 4G services...” “The move will fulfil the aspirations of the people, especially the youth,” the tweet said.Authorities suspended 4G mobile internet services on August 4, 2019, a day before the central government nullified Article 370, which accorded special privileges to J&K, and bifurcated it into two UTs — J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one. The government also suspended landline and internet services, fearing widespread protests in the restive region.The UT has moved several steps towards normalcy since then, with the gradual restoration of communication lines.Landlines were restored between mid-August and September 2019. Then postpaid mobile services buzzed back to life on October 14, 2019. Short messaging service (SMS) on all mobile phones and broadband internet services in government-run hospitals were restored on January 1, 2020.2G mobile internet services were restored on January 25, 2020. In August 2020, high-speed internet was restored in two districts of J&K — Ganderbal and Udhampur districts — based on the parameters laid down by the special committee, which recommended that the areas, where high-speed services are allowed, should have low intensity of terrorist activities.That move came days after the central government told the Supreme Court that restrictions on high-speed mobile internet services will be relaxed in one district each of Jammu and Kashmir divisions of the UT after August 15 on a trial basis.The Supreme Court was hearing a petition filed by Foundation for Media Professionals, a non-government organisation, last June, seeking the initiation of contempt proceedings against the Centre and J&K administration for the failure to comply with the top court’s May 11 directions to review restrictions on mobile internet speed in the Union territory.The demand for restoration of high-speed mobile internet had been growing in J&K for the past few months with political parties joining the chorus.While Bharatiya Janata Party leaders such as Altaf Thakur joined the bandwagon, Apni Party leader Altaf Bukhari and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, too, were vocal for the restoration of 4G services.After Friday’s order, Srinagar mayor Junaid Azim Mattu tweeted: “The restoration of 4G Mobile Internet in Jammu & Kashmir is a welcome move and will ease out issues faced by students, the tourism industry and people at large.”In a statement, Apni Party president Bukhari thanked PM Modi for restoring 4G services, terming it a positive development for students and the youth.Basit Ahmad Dar, who is in Class 12, said students faced several hardships due to the suspension of high-speed internet. “We missed many online classes due to low internet speed. Once the internet is restored, life will become easy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-months-on-4g-internet-services-restored-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101612564917419.html
06-02-2021||India||Row erupts after TN guv declines to take a call on convict’s plea||Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu have criticised the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and its ally in the upcoming assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party, after Governor Banwarilal Purohit avoided taking a decision on the clemency plea of one of the convicts serving a sentence for former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination, and said President of India was the right person to rule on this.The clemency plea predates Purohit’s appointment in late 2017; it was filed by AG Perarivalan alias Arivu in 2015.The Supreme Court was told by the Centre on Thursday that Purohit, on January 25, said that the decision would have to be taken by the President.The Centre’s admission of this in court on Thursday has put the AIADMK in a spot. The release of Arivu and the other convicts in this case is an emotive issue in the state. It was widely believed that the AIADMK and the BJP would engineer the release ahead of the assembly elections in the state. The seven convicts have spent around 30 years in jail.The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, which has for long pressed for the release of the convicts didn’t lose any time. “This will find a solution only if (MK) Stalin becomes chief minister; these people (AIADMK) aren’t courageous,” said DMK organising secretary R S Bharathy on Friday.In a statement, DMK president MK Stalin said, “Even if the chief minister (Edapaddi Palaniswami) is going to meet the President on their release, the DMK MPs are ready to come with him.”MDMK chief Vaiko, an ally of the DMK also called the whole affair a sham. An ally of the DMK, the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Party (formerly Dalit Panthers), said the state must send a fresh resolution to the Governor and requested that the seven convicts are given immediate and indefinite parole.The AIADMK’s only response was that it would consult lawyers on a permanent solution on the release of all seven convicts.The ruling party, and especially chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami have also been embarrassed by the clear lack of communication between the CM and the Governor that is evident in the Centre’s admission on Thursday.Perarivalan’s mercy petition has been pending with the Tamil Nadu governor since December 30, 2015. Retired justice of the Madras HC, K Chandru said, “...I haven’t seen a case where the Governor has disagreed with the cabinet. The Governor can only act on the advice of the cabinet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-erupts-after-tn-guv-declines-to-take-a-call-on-convict-s-plea-101612564692994.html
06-02-2021||India||Lateral entry: Govt invites applications for joint secys, director post||The Centre on Friday invited applications for the post of joint secretaries and directors in various ministries, including finance, civil aviation, law, agriculture and education, as part of its lateral entry policy.“Online Applications are invited from talented and motivated Indian nationals willing to contribute towards nation building to join the Government at the level of Joint Secretary or Director, Group ‘A’ for a period of 3 years… by March 22, 2021,” a UPSC statement on Friday said.The government is looking to appoint three joint secretaries and 27 directors through the lateral entry route to work for 13 ministries on contract basis.The statement said that individuals working at comparable levels in PSUs, autonomous bodies, statutory organisations, universities, recognised research institutes as well as those working in private sector companies and international/multinational organisations are eligible to apply for the posts.The decision to hire people from the private sector earlier gave rise to resentment in bureaucratic circles, but the government has argued that the decision will help in bringing in domain experts.“Lateral entry is a well-established principle across the world and is universally acknowledged by experts to catalyse greater governance in public administration,” a government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lateral-entry-govt-invites-applications-for-joint-secys-director-post-101612564313906.html
06-02-2021||India||Vaccination for general public likely to begin in March 2nd half, says minister||Coronavirus vaccinations for the first of recipients from the general public is likely to begin any time in the second half of March, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan told parliament on Friday, confirming a timeline to widen the drive that has till now led to over 5 million inoculations.This phase will involve people above the age of 50, who are deemed to be at a greater risk of severity if they catch the Sars-Cov-2. India began the drive with health care workers on January 16, and from the first week of February, shots are now being given to front line services staff such as police and firefighters.“In the first phase, the target was to vaccinate about ten million health care workers both in the public and private sector, which is progressing quite fast. In the second phase, an estimated 20 million frontline workers were to be vaccinated, and that has also begun this week on February 2 at many places in the country. After completion of the first and second phase, the third phase will begin wherein everyone above 50 will be vaccinated. It may not be possible to provide an exact date but it is likely that the process will begin anytime in the second, third or fourth week of March,” said Harsh Vardhan.The minister said the government “has sufficient doses” for the on-going phase and existing cold storage facilities under Universal Immunization Programme have been strengthened and are being used for storing vaccines. As on February 1, more than 20 million vaccine doses have been provided to all States and UTs.Hospitalizations related to adverse event following immunisation is also one of the lowest in India, the minister said. So far, 27 people have been hospitalized due to adverse reaction related to Covid-19 vaccination, taking the percentage to a miniscule 0.0005%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-for-general-public-likely-to-begin-in-march-2nd-half-says-minister-101612564147585.html
06-02-2021||India||Pfizer drops emergency use application in India||Pharma major Pfizer has withdrawn its application for an emergency-use authorisation of its coronavirus vaccine in India, the company said on Friday, as details of its meetings with drug regulators showed that it had been pressed for more data in order to address some concerns.Pfizer was the first company to seek an approval when it approached the central drugs standard control organization (CDSCO) on December 7, days after its shot became the first tested dose to be approved anywhere in the world. But the application was pending, with several adjournments in the interim even as the regulator cleared two others that applied much later.“Pfizer will continue to engage with the authority and resubmit its approval request with additional information as it becomes available in the near future. Pfizer remains committed to making its vaccine available for use by the Government in India and to pursuing the requisite pathway for emergency use authorisation that enables the availability of this vaccine for any future deployment,” the company said in a statement.The decision appeared to come after the CDSCO’s subject expert committee (SEC) did not recommend granting approval for want of more data in a meeting on February 3. “The committee noted that that the incidents of palsy, anaphylaxis and severe adverse events have been reported during post marketing and the causality of the events with the vaccine is being investigated. Further, the firm has not proposed any plan to generate safety and immunogenicity data in Indian population. After detailed deliberation, the committee has not recommended for grant of permission for emergency use in the country at this stage,” according to the minutes of February 3 meeting made public by CDSCO.An official in CDSCO, in the know of things, confirmed the development, and said that the main point of contention was that the company wanted waiver of local trials.“Their data is robust but it is always good to know how the product will work or behave in the local population, for which the regulatory authorities ask for bridging studies. So far, no foreign product has been allowed for import and to be marketed in India without a local study. It doesn’t have to be a large study, just a small study. But it is important,” said one of the officials requesting, not to be identified.Pfizer-BioNTech’s is a two-dose mRNA vaccine to be given 21 days apart and requires superfreezing temperatures to store and move, a factor that many see as making it a difficult option for India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-drops-emergency-use-application-in-india-101612563938347.html
06-02-2021||India||Supreme Court grants Munawar Faruqui interim bail, stays UP police warrant||The Supreme Court on Friday took less than a minute to order interim bail for stand-up comic Munawar Faruqui, who had been in jail for 35 days on the charge of hurting religious sentiments during a public show staged in Indore on January 1.“The petitioner (Faruqui) is released on ad-interim bail on conditions to the satisfaction of the trial court,” said a bench of justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai. The bench seemed to be in agreement with Faruqui’s advocate Saurabh Kirpal, who argued that Indore police did not follow the procedure laid out by the SC in its 2014 order in the Arnesh Kumar case on the process of police probe.Staying the Madhya Pradesh high court judgment that declined bail to Faruqui, the apex court issued notices to the state police as well as to the complainant in the case, Hindu Rakshak Sangathan convener Eklavya Singh Gaud, son of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Malini Singh Gaud.The bench also restrained the Uttar Pradesh police from arresting Faruqui in a separate case registered against him at Prayagraj for allegedly offending religious feelings through his jokes.Kirpal asked for an interim order to ensure Faruqui was not shifted to a jail in UP on account of the second FIR against him at Prayagraj. “Production warrant (by a trial court in Prayagraj) has been issued for my client. Please pass an interim order against any coercive process.” Acceding to the request, the bench stayed the production warrant.Commenting on the HC’s order, senior advocate Vivek Tankha, who represented Faruqui in HC, said: “Citizens salute the apex court for speedy justice. This case was followed with immense concern internationally.” The SC, on Friday, took up two petitions by Faruqui, seeking quashing of the FIRs against him, and also seeking interim bail on the ground that the Indore police violated the guidelines laid down in the Arnesh Kumar judgment by not conducting any preliminary investigation before arresting him.The 2014 Supreme Court judgment required the police to conduct a preliminary probe before making arrest where offences were punishable with imprisonment for less than seven years. Faruqui has been booked by the Indore police under charges of hurting religious sentiments and violating Covid-19 protocol, and these offences are punishable with a maximum jail term of only three years. As soon as Kirpal commenced his argument, justice Nariman asked him if it was correct that the apex court’s guidelines on arrest were not followed by the Indore police.“If Arnesh Kumar (judgment) has not been followed, it is good enough. You don’t need to show anything more,” the judge told Kirpal, who submitted that non-compliance with the SC judgment was one of the main grounds to challenge Faruqui’s arrest in Indore on January 1.The case is likely to come up next on March 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-grants-munawar-faruqui-interim-bail-stays-up-police-warrant-101612563464059.html
06-02-2021||India||Repeal farm laws, drop cases filed: Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Friday attended a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ in Dausa, where a resolution, asking the Centre to repeal the three farm laws and withdraw cases filed against farmers for the violence during tractor rally on Republic Day, was passed.The resolution has also sought a compensation for the families of the farmers who have died during the protests, which started in November last year.Addressing the event, Pilot said, “While making these laws none of the state governments or farmers’ organisations were consulted. These laws were passed in Parliament in haste and imposed on the country. The government of India claims these farm laws are in the interest of the farmers but are being opposed across the country.”“The farmers are protesting in a Gandhian manner but the way barricades have been put up, and electricity and water supply discontinued, is unjustified,” Pilot said, adding that Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and leader Rahul Gandhi have supported the farmers throughout the stir.The event, held under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Sangathan, submitted a memorandum to district collector seeking repeal of the laws. “We will not step back, till these demands are met,” he said. Condemning the violence at tractor parade, Pilot said, “The opposition parties are supporting the farmers. The issue is not of a party or leader but of the farmers.”Hitting back, Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said, “Congress itself made such promises in the manifesto. The GoI is continuously is holding dialogue with the farmers and committed to resolve it on a positive note.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repeal-farm-laws-drop-cases-filed-sachin-pilot-in-rajasthan-101612562875200.html
06-02-2021||India||UN human rights agency urges farmers and authorities to show restraint||The UN human rights agency on Friday called on both protesting farmers and authorities in India to exercise “maximum restraint” and to find “equitable solutions” that show respect for human rights.The UN office of the high commissioner for human rights joined lawmakers, organisations and governments from around the world that have weighed in on the farmers’ protest that began last November against three farm laws. A spokesperson for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres had earlier said it was important to respect peaceful protests, freedom of assembly and non-violence.“#India: We call on the authorities and protesters to exercise maximum restraint in ongoing #FarmersProtests,” the UN human rights agency led by high commissioner Michelle Bachelet said on its official Twitter handle on Friday night.“The rights to peaceful assembly & expression should be protected both offline & online. It’s crucial to find equitable solutions with due respect to #HumanRights for all,” it added.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the agency’s comments.On Thursday, the US had called for dialogue to address the farmers’ protest and backed peaceful demonstrations and freedom of expression. It also offered support for reforms that improve and open up India’s markets to attract private investments.These were the first public comments by the Biden administration on the farmers’ protest, and the external affairs ministry responded by saying the protest must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos.The ministry also sought to make a comparison between violence at a farmers’ rally on January 26 and the chaos during the siege of the US Capitol on January 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-human-rights-agency-urges-farmers-and-authorities-to-show-restraint-101612562301741.html
06-02-2021||India||Thousands defy police orders to throng UP mahapanchayat||Defying the district administration’s orders, thousands of farmers attended a a kisan mahapanchayat at Bhainswal village in western Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli district on Friday to extend support to the ongoing protests against three agriculture laws.Farmers from Shamli, Muzaffarnagar and Baghpat rode into the venue on their tractors with the Tricolour held high. Slogans of “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan” rent the air. The meet was attended by Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Jayant Choudhary, Samajwadi Party leader Sudhir Panwar and representatives of 12 khaps, or clan-based bodies.“The three contentious bills will destroy farming and was brought only to benefit the corporate,” RLD leader Choudhury said, asking farmers to think of their next generation and stay united. He also thanked people for coming in such large numbers.The Shamli administration had denied permission for the gathering on Thursday, citing restrictions, Covid-19 protocol and law and order problems.This was the fifth mahapanchayat in western UP after Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait’S emotional appeal for support last week drew thousands to protest sites outside Delhi. The first mahapanchayat was organised in Muzaffarnagar on January 29 followed by similar events at Banjna in Mathura, Baraut in Baghpat and Bijnor.Pawar said the mahapanchayat was different from previous editions as representatives of 12 khaps, including those from the influential Jat community, shared the dais. “The dais today symbolised the concept of village Swaraj in a true sense, which was once conceptualized by leaders like Chaudhary Charan Singh,” said Pawar and added that presence of khaps indicated that the farming community backed the movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-defy-police-orders-to-throng-up-mahapanchayat-101612562076075.html
06-02-2021||India||HT interview: Tikait, Rajewal say Centre should give up insistence on no-repeal||Into its third month, the dogged farmer protests, centred on the three contentious central farm laws, have dramatically gathered a new momentum in the last one week following a surge in support from the Jatlands of Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh.In the post-January 26 churn, Rakesh Tikait, 52, a cop-turned-farmer leader, and Balbir Singh Rajewal, 73, a veteran Bhartiya Kisan Union leader from Punjab, have emerged as the pre-eminent face of the agitation that has laid siege to Delhi’s key entry points, garnered international attention and put the Narendra Modi government to a severe test. While Tikait, the son of a tall farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait, is the prime mobiliser, Rajewal stands out as a moderate voice of reason among ideologically disparate farm outfits from the border state.On Friday, a day before its nationwide ‘chakka jam (road blockade)’, Tikait and Rajewal dropped a conciliatory signal for resumption of talks with the Centre, while steadfastly swearing by their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws and a legally backed minimum support price. In an exclusive joint interview with HT Executive Editor Ramesh Vinayak at the Ghazipur border protest site, the two leaders announced the second phase of their stir up to October 2 and spoke about the protests, the negotiations, the January 26 tractor march, the chances of resuming talks with the government, and the way forward for the agitation. Edited excerpts:Prime Minister Narendra Modi underlined his intent to resolve the farmers’ agitation by committing at the January 30 all-party meeting that the proposal to suspend the three farm laws and set up a committee still stands. What’s your response?Tikait: This is not acceptable to us. We will not talk with conditions. What the government offered after 11 rounds of talks has fallen flat. Now if they offer a new proposal, we will consider starting fresh talks.Which conditions are you referring to?Tikait: The one on the 18-month moratorium. If we take this and enter into talks, that will mean our acceptance of their formula. If they want to go beyond this, the doors to talks can open.What should the Centre do to bring the farmer unions back to the negotiating table?Tikait: They should give up their insistence that there will be no repeal of the three laws and say that there will be talks. Then, we will also vouch for talks. That will create a platform for negotiations. Earlier too, the negotiations were deadlocked for 20 days, but it was broken. I’m sure the talks will happen again.Farmers have taken a repeal-or-nothing stand. How will such an extreme position help create the negotiating space?Tikait: Obstinacy is on the part of the government. It is against the repeal of the laws and legal back-up for minimum support price (MSP). For us, these are the big issues.Rajewal: The government should fulfil its duty and invite us (farm unions). The government is not expected to sit silent and do nothing. Unhone ik baat ki zidd pakad li aur baat cheet ke table par aana nahin. Such a stubborn attitude will not help resolve the issue.Tikait: It’s possible that we may go to the first meeting to just put across our views and then come back to discuss it with our committee. But that would open the door for talks.So, you want the Centre to send an invite?Tikait: Let there be an invitation. Then, things will move forward. Talks are stalled since January 11. Our farmers are in jail, many are missing, and more than 400 tractors have been damaged. The government has put multi-layered barricades and spikes on roads leading to Delhi. People are inconvenienced. Sooner they (the Centre) respond the better. Otherwise, we will be holding meetings across the country. We will launch the second phase of the agitation from Saturday, and it will go on till October 2.The government says the farmers’ movement is based on misinformation that land will be snatched, and corporates will take over agriculture and the MSP will be discontinued.Rajewal: The government is creating such misgivings. In the meetings so far, farms laws were discussed clause by clause. We proved that these are wrong.How have the January 26 events changed the movement?Tikait: Three lakh tractors and 20 lakh people came to Delhi. Such a massive crowd could have done anything. But our agitation was peaceful except the wrong acts of certain elements, who infiltrated our agitation and did all in complicity with the authorities to defame and discredit our movement.The Prime Minister said the country was saddened by the insult to the national flag at Red Fort.Tikait: Will the PM tell us why Red Fort, which is the country’s pride, has been leased to private players? The national flag atop the ramparts was not touched. We even took out sadbhavna marches with the national flag. No one knows and upholds the honour of the Tricolour better than a farmer whose son is a jawan serving on the country’s borders. Before coming to power, the BJP never unfurled the national flag at its offices. The RSS never hoisted the national flag at its headquarters in Nagpur. How can they teach us the izzat of the national flag?The government says the stir is getting support from forces that aim to weaken the country.Rajewal: Who are these forces? Ek aadhi kaa naam batao (Tell us their names). We will deal with such forces. Agar koi desh ko kamzor kar raha hain, uska ilaaz tau hum hi kar denge (If they try to weaken the country, we will sort them out). We have not seen the tent of any such forces at our protest sites. All you see here are farmers from villages who bring their own food material and run community kitchens.As leaders of the movement, what lessons have you learnt from the January 26 episode?Tikait: We have been doing agitations for 35 years. Whosoever is in the Opposition raises slogans and lays siege to Parliament. But, in reality, the protests happen at Jantar Mantar. Has any agitator ever entered Parliament in all these years? On Republic Day, people who declared on the eve of our tractor march that their intention was to reach Red Fort were put up front by the police and given a free run to inner Delhi. The police and the authorities were complicit in this.But, is not it a fact that a section of protesters went out of your control?Tikait: What happened on December 6, 1992, in Ayodhya? All top BJP leaders were there, and the party was in power. Was the Babri mosque structure demolished intentionally? Their affidavits said it was done by a crowd that turned unruly.Many believe that the government’s proposal to stay the implementation of the laws for 18 months and set up a committee with the involvement of farm groups is a reasonable offer; it amounts, for all practical purposes, to the government retreating because this version of the law will be pulled back; it buys enough time to come up with a new framework. Why don’t you accept the offer?Rajewal: These laws are basically wrong and were rammed through Parliament in a high-handed manner. These have been enacted for trading, not agriculture. A farmer doesn’t trade; he takes his crop for marketing. These laws are not meant for farmers. Secondly, in the Constitution’s 7th Schedule, agriculture is a state subject, but they have taken the concurrent list route in which Schedule 33 is on food stuff. Farmers produce foodgrains, not food stuff. So, these laws cheat farmers. Nor do they pass the constitutional test.The farmers’ number has swelled at protest sites of late. There’s a law and order concern. How much control do you have on the crowds?Tikait: We have full control. Anyone who has joined the agitation and protests under some ideology other than the farmers’ cause can go back. We will shun such elements. Anyone involved in the breach of law and our protocol will be responsible for his own actions.As the face of the agitation, what role do you see for yourself to resolve the situation?Tikait: It’s a collective responsibility. Rajewal ji is our key leader. Let the government initiate talks. We also want resolution.The government says the farmers’ view on the laws and the MSP are based on fear and not on facts.Tikait: Even today, farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan sell foodgrains in Punjab and Haryana, which are the only states with MSP. Once there is a law-backed MSP, traders in the entire country will not dare to buy crop at lower than the MSP.Rajewal: Except Punjab and Haryana, the government has not put in place a marketing system in other states. We want a similar marketing system all over by opening 48,000 mandis so that all farmers benefit from the MSP.But there is wide consensus that the country urgently needs agri reforms to improve the farmers’ incomes and modernise agriculture.Rajewal: Of course, we need reforms. But we don’t want corporate agriculture. Reforms should not solely benefit traders at the cost of farmers.Tikait: In the reforms that this government is pushing, traders are trying to invade agriculture.The government has said MSP will continue.Rajewal: On MSP, the government says the existing system will continue. But that doesn’t apply to farmers except in Punjab and Haryana. We want a uniform legally guaranteed MSP for farmers of all states. They want to save the trader, not the farmer.The government at the highest level has repeatedly said that the laws are for benefit of farmers. Why don’t you trust that?Tikait: Farmers see through everything. The problem is that even the existing farmer-related laws are not implemented. Look at the Sugarcane Act that binds sugar mills and the government to pay the farmers’ due within 15 days of procurement, but the farmers get paid after up to two years. And the government do nothing. But these are dangerous laws, and these (farm laws) will be implemented. How can farmers trust the government?There is a trust deficit between Union leaders and the Centre?Tikait: We have full trust in the central government, but it is hell bent on dhokhe baazi (deception). Look at how they have levelled allegations against our movement to break it up by all means. Farmers are being labelled Khalistanis. They say we are getting funds from abroad. Attempts are on to divide us and entangle us on the lines of big versus small farmers and Punjab versus Haryana. This agitation will not break up. The government will have come to the table and talk.Would you talk to the Supreme Court-appointed expert panel?Tikait: We have already rejected that. If someone is studying Kannada, can he solve a question paper in Hindi?The government believes that farm leaders want to find a compromise but buckle under pressure of the radical mood of protesters. You fear being seen as too soft or selling out to the government? Is there a problem of radical competitiveness within the movement?Tikait: We have not backtracked from talks. But come what may, we can’t betray the trust farmers have reposed in us. We are standing for their rights.Rajewal: The constituents of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha are free to give their opinion, but there are no pressures from any quarter. Ours is a collective decision. The government is floating the radical angle to discredit us. It is a ploy to avoid talks.It is Parliament’s prerogative to pass laws. Why should the government repeal the farm laws meant for all states?Tikait: Because the farmers for whom these laws have been made don’t want it.But protests are confined to Punjab, Haryana and western UP?Tikait: The protests are happening in Gujarat, too. More than 100 farmers there have been detained and their families don’t know their whereabouts.Rajewal: The protest sites around Delhi have farmers from Karnataka, Orissa and Chhattisgarh. In that sense, it is a pan-India agitation now.How challenging is it for you to steer an agitation of 32 ideologically diverse organisations?Tikait: If Atal Bihari Vajpayee could run a coalition government of so many parties, why can’t we manage this?Would you give an assurance that during the chakka jam on February 6, there will be no violence?Rajewal: Our agitation was peaceful, is peaceful and will remain so in future. It will be 100% peaceful tomorrow (on Saturday). We have full control over our farmers.In Punjab, there are apprehensions that the agitation may disturb peace and communal harmony. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh says Pakistan may exploit the surcharged atmosphere in the border state.Tikait: We won’t let that happen at any cost.Rajewal: Communal harmony will remain intact in Punjab. I can guarantee that.There is brewing local disenchantment because of the disruption caused by the protests. Is there a possibility of clashes with local communities in urban areas because of your prolonged sit-in?Tikait: We have not blocked the road. The police have barricaded them.Rajewal: Initially, the local people were apprehensive for a few days. But now they have opened their homes for farmers. They are supporting us fully.If no talks happen in the near future, how long will you be able sustain the agitation?Tikait: Second phase will last till October 2. We will decide the course after that.The government believes that the union leaders have a different agenda.Tikait: We are not tricksters. We have no hidden agenda. Our only agenda is that farmers’ ‘roti-roji’ (livelihood and income) should not go into traders’ ‘tijori’ (safes).The government says the opposition parties rallying behind farmers had supported the agri reforms when they were in power.Tikait: Political leaders have their own way when in power. But we are espousing farmers’ interests. We will fight anyone going against that.What will be the political fallout of the agitation?Tikait: We are not doing anything for votes or politics. Anyone who wants to exploit it politically can do it on his own.Rajewal: Voters will get educated and understand how to deal with politicians.What’s your relationship with the BJP now?Tikait: I have relations with all parties. We go by the government’s policies. If they are against farmers, we will oppose that to any extent no matter who is in power.Are there any back channels with the government?Tikait: Our manch (platform) and panch (representatives) will remain the same. Whatever talks happen will only be through them. Singhu will remain our platform.There is a view that the global outpouring of solidarity for farmers’ protest has hurt India’s image.Tikait: Then, let them repeal the laws. What comes first: The country or traders?What is your next course of action?Tikait: The next target is to involve 40 lakh tractors. From Saturday, farmers will bring soil and water from their villages from all over the country. While the government is putting spikes around the protest sites, we will sow flowers here. That will connect our agitation with rural India.The tractor will be the symbol of our agitation and gaon ki mitti and paani (soil and water from villages) will be its devta (presiding deity).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-interview-tikait-rajewal-say-centre-should-give-up-insistence-on-norepeal-101612561440776.html
06-02-2021||India||Oppn unable to point out flaws in farm laws: Tomar||Protests against three farm laws are limited to “one state” where cultivators are misguided by Opposition parties and the government’s offer to amend provisions doesn’t mean the reform legislation were flawed, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday, as the 15-hour debate on agriculture issues in the Rajya Sabha concluded.Speaking in the Upper House, Tomar said the Opposition labelled the three laws as “black law” but couldn’t find a single shortcoming in the legislation. “Opposition is continuously saying this is a black law and should be repealed. I am holding meetings with farmers unions for the last several months. I’m asking the same question to them also, what are the black provisions in these bills? Till now, I’m waiting for their reply,” he said.The 15 hour-long discussion in Rajya Sabha on the motion of thanks to the President’s address concluded on Friday. As many as 50 speakers from 25 parties participated in the debate, including 18 from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), five from Congress, and 27 from other parties.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to reply to the debate on Monday, even as no discussions have taken place in the Lok Sabha because of disruptions by the Opposition. Modi, who customarily addresses Lok Sabha first, was scheduled to speak in the LS on Friday.Tomar said the government’s offer to amend some provisions were meant to assuage farmer sentiments and did not mean the laws had any flaws. He also said the protests were limited to only one state. “People in a particular state are misinformed. Farmers are being misled that others would occupy their land if these laws are implemented. Let me know if there is a single provision in contract farming law which allows any trader to snatch away the land of any farmer,” he said, in a clear reference to Punjab though he did not name any state.To be sure, while farmers from Punjab started the agitation, protests have spread in Haryana, western UP and Rajasthan, and mahapanchayats called by farm leaders in these states have seen massive crowds.The minister said the government wanted to double farmer incomes and expand the contribution of agriculture to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). “These agriculture laws are also an important step in this direction. I want to tell this House and farmers that PM Modi is committed towards welfare of farmers,” he added.For 72 days, farm unions have camped outside Delhi against the three laws that cultivators say favour big corporations. The government has refuted the concerns, and offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months, but talks are currently locked in a stalemate. Opposition parties — including the Congress, Shiv Sena, Shiromani Akali Dal, Nationalist Congress Party, Samajwadi Party and Left parties — attacked the Centre.Sena MP Sanjay Raut criticised the government for dubbing the protests “anti-national”. “When the farmers are uniting and fighting for their rights, you see anti-national acts. They are not anti-nationals or Khalistanis,” he said.Congress MP Pratap Singh Bajwa accused the Centre of passing farm laws amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Today we have cut electricity, water supply, internet supply of our own farmers.”His party colleague Anand Sharma criticised the violence on Republic Day. “We have become internet shutdown capital of the world. It is time to mend ways, especially during this Parliament session,” he said, referring to the snapping of internet at protest sites.Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge accused the Centre of lying about MSP. “They (Centre) lie regarding MSP. Modi ji never stops saying that Congress did not increase MSP, [the] reality is in Congress’ time MSP increased by 219%, they only increased a little over 40%,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-unable-to-point-out-flaws-in-farm-laws-tomar-101612561262771.html
06-02-2021||India||Delhiwale: Confessions of a California-returned||Namit Arora is into reading, writing, travelling—so much so that he and his partner gave up their corporate career in California to travel and write about India, where they took up a place in Gurugram. Across the years, the couple have been to over a 100 destinations in 20 states on trains and buses but never on the plane, returning frequently to their “base camp” in DLF Phase 3. They would share their travelogues on their website and he even finished a book on Indian history based on his travels, which was ready to hit the world... just when the coronavirus hit the world last year. The book’s publication was postponed. It came out just now but he is still housebound. “Compared to so many others, the pandemic has been kind to me,” he says, chatting on WhatsApp video. “The worst it did was to induce prolonged mental state akin to cabin fever.”In his 50s, he gamely answered the Proust Questionnaire series, in which folks from diverse backgrounds are nudged to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, so as to explore the lives and experiences of fellow citizens.Your idea of misery or what would be your greatest misfortune?FatherhoodWhat do you appreciate the most in your friends?Similar values, shared experiences, listening with empathy, forgiveness, rooting for each otherYour main faultBeing insensitive to others’ vulnerabilities at timesYour idea of happinessWalking on a beach in south GoaWhere would you like to live?Goa, London, Amsterdam, N. CaliforniaYour favourite birdThe Indian rose-ringed parakeetYour favourite prose authorsBR Ambedkar, Romila Thapar, Perry Anderson, JM Coetzee, John Keay...Your favourite heroes in fictionBrás Cubas in The Posthumous Memoirs of Brás Cubas by Machado de Assis. Don Fabrizio in The Leopard by Giuseppe di LampedusaYour favourite heroines in fictionJanie Crawford in Their Eyes Were Watching God by Zora Neale Hurston. Shanti in The Legend of Virinara by Usha AlexanderYour heroes/heroines in real lifeBilkis Bano, Harsh Mander, Bezwada Wilson, Rana Ayyub...Your heroines in world historySojourner Truth, Savitribai Phule, Harriet Tubman, Simone de Beauvoir...Your favourite food and drinkChilly paneer with Cuba LibreWhat do you hate the most?Fakery, wilful ignorance, supremacismThe military event you admire the mostThe Geneva Conventions, which established rules to make war more humaneThe reform you admire the mostThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948The natural talent you’d like to be gifted withPublic speakingYour motto in lifeKnow thyself||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-confessions-of-a-californiareturned-101612560897765.html
06-02-2021||India||‘Kerala lobby’ stamp on Congress Lok Sabha strategy||lFor long, the Kerala lobby was synonymous with hardliners in the CPI(M). Over the past three days, the Congress has witnessed the emergence of its own Kerala lobby.These are the hardliners who have played, and continue to play, a key role in deciding the party’s floor strategy in the budget session of Lok Sabha. Two party leaders said many party MPs from other states too, have sided with the dominant views of party which also got backing of former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi in a meeting of Opposition leaders on Thursday. Fifteen out of 51 seats of the Congress in the Lok Sabha are from Kerala.At the core of this disruption is the Opposition’s demand for a separate debate in the Lok Sabha on the farmers’ issue; in the Rajya Sabha, the Opposition has agreed to extend the debate on the President’s speech by five hours and incorporating the debate on the farm stir into it.According to at least five Congress MPs, even as MPs such as Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor were in favour of the debate, many Kerala MPs, especially those elected for the first time, along with their Punjab and Tamil Nadu counterparts, preferred to continue protests for a separate debate on the farm stir.On Wednesday, the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha leadership of the Congress received a missive from Rahul Gandhi: the party should continue to protest if the government did not accept the Opposition’s demand for a separate debate on farmers’ issues.But minutes later, the RS leadership of the Congress, along with other Opposition parties, negotiated with the government’s floor managers to extend the time for debate on the President’s speech by five hours.Congress leaders in the LS, however, took a different tactical line and continued to disrupt the Lower House asking for a separate debate on farm issues. Now, party leaders of the two Houses are blaming each other, widening the fissures within the party.Gandhi has signalled his approval for the party’s stand in the LS, asserting that a separate discussion is “absolutely essential”. “We could have found a solution to the impasse and a debate would have also helped us to put forward our views. But many in the party believed that we must continue the protests,” said a senior Congress MP, asking not to be named.Another Congress MP said: “Some of our colleagues argued that since the elections are due in Kerala and Tamil Nadu in April-May, such protests would help the party.” Some RS leaders of the Congress, however, maintained that their stand was “correct” and that their Lok Sabha counterparts were too rigid. “Parliament is for debate not fighting. We have made the same points in our debate. Rajya Sabha leaders did the right thing. We found a solution. Neither before nor after the president’s speech but during the debate,” said a senior Congress leader in RS who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-lobby-stamp-on-congress-lok-sabha-strategy-101612560522993.html
06-02-2021||India||Modi may reply to debate on President speech only in Rajya Sabha||With Opposition protests showing no sign of relenting in the Lok Sabha, the ongoing budget session could mark a new event in India’s parliamentary history — the Prime Minister replying to the debate on the President’s speech only in the Upper House.Prime Ministers have not participated in the debate on the President’s address in the Lower House only twice — in 1999 and 2009. But on both occasions, the PMs —Atal Bihari Vajpayee in the first instance and Manmohan Singh in the second — didn’t speak in the Rajya Sabha either.In 1999, then deputy PM LK Advani replied to the motion of thanks on the President’s speech in the Lok Sabha and Union minister Jaswant Singh, the leader of the Rajya Sabha, spoke in the Upper House. In 2009, Union minister and leader of Lok Sabha Pranab Mukherjee replied in both Houses. There are, however, four instances of the PM not addressing the Upper House but speaking only in the LS.The Lok Sabha is yet to approve the motion on the President’s speech, a signal that the government is still hopeful of ending this impasse. Prime Minister Modi was scheduled to reply in the Lok Sabha on Friday, but disruptions washed out three consecutive days of proceedings. Now, the PM is scheduled to speak in the Rajya Sabha at 10.30 am on Monday, and if he does, it will be uncharted territory in India’s parliamentary history.To be sure, there is still a chance that the PM may not speak in the Rajya Sabha and get a senior Union minister, such as Rajnath Singh, to address the RS instead.A senior Congress and a Trinamool leader said they “might walk out of the Rajya Sabha during the PM’s reply”. They both asked not to be named. Another Opposition leader in the Rajya Sabha said that “protests and disruptions will return in the Rajya Sabha if the PM says nothing substantial on the farmers’ issues”.A senior minister said, “Talks are not yet over with the Opposition. That’s why we have delayed seeking the Lok Sabha’s approval for the motion on the President speech. If there is an agreement, we can still discuss the speech in the next week.”The opposition parties are, meanwhile, looking to recalibrate their Lok Sabha tactics next week. A meeting of more than 17 opposition parties will be called on Monday to review their strategy in the Lower House and to take a call on whether the Opposition will continue to disrupt through the budget debate too, or allow the debate on general budget to continue.Some non-Congress parties are keen to participate in the budget debate as it will be the last major debate in Parliament before the assembly elections in April-May. “We are hopeful that a solution would be arrived at. Let’s see.”Some Opposition parties have not ruled out the possibility of resuming the Presidential debate in the LS next week. “But for that, the Congress needs to recalibrate its stand,” said a non-UPA leader.On Friday, too, LS Speaker Om Birla continued discussions with different parties but the logjam persisted as the government emissaries remained non-committal on the demand to allow an exclusive discussion on farm issues before the budget debate.Former secretary general P Sreedharan said, “Usually, such an impasse is resolved at a higher level and not in discussions with floor leaders. It is unfortunate that the PM was not given a chance to speak on the President’s speech. But there’s still hope as the motion on the speech has not been approved in the LS yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modimay-reply-to-debate-on-president-speech-only-in-rajya-sabha-101612560265857.html
06-02-2021||India||Mossad team joins NIA in embassy blast probe||A team from Israel’s spy agency, Mossad, on Wednesday met the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to exchange leads gathered so far in the bomb blast outside former’s embassy in New Delhi on January 29, which, according to initial investigation, points to an Iranian hand, people familiar with the development said.A Mossad team specially flew in from Tel Aviv earlier this week to assist Indian agencies in the probe. Sleuths from both countries are coordinating to identify Iranian suspects who could be behind the attack as well as technical data being gathered from several social media accounts. Israel’s Ambassador to India, Dr Ron Malka said after the blast that his country would cooperate with India to investigate the case.Investigations have revealed that the low intensity blast neat Israeli Embassy and Jindal House on Dr A P J Abdul Kalam Road has no connection with a suspicious package found outside the Israeli embassy in Paris on the same day.Subsequently, forensic experts have ruled out any traces of PETN (pentaerythritol tetranitrate) in the Improvised Explosive Device (IED), which was fitted in a beverage can and attached to a tiny timer before it was placed near a palm tree on the pavement at Abdul Kalam Road. “Experts have said that the PETN, even in small amount, would have caused much bigger impact at the blast site,” said an officer involved in the investigations, requesting anonymity.Unfortunately for agencies, there is no eyewitness who saw anyone placing the IED near the pavement and the CCTV cameras on the stretch have not provided any leads.In its First Information Report (FIR), reviewed by HT, NIA has said “the blast caused a crater near the palm tree”.According to the FIR : “Information was received at 5.20 pm in the office of Special Cell (Delhi Police) that a blast has occurred nearby. On visit of Special Cell Inspector, a post blast crime scene was found near Jindal House, Bungalow Number 5, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road. A crater due to IED blast was found near the palm tree on the pavement. Due to the impact of the explosion, windows of three cars (Hyundai Creta, Ford Ecosport and Maruti WagonR), which were parked on the opposite side of the road, were found shattered.”It added : “Several IED components were found scattered nearby the explosion spot. An envelope folded inside a closed poly pack was also found at the spot”.HT has previously reported that a letter addressed to Malka by the perpetrators of the attack was found at the spot.The government termed the blast a terrorist act and handed over the probe to NIA due to its “international implications”.A second officer familiar with the matter said there is strong reason to suspect an Iranian involvement.“29th anniversary of India-Israel’s diplomatic relation; letter left at the site seeking to avenge the killings Iran Quds Commander Qassem Soleimani, and Abu Mehdhi Al Muhandis, who were killed in a US drone attack in January 2020, and Iranian nuclear physicist Dr Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, who died in a car bomb attack in Iran in November 2020; and the bitter relationship between Iran and Israel known bitter relations, “ this person added.The Iranian embassy could not be contacted for a comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mossad-team-joins-nia-in-embassy-blast-probe-101612559319622.html
06-02-2021||India||Chakka jam: Barricades, thousands of policemen on watch today||The farmer protest sites at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders have been hemmed in with multilayered barricading and are being heavily patrolled ahead of Saturday’s three-hour long nationwide highway blockade, “the chakka jam”, called by farmers to intensify their protest against the new farm laws.The Delhi Police on Friday reiterated that no permission has been granted to protesters for holding the chakka jam or any other demonstration in the city and legal action will be taken against those found disrupting the city’s traffic and law and order.The protest sites are under multilayered barricading with barbed wiring on top, concrete walls, trenches, nails boards drilled onto roads and netting to stop pelted stones, besides a heavy contingent of security personnel armed with anti-riot gear. These measures, the police said, were to keep the farmers from entering the national capital on Saturday.The police have also started monitoring content on social media to keep a watch on those spreading rumours or instigating people against the government and the police, senior officers said.Even though the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farm unions that are part of the ongoing agitation against the three contentious agriculture laws, has announced that “there will be no chakka jam inside Delhi”, police said they have tightened the security arrangements, especially on all borders connecting Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, keeping in view the January 26 violence during the farmers’ tractor rally.Officers said checking of vehicles at the city border points has been intensified since Friday evening to ensure that protesters or antisocial elements were not entering the city for Saturday’s traffic blockade.Apart from thousands of Delhi Police personnel, nearly 15,000 personnel from the paramilitary forces of Rapid Action Force (RAF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) – all armed with anti-riot equipment – will be on duty to maintain Delhi’s law and order during the chakka jam, officers in the know of Saturday’s security arrangements said.“A full-scale police deployment will be in place at all borders and on streets across the city on Saturday. Traffic police personnel will also be deployed in full strength to regulate traffic. While our prime focus will be on maintaining traffic as well as law and order, those attempting to disturb these will be dealt with strongly as per law. We are in touch with the police force of other states as well,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.On Friday morning, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava held a meeting with senior police officers and reviewed security arrangements. Shrivastava, on Thursday, had attended a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah at the Parliament complex to review the security situation in Delhi-NCR ahead of the chakka jam. National security advisor Ajit Doval was also present at that meeting.Farmer unions on Monday had announced a countrywide “peaceful and non-violent” chakka jam on February 6 when they would block national and state highways for three hours (between noon and 3pm) in protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites; harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities; and other issues. They have declared that all emergency and essential services such as ambulances and school buses will not be stopped.Elaborating on the security arrangements, a senior police officer, who did not want to be named, said police personnel who will be on duty Saturday have been asked to report to their area of deployment by 7am. Every police station has been asked to keep ready for action at least one sub-inspector and four to five constables along with buses in which arrested or detained persons can be moved away.Police said they have intelligence inputs that protesters may deflate tyres of vehicles to cause jams on roads, all the police stations have been asked to keep air pumps with them for filling up deflated tyres. “Cranes have also been arranged to remove such vehicles and clear the traffic. Videographers and photographers will also be present for capturing the activities of protesters. We will also be using drones for aerial surveillance,” said the officer.According to the intelligence inputs, workers of various political parties and student organisations have planned a foot march from Shaheed Park near Delhi Gate to ITO during the chakka jam. “Anticipating that protesters may incite a confrontation with security personnel, we have asked our staff to remain calm and not get provoked in any manner,” a second police officer said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-barricades-thousands-of-policemen-on-watch-today-101612558361363.html
06-02-2021||India||Police seek Google’s help in ‘toolkit’ probe||The Delhi Police on Friday said they have approached Google, seeking assistance in identifying the author/creator of the “toolkit” or document, that allegedly detailed an action plan for online and offline protests associated with the ongoing farmers’ agitation.The police registered an FIR in to probe the “tookit”, which was tweeted by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, on Thursday. In her tweet, Thunberg supported the protest by the farmers against the three farm laws passed by the Parliament in September.In their letter to Google, police have sought details of the IP address and details of two e-mail accounts through which the document was created. Police have also asked for the dates and identity of the person, IP addresses, who made changes to the original document after it was created, said a senior police officer who declined to be named.“Since the toolkit was drafted using Google Docs, we have sent a letter to Google and have asked for details of the person who drafted its content and circulated it on social media platforms. It will help us trace the author’s location and the chain involved in the circulation of the toolkit. What happened in Delhi was a copy-cat version of what is mentioned in the tool kit. Tracing the owner of the tool will help us understand his/her role in the conspiracy and links to other people or groups involved in fueling the violence,” the officer said.Separately, police are also trying to get details of the Instagram account mentioned on the original toolkit, through which a live session was screened.On Friday morning, police commissioner SN Shrivastava chaired a meeting with top officials of the cyber cell. During the meeting, the officers discussed the line of investigation and on the steps to follow, as the investigation involves people and companies outside India.“In the days leading to the violence on Republic Day, we identified the source of the many Twitter handles and found them to be outside India. They started using specific hashtags and uploaded fake photographs to create unrest. The toolkit was a blueprint of what was to happen. Fake news was being circulated on the social media, which fanned the tension. Take these things holistically and you will release that it was a conspiracy right from the start,” said an officer of the cyber cell.Police take out photos of suspects in R-Day caseDelhi police have said they have acquired photographs of over 70 suspects after analysing video clips available with them. Of the 70-plus suspects, many were masked, carried sticks and metal rods, and were involved in the clashes with security personnel,“We are in the process of identifying these suspects. Their photographs are being shared with police stations in Delhi and the adjoining states,” said an investigator who did not want to be named.So far, the city police have arrested 124 persons while two minor boys have been apprehended in connection with the incidents of January 26 and 29 (stone-pelting between a group of men claiming to be locals and farmers). The last person arrested was Dharmendra Singh Harman, a taxi-operator, from his home south Delhi’s Arjun Nagar on Wednesday for the vandalism and violence at Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day.Police have already announced a reward of ₹6 lakh reward on eight suspects, including Punjab actor Deep Sidhu and Jugraj Singh, identified by the police as the one who hoisted a religious flag at the Red Fort during the Republic Day violence.“All of them are absconding and the last location of their cellphones were in Sonepat on the day of the violence,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-seek-google-s-help-in-toolkit-probe-101612557751574.html
06-02-2021||India||Delhi not to be impacted by ‘chakka jam’, say farmer leaders||The three-hour ’chakka jam’ on Saturday afternoon to protest against the three farm laws will not impact Delhi and the national capital region (NCR), Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers unions which is spearheading the agitation, said on Friday. Farm leader Rakesh Tikait also said on Friday that there will be no blockade in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.“Only national and state highways across the country will be jammed from 12 noon to 3 pm. Emergency and essential services like ambulance, school bus, etc. will not be stopped... All roads for entering into Delhi will remain open except where farmers’ protest sites are already located,” said a statement issued by Darshan Pal, a leader of SKM.The chakka jam will be a part of a series of events scheduled by the farmers’ groups to press their demand for the repeal of the three contentious laws passed by the Parliament in September to deregulate agricultural trade. On January 7, the farmers protesting at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and others took out a tractor march on the eastern and western peripheral expressways which form a ring around the national capital.On January 26, the protesters took out a tractor parade and barged into the city deviating from the routes approved by the police by breaking barriers and clashed with the cops at several points. Hundreds of farmers also reached Red Fort and vandalised the monument.Even though the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has assured that the event will remain peaceful, police have made extensive arrangements to meet any eventuality.Tikait said farmers in UP and Uttarakhand will only submit memorandums to the administration. He said they will be on “standby” in case they are needed to rush to Delhi’s borders at a short notice. “They (farmers in UP and Uttarakhand) can be called to Delhi (borders) anytime and they need to be on standby,” Tikait told a news channel.Tikait’s associate, Arjun Balyan Tikait, said the decision to keep UP and Uttarakhand was also taken in view of the sugarcane cultivation season.The statement issued by the SKM did not mention Tikait’s claim. While Darshan Pal remained unavailable for queries, one of his team members said that there was no conflict.“The farmers in some parts will not be involved in chakka jam because they are busy harvesting sugarcane. In some states, on the other hand, the chakka jam will be much more intense as farmers there will block internal roads as well,” said SKM media coordinator, Harinder, who goes by a single name.The chakka jam will take place between 12noon and 3pm and it will be “completely peaceful and non-violent”, SKM said.“Protesters are asked to not to indulge in any confrontation with the government officials or ordinary citizens,” said SKM leader Darshan Pal.The event will conclude with farmers honking from their vehicles continuously and simultaneously for one minute when the clock strikes 3pm.PREPARATIONS ON AT DELHI’S BORDERSWhile no specific activity has been planned for Delhi the three border points where farmers are protesting, the police as well as farmers were busy preparing for the event on Friday.At the Singhu Border, the police on Friday added yet another layer of barbed barricading, several hundred metres away from the main stage. At Tikri border too, the police set up an extra layer of barriers using concrete barricades and iron nails. They also installed layers of nets in anticipation of stone pelting by the protesters.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said in the backdrop of the Republic Day violence adequate security arrangements have been made at all border points. The police are also monitoring social media to curb rumours and coordinating with their counterparts in neighbouring states, Biswal said.Farm leaders urged their supporters in Delhi not to disrupt normal life in the city had a word of advice for office-goers in the NCR. “While we won’t be causing any trouble to commuters, and our chakka jam in NCR towns will be limited to the highways on the city periphery, we urge the public to reach their workplaces before noon and leave after the event ends at 3pm,” said Gurmeet Singh Bhattiwal, vice president of Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta (Dakonda).“To avoid hassle, they should take internal routes because our focus will be on highways only,” Bhattiwal added.The protesters have also chosen some volunteers to explain the drawbacks of the three farm laws to those who will be stuck on the highways. “If someone gets stuck on the road, our farmers will offer them snacks and lunch and explain to them the problems with the farm laws,” said Mukesh Chander, senior vice-president of Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee.Farmer volunteers have also been instructed to ensure no disturbance to the shared and private vehicles plying along the protest routes. “They threw open their personal bathrooms to us and provided us water at a time when we needed it the most in the early days of our protest. The locals have sacrificed a lot for us and we will do all we can to reduce their troubles,” said Amandeep Singh, a farmer from Amritsar who is a volunteer at Singhu Border.Farmers appealed to their families and friends in the villages to ensure the success of ‘chakka jam’.“Our brothers and sisters in Punjab, Haryana and other states will be blocking roads leading to Delhi with tractors. We have requested for maximum participation,” said Sahil Kamboj from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha at Tikri Border.Rajinder Pal, from Baghpat, who joined the protest at Ghazipur after Republic Day, said it was time for the government to accept the demands of farmers. “We are only here to place one demand which is the withdrawal of the farm laws. We will make sure that none of our men get into any confrontation that may lead to violence during chakka jam. It will be a peaceful demonstration,” Pal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-not-to-be-impacted-by-chakka-jam-say-farmer-leaders-101612557284075.html
06-02-2021||India||HT Interview: IAF chief RKS Bhadauria says indigenisation key to military might||Bengaluru From plans to deploy a locally produced stealth fighter to the focus on indigenisation and the current situation in the Ladakh sector, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria spoke to Rahul Singh on a wide range of issues on the sidelines of Aero India-2021.Edited excerpts:What is the status of India’s fifth-generation fighter programme -- the advanced medium combat aircraft (AMCA)?I am hopeful that the government approval for the project will come this financial year. I must tell you that the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has set a very aggressive timeline for the AMCA. They are looking at a timeline of 2027 to 2030 to put the stealth fighter into production. If that materialises, the fighter should be operationally available to IAF as a squadron by 2032.Will the AMCA have some sixth-generation technologies (more advanced than those in any fighter jet currently in service globally)?A lot of sixth-generation technologies are already being talked about. It is possible for us to look at some of those technologies for the AMCA. While the platform will have fifth-generation stealth design features, a lot more can happen with the sensors, weapons, overall reach, and the aircraft’s capability. There is a possibility of equipping it with directed energy weapons, superior anti-missile systems, advanced missile approach warning systems, and teaming it with unmanned systems. These are some of the areas that will get looked into. It’s critical we start working on those sixth-generation technologies and bring them into the AMCA wherever we are successful. There’s no looking back on the AMCA.What are your thoughts on the ₹48,000-crore LCA-Mk1A project and its future?It’s an advanced indigenous aircraft, and it’s a matter of pride for us to fly our own aircraft. We have graduated from the basic LCA to a much higher level now. In placing the order for the LCA Mk-1A, we have looked at what our requirements will be over the next decade. It will have superior weapons, radar, fully integrated electronic warfare systems and a level of sensor fusion that is going to be relevant in the next decade. The LCA Mk-1A brings a lot to the table in terms of capability. It’s no longer just an indigenous project that we must support but it’s something that will give IAF a strong capability enhancement.What do you think of LCA Mk-1A’s export potential?Quality, cost competitiveness and timely deliveries are important factors for the aircraft’s export potential to finally materialise. These are issues that the industry must take care of as we expand further. Orders will come and we will have to demonstrate that the Indian industry will supply the right stuff in good time and also be cost competitive.The last of the 83 LCA Mk-1A’s ordered will be inducted into the IAF in 2030. Any concerns about technology getting outdated?Some of those aspects were factored when the order was placed in terms of the level of IAF’s specifications. So it will not get outdated, but in another 10 years there will surely be better sensors and weapons around. But the best part of having indigenous technology is that whatever upgrades take place in sensors, weapons, electronics and avionics hereafter, we will be able to integrate them into the aircraft as we have the intellectual property rights, the methodology, and the capability. Then we will also have the LCA Mk-2 that will be a further development of Mk-1A. It will fill the gap between Mk-1A and AMCA.The border row with China saw India make some last-minute critical weapon imports. How do you see that in the context of the focus of indigenisation?When you look at the long-term picture, indigenisation is the most important aspect we need to concentrate on. If we have to be a strong military power, it has to be on indigenous defence capability. And that is our focus.What is the situation in the Ladakh sector?China has continued to strengthen its defences during the last three to four months. They have been making efforts to strengthen their deployments and upgrade their infrastructure. There has been no change in our deployment, and we are very much there. If the talks go well and there is disengagement and de-escalation, then we will take a view on changing our deployments. Currently, our deployments match theirs. If status quo does not change, we will take action on the basis of the real situation on the ground.Is the IAF happy with the budget given to it?Despite the effect of the pandemic on the economy, we have got a good allocation under the capital head. Our capital budget is 20% more than last year’s. It will help us to continue with our modernisation and also to look at building important combat capability in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-interview-iaf-chief-rks-bhadauria-says-indigenisation-key-to-military-might-101612554840166.html
06-02-2021||India||Maratha quota law: Supreme Court to hear appeals from March 8||The Supreme Court (SC) will start hearing appeals challenging quotas for the Maratha community in jobs and education from March 8, a five-judge bench said on Friday, fixing a schedule for the significant case that can shape India’s caste-based reservation policy.The Constitution Bench examining the 2018 Maharashtra law, which granted quotas to the community, said it was open to hearings either virtually or in person, if physical hearings resume in the top court by then.“The learned counsels submit that there is already consideration of starting physical hearing in the month of March 2021 in this court in a limited manner. Be that as it may, the hearing in these matters will start from March 8 by physical or virtual mode… We propose to start the hearing on March 8 and complete by March 18,” said the bench comprising justices Ashok Bhushan, L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhatt.The bench also said it was open to hearing arguments challenging the SC’s 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment that fixed a cap of 50% on caste-based reservation. The 2018 law breached the 50% reservation threshold.The schedule was decided with the consent of Maharashtra government, the petitioners, the intervenors and attorney general KK Venugopal, who was asked to assist the court.The SC asked petitioners challenged the law to open arguments on March 8 and conclude by March 10. The state was allotted three days – March 12, 15, 16 to respond to the petitions. One day –March 17 – was kept for private parties and intervenors, and on the final day – March 18 -- the court would hear Venugopal.On two previous occasions, Maharashtra government, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, sought an adjournment on the grounds that a case of this nature would require physical hearing.On Friday, the bench told Rohatgi, “If you press for physical hearing, you need to be present.” The SC also asked the parties to submit a brief note of their arguments by the end of February.The 2018 law originally provided 16% reservation to Marathas and came after years of protests by the community.In June 2019, the Bombay high court trimmed the quantum of the quota to 12% in education and 13% in jobs. In its order, the high court said the 50% cap could be breached in exceptional circumstances. Soon after, petitioners moved the top court and contended that the law breached the 50% reservation threshold. As the Indra Sawhney case was decided by a bench of nine judges, various parties sought reference of the case to a bench of 11 judges to conclusively settle the issue.On September 9, 2020, a three-judge SC bench referred petitions challenging the Maratha quota law to a five-judge Constitution Bench and stayed the operation of the law for the current year.On Friday, Rohatgi informed the five-judge bench that in a separate case, another bench of the Supreme Court opined in August 2020 that the Indra Sawhney judgment needed a re-look. This question is pending consideration before a seven-judge bench. “It’s not that Indra Sawhney is cast in stone,” Rohatgi said. The bench replied, “We are bound by the Indra Sawhney judgment. You may argue this point. We are not closing you at this stage.”As the issue involves interpretation of the Constitution (One Hundred Second Amendment) Act, 2018 that gives constitutional status to National Commission for Backward Classes, the SC sought for the assistance of the attorney general.Maharashtra minister Ashok Chavan said the Centre should provide constitutional provisions to safeguard Maratha reservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maratha-quota-law-supreme-court-to-hear-appeals-from-march-8-101612553355336.html
06-02-2021||India||UPSC aspirants to get another chance: Govt||The government offered to provide an extra chance for civil services aspirants to appear for the exam conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), as long as they have age on their side, a move that could benefit around 3,300 candidates.Currently, candidates in the general category can appear up to six times in the exam, with an age limit of 32 years; for those belonging to the scheduled castes and tribes, there is no limit on the number of attempts and the age limit is 37 years.The government’s offer, explained in a note submitted to the Supreme Court, which is hearing a case on this issue, is to allow a seventh attempt, as a one-off, in 2021, to those who have exhausted all their shots at the exam, and are not over the age limit.At least 100 candidates approached the Supreme Court seeking an extra chance citing the Covid-19 pandemic. Many of the petitioners were frontline workers, and contended they did not get sufficient time to prepare. Some of the petitioners were from far flung areas who claimed they could not access study material due to poor internet connectivity. Every year, around 400,000 aspirants appear for the civil services examinations, which is the route into India’s government services.Adopting a compassionate view, a bench of the apex court headed by justice AM Khanwilkar, on January 22, asked the Centre and UPSC to take a considerate approach and grant an extra chance to the petitioners as a one-time exception.On January 25, the government came back with a reply that it was not inclined to grant an extra chance since this would amount to extending “differential treatment” to similarly placed candidates. But the bench, which also included justice Dinesh Maheshwari, was not satisfied with the response.The court had asked additional solicitor general (ASG) SV Raju, who represented the Centre, that when extra attempts had been given in the past in certain exceptional circumstances, the government should consider it this time too.On Friday, the ASG submitted before the bench that the initial decision has been revised.He submitted a one-page note, which read: “The Union of India is agreeable for the following ex-gratia, one-time, restricted relaxation to be granted to the prospective candidates, subject to the same being part of a consent order, disposing off the petition.”It added: “Relaxation, only to the extent of providing one extra attempt for Civil Service Examination (CSE), specifically limited to CSE-2021, may be granted to only those candidates who appeared for CSE-2020 as their last permissible attempt and are otherwise not age-barred from appearing in CSE-2021.”The note, filed on behalf of the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), further stated: “No relaxation shall be granted for CSE-2021 to those candidates who have not exhausted their permissible number of attempts or to those candidates who are otherwise age-barred from appearing in CSE-2021 as per the prescribed age limits of different categories.”ASG Raju also emphasised that the relaxation shall not be treated as a precedent for the future.The bench asked the Centre to circulate the note to all the lawyers appearing in the matter to enable them to respond to the proposal. The case will be heard next on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upsc-aspirants-to-get-another-chance-govt-101612551514123.html
06-02-2021||India||Infection curve down at long last: Is the Covid-19 pandemic ebbing?||The global onslaught of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has started receding for the first time ever, with daily new infections seeing a steady drop for nearly a month – something that has never happened in the 14 months of the pandemic’s run across the world.At a time when the world’s biggest vaccination campaign in history is underway with nearly 120 million doses delivered in 67 countries, a recession such as this may well mark the beginning of the end of a virus outbreak that has changed the world.At least 105 million people have been infected with Sars-CoV-2 across the world and nearly 2.3 million people have died since the end of 2019 – both likely underestimates according to experts.The seven-day average of new Covid-19 cases across the world touched 745,837 on January 11, the highest ever witnessed for the disease. In the 24 days since, the trajectory has changed. This number (also referred to as the daily case trajectory) has dropped every single day and currently stands at 485,005 for the week ending Thursday – a drop of 35% from the peak. This has never happened for such a prolonged period in global cases. There was a week-long drop in infections between December 22 and 29, and that too caused most likely by delayed tests and counts on account of the holiday season.This has meant that the world’s doubling rate of total infections – the number of days it takes for the total number of infections to double – has seen a drastic improvement over the past month. On Thursday, it stood at 148 days, as against 83 days on January 11.This massive turnaround in new infections is fuelled largely by a reversal in trajectory in regions which were so far the biggest Covid-19 hot spots – particularly the US and Europe – and are also regions that have seen the largest roll-out of vaccines so far.In the US, which is the world’s worst-hit country (and by a huge margin) with 27 million cases and 467,000 deaths, the seven-day average of cases has dropped from a peak of 255,125 on January 4 to 129,894 in the last seven days – a fall of 49%. The US, which began its inoculation programme on December 14, has administered at least 35 million doses of Covid vaccine as of Wednesday – the most in the world, according to data maintained by Our World in Data.This turnaround is even more evident in Europe.In the UK and France, the daily case rate in the past week has been 21,246 and 20,568 respectively. At its peak, the UK was reporting 59,344 cases a day on average (for the week ending January 1), while France was reporting 56,378 a day for week ending October 31. This means both have seen a 64% drop from their peak case levels.They are the countries that have been responsible for the fifth and sixth most infections, respectively. Till Thursday, the UK had administered 11 million vaccines doses, while France has given out 1.8 million doses.Similarly, cases in Italy have dropped 67% from their early November peak, while in Germany infections are down 61% from the mid-December peak.India’s turnaround has been by far the most prominent with an 87% drop from peak infection rate. But it has been happening for a far longer period (the only Indian wave peaked on September 16, 2020) to have greatly influenced the recent drop in global infections. When the world trajectory touched 745,837 on January 11, India was reporting just 17,479 daily cases – this means it was only contributing 2% to the world’s infections at the time.To be sure, most of these nations (other than India) have seen two or three distinct waves of infections, so cases have dropped within all these countries before as well — for example, in the UK and France, cases dropped 93% and 97% from their first peaks before rising again, ultimately hitting new records.The situation across the world now is very different. As many as 67 nations have kicked off vaccination drives of varying intensity, and, experts say the Western world, in particular, may just be months away from inoculating enough people to actually manage to bring the infections under control for good.But a new threat has been looming on the horizon: variants of the virus have taken hold in multiple countries, making the Sars-CoV-2 not only spread more rapidly (consequently leading to a higher disease burden) but also give it the capability to resist vaccines (and immunity from past infections) at least in some manner. Averting the next wave will depend on how well the world can scale up the vaccination drive while keeping the virus at bay.Experts said that while numbers are going down, virus mutations remain a big threat.“While any significant drop in infections is a good sign, it is still too early to rule out a yet another resurgence because of a mutation. Two new variants of the virus – from the UK and South Africa – have both caused surges recently. Already the South African variant is appearing to show some resistance to vaccines. We haven’t seen that variant in India yet, but with more than 10 million domestic confirmed cases, we may not need an imported variant at all,” said Dr Shahid Jameel, director of Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University.“It’s very hard to predict if we will see resurgence of cases. People need to avoid falling in the trap of getting lax about the disease because of case numbers or seroprevalence numbers. The UK is an example of how dynamics regarding the disease can flip quickly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infection-curve-down-at-long-last-is-the-covid-19-pandemic-ebbing-101612551104019.html
