07-02-2021||India||Only 188 names under consideration for 419 HC judge vacancies||New Delhi: There are currently 188 names in contemplation for appointment as high court judges as against a staggering vacancy of 419 judges -- more than a third of the total positions. Of the 188 names being considered, a majority of the names (112) are pending with the central government with the oldest recommendations for appointment going back to July 2019, HT has learnt through people familiar with the development.As on date, the government has a total of 40 names to clear as judges after the Supreme Court collegium recommended them while another 72 other names forwarded by various high courts are also pending with the union ministry of law and justice.Out of these 72 names sent by the high courts, the law ministry has been sitting on 50 names for more than six months without forwarding them to the Supreme Court collegium for finalisation, compounding the crisis.The law ministry did not respond to queries by the time of going to press.The procedure requires high courts to send the names first to the government for Intelligence Bureau (IB) inputs, following which they are to be sent by the government to the SC collegium. After finalising these names, the SC collegium sends them back to the government for making the appointments. However, under the memorandum of procedure (MoP) on judicial appointments, there is no timeframe for the government to act on a collegium decision.Meanwhile, the SC collegium, which comprises the Chief Justice of India and the two most senior judges of the apex court in matters of appointment of high court judges, has 53 new names for consideration whereas there are 23 other names that are awaiting a final decision by the collegium. Out of these 23 names, some are pending for more than 20 months without the collegium being able to make up its mind, according to the people cited in the first instance who spoke on condition of anonymity.The fresh proposals of 53 names received by the SC collegium include 33 names for the Allahabad high court, which has a shortage of 64 judges out of the total 160; and 22 names for the Bombay high court where 30 vacancies are to be filled up out of the total strength of 94 judges.Notably, even as 188 names are in contemplation, there are 231 vacancies that are going to require the chief justices of the high courts to send the proposals for appointments in order to alleviate the situation.Currently, there are 661 working judges in the 24 high courts, against a sanctioned strength of 1,079. This translates to a vacancy of around 39% in high courts.Recently, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, urged the central government to set a fixed timeline for clearing appointments of judges to the high courts and the apex court after receiving the recommendations of the collegium.Hearing a petition on a related issue on January 27, the bench, which also included justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant, called it a “matter of great concern” that the collegium had not heard from the government for months together after making some recommendations. According to the bench, a proposal would get stuck without knowing the reason whether the government had any objection to a certain name or there were other issues.Justice Kaul had also prepared a chart to highlight the stages where the names were getting stuck, as the judge implored attorney general KK Venugopal, who represented the government, to consider laying down a timeline for the executive to clear appointments in the higher judiciary, with every stage of appointment marked by a definite time period. The A-G had then taken time to study the chart and come back with a response. The next hearing in expected on February 16.After this hearing, the SC collegium has sent 24 names for appointments to the high court, in addition to 16 others that were already pending. Out of these 24 names, the people cited above said the maximum names – 11, are for the Allahabad high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-188-names-under-consideration-for-419-hc-judge-vacancies-101612722348715.html
07-02-2021||India||Heavy damage to two hydel projects at the epicentre||Dehradun/New DelhiMassive floods caused by a glacier breach in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli on Sunday washed away the under-construction Rishiganga hydro project and caused heavy damage to the 530MW Dhauliganga hydel project, officials aware of the developments said.The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC), under the chairmanship of cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, met on Sunday to review the Chamoli flooding disaster likely caused by a glacial lake outburst. The incident led to the rising of water levels in river Rishiganga, washing away the Rishiganga small hydro project of 13.2MW, according to a note shared by NCMC.The floods also affected the downstream hydro project of NTPC at Tapovan on the river Dhauliganga, which is a tributary of River Alaknanda, according to people aware of the developments. The force of the water and boulders rolling down from the upper reaches near Raini village completely washed away the under-construction Rishiganga and the debris from there gushed into the Dhauli Ganga river, causing heavy damage to the 530 MW Dhauliganga hydel project, just 10km away.“The river was flowing 10-15 metres above its normal level and took everything along. Only a few concrete structures on the banks remain of the Rishi Ganga hydel project,” said Dhan Singh Rawat, who rushed out of his house in Raini village after hearing a huge explosion.Uttarkhand disaster relief force spokesperson Alok Raven said that the rescue teams initially recovered two bodies from the Dhauliganga hydel power project. Vivek Pandey, a spokesperson for the paramilitary Indo Tibetan Border Police, confirmed that while the Rishiganga hydropower plant was destroyed, the Dhauliganga hydropower plant was damaged.He said at least 42 workers got trapped inside two tunnels at the Dhauliganga plant. While 12 workers trapped inside one tunnel were rescued, at least 30 others were still stuck inside the other tunnel, he added. Another 170 workers at the two plants were missing, Pandey said. About two years ago, residents of Raini village told the Uttarakhand high court that the construction of Rishiganga hydel project could cause damage to those living in the area. In the summer of 2019, villagers filed a public interest litigation in the court, which directed the district magistrate Chamoli and member secretary state pollution control board to constitute a joint team to inspect the Rishiganga Hydroelectric Project site with regard to allegations about the impact on the environment and local people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-damage-to-two-hydel-projects-at-the-epicentre-101612722288717.html
07-02-2021||India||No ‘ghar wapsi’ till farm laws are repealed: Tikait||Bhiwani: Firm on the demand for repeal of three controversial agricultural laws, farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday warned the Narendra Modi government that there will be “no ghar wapsi” of protesters camping on Delhi’s borders till their demands were met and those arrested for violence in the national capital on Republic Day released. The leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)-Tikait faction was addressing a rally of a kisan mahapanchayat in Haryana’s Jat land of Bhiwani. “The government still has time to release our protesters. The protesters were taken to Red Fort by fraud… we will not tolerate you (government). We need our youth back. The government said that the protesters had been arrested in sedition. We are telling you (government), release our people from Tihar jail and send them to their villages…,” he said. A tractor parade on January 26 turned violent after several protesters broke barricades to enter New Delhi and clashed with police in several parts. The protestors also entered the iconic Mughal Era monument Red Fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts. At least 127 people have been arrested so far.Tikait also said that the turban (referring to the farmers) will not bow down before anyone and that the government will have to repeal the three laws that have triggered protests among the farmers since November last year. Veteran BKU leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, meanwhile, directed farmers to convince MLAs to withdraw their support to the bills. “We had mounted pressure on Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) over farm laws and Union minister Harshimrat Kaur had to resign from the Modi government. You should mount social pressure on Dushyant Chautala and other MLAs supporting the government to withdraw their support. The Modi government will bend before you,” he said. Rajewal also called the government a “liar”, saying that the farm leaders have held clause-by-clause discussions with the government officials and ministers but the latter still insisted on more discussions. Last year, SAD had pulled out of the NDA coalition at the Centre. However, independent MLA Balraj Kundu said the BJP government will not fall in Haryana under any circumstance because they are enjoying the support of six independents. “Abhay Chautala had resigned from the Haryana assembly with the consent of BJP to make the farmers’ happy. People should not indulge in such politics,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ghar-wapsi-till-farm-laws-are-repealed-tikait-101612722228685.html
07-02-2021||India||Congressional India Caucus takes up farm protests with Indian envoy||New Delhi The leadership Congressional India Caucus, a group of US lawmakers striving for better ties with India, has called on the Indian leadership to maintain democratic norms and allow peaceful protests. The matter was raised by the leadership of the India Caucus during a virtual meeting with Indian ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu on Saturday to discuss the farmers’ protest, Brad Sherman, the Democratic co-chair of the caucus, said on Twitter.Sherman tweeted that he convened a meeting of the leadership of the India Caucus, including Republican co-chair Steve Chabot and vice chair Ro Khanna, to speak with Sandhu “regarding the farmers’ demonstrations”.“I urged the Indian government to make sure that the norms of democracy are maintained, that protesters are allowed to protest peaceably and to have access to the Internet, and to journalists,” Sherman said.“All friends of India hope that the parties can reach an agreement,” he added.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Sherman’s comments.Sandhu said on Twitter that he had detailed discussions “on varied issues with the leadership of the House Caucus on India and Indian Americans”. He didn’t specifically refer to the farmers’ protest.“Look forward to working closely with them to further strengthening India-US ties,” Sandhu said.The caucus on India and Indian Americans, which is the largest country-specific caucus in the US House of Representatives, has joined organisations, lawmakers and celebrities in the US, the UK and other countries in taking up the farmers’ protest with the Indian side.The US state department on Thursday called for dialogue to address the farmers’ protest and backed peaceful demonstrations and freedom of expression. It also described peaceful protests and unhindered access to information and the internet as indicators of a “thriving democracy”, while offering support for reforms that improve and open up India’s markets to attract private investments.The Indian government has maintained that the farmers’ protest is an internal matter that should be seen in the context of the country’s democratic ethos and the several rounds of talks held by the government with farmers’ unions opposed to three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congressional-india-caucus-takes-up-farm-protests-with-indian-envoy-101612722229226.html
07-02-2021||India||Spotlight falls on risks posed by power projects||New Delhi: Although the Supreme Court took suo moto (on its own motion) cognizance of the 2013 Kedarnath cloudburst and flooding that killed over 5,000 people and an expert committee warned as early as in 2014 that hydroelectric projects could pose a disaster risk to the state, Uttarakhand is still pursuing the construction of hydroelectric projects and dams.This is obvious from an affidavit filed in the SC by the Uttarakhand government on August 28, 2020 in response to an appeal by developers of a hydroelectric project on the Alaknanda river to resume operations following a stay imposed on all hydroelectric projects in the state.The affidavit, seen by HT, says: “It may be respectfully reiterated…that the Uttarakhand government has been facing acute power shortage in recent times and has been forced to purchase electricity amounting to ₹1,000 crore annually, casting an additional burden on the finances of the hilly state...”The Uttarakhand government and the Union environment ministry still don’t have a policy on hydroelectric projects and dams in the state.The SC, in its August 13, 2013 order, ruled that no new hydroelectrical power projects should be set up in the state. In all, 69 projects were envisaged in the region, and 24 were granted environmental clearance. SC sought a detailed and scientific assessment of the cumulative impact of hydropower plants in the state.Following the SC order, a committee headed by Ravi Chopra, director of the People’s Science Institute, submitted a detailed report which warned that a glacial retreat in the state, coupled with structures built for hydroelectricity generation and dams, could lead to large-scale disasters downstream.The Union environment ministry, in its December 17, 2014 affidavit, also took note of the findings of the Chopra committee report. The affidavit, seen by HT, acknowledged that upper reaches of the state above 2,200 metres were extremely prone to landslides and were located in seismic zones. The ministry sought to study the seismological vulnerability, cloudbursts caused by climate change and advise on the location, size and design of future hydroelectric projects.“We had said in our report that the region above 2,000 metres in Uttarakhand in the valleys is not suited for hydroelectric projects. ...when glaciers recede, there can be a lot of debris and moraines that flow down. Huge boulders also come along. There appears to have been an avalanche and a glacial lake outburst in the Rishi Ganga valley and, as expected, debris and huge boulders smashed into the Tapovan dam,” Chopra said on Sunday after the massive inundation in Uttarakhand’s Rishi Ganga valley caused by a suspected glacial lake outburst flood (GLOF) But the environment ministry did not take on board the Chopra committee’s recommendations om their entirety. After six of 24 hydroelectric projects were impleaded in the matter of revoking a stay on hydroelectric plants, the SC suggests setting up another panel to consider the case of the projects. A committee headed by Vinod Tare of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur was set up to review these six projects; the panel submitted a report that the six projects shouldn’t be allowed. The environment ministry recommended setting up another committee to look into the issue, this time headed by BP Das, who used to be a member of an expert appraisal committee (EAC) that had cleared some of the six projects in his tenure. The panel recommended certain hydropower projects with design modifications.“The Ravi Chopra committee report has been in limbo since then because the environment ministry kept forming committees to ensure the six hydropower projects get to resume work. Not just dams and hydroelectric projects, now extensive slope cutting and deforestation have added to extreme vulnerability of Uttarakhand to climate change impacts,” said Mallika Bhanot of Ganga Ahvaan.“To say that today’s Rishi Ganga disaster is a natural disaster or God’s act is the biggest lie. The state and Centre have brought this disaster on the people. In 2014, our report had clearly highlighted that dams and hydropower projects are not suited for this terrain and after that SC stayed 24 projects. If not for that stay, today there would have been lakhs of deaths because most of those projects are located upstream and downstream of the Rishi Ganga valley. The government has no decision on cancelling hydropower projects completely. They have also felled lakhs of trees in the char dham ghati (region), cut hill slopes which has made locals even more vulnerable,” said Hemant Dhyani, an environmentalist and member of the Ravi Chopra Committee.The environment ministry recommended environmental clearance to Lakhwar dam in Tehri Garhwal district with certain riders on December 2, 2020.“The fact that the Union environment ministry has granted environmental clearance to Lakhwar dam on Yamuna shows they want to build more dams. So expecting a policy on cancelling all dams and hydropower projects is futile. The SC, following the 2013 disaster (in Kedarnath) had stopped all dams in Uttarakhand, then they reduced the scope of the stay to Ganga while projects were allowed on the Yamuna, Kali etc. Despite the Ravi Chopra committee’s’ clear-cut findings, we didn’t learn a lesson. How many wake-up calls do we need? I can tell you if the Lakhwar dam breaks, Delhi has had it. Its entire population will be impacted. No dams or other structures should be allowed in the Himalayas now,” said Manoj Mishra, convenor of the Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan.HT tried reaching RP Gupta, secretary of the environment ministry, for a comment on the policy on dams and hydropower in Uttarakhand, but was unable to contact him until late on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spotlight-falls-on-risks-posed-by-power-projects-101612722168684.html
07-02-2021||India||Experts cite impact of climate crisis||New Delhi: Massive inundation in Uttarakhand’s Rishi Ganga valley caused by a suspected glacial lake outburst flood (GLOF) on a clear winter’s day has unnerved scientists. GLOFs and resulting disasters downstream during extreme rainfall events in glacial regions are commonly forecast by scientists. But this time scientists have seen it happen in winter, when such events are least expected.The Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) of the Defence Research and Development Organisation i stills investigating the matter and has not been able to zero in on the exact reason for the flooding as yet. “Our team is there. We do not suspect an avalanche. There may be glacial lake formations, but we cannot say with certainty now. We are investigating the entire region,” said Jimmy Kansal, joint director at SASE.The flood caused large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas, with 50-100 labourers working on the Rishi Ganga power project missing.Homes along the way were also swept away as the waters rushed down the mountainsides in a raging torrentIt is difficult to say exactly what happened,said D P Dobhal, a former glaciologist at Dehradun-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology.“Locals have told me that water and debris were flowing at great speed for about 15 to 20 minutes this morning and then the flow reduced gradually. This indicates a lake outburst. It’s possible that water and debris accumulated in a lake in the glacial region of Rishi Ganga valley breached due to an avalanche. Its also possible that the avalanche took place earlier, like yesterday or very early in the morning today. The water filled up in the lake and breached. It may be very similar to what happened in 2013 with the Chorabari lake during the Kedarnath disaster. Only difference is that this time it’s in winter and that was during monsoons,” said DobhalIn the early hours of June 17, 2013 a flash flood came down upon the overflowing banks of the Chorabari lake in Uttarakhand. Carrying huge amounts of silt and rocks, it killed at least 5,700 people, and left unprecedented damage and destruction.Dobhal added that GLOFs will increase because of climate change. “Lakes have always formed in glaciers and some glaciers have retreated while some advanced. These are stages. But due to global warming, more glaciers are melting or retreating and there is less snow. This is very apparent in Nepal and Sikkim and not so much in Uttarakhand,” Dobhal added.Prof Anil Kulkarni of Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, also suspected that the flooding may be linked to a GLOF. “When glaciers retreat, glacial lakes are formed. These lakes are formed in the area vacated by the glacier. Several lakes have formed in the Rishi Ganga valley. We don’t know which one may have burst. In winter, the top layer of these lakes is frozen. During an ice avalanche or a landslide this top layer is breached and water can flow downstream, toppling the earthen dam. This is a common problem seen in glaciated terrain. We have seen this in Nepal but not in Uttarakhand so far. This is a classic case of climate change impact on the glacier. We have again and again highlighted that such disasters will become exceedingly common due to climate change as more and more glaciers retreat,” explained Kulkarni, a glaciologist and scientist at the Divecha Centre for Climate Change, IISc.Kulkarni’s team has studied various aspects of such glacial lake discharge events. For example, last year the team modelled the impact of a GLOF on a hydroelectric project downstream of Satopanth glacial lake and found that a GLOF, combined with an extreme flood event, can cause extensive damage to the project. The study recommended regular monitoring of the Satopanth lake, especially during post-monsoon season, due to the potential risk it poses to the downstream region when combined with high-intensity rain events.A large number of hydroelectric power plants (HEP) were damaged in the 2013 cloudburst and GLOF inKedarnath. The 400 MW Jaypee (JP) Vishnuprayag hydro-electric project (HEP), located 28 km downstream of the Satopanth lake, was one of the projects damaged by the 2013 cloudburst.“Due to the fact that a number of glacial lakes exist within the limits of the Vishnuprayag HEP catchment, GLOF risk assessment for this hydropower station becomes very vital,” a study by Kulkarni’s team said.Kulkarni’s team, in its science brief on GLOF, recommended long-term strategies to prevent GLOF disasters including identifying locations vulnerable to such events using computer simulations, monitoring lake expansion, determining structural strength of the moraine dam, maintaining safe water level in the lake through siphoning, and determining future glacier lake sites using remote sensing techniques.On Sunday, there was an avalanche in Rishi Ganga valley 50 to 100 metres upstream of its confluence with Dhauliganga West. A small hydroelectric project of about 11 MW in the Rishi Ganga valley was totally destroyed. The barrage of the Tapovan Vishnugad hydroelectric project has also been damaged and water entered the intake tunnels. Around 50 workers were working at the plant at that time out of them 30 to 35 are feared to have been washed away. Around 10 villagers who were out with cattle on the mountain slopes may have also been washed away, according to initial reports received by Ravi Chopra, director of the People’s Science Institute and chairman of the Supreme Ccourt-constituted high powered committee monitoring the Char Dham road project in Uttarakhand.“We cannot comment on this specific event because the ministry of earth sciences doesn’t monitor avalanches. We know that the 2013 Uttarakhand disaster was related to a glacial lake. However, from the climate change perspective we can definitely say that the glaciers to the western side of the Himalayas are retreating while many of those in the eastern side have also recorded advancement of glaciers. So glacial lake disasters are expected,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-cite-impact-of-climate-crisis-101612722108713.html
07-02-2021||India||Ahead of VK Sasikala's return, Tamil Nadu govt confiscates properties of her kin||On the eve of VK Sasikala’s return to Chennai, the Tamil Nadu government on Sunday took ownership of six properties belonging to Sasikala's relatives and co-accused in the disproportionate assets, J Ilavarasi and VN Sudhakaran.In a press statement, the Chennai district collectorate informed that the properties were brought under its revenue department's limits keeping in line with a 2017 Supreme Court order in the case. The top court in its judgement had directed the state to confiscate more than 100 properties of the convicts in the case following which the state had directed six district collectors to do so.Sasikala completed her four-year prison term in Bengaluru in the disproportionate assets case on January 27 but remained in the city’s Victoria hospital where she was treated for Covid-19. Ilavarasi also tested positive and was released from prison on February 5. According to the family members, they will return to Chennai via road together while Sudhakaran is yet to be released.Also read: Night ops to continue in Uttarakhand, says ITBP; alert in UPIn September 2020, the I-T department had attached Sasikala’s under-construction bungalow opposite late AIADMK supremo J Jayalalithaa’s residence ‘Veda Nilayam’ in the upscale Poes Garden and 64 other properties under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act. Previously in 2017, the Income-Tax department had attached properties of Sudhakaran and other associates of Sasikala.The AIADMK has been firefighting fearing deflection when their former interim general secretary and close aide of J Jayalalithaa returns to Chennai from Bengaluru on Monday. On Sunday, there was additional security at the party headquarters in Chennai while chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami was campaigning in the city.Palaniswami chaired a meeting on Saturday night with senior party leaders urging for them to be united. There is already security cover at ‘Veda Nilayam’ which the government turned into a memorial on January 28 and Jayalalithaa’s burial place has been closed a week after inauguration on January 27 citing finishing works - both acts seen as a way to prevent Sasikala’s entry. Sasikala was staying at 'Veda Nilayam' until she was convicted in the case.“Betrayers who meet Sasikala will be expelled,” party spokesperson, Vaigaichelvan told reporters. The party has so far expelled their Karnataka state-in charge for planning to meet Sasikala and several functionaries for putting up her posters. But on Sunday, innumerable posters welcoming Sasikala sprung up.AIADMK ministers have filed two complaints at the DGP office against Sasikala for using the party flag in her car. They also urged the police to ensure law and order isn't affected on her return. “Sasikala and Dhinakaran have plans to disrupt the law and order and have decided to blame the AIADMK for the chaos,” law minister CV Shunmugam told reporters outside the DGP office.Meanwhile, Sasikala's family, including her nephew and chief of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), TTV Dinakaran, are in Bangalore to bring her back. The situation erupted into a war of words between AIADMK leaders, the breakaway faction of the AMMK as well as the DMK on Sunday. Dhinakaran expressed that it was laughable to watch ministers filing complaints against them. AIADMK spokesperson D Jayakumar called Sasikala and Dhinakaran as the B-team of the DMK. Reacting to that, former Union minister Dayanidhi Maran asked which team Jayakumar belonged to. Speaking to reporters in Karaikudi, Congress MP Karti Chidambaram said, “Entire AIADMK cadre will go to Sasikala, we don’t know whether it is before elections or after when they lose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-on-vk-sasikala-s-return-tamil-nadu-govt-confiscates-properties-of-her-kin-101612721769540.html
07-02-2021||India||Election or nomination? Cong divided over CEC||NEW DELHI: As more details of Friday’s Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting emerged, it is now clear that the new bone of contention between party leaders who in August called for an overhaul of the organisation and staunch loyalists of the leadership is a demand that members of the Central Election Committee (CEC) be elected, not nominated.Hindustan Times has spoken to several delegates who attended the meeting, including signatories to the letter written in August to interim chief Sonia Gandhi in which they demanded a “full-time and effective” leadership that is “visible” and “active.” The people, who requested anonymity, confirmed that the schedule for elections to the post of president and CWC members was accepted, but a spat ensued when the demand was voiced for even CEC members to be elected.. The demand was articulated by Ghulam Nabi Azad, leader of the opposition in the Rajya Sabha, his deputy Anand Sharma, and former finance minister P. Chidambaram, who wasn’t a signatory to the original letter, but supported elections to the CEC, the people said. They said CEC members should be chosen by the same electoral college that takes part in the election of the president.The CEC, headed by Sonia Gandhi, selects the party’s candidates to all elections and so is a very powerful body. At present, its members include Rahul Gandhi, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, senior leaders AK Antony, Ambika Soni, Mukul Wasnik, KC Venugopal, Mohsina Kidwai, Girija Vyas, Janardan Dwivedi, M Veerappa Moily and Oscar Fernandes.The oppositionto the proposal was initially in the form of a healthy debate. Antony opposed the proposal in what one letter writer described as a “sober manner.” Soni asked if an election to the CEC would require an amendment to the Congress’s constitution and Sharma clarified that it didn’t.It was around that point of time that Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot used “harsh words” against the letter writers to their shock. Since the December 19 meeting with Gandhi, there had been a feeling that a rapproachment was in the works, especially with Venugopal and Soni reaching out to the letter writers to understand their concerns and implement reforms within the party.Speaking in Hindi, Gehlot is learnt o have questioned the need for the 23 leaders to send such a letter in the first place. “Nobody even knows your names, nobody recognises you,’’ Gehlot is learnt to have said. To which Sharma responded: “That may well be true. I don’t have any identity but that of the Indian National Congress. And it’s because of that our face and name are known. And that’s why you are also known. This is not the way to talk. Nobody has given you the authority to insult your colleagues.’’Rahul Gandh then intervened. “I can understand the emotion that Ashok Gehlot had expressed (his views with) and what he was feeling, but at the same time I agree with Anand Sharma ji and feel that harsh words should never have been spoken,” people who attended the meeting quoted him as saying. A letter writer said the delegates were taken aback by the Rajasthan CM’s words. “Just because he is a chief minister, it doesn’t give him authority over us. There are six former chief ministers among the letter writers,’’ said this person.Hindustan Times reached out to CM Gehlot’s office, but received no response. A spokesperson for the Congress denied that there had been any harsh exchange of words at the meeting.While the letter writers want elections at all levels and the CEC is one such forum, a former CWC member told HT that the CEC’s membership carried the kind of prestige that even the CWC, the party’s top decision making body, didn’t have. “It’s the only one where a member can feel important and seems to influence who gets a party ticket,’’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-or-nomination-cong-divided-over-cec-101612721388666.html
07-02-2021||India||U'khand glacier burst: Scientists to be airlifted to affected areas, says IAF||A team of scientists from Delhi have reached Dehradun and they will take aerial reconnaissance in areas affected by the glacier burst in Chamoli district of Uttarkhand, Indian Air Force Public Relation Officer Wing Commander Indranil Nandi on Sunday."All the specialised personnel who were airlifted from Delhi have reached Dehradun. The airlifting of these personnel from Dehradun onwards to the affected areas will start at 6:45 am tomorrow," Nandi said while briefing media about the ongoing rescue operation led by the IAF in the state."Scientists with specialised equipment will also be taken to the areas for aerial reconnaissance. We will ensure that maximum bases are available to support the operations," he added.Meanwhile, Inspector General of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Amrendra Kumar Sengar said, "Since the flow of water was very fast initially, bodies are being recovered far away from the incident site. Some are trapped in deep areas and others in tunnels, so there is an issue of access."Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said that the rescue work at the National Thermal Power Corporation's (NTPC's) 900-meter long Tapovan Tunnel had to be halted due to a rise in water level.The Indo-Tibetan Border Police's (ITBP) Public Relation Officer had earlier said that almost 30 labourers have been trapped inside tunnel number 1 in Tapovan area, adding that 12 workers were rescued from tunnel number 2 after a part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off at Joshimath in Chamoli.A glacial broke in the Tapovan-Reni area of Chamoli District of Uttarakhand on Sunday led to massive flooding in Dhauliganga and Alaknanda Rivers and damaged houses and the nearby Rishiganga power project. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ukhand-glacier-burst-scientists-to-be-airlifted-to-affected-areas-says-iaf-101612720836200.html
07-02-2021||India||Nearly 6mn vaccinated, India ranks 3rd in world||India now ranks third among countries for the highest number of Covid-19 vaccines administered to citizens, with close to six million people having been inoculated against the viral disease in the first 23 days of the immunisation drive launched on January 16. The country that has vaccinated the most number of people is the United States, followed by the United Kingdom, with 36.82 million and 11.48 million, respectively, having received a vaccine.“India has scaled another global peak in its fight against Covid-19. India has become the third topmost country in the world in terms of the number of COVID19 vaccine doses administered. Only the United States and the United Kingdom remain ahead of India,” the Union health ministry said in a statement on Sunday.According to the health ministry, states in India have vaccinated more than 200,000 beneficiaries each. Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous state, alone accounts for 673,542 of all vaccinations so far, followed by Maharashtra with 473,000 and Rajasthan with 459,000.As of 8 pm on Sunday, February 7, a total of 5,775,322 people have received a Covid-19 vaccine under the countrywide inoculation drive. The cumulative vaccination coverage includes 5,304,546 health-care workers and 470,776 front-line workers -- municipal staff, police personnel, civil defence staff and so on -- across the country.Close to 400,000 vaccinations have taken place in the country across 9,000 sessions in the past 24 hours, and at least 100,000 vaccination sessions have been conducted so far in the country.There has been a sustained increase in the number of people being vaccinated every day, with as high as about 500,000 individuals getting vaccinated on some days.The number of adverse events following immunizations has also been one of the lowest in the world, with close to 10,000 adverse events reported among health workers in the past 23 days. Twenty-eight persons have been hospitalized in the country after vaccination; there has been no serious adverse reaction due to Covid-19 vaccines. The total percentage of adverse reactions out of total vaccinations is roughly about 0.0005%. Among 22 deaths reported of health care workers who were vaccinated against Covid-19, none has been linked to the vaccine. “There is a thorough investigation that follows post any deaths in persons who are vaccinated in the country. The post-morten is conducted by a medical board that comprises at least three doctors. There are also adverse events following immunisation committees at the state and national level that go through the data and reports. So far, our experts have not established causality in any of the deaths,” said a senior health ministry official with knowledge of the matter, who did not wish to be identified. The debate regarding the safety of Covid-19 vaccines is also settled, said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, citing Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) data. “There has been no death attributed to the vaccine, and if there is a side effect in one in 1,150 people, then it is hardly a side-effect. The Covid-19 vaccines are as safe as they can be,” he said.The country has also reported less than 80 daily deaths related to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, which is the lowest in nine months.The country’s Active Caseload was 148,766 as of Sunday. The present active caseload consists of 1.37% of India’s Total Positive Cases. “India’s cumulative recoveries stand at 10, 522,601 today. The Recovery Rate is 97.19%. 81.07% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6 States/UTs,” the health ministry statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-6mn-vaccinated-india-ranks-3rd-in-world-101612721332286.html
07-02-2021||India||Need highways road safety police: Report||New Delhi: The Centre and states must form dedicated national and state-level highway road safety police, and enhance the institutional framework with statutory bodies in the form of road safety authorities with quasi-judicial powers and sizable funds, the Bureau of Police Research & Development (BPRD) has recommended. A National Road Safety Plan (NRSP) prepared by former director general of police and chairman of the Telangana road safety authority, T Krishna Prasad, circulated to all states and Union territories for implementation, has also recommended deploying an advanced life saving ambulance for every 100 kilometres of road length on the highways as well as use of drones and air ambulances to rescue accident victims and provide food and medical help. The report, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT, has come against the backdrop of the National Road Safety month being observed by the Centre between January 18 and February 17. “In India, enforcement is majorly restricted to city limits only. There exists no enforcing mechanism on national and state highways. Hence it is anticipated that the road crashes and deaths are happening more on highways. In fact, 55% of road crashes and 62% of road fatalities happen on just 5% of road length of National and State highways,” said the report, which suggested “effective enforcement activities” on national highways, state highways and other roads. According to data from the ministry of road transport and highways, road accidents claimed nearly 150,000 lives in 2018. India is a signatory to the United Nations Brasilia Declaration on road safety, which called for reducing road fatalities by 50% by 2020. The BPRD’s report suggests the formation of a National Highways Road Safety Police (NHRSP) for strict enforcement of rules against traffic violations on highways across India. Similarly, there should be a dedicated State Highways Road Safety Police (SHRSP) for state highways. “The highway development in India has seen a much-awaited push since last two decades. The road length has increased considerably by construction of several multi-lane highways. However, over the same time, the safety performance of the roads has deteriorated in terms of increase in the number of road fatalities,” it added. The report said that if implemented, the NRSP will result in an annual reduction of 12% to 15% in road accidents and fatalities and will increase traffic law compliance among road users, and encourage good driving practices. Subsequently, it will provide employment to around 32,000 people. The report said that “a budgetary support arrangement coupled with a pan-India Road Safety Police” will effectively complement India‘s endeavour to reduce road accident deaths and also result in saving of the cumulative loss to gross domestic product (GDP) to the extent of about ₹5 lakh crore by the end of the fifth year. On top of that, a notional 37,667 human lives would have been saved when the National Highway Road Safety Police is deployed, the report estimated. Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari, while inaugurating the first ever National Road Safety Month last month, said that the government aims to halve road accidents and deaths before 2025. Gadkari also said India had recorded a significant drop in road accidents and deaths in 2020 compared tot 2019 partly due to the lockdown induced by the Covid-19 pandemic. “A total of 1.5 lakh people died, while more than 4.5 lakh people got injured in road accidents every year, resulting in social-economic losses from accident deaths equivalent to a shocking 3.14% of GDP every year,” Gadkari added. He said 70% of road fatalities were in the age group of 18 to 45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-highways-road-safety-police-report-101612721330417.html
07-02-2021||India||India unprepared for roll-out of 5G: House panel on IT||New Delhi: India is entirely unprepared to roll out 5G telecom services, the parliamentary panel on information technology said in a report adopted on Wednesday, blaming the government’s “laidback” approach to the launch of the technology. A telecom official said 5G trials were set to start soon and a roll-out was likely by early 2022. The panel, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, concluded that “sufficient preparatory work has not been undertaken for launching of 5G services in India. As such, India has not moved beyond the modest beginning stage as compared to other countries in the world”. On January 28, Prasad had said that the test bed for the next generation technology was ready and the country would be using indigenously made telecom equipment. The minister added that the government would soon grant a permit for the 5G trials.“We lagged in 2G, 3G and 4G but in 5G India should move at a speed faster than the world with made-in-India 5G. We have made a test bed and we are soon going to permit it. Core network should be Indian,” Prasad said at a National Informatics Centre Services Incorporated (NICSI) event to launch government e-office tools. Government officials familiar with the matter said the 5G trials are likely to commence soon and the technology will be rolled out across metropolitan cities by early 2022. “It will be rolled out in the metros first and then percolate to other parts of the country,” an official said on condition of anonymity. In its report, the parliamentary committee raised concerns that the advent of 5G services in the country may be further delayed, judging from previous experience.“While 2G was deployed globally in 1991, it was deployed in India only in 1995; 3G was deployed globally in 1998 but deployed in India ten years later, i.e. in 2008. Similarly, 4G services were launched in India seven years after their global launching in 2008. This reflects very poorly on our planning and execution. Now when many countries are swiftly moving towards 5G technology, India is likely to witness its deployment only by the end of 2021 or early part of 2022, that too partially,” said the report, a copy of which was sen by HT. At a January event by industry lobby Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI), Prasad said India did not want to miss the 5G bus and urged Indian companies to be “proactive in creating an Indian 5G model.” India is still evaluating its 5G testing models. Several countries around the world have already deployed 5G, and Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd’s chairman Mukeh Ambani said in December that his company would do so in “the second half of 2021.” That may not happen because India is yet to auction radio waves (spectrum) for 5G. Unless time-bound action is taken, “India is going to miss the bus on 5G opportunities,” the parliamentary committee report warned. The Department of Telecom had earlier set the target of starting 5G trials in 2019 and roll out the next-generation service in 2020-21.Because of claims by the defence ministry and space department on part of the spectrum that was identified for 5G services, the deadline was missed. Government officials familiar with the matter said that the issues, as far as the availability of spectrum were concerned, have been resolved after meetings with the cabinet secretary. “The concerned ministries and the cabinet secretary have met regarding spectrum availability. Sufficient spectrum will be available,” the official mentioned above said. Concerns flagged by the parliamentary committee include lack of preparedness, spectrum issues and, uncertainty around sale of radio waves for 5G, among others. “The Committee finds that inadequate availability of spectrum, high spectrum prices, poor development of use cases, low status of fiberization, non-uniform RoW {right of way} issues, deficient backhaul capacity, etc. are some of the factors coming in the way of rolling out of 5G services in India,” the report said.The official cited above added that as far as pricing was concerned, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) had made its recommendation, but a final decision would be taken by the government. “The price TRAI has recommended may be high, but ultimately the government will decide what is a fair offer.”The official added that DoT has already conducted a hackathon and identified 100 uses of 5G; it awarded Rs. 1 lakh per entry in the contest. “Initially, 5G will be rolled out on the existing 4G core. It will then be developed further,” the official said. The official further stated that the price of 5G mobile handsets would also come down once the technology becomes commonplace.The panel also highlighted security concerns surrounding the roll-out of the technology and the vulnerabilities it presents.“Reliance Jio has informed the Committee that from 5G onwards, technology will become much more intrusive in our business operations, given the applications, widespread digitisation, e-governance, the smart city project, all the cameras in a city, the data centres, the devices and the chipset in the devices, etc. Now, the more open and denser this whole network gets, the more vulnerable it becomes to threats,” the report cautioned. “Because of the increased dependency of communication networks, the hacking of 5G networks is a very clear national security risk. The only solution is to build secure and trustworthy indigenous communication infrastructure,” the Telecom Equipment Manufacturers Association informed the panel, said the report. The threats are simplified as STRIDE, where S stands for Spoofing, T stands for Tampering, R stands for Repudiation, I for information disclosure,‘D for denial of service making the network unavailable when it is needed, and E for what they call the escalation of privileges. “Because of the increased dependency of communication networks, the hacking of 5G networks is a very clear national security risk. The only solution is to build secure and trustworthy indigenous communication infrastructure,” Telecom Equipment Manufacturers Association informed the panel, according tot the report. The parliamentary committee has factored in that massive data, both personal and non-personal, which will demand special efforts for its protection, will be generated with the adoption of 5G services.“The growing concern over availability and protection of user data and privacy will exacerbate with security challenges in 5G. The Committee are aware the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 is still under consideration of the Government and will deal with various data security issues.” It has recommended that indigenous intellectual property rights, equipment and software should be encouraged and developed.The panel has also considered the global security concerns surrounding telecom equipment provided by Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and ZTE Corporation, twomajor Chinese equipment providers in India.The US and European Union have banned Huawei over these concerns, India has not taken any specific call on the matter. “In view of the security-related concerns raised by various countries, such as USA and European Union, the Committee feel that adequate precautions should also be taken by India before installing telecom equipment from Chinese sources in the Indian telecom network including 5G. The Committee desire that in-built safety measures be put in place to ensure that the security of the country is not compromised. The Committee also desire that such safety mechanisms should be strictly adhered to by public and private telecom companies,” the report said. Telecom expert Mahesh Uppal said 5G will present its own challenges and that the country was not really prepared to roll out the services on any significant scale.“I think what the officials are saying suggests that there has been some movement and the government has been working on freeing up more spectrum for 5G,” Uppal said. “We still do not know whether the last word has been said on that.”Uppal added: “A more important issue is that price of spectrum is too high. The companies have said that they find it unaffordable. The problems relating to RoW {right of way} are serious and have existed for over 20 years and there has been very little movement on them. This will be a problem as 5G will require many times more towers and at short distances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-unprepared-for-roll-out-of-5g-house-panel-on-it-101612721268650.html
07-02-2021||India||Raj CM opposed ‘love jihad’ law, but govt stand contrary||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has criticised several BJP-ruled states over new anti-conversion laws, saying these legislations “will leave consenting adults at the mercy of state power”, but his government appeared to take a contrary stand before the Supreme Court in a December 2019 affidavit, in which it did not object to further scrutiny and prior approval by the state machinery into interfaith marriages.The Rajasthan government supported making it mandatory for anyone wishing to change his or her religion to first inform the district collector, and then wait for an approval; endorsed that there must be a gap of at least a week between the conversion and wedding; and said that those facilitating the conversion as well as the wedding should be made responsible for making sure there no coercion is involved.These requirements for an interfaith marriage, which have some similarities with the controversial ordinances issued recently by the Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh government against forcible conversion, are currently in force in Rajasthan through a high court order, which the state has chosen to implement and not appeal.To be sure, the state has not promulgated any law of its own to govern conversations, for marriage or any other purpose.In its affidavit dated, December 16, 2019, the state informed the Supreme Court that the government has issued instructions to the director general of police and to all divisional commissioners and district collectors to enforce the directions issued by the high court on making inquiries before conversion and interfaith marriages.The Rajasthan government refused to comment on the matter.“That the state government has decided to implement the order dated December 15, 2017, passed by the Hon’ble High Court of Rajasthan at Jodhpur, vide circular dated March 8, 2018,” stated the affidavit, which has also attached the circular issued by the state’s Home Department. The matter in which the affidavit was filed -- it is pending before the Supreme Court -- is an appeal by a Jodhpur-based woman who converted to Islam and married a Muslim man in 2017. Her brother filed a habeas corpus petition before the Rajasthan high court, alleging forcible conversion and enticement by the man.In its judgment on December 15, 2017, the high court declined to declare their marriage as void in law, but issued a string of directions to regulate conversions and interfaith marriages in the state.Taking note of the fact that a 2006 draft law against forcible conversion in the state is yet to receive assent of the Governor, the high court said that till the time the state government came up with a law, the court had a duty to issue some guidelines to “check the problem of forcible conversion of religion for the purpose of solemnising marriage only”.The high court added: “It is obvious that in some of the religions it is a condition precedent that a male or a female must be of some religion.”The guidelines maintained that the authority or the person who is performing the conversion ceremony must ascertain that the individual wishing to convert has “full faith” in the new religion and should also ensure there is no threat or force on him or her. Besides, that authority or person “shall give information to the District Collector/SDO/SDM, as the case may be”.The set of directives added: “The person, who is desirous to change his/her religion, shall give information to the District Collector/SDM/SDO of the concerned city and Sub-Divisional Area before conversion of religion. The District Collector/SDM/SDO shall put such information upon the Notice Board of its office on the same day.”According to the high court order, the person, who has converted, “shall solemnise the marriage/Nikah after one week of such conversion of religion,” and that the authority or person, before whom such marriage or Nikah is being solemnised, shall first ensure that all the information regarding conversion has been made to the individual getting married and the authorities concerned.While the state government chose not to challenge the judgment but decided to rather comply with it, the appeal in the SC was filed by one ‘Mr X’ who wanted to remain anonymous. The petitioner contended that the judgement “directly infringed upon the fundamental rights granted under the Constitution, including the right to live with dignity enunciated by a nine-judge bench in the K S Puttaswamy judgement (right to privacy)”. “The high court is in error by unlawfully vesting an appointed authority the untrammelled power to ascertain the intention (mental state) of a person intending to convert,” said the petitioner, adding the guidelines requiring such persons desirous to convert to inform the authorities and prove their bonafide was in complete violation of the Constitution and in contrary to laws of evidence and procedure. The appeal was filed in December 2018, when the Gehlot-led Congress was in power in the state. In April 2019, the apex court sought a response from the state government, which was represented by its additional advocate general Manish Singhvi. The state subsequently filed its affidavit through an additional deputy commissioner of police in December that year. In its reply, the state unequivocally submitted that it “has decided to implement” the high court order. While the government order was issued in March 2018 when the state was ruled by the BJP, the Congress government has chosen to defend the directions on regulating interfaith marriages. Senior lawyer Sanjay Hegde said, “Political parties come and go but the government is a continuing entity. It is the government that takes a decision on policy matters which are subject matters of litigation. Here, it appears that the government of Rajasthan has taken a conscious decision to implement the high court order and oppose the appeal against this order in the Supreme Court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-cm-opposed-love-jihad-law-but-govt-stand-contrary-101612721209841.html
07-02-2021||India||US condoles deaths in Uttarakhand flood, wishes for a speedy recovery of injured||The US state department on Sunday condoled the loss of lives due to the glacier burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district and extended wishes for a speedy recovery of those injured. The state department’s bureau of south and central Asian affairs said that they “grieve with the family and friends of the deceased”, sending their deepest condolences to those affected in the flash flood.“Our deepest condolences to those affected by the glacier burst and landslide in India. We grieve with the family and friends of the deceased and extend our hopes for a speedy and full recovery for the injured,” the state department tweeted.Our deepest condolences to those affected by the glacier burst and landslide in India. We grieve with the family and friends of the deceased and extend our hopes for a speedy and full recovery for the injured.The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), along with National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), is carrying out the search and rescue operation which will continue throughout the night as dozens of people remain missing.Read | Night ops to continue in Uttarakhand, says ITBP; alert in UP: 10 pointsAccording to the latest report, around 10 bodies have been recovered from the Dhauliganga river and over 170 labourers - 148 employed at the National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC) plant and 22 at Rishiganga hydro project - are said to be missing.“Since the flow of water was very fast initially, bodies are being recovered far away from the incident site. Some are trapped in deep areas and others in tunnels, so there is issue of access,” Amrendra Kumar Sengar, IG NDRF, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The ITBP has rescued 16 people from a tunnel and are now focussing on a second tunnel in which around 30 people are believed to be trapped. Vivek Pandey, public relations officer of ITBP, told ANI that the force will be carrying out night operations, hoping to rescue all of them.Meanwhile, messages of condolence have been pouring from all over the world. French President Emmanuel Macron replied to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tweet on the disaster, saying the European nation expresses its full solidarity with India. “France expresses its full solidarity with India, after a glacier burst in the Uttarakhand province, leading to the disappearance of over 100 people. Our thoughts are with them and their families,” Macron tweeted.France expresses its full solidarity with India, after a glacier burst in the Uttarakhand province, leading to the disappearance of over 100 people. Our thoughts are with them and their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-condoles-deaths-in-uttarakhand-flood-wishes-for-a-speedy-recovery-of-injured-101612717347675.html
07-02-2021||India||'A second chance at life': ITBP officer cheers labourer upon rescue||Arms outstretched a man emerged from what was once a tunnel on Sunday in Tapovan, nearby him an Indo Tibetan Border Police official could be heard saying ‘Nayi zindagi mili hain (this is your second chance at life)’. The man was quickly laid down and covered with sheets so as to protect him from shock and hypothermia. Beside him laid his colleagues, who along with him were trapped in the deluge, caused by the glacier burst in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli on Sunday morning.The videos shared by ITBP showed man’s ability to endure challenges when faced with adversities presented by nature. The ITBP personnel were seen surrounding a small hole which may have been at best 2-3 feet wide. From the hole they were pulling out labourers who were trapped inside the tunnel.The labourers who were working on a hydel power project of the National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC) site in the Tapovan area. While ITBP rescued 16 labourers, close to 100 labourers remain missing. 10 labourers lost their lives due to the avalanche and flood triggered by the glacial burst in the river Rishi Ganga.The flood was strong enough to cause total destruction of the Rishi Ganga Hydro project and the BRO bridge on Joshimath highway along with the NTPC’s hydel power project. Upon his rescue, one of the colleagues of the rescued laborer was heard saying, “Apna bhai aa gaya (our brother is back).”ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said that his personnel stationed in base heard the screams of people shortly after the tragedy struck the two dam sites near the Raini village in Chamoli. ITBP officials armed with mountain rescue gear, ropes, pulleys and carabiniers rescued 16 of these labourers.More than 125 people including two policemen are missing and Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that he fears that the numbers may go up. The ITBP has said that it will continue rescue operations throughout the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-second-chance-at-life-itbp-officer-cheers-labourer-upon-rescue-101612717090100.html
07-02-2021||India||PM Modi expected to reply to President's address on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to reply to the debate on Motion of Thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind's address in the Rajya Sabha or Upper House of Parliament on Monday.If PM Modi's address indeed happens in the Rajya Sabha, it will be a departure from the norm. The Prime Minsters usually speaks in both the Houses of Parliament but with opposition parties refusing to end protests in the Lok Sabha, PM Modi's address could take place only in the Rajya Sabha.The government's reply to the motion of thanks may take place at 10.30 am tomorrow, after the Question Hour.The first six sittings of the Rajya Sabha during the ongoing budget session have proved to be productive. The House recorded productivity of 82.10 per cent, an official statement said.During the sittings, the House witnessed a 15-hour debate on Motion of Thanks on the President's address.The protests by farmers dominated the agenda of Parliament in the first week, with both the Houses witnessing multiple disruptions over the issue.Against the total scheduled sitting time of 20 hours and 34 minutes, 4 hours 14 minutes were lost on February 3, due to disruption. The members, however, sat for extra 33 minutes beyond the business hours on Friday, the statement said.On Wednesday, day 4 of the session, the Centre and Opposition arrived at a consensus to allot 15 hours to discussion in the Rajya Sabha on the topic of farm laws.The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, seeking to replace the Ordinance in this regard, was also introduced during the week.The house also saw eight Zero Hour and seven special mentions made during the first week.The Rajya Sabha will take up the discussion on the general budget for 2021-21 during the coming week for which 10 hours have been allotted.The budget session is being held in two segments and the first part will conclude on February 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-expected-to-reply-to-president-s-address-on-monday-101612716313865.html
07-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Uttarakhand CM says experts to study cause of Chamoli glacier tragedy and all the other news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Cause of Chamoli glacier tragedy to be studied by experts': Uttarakhand CMUttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the cause of the tragedy in Chamoli will be studied by experts. The chief minister said that at present the state government is focussed on saving the lives of people. Read moreVVS Laxman explains how England bowlers were spot on with plan against KohliDom Bess was the star with the ball for England. The off-spinner picked up four wickets for his side as his efforts put India on the back foot in their innings. Read moreKaran Johar's twins Yash and Roohi's birthday party: Kareena Kapoor’s son Taimur, Neha Dhupia’s daughter Mehr attendFilmmaker and producer Karan Johar hosted a birthday party for his twins, Yash and Roohi, as they turned four on Sunday. Read moreFigure skater smoothly moonwalks on ice, video leaves people in aweThe video shows the skater skillfully moonwalking on ice wearing skates. What makes the clip even more amazing is the dancer’s smile at the end of the clip. Read moreWatch: Daring rescue after Uttarakhand glacier burst; ITBP, Army deployedFollowing a glacier burst and resultant flooding in Uttarakhand's Chamoli, Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel were seen rescuing a man from a tunnel reportedly near Tapovan dam. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-u-khand-cm-says-experts-to-study-cause-of-chamoli-floods-101612710777466.html
07-02-2021||India||Dhauli Ganga river's water level at Joshimath breached all records after glacial burst: CEC official||The water level of the Dhauli Ganga river at Joshimath flowed at a perilously high level, breaching all records, Central Water Commission officials said after a part of Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district leading to massive floods.The glacial burst triggered an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations and trapped more than 100 labourers who are feared dead. The intensity of the river's flow in a short span of time was such that it engulfed whatever came in its way.This was a grim reminder of the Kedarnath deluge of 2013 which led to widespread devastation in the ecologically fragile Himalayan region."At 11 am, the water level recorded at Joshimath was 1,388 metres," Saumitra Haldar, Chairman, Central Water Commission told PTI.During the 2013 Uttarakhand flash floods, the highest flood level (HFL) at Joshimath was 1,385.54 metres, he added.However, by 6 pm on Sunday, the water level of the river had reached the normal levels recorded a day before, said Rajesh Kumar, the superintendent engineer (Upper and Middle Ganga division) of the Central Water Commission (CWC).He said water levels have started receding.At Joshimath, which bore the fury of floods, the water level recorded at 1 PM on February 6 was 1,372.58 metres. At 6 PM on Sunday, hours after the disaster, the water level was 1,375 metres.In Nandprayag at the lower stretches of the river, the water level at 6 pm was 840.40 metres. A day before, it was 848.30 metres at 1 pm. Kumar said the situation was similar in Rudraprayag, Srinagar, Devprayag, Rishikesh and Devprayag.The water level at the Srinagar Hydroelectric Project was also at the Mean Draw Down Level which helped accommodate excess flow from the upper stretches. This will be released slowly, Halder added.The sudden flood in the middle of the day in the Dhauli Ganga, Rishi Ganga and Alaknanda rivers -- all intricately linked tributaries of the Ganga -- triggered widespread panic and large-scale devastation in the high mountain areas.Two power projects - NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project and the Rishi Ganga Hydel Project - were extensively damaged with scores of labourers trapped in tunnels as the waters came rushing in.Sixteen men were rescued safely from a tunnel in the Tapovan project but about 125 were still missing. As night fell in the ecologically fragile Himalayas and rescue work in the difficult to access areas became more difficult, there were fears they may be dead.Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said seven bodies were recovered and at least 125 were missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhauli-ganga-river-s-water-level-at-joshimath-breached-all-records-after-glacial-burst-cec-official-101612711002455.html
07-02-2021||India||As minister, I was against power projects on Ganga, its main tributaries, says Uma Bharti||BJP leader Uma Bharti Sunday said the Uttarakhand flood tragedy triggered by a glacier burst is a matter of concern as well as a warning, and added that as a minister she had spoken against having any power project on the Ganga and its major tributaries.Bharti was the minister of water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation during the first term of the Modi government.In a series of tweets in Hindi, she said the glacier breaking off had damaged a power project, triggering the massive crisis.This tragedy that has happened in Rishi Ganga in the Himalayas is a matter of concerns as well as a warning, she said."When I was a minister, my ministry in its affidavit about the dams in Uttarakhand in the Himalayas had requested that it is a very sensitive region, and, therefore, power projects should not be built on the Ganges and its main tributaries," she said.She said the electricity shortfall caused by that decision could have been met by the national greed.Bharti said she was in Uttarkashi on Saturday and is now in Haridwar.A part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, leading to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and causing large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas.Over 150 labourers working at a power project in Tapovan-Reni are feared dead, an Indo Tibetan Border Police spokesperson said while quoting the project-in charge. Three bodies were recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-minister-i-was-against-power-projects-on-ganga-its-main-tributaries-says-uma-bharti-101612710196538.html
07-02-2021||India||Night ops to continue in Uttarakhand, says ITBP; alert in UP: 10 points||The central government on Sunday evening said that the rise in the water level of the river affected by glacier burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district has been contained and there is no danger downstream. It also said that there is no threat to other villages and hydroprojects in the state.Uttarakhand flood: Track live updatesThe update came after a review of the situation by both Uttarakhand government and the Centre.The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), which is involved in rescue operations along with National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), said that it will be carrying out night operations. The force had earlier said that it has recovered around 10 bodies. The SDRF said on Sunday evening that around 170 people are missing.Here are the latest developments on this big story:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-flood-drdo-team-to-reach-state-on-monday-super-hercules-pressed-into-service-10-points-101612708886466.html
07-02-2021||India||2 traffickers including one who used Mercedes car to push drugs nabbed in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested two notorious drug traffickers from Mumbai’s Jogeshwari and Dongri areas on Saturday, officials said Sunday.While Ibrahim Mujawar alias Ibrahim Kaskar was arrested from Jogeshwari, his supplier Asif Rajkotwala was nabbed from Dongri. An NCB official who did not wish to be named said they seized drugs and Ibrahim’s Mercedes car.The NCB official also said that Ibrahim was using his high-end car to peddle and distribute drugs to high profile customers in Mumbai’s western suburbs. Ibrahim is allegedly also involved in two other cases including one of assaulting police personnel and an attempted murder.As part of a drive, an NCB team carried out a raid in Jogeshwari and nabbed Ibrahim Mujawar alias Ibrahim Kaskar who allegedly deals in Mephedrone o MD. During a search, the team found 100 gram of MD from his possession. During interrogation he revealed that the MD was supplied to him by Asif Rajkotwala who lives in Dongri area in south Mumbai.The NCB team then rushed to Dongri and arrested Rajkotwala and allegedly recovered a small quantity of charas from possession, the bureau’s official said.The two drug dealers are said to have been working together for a year. Ibrahim is currently on bail and came in contact with Rajkotwala through a common friend who is also on the NCB’s list of wanted persons.Last month, the NCB arrested two drug dealers - Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan and his associate Arif Bhujwala, both are residents of South Mumbai.The two men were allegedly running a drug laboratory in Dongri area where Bhujwala manufactured MD from more than three years. The NCB seized drugs worth Rs. 8 to 10 crore, two automatic revolvers and cash ₹21,825,600 from Bhujwala’s residence. The NCB has also seized a diary from Bhujwala’s residence, in which codes and some of the networks of the drug cartel were mentioned in it.All the links are being verified and drug suppliers and peddlers across the city and outside are being nabbed, the NCB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-traffickers-including-one-who-used-mercedes-car-to-push-drugs-nabbed-in-mumbai-101612708484787.html
07-02-2021||India||Air 'poor' in Ghaziabad, Noida, Faridabad, Gurugram||The average air quality slipped to "poor" category in Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad and Gurgaon, according to data issued by a government agency on Sunday.Pollutant PM 2.5 and PM 10 although remained in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Sunday was 251 in Ghaziabad, 238 in Noida, 224 in Greater Noida, 218 in Faridabad and 209 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB's Sameer app.On Saturday it was 218 in Ghaziabad, 167 in Noida, 180 in Greater Noida, 198 in Faridabad and 170 in Gurgaon.On Friday it was 91 in Ghaziabad, 114 in Noida, 144 in Greater Noida, 105 in Faridabad and 160 in Gurgaon.The CPCB states that an AQI in the "moderate" may lead to breathing discomfort to the people with asthma, lung and heart diseases while "poor" may cause breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all monitoring stations there. Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Noida have four such stations while Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-poor-in-ghaziabad-noida-faridabad-gurugram-101612708380860.html
07-02-2021||India||'Will stay CM for next 10 years': KCR on buzz around son's elevation||Amid buzz around KT Rama Rao as chief minister, Telangana Rashtra Samithi president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday warned the party leaders against making statements in public on the change of guard in the party and the state.KTR, who is KCR’s son, is the state industries and IT minister. He is also the working president of the party.A host of party leaders, including ministers and MLAs, have been openly calling for KTR’s elevation.“Do you expect me to resign from the chief minister post? Why are you talking about making KTR as the chief minister, though I had already made a statement in the assembly that I would continue to be the chief minister?” said KCR at the party’s extended state executive committee meet at Telangana Bhavan.The chief minister cautioned party leaders against making any statements on anointing KTR as the chief minister, saying those engaging in such loose talk will be thrown out of the party.“I am absolutely healthy. I will continue to be the chief minister for another 10 years. Nobody, including the ministers and MLAs, should speak about the change of leadership in the state,” he said.Urging the party leaders to strengthen the organisation, KCR announced a constitution of party committees at all levels.Interestingly, the TRS chief did not make any comments against the Bharatiya Janata Party in his speech. He said he would not be able to disclose certain issues in the interest of the state-centre relations. “We need to protect our party and the state at any cost,” he said.KCR asked the party leaders to be active on social media and counter the opposition criticism on various issues. He assured that all the sitting MLAs of the party would be given party tickets in the next elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-stay-cm-for-next-10-years-kcr-on-buzz-around-son-s-elevation-101612708721895.html
07-02-2021||India||'Tired of aunt-nephew regime': PM Modi on those joining BJP in Bengal||Accusing the West Bengal government of "corruption and extortion" and calling for real paribartan (change), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday pitched for BJP in Bengal, saying that those concerned about the state are joining the BJP.“We need a double engine government in Bengal for its progress. The regime of extortion will end and real paribartan (change) will come when a BJP government is formed. We are seeing real change in Tripura where the corrupt Left government was uprooted by the people. Tripura is doing exemplary work to develop itself but in Bengal the government is doing nothing,” said the PM during a political rally in Haldia.“The TMC is not implementing even the national education policy. People of Bengal are still waiting for one nation one ration card. Recommendations of the 7th pay commission is implemented in so many states but Bengal is still waiting. I have heard the state cannot even pay salaries to government employees on time,” he added.Referring to football, the most popular sport in Bengal, the PM said the TMC has committed many fouls. “They have committed fouls in development and on the trust of the people,” he said, adding that when the BJP forms its government, the first meeting of the cabinet will pass an order to implement all central schemes for farmers.“They will get even the money that they were deprived of,” he said referring to the Prime Minister Kishan Samman Nidhi project.“Bengal will show TMC the Ram card. I can see that you have made up your mind. Partners of the TMC who are tired of the aunt-nephew regime are looking for change. Those who are really concerned about Bengal are joining the BJP," he said.The PM said that in Bengal the fight is not just with the Trinamool but also with its hidden friends.“You must have heard of match fixing in games. TMC is also into match fixing with the Left and Congress. They meet secretly behind closed doors in Delhi. In Kerala, the Left and Congress share power every alternate five years. They say to each other: ‘You loot for five years and I will loot for five.’ We have to be careful about this. We have to warn others,” he said.In Haldia, the PM dedicated to the nation the LPG import terminal built by Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited. It has been constructed at an investment of around ₹1100 crore and has a capacity of 1 million metric tonnes a year. It will cater to the requirement of LPG in Bengal and other states in east and north-east India, according to a statement issued by the Union petroleum ministry."Those who talked of ‘maa, maati, manush’ do not have the courage to raise their voice for Bharat Mata because they have criminalised politics and politicised the police administration,” said Modi.‘Maa, maati, manush’ ( mother, land and people) is one of the popular slogans of Mamata Banerjee.Earlier in the day, the PM was in Assam where he inaugurated the Asom Mala road project which will connect rural and state roads to national highways. He also laid the foundation of two medical colleges at Biswanath and Charaideo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tired-of-aunt-nephew-regime-pm-modi-on-those-joining-bjp-in-bengal-101612704956962.html
07-02-2021||India||'No ghar wapsi till farmers' demands are met': Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said that the protest that they have launched is a people's movement and wpn't fail. He was addressing the attendees of a 'kisan mahapanchayat' in Haryana."There will be no 'ghar wapsi' till farmers' demands are met. This is a people's movement, it will not fail," said Tikait.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson claimed the campaign against the agriculture laws is going strong. With many "khap" leaders present at the “mahapanchayat”, Tikait lauded their role in strengthening the stir.Tikait is widely credited by the farmer unions and their supporters of bringing the 75-day-old agitation back on track after Republic Day violence. The tractor rally which the farmer leaders took out in Delhi on January 26 was marred by violence when a group of protesters, defying the approved route, marched towards central Delhi and clashed with the police.A few of them even stormed the historic Red Fort and hoisted a religious flag along with the Tricolour from its ramparts - an image which was a loss of face for the farmers' movement.The authorities as well as general public lashed out at farmers for the Red Fort incident. Soon, the police issued orders asking the protesters to disperse and end their stir. At the three border points near Delhi - Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur - the protest began to lose steam.But Tikait vowed to carry on and addressing a gathering at the Ghazipur border, made an emotional announcement that he will "kill himself but won't end the protest", with tears it his eyes. That worked and the farmers got ready to once again take on the government over three farm laws passed in September last year.The protesters then announced a 'Chakka Jam' which was carried out peacefully across the country on February 6. Tikait said on Saturday that the farmer leaders have give the central government 'time' till October 2 to withdraw the legislations.Thousands of farmers have been protesting since November 26, 2020 near Delhi, demanding a rollback of the three laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-this-is-a-people-s-movement-won-t-fail-says-rakesh-tikait-101612706483808.html
07-02-2021||India||Odisha govt, BJD protest NMA notification around Jagannath temple||The National Monuments Authority’s draft bylaw prohibiting any construction within 100 metre radius of the 12th century Sri Jagannath temple in Puri has run into opposition from the Odisha government, the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD), temple authoriti and even the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Calling it an insult to Lord Jagannath, senior sevayat Binayak Dasmohapatra said if needed he will move the Supreme Court against the draft bylaw.The BJD alleged that the proposals are insulting to Lord Jagannath and have hurt the sentiments of Odia people.Last month, the NMA of Union culture ministry for the first time came out with draft bylaw for the 12th century temple proposing the 100 metre area around the temple as ‘prohibited area’ under Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2010 where no new construction of any kind, either by government or private agencies, would be permitted. It proposed a further 200 metre area as a ‘regulated area’ where construction is not prohibited, but has to be approved by the NMA. The NMA has sought objections to its proposals till February 18.While the temple site of 9.7 acre is protected area, the prohibited area is 37.061 acre along Meghanad pacheri (boundary wall) and regulated area is 138.385 acre. Currently, all four sides of the temple are mainly used for commercial and residential purposes.The draft bylaws have met with stiff resistance from the Naveen Patnaik government and the ruling Biju Janata Dal. In a letter to the NMA on Sunday, chief administrator of Sri Jagannath Temple Administration, Dr Krishan Kumar requested for withdrawal of the draft notification “to protect the interest of the Lords, sevaks and devotees at large".“….Recently, the state government acquired lands and properties for strengthening safety & security of the centuries old shrine for the project of Sri Jagannath Heritage Corridor that will provide pilgrims with facilities such as drinking water, toilets, cloak rooms and Queue Management System. These properties have been acquired by State Government through negotiations and most of the people have come forward to contribute their lands and properties for the purpose of this project. Any regulation which has the potential to restrict development of facilities and amenities on lands voluntarily contributed by devotees of the Lord will hurt their sentiments,” Dr Kumar wrote.The SJTA reasoned that as the Sevayats are likely to be severely and adversely affected by any intervention of the authorities like this draft notification, they must be consulted before any process to restrict their rights is undertaken by the National Monuments Authority. "Any adverse impact on Sevayats have a direct bearing on continuity of Niti-Kanti (rituals) of Lord Shree Jagannath,” he said.Puri’s MP Pinaki Mishra condemned the NMA notification calling it an "outrageous attempt by the Centre to derail the extraordinary work being done due to chief minister Naveen Patnaik's efforts to improve surroundings of Jagannath and Lingaraj temple"."Clubbing our living Gods’ abode with mausoleums is blasphemous. Odia sentiments deeply hurt," Mishra tweeted.The Biju Janata Dal also slammed the notification saying it hurt the sentiments of Jagannath lovers. "This would create problems in daily rituals of the Lord. While the CM is making efforts to make Puri a world heritage city, NMA should reconsider its decision," the BJD tweeted.The NMA's proposed notification restricting any construction within 100 metre radius of the protected monument is likely to adversely affect the Naveen Patnaik government's plans to build amenities for devotees of both Jagannath temple in Puri and Lingaraj temple in Bhubaneswar. In Puri, the state government has a ₹3500 crore project lined up for development of the city as a world heritage city while in Bhubaneswar it has lined up ₹700 crore plan for beautification of the area around Lingaraj temple. The NMA's draft bylaw for the 13th century Vaishnavite temple of Ananta Basudeva near the Lingaraj temple in Bhubaneswar is likely to scupper the government's beautification plans.The BJP which saw BJD walking away with all the credits for development of the two heritage temples in Puri and Bhubaneswar, has also jumped into the fray.Soon after the NMA bylaws were up on its website, Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan took up the matter with Union culture minister Prahallad Singh Patel. "The bylaws are restrictive in nature and more time and consideration should be given on matters of such religious importance," tweeted Pradhan. He also added that Patel assured him about not taking any steps that may hinder the development of the Jagannath temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-bjd-protest-nma-notification-around-jagannath-temple-101612705482882.html
07-02-2021||India||Glacier burst: NDRF’s 8th battalion deployed for search and rescue operations||At least five teams of the eighth battalion of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been dispatched to carry out search and rescue operations in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district which was hit by flash floods when a portion of the glacier broke off in Tapovan area on Sunday morning, the battalion’s commandant said.The eighth battalion is based at Govindpuram in Ghaziabad and more teams have been asked to remain on standby.A major relief and rescue effort is on in Chamoli where a massive flood was triggered in the river Dhauliganga after a glacial burst on Sunday morning. NDRF officials from the eighth battalion said that one of their teams, comprising 40 to 45 members and dog squad, was rushed initially from their regional response centre in Dehradun while the second team departed on Sunday afternoon from Ghaziabad.“This team was sent by road while three teams were airlifted from the Hindon airbase. In all, five teams were pressed into service and more teams including from the other NDRF battalions have been asked to remain on standby,” said PK Tiwary, commandant of the eighth battalion.The teams of NDRF are equipped with sophisticated equipment and dog squads which help in search and rescue.“The teams are equipped with about 310 sophisticated equipment which are used during floods, building collapse and chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear emergencies. Since it is a case of flash flood, we will also be using our team of divers and equipment like sonars and boats for detection and rescue. Our teams have also taken relief material for people affected by the incident,” Tiwary added.The eighth battalion and other NDRF battalions were also a part of search and rescue operations during the 2013 flash floods in Uttarakhand.Sunday’s flash flood has endangered the lives of thousands of people living along the riverbanks. There are fears of massive destruction. An alert has also been sounded by authorities in Uttarakhand in several districts including Pauri, Tehri, Rudraprayag, Haridwar and Dehradun.Teams of the Indo Tibetan Border Police were also rushed to the site near the Raini village.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath tweeted that the UP government is standing with the Uttarakhand government for any help or assistance.“The situation of water level in areas along the river Ganga is being constantly monitored in the state. In case there is a rise in water levels, people near the banks will be shifted elsewhere as the situation demands. Directions have been issued for relief and rescue,” the chief minister’s office said in a tweet.The UP police also tweeted, “We are in touch with our counterparts. Border distts. of Uttarakhand have been alerted. NDRF, SDRF & flood company of PAC have been instructed to be on highest alert. Evacuation of people shall be done wherever required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glacier-burst-ndrf-s-8th-battalion-deployed-for-search-and-rescue-operations-101612703851634.html
07-02-2021||India||Political leaders express solidarity with people affected in Uttarakhand floods||Political leaders across party lines expressed concern over the situation arising from the glacier burst and floods in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district and stood in solidarity with the affected people on Sunday.Taking to Twitter, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the government is ready to provide all possible help to the people of Uttarakhand in this difficult time."The news of the disaster from Chamoli district is very worrying, I pray to God for the safety and efficiency of all people. The government of Delhi is ready to provide all possible help to the people of Uttarakhand in this difficult time," he tweeted.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi urged party workers to help the affected people."The flood tragedy is very tragic following the glacier burst in Chamoli. My condolences are with the people of Uttarakhand. The state government should provide immediate assistance to all the victims. Congress colleagues also join hands in relief work," Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted.Chief Minister of Punjab Amarinder Singh said that the state stands in solidarity with the people of Uttarakhand in this difficult hour. "I am concerned at developments in Uttarakhand after glacier break. I pray for everyone's safety and well-being. Punjab stands in solidarity with the people of Uttarakhand in this difficult hour," Singh tweeted.Member of Telangana Legislative Council Kavitha Kalvakuntla expressed concern over the destruction and said, "Absolutely heartbreaking to hear the disturbing news of avalanche and floods in parts of Uttarakhand. It is painful to read about the damage that it has caused. Praying for the safety and well-being of Uttarakhand and those affected."The Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Yogi Adityanath Office tweeted that, "constant monitoring of water level is being done in districts situated on the banks of river Ganga in the state. In case of a rise in the water level, the people settled on the banks of river Ganga will be sent elsewhere. Instructions have been given for relief and rescue."At least nine bodies have been recovered from the National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC) site in the Tapovan area following the glacier burst in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, said Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-leaders-express-solidarity-with-people-affected-in-uttarakhand-floods-101612700256346.html
07-02-2021||India||Javadekar launches awareness campaign on Covid-19 vaccination, Aatmanirbhar Bharat||Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar flagged off a mobile exhibition to spread awareness about Covid-19 vaccination and Aatmanirbhar Bharat in Pune on Sunday."Under this campaign, 16 specially fabricated vans will travel across 36 districts of Maharashtra to spread awareness among people," a press release by the ministry stated.The campaign has been designed and implemented by the regional outreach bureau, Pune of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO), UNICEF and the Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Division of the Maharashtra Health Department. The vans will also display messages through LED screens and these vans will be live tracked through GPS.Speaking on the occasion, Javadekar said "The whole world is fighting COVID-19. However, even with a population of 130 crores, India has managed to keep its losses lesser than Latin America, Europe, or America."The Minister said that with COVID vaccination having begun, we have entered the new phase of communication."India's vaccine roll out has begun. Ever since the launch of COVID vaccination programme, more than 50 lakh health and frontline workers have been vaccinated in the country. After frontline health workers, people who are over 50 years of age will be vaccinated and thereafter the whole population will be vaccinated," Javadekar said.Minister further said that the mobile exhibition vans will travel 80-100 kilometres every day to create awareness about the vaccination program. The campaign intends to take the message of the vaccination plan and COVID-appropriate behaviour to the last mile in Maharashtra.The cultural artists of the Song and Drama Division (SDD) will convey messages through folk performances popular in respective regions of Maharashtra."Curbing misinformation and rumours surrounding vaccines and spreading awareness about government's efforts towards Aatmanirbhar Bharat will be other objectives of this campaign," said the MinisterCommunication has played a big role in containing the COVID-19 pandemic. In this initiative, the campaign aims to take the Government's communication to people's doorsteps. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/javadekar-launches-awareness-campaign-on-covid-19-vaccination-101612697229360.html
07-02-2021||India||Video shows water gushing downstream in Uttarakhand after glacier burst||A massive rescue operation is being carried out in Uttarakhand after a glacier burst resulted in a flash flood which causes fatalities.The flood was caused when a portion of the glacier broke off in Tapovan area on Sunday morning. A video of the incident shows a wall of water surging into one of the dams and breaking it into pieces with little resistance before continuing to roar downstream."I have been watching the visuals from Chamoli district about damage caused by Glacier burst. In this difficult time, we stand shoulder to shoulder with people affected by the tragedy. Praying for well-being of the people of Uttarakhand," Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said.The Rishiganga hydropower plant - run by National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) - was destroyed, said the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) which is engaged in rescue operations along with the National Disasters Response Force (NDRF) and its state-level force.SS Deswal, the chief of the ITBP, said that they have recovered 10 bodies. Authorities say around 150 people are feared dead in the natural disaster.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah spoke to Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and assured all help.Rawat, meanwhile, is reviewing the situation and is expected to hold a press conference soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-shows-water-gushing-downstream-in-uttarakhand-after-glacier-burst-101612701774787.html
07-02-2021||India||No rain or snow in areas affected by Chamoli glacial burst on Feb 7, 8: IMD||After the flash floods in Uttarakhand's Rishi Ganga and Dhauliganga rivers following a burst of glacier in Joshimath on Sunday morning, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday informed that dry weather is likely to prevail over the state on February 7 and 8."Dry weather is likely to prevail over Uttarakhand on February 7 and 8. However, under the influence of a western disturbance, light rainfall/snowfall is likely over the northern part ofUttarakhand during evening of February 9 and 10," the IMD said.The weather department further predicted no rainfall/snowfall in Chamoli as mainly dry weather will prevail in the district on February 7-8. "The minimum temperature at Tapovan, Joshimath area of Uttarakhand today dipped to minus one degree Celsius and the maximum temperature was recorded at nine degrees Celsius," it said.At least nine bodies have been recovered from the National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC) site in the Tapovan area following the glacier burst in the Chamoli district, said the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on Sunday.It is suspected that around 100 workers were at the site out of which, 9-10 dead bodies have been recovered from the river, SS Deswal, Director General, the ITBP said."Over 200 jawans are on the job and working in collaboration with local administration. One team is on the spot to assess the situation. Another team is deployed near Joshimath to raise awareness and evacuate people. The situation is under control," said ITBP Spokesperson Vivek Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-rain-or-snow-in-areas-affected-by-chamoli-glacial-burst-on-feb-7-8-imd-101612700260368.html
07-02-2021||India||Host farmers at your house like you treated Obama: Owaisi to PM Modi||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to invite protesting farmers to his residence like he had hosted then US president Barack Obama, and repeal the new farm laws.Addressing a rally for upcoming polls to local bodies in Gujarat, the Hyderabad MP also asked the prime minister to be "large-hearted" and "understand pains" of the farmers, who have been protesting at borders of Delhi over the last two months demanding scrapping of the agri marketing legislations.Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen is contesting maiden elections in Gujarat--in Ahmedabad and Bharuch-- in alliance with the Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP)"The way the farmers are being treated is not right. It is wrong. The Prime Minister should invite the farmers to his residence like he had offered tea to (then US President) Barack Obama with his own hand (in 2015), which is fine as he was our guest. We expect the PM to invite the farmers, offer them tea and biscuits and tell them the (agri marketing) laws are being repealed, and that they should be happy," Owaisi said.Owaisi said the PM should understand the plight of agriculturists who feed the country, if he claims to have risen from poverty."When a poor person weeps out of helplessness, then nature tells us to help the poor, but those who have no sympathy for the poor, they remain unaffected by tears of the poor. We are with farmers, they are our'annadatas', they work hard to get us food," he said.Taking a dig, Owaisi said the massive protest by farmers has "disturbed sleep" of PM Modi."They came out in thousands, shouted slogans, and took out a tractor rally in Delhi (on January 26). The BJP, with 300 MPs, is worried about how to tackle farmers," he said.With BTP leader Chhotu Vasava by his side, Owaisi made a strong pitch for the unity among tribals, Muslims, Dalits and OBCs in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/host-farmers-at-your-house-like-you-treated-obama-owaisi-to-pm-modi-101612700226390.html
07-02-2021||India||Congress challenges Kerala CM, CPI(M) to come clean on Sabarimala||Ahead of the upcoming assembly polls, Opposition Congress led UDF on Sunday challenged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the CPI(M) to come clean on the Sabarimala women's entry issue. "What is the stand of the CPI(M) and Chief Minister on Sabarimala? Are they with the devotees? Do they have the guts to say they are with the devotees? Will the CM shed his fake persona of a renaissance leader?" Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala asked. The LDF government had erected a 620 km "renaissance" wall on January 1, 2019, in which lakhs of women from the northern end of Kasaragod to the southern tip here, had participated as part of a state sponsored initiative to uphold gender equality. The 'Women's wall' was conceived in the backdrop of frenzied protests witnessed in the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa at Sabarimala after the LDF government decided to implement the Supreme Court verdict, allowing all women to pray at the Ayyappa shrine. Two women in their forties had trekked the hill shrine a day after the human wall was erected and offered prayers, breaking the age-old custom of not allowing those in the menstrual age to pray at the Ayyappa temple. Chennithala also wanted Vijayan to clarify if there was a change in the stand of the party and left front on the issue. "Is he prepared to state that they would stand with devotees? Do not hurt their sentiments further," he told reporters at Malappuram. The draft Sabarimala bill, brought out by the Congress on Saturday would be discussed by the UDF to give final touches. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said in Kottayam that the UDF had never thought of making sabarimala apolitical agenda during the polls. Asked about the Marxist party's stand, CPI(M) leader M Govindan Master, said: "let the decision of the larger bench come. And then we will hold discussions with all sections on how it can be implemented." Attacking the two fronts, BJP Kerala unit President K Surendran, said both have shifted from their traditional stand with an eye on the coming polls and are 'cheating' people. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had announced the party stand which was against the devotees, he said. Now the UDF has said they will bring in a legislation to protect the rights of Sabarimala devotees and they have also prepared a draft bill, he added. Surendran alleged that during the height of the Sabarimala protests, no Congress worker was arrested by the Vijayan government while over 52,000 cases were registered against activists of the BJP and right wing outfits. Is the Pinarayi Vijayan government prepared to withdraw all the cases registered registered then and apologize to the Ayyappa devotees ? he asked. Surendra also said if the BJP comes to power, all the Devaswom boards in the state would be dissolved, politicians removed from its administrations and believers appointed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-challenges-kerala-cm-cpi-m-to-come-clean-on-sabarimala-101612697257276.html
07-02-2021||India||Have assured Uttarakhand CM of all assistance: Jal Shakti minister||Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Sunday said that he has spoken to Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and assured him of all assistance, after a massive glacial burst led to flash floods in Chamoli district.He said the ministry is keeping an eye on all the possible developments.“A glacier has broken off in Uttarakhand & breach of a barrage has been reported. I have spoken to the CM Sh. Trivendra Singh Rawat ji and assured him of all assistance. We are keeping an eye on all possible developments. Praying for everyone's safety!,” Shekhawat tweeted.More than 150 labourers working in a power project are feared dead, officials said after a glacier ruptured at Joshimath, leading to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and causing large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of this ecologically fragile Himalayan region.Homes were swept away as the waters rushed down the mountainside in a raging torrent.An alert was sounded due to fears of damage to human settlements downstream and many villages have been evacuated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-assured-uttarakhand-cm-of-all-assistance-jal-shakti-minister-101612700919217.html
07-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to address two farmers’ rallies in Rajasthan next week||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will be in Rajasthan on February 12 and 13 and will address two farmers’ rallies in Padampur and Pilibanga of Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh districts, the party’s state unit chief Govindsingh Dotasara said on Sunday.Dotasara, who was in Sriganganagar on Sunday to finalise Gandhi’s itinerary, said the former Congress president Gandhi will arrive at Suratgarh airstrip and address a rally in Padampur around 11 am on February 12. He will address another rally in Pilibanga the same day.He said the party is planning more engagements for Gandhi for February 13 – likely in Ajmer and Nagaur districts.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and senior party leaders will also address the rallies, Dotasara said.Rahul Gandhi has been attacking the Centre over the three contentious farm laws.On Saturday, AICC general Secretary Ajay Maken had tweeted about Gandhi’s rallies which he said were to help raise the farmers’ voice and their struggle to ensure the withdrawal of the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-address-two-farmers-rallies-in-rajasthan-next-week-101612700698769.html
07-02-2021||India||Ensure rescue of pilgrims from Gujarat: Rupani to Uttarakhand CM||In view of a glacier burst in Uttarakhand, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Sunday requested his counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat to ensure immediate help and rescue of pilgrims from Gujarat stranded in the northern state.A part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, leading to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and causing a large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas.Rupani has also instructed Gujarat chief secretary Anil Mukim to contact the Uttarakhand administration and take immediate action in this regard, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said in a release."In a telephonic conversation with the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, Vijay Rupani has requested for immediate help and relief and to ensure rescue of the pilgrims from Gujarat trapped in the natural calamity at Chamoli Tapovan in Uttarakhand. He also sought help in arranging treatment for the injured," it said.Several pilgrims from Gujarat are reportedly stranded afterthe glacier broke off at Joshimath.A pilgrim from Rajkot, Krishnaben Pancholi, told a Gujarati news channel over phone that a group of 50 pilgrims from Gujarat was instructed to return to Dehradun from Haridwar, while they were on the way towards Tapovan in Uttarakhand when the calamity struck."We are safe. We were going towards Srinagar and Tapowan when we received instruction from the authorities that we should go back towards Dehradun, where we are headed, leaving some of our baggage in Haridwar. There is a high alert in Haridwar and Rishikesh," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-rescue-of-pilgrims-from-gujarat-rupani-to-uttarakhand-cm-101612698598408.html
07-02-2021||India||Govt targets 1,000 routes under UDAN scheme: Civil aviation minister Puri||Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Sunday said his ministry has set a target of operationalising 100 unserved and underserved airports and starting at least 1,000 air routes under the UDAN scheme.He also said that privatisation is required in the field of aviation as it is not the government's specialisation to run airports.Addressing a press conference at the BJP's state office Kushabhau Thakre Parisar here over the Union Budget 2021-22, Puri also said that domestic flight services from Bilaspur town in Chhattisgarh will begin from March 1 under the regional connectivity scheme."My ministry has set a target to operationalise 100 unserved and underserved airports and start at least 1,000 air routes under the UDAN scheme," he said."Fifty-six airports have already been upgraded and over 700 routes awarded, of which air-service has commenced on 311 routes under the UDAN scheme since it was launched in 2017 with a budget of ₹4,500 crore," Puri said.On this line, flight services will start from Bilaspur airport from March 1. At present, the Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, has been given the Bilaspur- Prayagraj-Delhi route, he said.Speaking about the budget 2021-22, he said after it was presented, the stock market witnessed a considerable boost and the budget also earned praise from intellectuals and independent commentators across the country.When asked about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's remarks that the budget reflects the Centre's intention to privatise PSUs, the minister blamed the opposition party for weakening the economic condition of Air India."If the point was being raised about privatisation of Air India, which is our national asset, its economic condition was worsened during the Congress-led UPA government," he added.At present, Air India has an accumulated debt of ₹60,000 crore and the process of its privatisation is underway since long, but it will be the NDA government which is going to properly materialise it, said Puri.He assured that the process will be carried out transparently through open bidding."In 2006, during the Congress-led UPA government, the privatisation of Mumbai and Delhi airports was done and I give credit to them for it as the Airports Authority of India (AAI) got ₹29,000 crore from the move which was used for the development of other airports," he said."Privatisation is required as it is not the government's specialisation to run airports. Although there are several airports which are being successfully run, when private capital enters, the activities increase manifold," he added.On the ongoing protest by farmers against the new agriculture laws, Puri accused the opposition of misleading the cultivators over the legislations and said his government is ready to sit with the protesters to resolve the issue.He expressed confidence that the issue will be resolved soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-targets-1-000-routes-under-udan-scheme-civil-aviation-minister-puri-101612698686415.html
07-02-2021||India||BJP announces candidates for Delhi municipal bypolls||The BJP on Sunday announced its candidates for the upcoming bypolls in five municipal wards in Delhi, a day after the AAP and the Congress announced their candidates.The BJP has fielded mostly local leaders to test waters in the bypolls, which is seen a precursor to the municipal polls in the national capital next year.The BJP has fielded its mandal president from Rohini - C, Rajesh Goyal, against AAP’s Ram Chander, former MLA from Bawana, and Congress’ Mewati Barwala from ward number 32N (Rohini-C).The contest here is going to be interesting, as Congress and BJP have fielded two first-timers against a former AAP MLA. This is considered to be an AAP stronghold, as the former councillor, Jai Bhagwan, is now AAP MLA from Bawana. Ram Chander won the assembly bypoll from Bawana in 2017 by defeating Ved Prakash, former AAP MLA from the constituency who had joined the BJP just before the bypoll in 2017.For ward number 62N (Shalimar Bagh North) in north Delhi, BJP has fielded former councillor late Renu Jaju’s daughter-in-law, Surabhi Jaju. The bypoll on this seat was necessitated after Renu Jaju’s death two years back.Though it is considered a BJP stronghold, it is going to be a tough fight as Jaju is pitted against AAP’s Sunita Mishra, who is party’s mohalla coordinator of the area and also secretary of AAP’s women’s wing in the Shalimar Bagh assembly constituency, and Congress’ Mamta, who is contesting for the first time.In ward 2-E (Trilokpuri), the contest will be between BJP’s Om Prakash Gugarwal, former party’s local unit president, and AAP’s Vijay Kumar, who has been the secretary of All India Safai Mazdoor Union, Congress’ local leader Bal Kishan. There is a large number of slum clusters in this ward which is an AAP stronghold. This was one of the 11 wards AAP won in 2017 municipal elections in East Delhi Municipal Corporation.For ward number 08-E (Kalyanpuri), the BJP has fielded Siya Ram Kanojia, a local party worker, against AAP’s Dhirendra (Bunty Gautam), a senior party leader from Kondli. “He has done remarkable work during the Covid pandemic. Bunty Gautam has been a part of the AAP from the time of its formation,” AAP said in a statement. The Congress has fielded Dharampal Maurya.In Chauhan Bangar ward, the BJP has fielded Mohd. Nazir Ansari, former president of BJP’s minority wing in northeast district. He is pitted against Congress’ Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad and AAP’s Mohammad Isharaq Khan, former MLA from Seelampur.Monday is the last day to file nominations and the bypolls will be held on February 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-announces-candidates-for-delhi-municipal-bypolls-101612697356541.html
07-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: FM rejects Opposition charge of 'selling family silver' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sitharaman rejects 'selling family silver' charge through disinvestment, says budget about faith and trustFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Sunday that the budget she presented this year is one of a directional change and about faith and trust. Read moreUttarakhand flood: 8-10 bodies recovered, around 150 believed to be dead, says ITBPThe Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), which is helping in the rescue and relief work being carried out in after a devastating flash floods in Uttarakhand, said on Sunday that 100-150 people are believed to be dead in the disaster. ITBP chief SS Deswal said 8-10 bodies have been recovered so far. Read moreYudh Abhyas: Indo-US combat drill to kick off in Rajasthan tomorrowA contingent of 270 American soldiers on Sunday reached Rajasthan to take part in a fortnight-long joint military exercise with the Indian Army, 'Yudh Abhyas 20’, at the state’s Mahajan field firing range. Read more'No one saw this coming': Sunil Gavaskar reacts to India's response with the batSunil Gavaskar was a bit surprised watching India's response with the bat on Day 3 of the Chennai Test against England on Sunday, saying the home team has its work cut out. On a surface where England made batting look ridiculously easy, the Indian batsmen struggled to counter the pace of Jofra Archer and spin of Dom Bess. Read moreSaif Ali Khan on taking paternity leave when his kids are born: 'Who wants to work when you have a newborn at home?'Actor Saif Ali Khan is all set to become a father for the fourth time. And this time too, like always, he will be taking a paternity leave to spend time with his newborn baby. Read moreMuzaffarnagar Police unveils statue of dog that helped solve 49 casesASP Tinki, a member of the Muzaffarnagar police dog squad, was honoured with a statue for her contribution to the department. Tinki, a German Shepherd, helped the UP Police solve over 49 criminal cases. Pictures of the unveiled statue was shared by IPS officer Abhishek Yadav and the official Twitter handle of UP Police. Read more‘Foreign powers planning to attack India's identity associated with tea’: PMPrime Minister Narendra Modi launched ‘Asom Mala’ project in Assam’s Dhekiajuli of Sonitpur district. The ‘Asom Mala’ project is aimed at improving the highways and major district roads network in the state. PM Modi also laid foundation stones of medical colleges & hospitals in Biswanath and Charaideo. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-fm-rejects-opposition-charge-of-selling-family-silver-101612695060328.html
07-02-2021||India||Nodeep Kaur: All you need to know about jailed Dalit activist||Meena Harris, an American lawyer and US vice president Kamala Harris’ niece, on Saturday had tweeted about the alleged sexual assault that a 23-year-old Dalit and labour rights activist had faced in police custody. Nodeep Kaur has been detained without bail for more than 20 days, reported The Quint."Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India. I'll tell you—23 yo labor rights activist Nodeep Kaur was arrested, tortured & sexually assaulted in police custody. She's been detained without bail for over 20 days," Harris had tweeted.Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India. I'll tell you—23 yo labor rights activist Nodeep Kaur was arrested, tortured & sexually assaulted in police custody. She's been detained without bail for over 20 days. pic.twitter.com/Ypt2h1hWJzThe 36 years old, who is also an author, has been tweeting regularly in support of the farmers' protest and against the government's crackdown on the protestors. Meena along with pop star Rihanna, activist Greta Thunberg and others had tweeted about the protest and internet suspension near the border protest sites citing a CNN story.Who is Nodeep Kaur?The labour rights activist is associated with Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan (MAS) and has been part of the farmers' protest happening at the Singhu border of the national capital since December 2020.The activist, from the state of Punjab, before taking part in the protest was working in a factory based in Kundli in Haryana. She was reportedly fired without being paid when she decided to join the protest. A video of her went viral on social media where they are heard talking about how labourers are also a part of the agitation against the farm laws and the laws need to be repealed to prevent the privatisation of agriculture.Also Read | Farmers’ struggle bound to receive global support, says Shiv SenaArrestKaur was arrested from the Singhu border on January 12 and her detention in Karnal jail was later revealed. She was arrested by the Haryana police on charges attempt to murder, extortion, rioting with deadly weapons, criminal intimidation, causing hurt to a public servant, unlawful assembly and trespassing.Nodeep was arrested late in the night and her family was not informed about where she was taken by the police, her sister Rajvir Kaur has claimed.Rajvir claimed that Nodeep was sexually assaulted in police custody. On January 13, when she visited Kaur in Karnal jail, she said she saw Nodeep was hurt in her genitals. Kaur's lawyer also alleged that a medical examination has revealed wounds on her body and private parts.on january 12—haryana police abducted nodeep kaur from her tent at singhu protest. since then she has been beaten & sexually assaulted while under police custody. nodeep is 23 yold punjabi dalit woman & trade union activist who has been bravely speaking up about the protests. pic.twitter.com/XvN6TJwKj8||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nodeep-kaur-all-you-need-to-know-about-jailed-dalit-activist-101612689302379.html
07-02-2021||India||CoBRA jawan, two Maoists injured in encounter in Jharkhand||A Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) jawan and at least two CPI (Maoist) extremists were injured during an encounter on Toklo hills at the Jamro axis on the borders of West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Khunti districts of Jharkhand on Sunday morning, police said“A CoBRA jawan has been injured while 2-3 Maoist extremists have also been hit in the encounter at Toklo hills of West Singhbhum district this morning. The injured jawan has been airlifted to Ranchi for appropriate medical care. The encounter happened on the border at West Singhbhum-Saraikela-Kharsawan-Khunti triangle. The search operation is still on and more details are awaited,” Ajay Linda, West Singhbhum superintendent of police (SP), said over the phone.The injured CoBRA jawan has been identified as Narayn Chetri from Assam. “Narayan Chetri is now out of danger. The joint forces of district police, CRPF and CoBRA battalions have inflicted heavy damages on the Maoists. 2-3 Naxals have sustained bullet injuries and search is on to trace them. We have also seized pipe bombs, land mines, IEDs, several rounds of ammunition and rucksacks,” Rajiv Ranjan Singh, Kolhan deputy inspector general (DIG), said.Top police and CRPF officers were at the encounter site and were monitoring the situation and search operation.Police said a Maoist squad led by Toofan alias Patiram Majhi (Giridih), who has a bounty of ₹1 crore on his head, and area commander Maharaj Pramanik, who has a reward of ₹10 lakh on his head, opened fired on the security forces when they were on a search operation.The DIG said the operation was still on and would not stop until the Maoist squads active in the three districts of Kolhan are neutralised. “We will not spare anyone and will not stop before wiping out the Naxals completely. The developmental works for the people have been greatly hampered by these naxals and their subversive activities. They better surrender or be ready to be neutralized,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cobra-jawan-two-maoists-injured-in-encounter-in-jharkhand-101612695124615.html
07-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi expresses concern, ensures Congress workers’ support in Uttarakhand flood relief work||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi urged the Uttarakhand government on Sunday to provide all immediate assistance possible to the victims of the flood caused by glacier burst in Chamoli. He had also assured that the Congress workers would also join hands in the relief works.“The flood due to the glacier bursting in Chamoli is very tragic. My condolences are with the people of Uttarakhand. The state government should provide immediate assistance to all the victims. Congress colleagues also join hands in relief work,” Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.चमोली में ग्लेशियर फटने से बाढ़ त्रासदी बेहद दुखद है। मेरी संवेदनाएँ उत्तराखंड की जनता के साथ हैं।राज्य सरकार सभी पीड़ितों को तुरंत सहायता दें। कांग्रेस साथी भी राहत कार्य में हाथ बटाएँ।Earlier on Sunday, a glacier broke off at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, triggering massive floods in the Dhauliganga river and putting the many people and villages along the way at risk.The Rishi Ganga power project near Raini village has been largely affected due to the floods with over 150 labourers working at the project directly affected, according to the State Disaster Response Force DIG Ridhim Aggarwal. “Representatives of the power project have told me that they are not being able to contact around 150 of their workmen at the project site," she said, as quoted by news agency PTI. Many other districts namely, Pauri, Tehri, Rudraprayag, Haridwar and Dehradun have been put on high alert due as they are likely to be affected.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he is being continuously updated about the rescue operations in the state. “Am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation in Uttarakhand. India stands with Uttarakhand and the nation prays for everyone’s safety there. Have been continuously speaking to senior authorities and getting updates on NDRF deployment, rescue work and relief operations,” he tweeted.Uttarakhand CM has asked people not to spread rumors about the flood by circulating old videos. The CM also confirmed that a 100-member-strong Indian army team, three army choppers and 250 personnel from the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have been deployed for rescue operations. Along with them, the Uttarakhand police and the State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) have also been assisting in the relief works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-expresses-concern-ensures-congress-workers-support-in-uttarakhand-101612695023661.html
07-02-2021||India||FM rejects Opposition charge of 'selling family silver'; says govt wants PSUs to do well||Rejecting the Opposition's charge of 'selling family silver', Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said the government has devised a clear strategy on divestment for the first time so that taxpayers' money is spent wisely.She also said the government wants few public sector enterprises in specified sectors to do well, so that "we can ensure that taxpayer money is spent wisely"."It is not what the Opposition says about selling family silver, it's not at all," she said addressing a meeting of business people here.The finance minister added, "Family silver should be strengthened, it should be our takat (strength)... Because you've spread it so thinly, there are many of them (PSUs) that are not able to survive; and the few that can perform do not get the due attention."She also said the government's aim is to prime them through this policy. "You need them, you need them to scale up so that they meet the aspirations of growing India."At the same event, Hindustan Unilever Chairman and Managing Director Sanjiv Mehta said the Budget 2021 is India's version of the "new deal" by focusing on relief, recovery and reform, and represents a "confident and unapologetic India".Efforts have been undertaken to address the trust deficit between business and the government through steps like limiting tax assessments, and the enterprises have to now respond by complying.BSE Chief Executive Officer Ashishkumar Chauhan said the only parallel for the Budget is with the 1991 reforms document presented by then finance minister Manmohan Singh.He also underlined the newest proposals as significant because they are not being undertaken under any duress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fm-rejects-opposition-charge-of-selling-family-silver-says-govt-wants-psus-to-do-well-101612691813708.html
07-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand flood: 8-10 bodies recovered, around 150 believed to be dead, says ITBP||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), which is helping in the rescue and relief work being carried out in after a devastating flash floods in Uttarakhand, said on Sunday that 100-150 people are believed to be dead in the disaster. ITBP chief SS Deswal said 8-10 bodies have been recovered so far.Uttarakhand flood: Track live updates"It is suspected that around 100 workers were at the site. Of which, 9-10 dead bodies have been recovered from the river. Search operation underway," news agency ANI quoted Deswal as saying.The ITBP said that three of its teams - from 1st battalion and those from mountaineering and skiing institute (M&SI) in Auli - are carrying out the rescue operations in Raini village in Tapovan area of Chamoli district.Describing the sequence of events, the ITBP said that the flash flood was reported at 10:45 am in the Righi Ganga river after a glacier broke. "It exponentially increased the volume of water. Due to this, the Rishiganga hydro project near Raini village was completely devastated," it said in a statement.The Rishiganga Hydroelectric Project (RGHEP) is a run-of-river hydroelectric project for development on the Rishi Ganga River, a tributary of the Alaknanda River, in the Chamoli district."The BRO bridge on Joshimath-Malari highway was also completely washed away. There were six graziers with their livestock and they were also taken away by flash flood," the force further said.The NTPC project in Tapovan was swept away completely. At least 40 people were working at the plant, local authorities said.The disaster also affected connectivity at the ITBP border outposts and washed away three bridges.Around 17 labourers, who had entered a tunnel, are safe and in the process of being evacuated by the ITBP.Meanwhile, the army said that six columns (around 600 personnel) are moving towards the flood-affected areas. "Indian Army has deployed choppers and troops for supporting Uttarakhand government and NDRF to tackle the flood. Military station near Rishikesh actively involved in the coordination of rescue and relief operations with local administration. Army headquarters are monitoring the situation," said Army.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have assured all possible help to the state. The home ministry is monitoring the situation after the water level in the Dhauliganga river increased suddenly."Am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation in Uttarakhand. India stands with Uttarakhand & nation prays for everyone's safety there. Have been continuously speaking to senior authorities & getting updates on NDRF deployment, rescue work and relief operations," PM Modi tweeted on Sunday.The state government has, meanwhile, set up a helpline for stranded and affected people. They can call at 1070 or 9557444486.Officials said the glacier breaking sent water trapped behind it as well as mud and other debris surging down the mountain and into other bodies of water. An advisory was issued urging people living on the banks of the Alaknanda River to move to safer places immediately.In 2013, more than 1,000 people were killed in Uttarakhand heavy rains triggered landslides and floods, washing away thousands of houses and roads and cutting communication links in many parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-3-bodies-recovered-around-150-believed-to-be-dead-says-itbp-101612692611103.html
07-02-2021||India||Yudh Abhyas: Indo-US combat drill to kick off in Rajasthan tomorrow||A contingent of 270 American soldiers on Sunday reached Rajasthan to take part in a fortnight-long joint military exercise with the Indian Army, 'Yudh Abhyas 20’, at the state’s Mahajan field firing range. The contingent reached Suratgarh in a special aircraft to take part in the exercise which will be the 16th edition of the US military exercise under the military exchange program and begin on Monday."US Army contingent arrives at IAF (Media Co-ordination Centre), Suratgarh for the 16th edition of the annual bilateral joint exercise with Indian Army from February 8-21. Post COVID-19 protocols, will move to Foreign Training Node, Mahajan Field Firing Range (MFFR)," the Indian Army’s South Western Command tweeted.Here’s everything you need to know about Yudh Abhyas 2020:1. The military exercise will begin from February 8 and conclude on February 21.2. Approximately 250 Indian soldiers who will take part in the exercise belong to the 11th Battalion of Sapt Shakti Command of Jammu and Kashmir Rifles.3. The American soldiers taking part in the exercise are from the US army’s 2, Infantry Battalions, 3, Infantry Regiments and 1-2 Striker Brigade Combat Team.4. According to a press release by the defence ministry, the training exercise enhances “combined interoperability capabilities through training and cultural exchange, which foster enduring partnerships in the Indo-Pacific region through common defence objectives. The exercise provides excellent opportunities for professional and cultural exchanges that strengthen partnership through shared learning and training.”5. The exercise will commence with expert academic exchanges and professional development workshops that focus on training at the corps-level and below; combat against conventional, unconventional, and hybrid threats; humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, the press release added.6. The command post exercise (CPX) will focus on the UN peacekeeping operation staff tasks in a combined military setting.7. The field training exercise (FTX) will involve company-strength elements from each nation exercising combined, fundamental war-fighting skills to enhance combined operational capacity.8. The drill comes nearly two-and-a-half months after India carried out the Malabar naval exercise with the US, Japan and Australia, which are the member nations of the Quadrilateral (Quad) countries.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yudh-abhyas-indo-us-combat-drill-to-kick-off-in-rajasthan-tomorrow-101612692009005.html
07-02-2021||India||Goa can be India's fisheries hub, ₹400 cr investment discussed with CM||Union Minister Giriraj Singh on Sunday said that Goa has the potential to become the fisheries hub of the country and held a discussion with Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and State Fisheries Minister Filipe Rodrigues about a holistic investment of ₹400 crore for the fisheries sector in Goa."Goa has the potential to become the fisheries hub of the country. I have discussed with Goa CM and Fisheries Minister of the state about a holistic investment of ₹400 crore for the fisheries sector in the state. Out of this, ₹41.47 crore has been approved already," said Singh while addressing a press conference.Sea cage culture will be promoted in Goa, the Union Minister added."It will lead to an increase in the export of fishes from the state. To be started with 1000 cages, along with the state's fisheries department," said Singh.Also read| Chhattisgarh CM demands withdrawal of cess on petrol, diesel"Development of a hygienic wholesale fish market with an investment of ₹50 crores and a fish aquarium of international standards for the purpose of tourism in the state of Goa has been discussed with the State Government," he added.Singh further said the "Sagar Mitra" scheme will be implemented in the villages of Goa for educating the local youth dependent on fishing and fisheries Sea-weed culture and ornamental fish culture will be strengthened in the state of Goa."On basis of discussions with the Government of Goa, it has been decided to develop 30 new landing centres for fisheries as well as tourism purposes. Road connectivity from jetties and landing centres to the villages will also be ensured," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-can-be-india-s-fisheries-hub-rs-400-cr-investment-discussed-with-cm-101612691243212.html
07-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: At least 50 missing, two dams damaged||At least 50 people were missing after a massive glacial burst swept through an under construction dam in Tapovan area in Chamoli district, about 300 km east of Dehradun on Sunday morning, officials saidA major rescue operation is on in the area by various government agencies including the ITBP and the army, they said. The loss of lives and property are yet to be ascertained fully.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat left for the spot to monitor the situation. Two dams including the under-construction Rishiganga and another named Dhauliganga have been damaged in the disaster."In the primary assessment it was found that the glacial burst happened in the morning between 9.30 am-10 am which damaged the under-construction Rishiganga dam project there," chief minister Rawat told reporters before leaving for Joshimath."At the time of the incident, there were some workers and labourers working at the site but as of now it is difficult to reveal anything about their status,” he said.According to a government official, the project manager of the Rishiganga hydel power project had informed that 50 workers were missing.The CM also said that the government has shifted the residents near the river to safer places and asked certain dams to open the gates to allow the increased water to flow down."The Srinagar dam opened its gates to allow the water flow down but the bigger Tehri dam had been asked to hold the water. Apart from this we have also alerted the workers working at the Karnprayag railway line to shift to safe places," said Rawat.He added that the state government is in touch with the Centre which has assured all possible assistance in rescue work."Rescue work is already being carried by SDRF, police, ITBP and army. Soon NDRF personnel will also reach here from Delhi," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-at-least-50-missing-two-dams-damaged-101612691854377.html
07-02-2021||India||Chamoli glacial burst: Uttarakhand govt issues helpline numbers||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday issued helpline numbers after a glacier broke off in Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district. A massive flood was triggered in the Dhauliganga river in Chamoli district after glacier broke, endangering the lives of hundreds of people living along its banks.“Anyone requiring help can contact following emergency numbers - 1070, 1905 and 9557444486. I thank state’s population in the affected regions for their cooperation and request everyone to maintain calm & not share unverified information on various platforms,” chief minister Rawat said in a tweet.Anyone requiring help can contact following emergency numbers -1070, 1905 and 9557444486. I thank state’s population in the affected regions for their cooperation and request everyone to maintain calm & not share unverified information on various platforms. #UttarakhandThe helpline number issued for those who stranded in the affected areas:+911352410197+9118001804375+919456596190An alert has also been sounded in several districts of the state, including Pauri, Tehri, Rudraprayag, Haridwar and Dehradun. More than 150 labourers working at the Rishi Ganga power project may have been directly affected, said State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) DIG Ridhim Aggarwal.Glacial burst near power project leads to massive flood in Uttarakhand’s ChamoliUnion home minister Amit Shah said teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed for rescue and relief operations while additional troops of the force are being airlifted from Delhi. "I have spoken to Chief Minister @tsrawatbjp ji, DG ITBP and DG NDRF regarding the natural disaster in Uttarakhand. All the concerned officers are working on a war footing to secure the people. NDRF teams have left for rescue operations. Every possible help will be provided to 'Devbhoomi'," he said in a series of tweets.NDRF की कुछ और टीमें दिल्ली से Airlift करके उत्तराखंड भेजी जा रही हैं। हम वहाँ की स्थिति को निरंतर मॉनिटर कर रहे हैं। https://t.co/BVFZJiHiWYPrime Minister Narendra Modi also said that he was constantly monitoring the situation in Uttarakhand. "Have been continuously speaking to senior authorities and getting updates on NDRF deployment, rescue work and relief operations," PM Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chamoli-glacial-burst-uttarakhand-govt-issues-helpline-numbers-101612691602785.html
07-02-2021||India||Many feared dead, missing after Chamoli glacier burst: What we know so far||A glacial burst in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand on Sunday triggered an avalanche and massive flooding along the Alaknanda and Dhauliganga rivers on Sunday morning, prompting authorities to evacuate thousands of people from surrounding areas. Uttarakhand’s chief secretary Om Prakash told news agency ANI that around 100 to 150 people are feared killed in the flash flood and that hundreds more may be stuck. Uttarakhand’s director general of police Ashok Kumar told news agency PTI that two bodies have been recovered and some of the injured have been rescued.Footage from television channels and ANI showed water gushing toward a dam in the state of Uttarakhand, washing away everything in its path. Several northern districts were put on high alert after the breaking of the glacier, officials said.Click here for live updates on Uttarakhand floodsHere is what we know so far:1. Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash said casualties are feared to be between 100 to 150 and that a red alert has been issued, according to ANI.2. More than 150 labourers working at the Rishiganga power project, which was hit by floods, are missing, State Disaster Response Force’s (SDRF’s) DIG Ridhim Aggarwal told PTI. "Representatives of the power project have told me that they are not being able to contact around 150 of their workmen at the project site," Aggarwal said.3. Five teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams, one from Dehradun and four from Delhi, and two of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have been deployed for search-and-rescue operations. Around 200 personnel of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have also been deployed in the operations. 4. "We are working to airlift three-four more teams from the Hindon IAF base near Delhi,” NDRF director general SN Pradhan told news agency PTI.5. The Indian Army has deployed choppers and troops to help the Uttarakhand government and NDRF to tackle the situation, the force said according to ANI. The military station near Rishikesh is actively involved in the coordination of rescue and relief operations with the local administration, the army also said.6. Officials have sounded an alert for all downstream districts and people in Vishnuprayag, Joshimath, Karnprayag, Rudraprayag, Rishikesh and Haridwar have been warned against visiting river banks.7. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said he is reviewing the situation and has spoken to Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and other top officials. "Am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation in Uttarakhand. India stands with Uttarakhand and the nation prays for everyone's safety there. Have been continuously speaking to senior authorities and getting updates on NDRF deployment, rescue work and relief operations," the Prime Minister tweeted.8. Union home minister Amit Shah also tweeted to say that he had also spoken to Rawat. "In relation to the natural disaster in Uttarakhand, Chief Minister TS Rawat and I have spoken to the Director-Generals of the ITBP and NDRF. All concerned officers and organisations are working on a war footing to ensure people are safe. NDRF teams have left for rescue ops and all possible help will be provided," Shah tweeted.9. Rawat asked people not to panic or spread rumours and said that district administration, the police and disaster response teams were handling the situation. "Do not pay attention to any kind of rumours. The government is taking all necessary steps," Rawat tweeted. "If you are stuck in the affected area, if you need any kind of help, please contact Disaster Operations Center number 1070 or 9557444486. Please do not spread rumours from old videos about the incident," he also tweeted.10. The Uttar Pradesh government also sounded an alert in the districts located along the Ganga and officers were directed to monitor the water level round the clock. If required, people residing near the banks of the Ganga would be evacuated and taken to safer places, a state government spokesperson said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-feared-dead-missing-after-chamoli-glacier-burst-what-we-know-so-far-101612689473429.html
07-02-2021||India||UP sounds alert along Ganga after glacier triggers flash flood in Uttarakhand||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday sounded an alert for districts through which the Ganga flows after a glacier broke off and triggered flash flood in Chamoli district in the neighbouring state of Uttarakhand.A state government spokesperson said the districts in Uttar Pradesh located along the Ganga have been put on high alert. The district administration officers have been directed to monitor the water level of the river round-the-clock, he said.If required, the people residing near the banks of the Ganga would be evacuated and taken to safer places, the spokesperson said. The National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF), State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) and the flood company of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) were directed to remain alert and coordinate with the district administration officers, he added.The Ganga enters Uttar Pradesh at Bijnor from Uttarakhand.Chief minister Adityanath has assured all assistance to the Uttarakhand government in relief and rescue operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-sounds-alert-along-ganga-after-glacier-triggers-flash-flood-in-uttarakhand-101612689274878.html
07-02-2021||India||Sitharaman rejects 'selling family silver' charge through disinvestment, says budget about faith and trust||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Sunday that the budget she presented this year is one of a directional change and about faith and trust."This is a budget of directional change, a change in mindsets, and about faith and trust," she said at the "Sarvasparshi Arthasankalp 2021" event in Mumbai in which she interacted with business leaders."The country's GST revenues have grown in the last three months. Also, we have been able to plug leakages with the help from technology," the finance minister added.Talking about the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Sitharaman said that India found a way to survive "even when developed countries are struggling".She also rejected the opposition's charge of "selling family silver" while speaking about the disinvestment plan of the government. She said that the government wants few public sector enterprises in specified sectors to do well "so that we can ensure that taxpayers' money is spent wisely"."It is not what the Opposition says about selling family silver, it's not at all," Sitharaman said. "Family silver should be strengthened, it should be our takat (strength)... Because you've spread it so thinly, there are many of them (PSUs) that are not able to survive; and the few that can perform do not get the due attention," she added."India's aspirations and development needs require 20 institutions of SBI size," said the finance minister.Sitharaman presented the Union Budget last week in which she presented the government's roadmap to help the country's Covid-19 devastated economy recover. She proposed increasing the budgetary outlay for health and well-being to over ₹2.23 lakh crore in the financial year beginning April 1 from an estimated allocation of around ₹94,000 crore in the current fiscal.The government has also allocated ₹35,000 crore for Covid-19 vaccination programme, which the Union health ministry said is the third-biggest in the world, adding the finance minister made it clear that the Centre will provide more fund if required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-about-faith-disinvestment-not-equal-to-selling-family-silver-fm-101612688588263.html
07-02-2021||India||‘Covid jabs, pilgrim passes’: How Uttarakhand is prepping for Kumbh||With the iconic 'Kumbh Mela' that witnesses a huge number of participants at the Ganga Ghats to begin soon, the Uttarakhand administration has installed cameras with a head-count software that will immediately alert the police if the crowd increases beyond the pre-decided limit due to the coronavirus pandemic, news agency ANI reported on Sunday.Following the measurement of the entire area of all the107 Ganga ghats, the police have decided to allow 109,000 people at a time and of them, 20,000 devotees will be permitted to take the holy dip at Har ki Paudi and 10,000 at the Subash Ghat.The Haridwar district administration has demanded that 70,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines be made available to immunise the personnel posted on Kumbh Mela duty, district magistrate C Ravishankar was quoted as saying. According to the standard operating procedure (SOP) for Haridwar Kumbh Mela, the state government needs to ensure that healthcare workers and other frontline workers engaged in medical and public health operations during the event are vaccinated on priority. Ravishankar said that the pilgrims also need passes for the Kumbh mela and they will be issued following the submission RTPCR test report, medical certificate and identity proof. Those found without the required documents will be denied entry, he added. The central government had earlier instructed the Uttarakhand government to make Covid-19 test mandatory for devotees coming for 'Haridwar Kumbh Mela', along with other standard operating procedures released by the Union ministry of home affairs for mass religious gathering.According to the Hindu calendar, this time the Mahakumbh began on January 14 on the day of Makar Sankranti and will end on April 30, the government, however, is yet to issue an official notification regarding the dates of the religious fest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-jabs-pilgrim-passes-how-uttarakhand-is-prepping-for-kumbh-101612683315780.html
07-02-2021||India||‘Conspiracy to malign image, Indian tea not spared either’: PM Modi in Assam||An international conspiracy is being hatched to malign the country's image, and the planners have not spared the Indian tea either, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi citing “some documents” on Sunday.“I would like to mention conspiracies that are being hatched against the country these days. In order to malign the country's im, the conspirators have stooped to such a level that they are not even sparing Indian tea,” PM Modi said in his address at Dhekiajuli in poll-bound Assam.Reaching out to tea workers, PM Modi asked them whether they would support such an attack on the tea industry or those who are silent about such attacks. The PM blamed opposition parties for remaining silent on this issue.“You may have heard in the news about how these conspirators are planning to tarnish the image of Indian tea industry in the world in a planned manner. Some documents have been found which reveal that some international powers are attempting to attack the Indian tea industry’s identity,” he added.Speaking about schemes for tea workers launched by the Assam government, the PM mentioned about transfer of ₹3,000 each to bank accounts of nearly 7,50,000 bank accounts of tea garden workers.“I want to tell these conspirators from Assam’s soil that the country will never allow their plans to be successful. Our tea workers will win this fight as these attacks are not capable of countering the hard work of our tea workers,” he said.He also highlighted the ₹1,000 crore earmarked for tea-workers of Assam and West Bengal in this year’s union budget.“The tea industry is one of the main reasons for Assam’s prosperity. The red tea of Sonitpur is known for its unique flavour and who better than me would know its quality. That’s why I have always associated the welfare of tea garden workers with the overall progress of Assam,” said Modi.In his second visit in a fortnight to Assam, the PM launched an ambitious road network project and laid the foundation of two medical colleges.To be constructed at a total cost of ₹1122 crore, the medical colleges at Biswanath and Charaideo districts will have 100 MBBS seats and 500-bed hospitals.Modelled on the lines of Bharat Mala, the Asom Mala project is aimed at improving 890 km state highways.“Earlier good healthcare was a dream. People in Assam had to travel for hours, wait endlessly and face a lot of hardships. But that has changed in the past five years and it is visible,” said Modi.“Till 2016, the state had just six medical colleges. But in the past five years, six new medical colleges have come up. The two new medical colleges will not only provide excellent healthcare but in coming years but thousands of new doctors will emerge from the region itself,” he added.PM Modi mentioned that till 2016, every year 700 MBBS doctors used to pass out of the medical colleges in Assam, but with setting up of new colleges now 1,600 new doctors would join the healthcare sector annually.“I have a dream that each state should have a medical and technical college where education is imparted in the mother tongue of the region. Our government in Assam will set up such colleges,” he said.The PM stated that setting up of a unit of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on the outskirts of Guwahati would bring relief to people in Assam and northeast. He blamed previous governments in the region for not taking up such ventures in the healthcare sector.During his first visit to Sivasagar on January 23 the PM gave land allotment certificates to 1,06,000 landless families.Assembly election in Assam is due in April-May and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition is attempting another term in power by announcing and launching several major schemes.A sum of ₹50,000 each as seed money to nearly 2,00,000 youths to start business ventures, appointment of nearly 30,000 teachers, transfer of ₹3,000 each to bank accounts of nearly 8,00,000 tea garden workers and ₹830 every month to nearly 22 lakh families are some of the initiatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conspiracy-to-malign-image-indian-tea-not-spared-either-pm-modi-in-assam-101612687198454.html
07-02-2021||India||Two arrested for double murder, injuring 3 kids during robbery in Ghaziabad||The Ghaziabad police late Saturday night arrested a 35-year-old woman and her 25-year-old friend hours after they allegedly killed a woman and a teenage girl and attempted to murder the woman’s three minor childrenThe crime was committed at Saraswati Vihar locality under the jurisdiction of Masuri police station area on Saturday night, police said.The two suspects were identified as Uma Singh, resident of Lal Quarter locality of Ghaziabad, and her friend Mohammad Sonu who is native of Badaun in UP but currently staying in the same locality. The police said that the female suspect is a distant relative of the deceased and she along with her friend hatched a conspiracy to rob the victims.The two deceased were identified as Dolly Thakur, 32, and Anshu Kumari, 16, who was a tutor of the former’s children.Uma and Sonu visited Thakur's house at Saraswati Vihar at around 8.30 pm on Saturday. Dolly was in the house with her three minor children while Anshu was teaching them.She was a resident of the same locality and student of class nine at a private school in Ghaziabad.“The two suspects entered the house of the victim (Dolly Thakur) where they had tea and then overpowered those present in a room on gunpoint. Suspect Sonu shot Dolly in the abdomen and the 16-year-old tutor in the head. Thereafter, his pistol got jammed and he inflicted severe injuries to Dolly’s three minor children with a knife and grinding stone. Leaving them for dead, both fled the house,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).Thakur’s three children including twin girls, Gauri and Minakshi aged nine years, and her son, Rudra, aged five years, suffered severe injuries inflicted with a knife and grinding stone but survived.The incident in the house came to light when Dolly’s husband, Mahesh Thakur and her father-in-law returned from their work at around 9.30 pm on Saturday. They run an eatery at Chopla Market in Ghaziabad and had shifted to their new residence at Saraswati Vihar during Diwali last year.The Ghaziabad police deployed five teams to trace the suspects after Dolly’s family also lodged complaint against unidentified persons for murder, attempt to murder and robbery as cash and jewellery items were also taken away.“The most important clue was given by one of the two girls who told that ‘Amma’ (grandmother) had visited the house. The children used to call the suspect woman with this name. When we visited her house, she was present and revealed the plot to us,” the SP said.“Meanwhile, her friend (suspect Sonu) was trying to flee the city and was spotted near Dasna by one of the police teams. He opened fire at police personnel and sustained an injury to his leg when police opened retaliatory fire,” SP said while adding that the case will be fast tracked in court and testimony of children will be of prime importance against the suspects.Police also recovered the pistol that was allegedly used in the crime and the stolen cash and jewellery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-arrested-for-double-murder-injuring-3-kids-during-robbery-in-ghaziabad-101612686603222.html
07-02-2021||India||PM Modi speaks to Uttarakhand CM, takes stock of rescue work at Chamoli flood site||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday took stock of the search and rescue operations at the flood site in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district and also spoke to Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. "While in Assam, PM Narendra Modi reviewed situation in Uttarakhand. He spoke to CM Trivendra Singh Rawat & other top officials. He took stock of rescue & relief work underway. Authorities are working to provide all possible support to affected,” the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) tweeted.While in Assam, PM @narendramodi reviewed the situation in Uttarakhand. He spoke to CM @tsrawatbjp and other top officials. He took stock of the rescue and relief work underway. Authorities are working to provide all possible support to the affected.“Am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation in Uttarakhand. India stands with Uttarakhand and the nation prays for everyone’s safety there. Have been continuously speaking to senior authorities and getting updates on NDRF deployment, rescue work and relief operations,” the PM also tweeted.Am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation in Uttarakhand. India stands with Uttarakhand and the nation prays for everyone’s safety there. Have been continuously speaking to senior authorities and getting updates on NDRF deployment, rescue work and relief operations.A massive flood was reported in Chamoli district, where the water level in the Dhauliganga river suddenly rose due to an avalanche near the Rishiganga Power Project at Raini village. About 100 to 150 people are feared to have been killed in the flash flood, news agency ANI reported citing Uttarkhand's chief secretary Om Prakash. Hundreds of other labourers, who were working at power project, are also said to be missing, he added.Glacial burst near power project leads to massive flood in Uttarakhand’s ChamoliThe Chamoli district magistrate instructed officials to evacuate people living in villages on the bank of the Dhauliganga river, news agency ANI reported. "A disaster has been reported from Chamoli district. The district administration, police and disaster management departments have been directed to deal with the situation. Do not pay attention to any kind of rumours. Govt is taking all necessary steps,” Uttarakhand chief minister Rawat tweeted.Rawat has also shared helpline numbers for people stuck in the affected area. "If you are stuck in the affected area, if you need any kind of help, please contact Disaster Operations Center number 1070 or 9557444486," the Uttarakhand CM tweeted.अगर आप प्रभावित क्षेत्र में फंसे हैं, आपको किसी तरह की मदद की जरूरत है तो कृपया आपदा परिचालन केंद्र के नम्बर 1070 या 9557444486 पर संपर्क करें। कृपया घटना के बारे में पुराने वीडियो से अफवाह न फैलाएं।||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-uttarakhand-cm-takes-stock-of-rescue-work-at-chamoli-flood-101612686041314.html
07-02-2021||NA||U'khand floods LIVE: Scientists to be airlifted to affected areas, says IAF||Wreaking widespread destruction in Indian Himalayan state, a glacial broke in the Tapovan-Reni area of Chamoli District of Uttarakhand on Sunday leading to massive flooding in Dhauliganga and Alaknanda Rivers. In the spate of loss, hundreds of houses have been damaged and the nearby Rishi Ganga power project has also suffered damage after it came in the way of gushing water.Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat had said that seven bodies have been recovered and at least 125 people went missing in the floods. Also, the NTPC hydel project at the Dhauli Ganga river in Tapovan has been extensively damaged.Indian army has deployed 400 personnel and two medical teams to aid in the rescue efforts. It has also set up a control room in Joshimath area and deployed an engineering task force in the Ringi village.Leaders from India and many other countries have expressed their condolences to the people affected by the floods.People requiring assistance can contact the following emergency numbers - 1070, 1905 and 9557444486.Follow all the updates here:Uttar Pradesh on high alert after massive floods in UttarakhandThe Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday put on high alert the authorities in all districts on the banks of the Ganga and asked them to continuously monitor the water levels in the river after a glacier broke off at Joshimath in neighbouring Uttarakhand's Chamoli, triggering a massive flood there.Scientists to be airlifted to affected areas, says IAFA team of scientists from Delhi have reached Dehradun and they will take aerial reconnaissance in areas affected by the glacier burst in Chamoli district of Uttarkhand, Indian Air Force Public Relation Officer Wing Commander Indranil Nandi on Sunday."All the specialised personnel who were airlifted from Delhi have reached Dehradun. The airlifting of these personnel from Dehradun onwards to the affected areas will start at 6:45 am tomorrow," Nandi said while briefing media about the ongoing rescue operation led by the IAF in the state.Pakistan wishes for early rescue of people missing in Uttarakhand floodsSaddened over loss of precious lives due to flash floods caused by glacier break-off in Uttarakhand. Our thoughts are with the families of the victims. We pray for the safety and early rescue and recovery of those missing.Pakistan's foreign ministry spokesperson expressed the country's wishes for the safety and early rescue of the people who are missing after the Uttarakhand floods.IAF says scientists with specialised equipment to visit flood affected areas for aerial reconaissanceScientists with specialised equipment will also be taken to the areas for aerial reconnaissance. We will ensure that maximum bases are available to support the operations: Indian Air Force PRO Wing Commander Indranil Nandi #Uttarakhandflood https://t.co/XdNtjkuXbqIndian Air Force PRO Wing Commander Indranil Nandi said that scientists with specialised equipment would visit flood affected areas for aerial reconnaissance, reports ANI.Uttarakhand CM says PM Modi called four times to receive updatesआदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी ने अभी-अभी फ़ोन कर तपोवन आपदा के बारे में जानकारी ली।प्रधानमंत्री जी ने सभी ज़रूरी मदद का आश्वासन दिया एवं राहत कार्यों में कोई भी कसर ना छोड़ने की हिदायत दी। प्रधानमंत्री जी का उत्तराखंड के प्रति स्नेह ही है कि आज यह उनका चौथा कॉल था।Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat tweeted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called him four times today to inquire about the flood situation in the state.'Expect clear picture on missing people's identities by Monday morning': Uttarakhand DGP Ashok KumarWe were able to dig 150 mtrs. of the tunnel but after a rise in water level had to halt the work. Most missing persons were working at the two projects. We expect to get a clear picture on their identities by Monday morning.-@Ashokkumarips@ndmaindia @uttarakhandcops @PIB_IndiaUttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said that a clear picture on the identities of the missing people working in the two tunnels could be expected by Monday morning, report PIB.Uttarakhand DGP says rescue work at NTPC Tapovan tunnel halted due to rise in water level#Uttarakhand DGP @Ashokkumarips said rescue work at the NTPC's 900-metre long #TapovanTunnel had to be halted due to rise in water level.@ndmaindia @ntpclimited @uttarakhandcops @PIB_IndiaUttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said that the rescue work at the NTPC's 900-metre-long Tapovan tunnel had to be halted because of rising water level, reports PIB.US State Department expresses condolences, wishes for speedy recovery of injuredOur deepest condolences to those affected by the glacier burst and landslide in India. We grieve with the family and friends of the deceased and extend our hopes for a speedy and full recovery for the injured.US State Department has expressed its deepest condolences and wished for the speedy recovery of those injured in the Uttarakhand floods.Click here to read moreBorder Roads Organization reopens Rishikesh-Joshimath-Mana road after floodsThe Rishikesh-Joshimath-Mana road which was blocked at Hathipahad due to flash flood in Dhauli Ganga was reopened for traffic by Border Roads Organisation by late afternoon today after road clearance operation. Several BRO teams are in the area for relief operations: BRO pic.twitter.com/pEZ25fR3l8The Rishikesh-Joshimath-Mana road which was blocked at Hathipahad due to flash flood in Dhauli Ganga was reopened for traffic by Border Roads Organisation by late afternoon today, reports ANI.Around 30 people trapped in tunnel number one, night operations to continue, says ITBPNow we are focusing on second tunnel, that is tunnel number one, we've learnt that around 30 people are trapped there. We will be carrying out night operations also. Our teams are already on the job & we hope that we'll be able to resue them: Vivek Pandey, ITBP PRO #Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/l9r9trN2T1ITBP says efforts to rescue around 30 people trapped in another tunnel, the tunnel number one, is underway and also confirmed that the night operations would continue.EU's ambassador to India expresses solidarity after Uttarakhand floodsTerrible news from Uttarakhand! Our deepest sympathy and solidarity. Our hearts go out to the families of the victims.European Union's ambassador to India Ugo Astuto has expressed solidarity after the Uttarakhand floods.Shashi Tharoor expresses condolences, urges government to take preventive measures before next disasterCongress leader Shashi Tharoor expressed his condolences to the people affected by the Uttrakhand floods and urged the government to take preventive measures before the next disaster.Tharoor tweeted "Saddened at the tragic news of flooding&destruction in #Uttarakhand, another reminder of the dangers of #climatechange in the fragile Himalayan ecology. Condolences &prayers for all affected. Aside from urgent relief, Govt must take preventive measures before the next disaster."Watch | IAF's C130J Super Hercules lands at Jolly Grant with rescue teams#WATCH: As part of IAF disaster relief Task Force, a C130J Super Hercules transport aircraft landed at the Jolly Grant airport in Dehradun with rescue teams and other heavy equipment on board. pic.twitter.com/4D9Eg2NvmTA IAF C130J Super Hercules transport aircraft carrying rescue teams and other heavy equipment on board, landed at the Jolly Grant airport in Dehradun, reported by ANI.French President Emmanuel Macron expresses full solidarity with India after Uttarakhand floodFrance expresses its full solidarity with India, after a glacier burst in the Uttarakhand province, leading to the disappearance of over 100 people. Our thoughts are with them and their families.French president Emmanuel Macron has expressed the country's full solidarity with India after the Uttarakhand floods. He tweeted his message in reply to PM Modi, saying "Our thoughts are with them and their families."Three IAF Mi-17 helicopters to airlift NDRF teams from JollyGrant to JoshimathSixty @NDRFHQ personnel moved with 5 ton load from Hindon to JollyGrant Airport in IAF C130.One more C130 and one AN 32 ready at Hindon for additional NDRF teams.Three IAF Mi-17 positioned at JollyGrant to airlift NDRF teams to Joshimath.Defence minister's office tweeted that three IAF Mi-17 helicopters have been positioned at JollyGrant to airlift NDRF teams to Joshimath.Army establishes control room in Joshimath, teams deployed to assist rescue operationsThe Indian Armed Forces have swung into action to assist the agencies in rescue ops. Two columns of GARHWAL Scouts frm Joshimath 2 colns of 22 GRENADIERS from Auli have been deployed. Two columns of 11 MADRAS are on standby. Control Room has been established at Joshimath.Defence minister's office has said that an army control room has been established in Joshimath and various teams have been deployed to assist the agencies that are undertaking rescue works in Uttarakhand.Indian army deploys four columns, two medical teams for rescue efforts#Uttarakhandflood Army deploys four columns, two medical teams for the rescue of people affected by massive flood in Dhauli Ganga river: OfficialsIndian army deploys four columns, two medical teams for rescue efforts in Uttarakhand, reports PTI.'Sincere condolences to the families of the deceased': Rajasthan CM Ashok GehlotDeeply saddened at the loss of lives in the calamity in #Uttarakhand. My sincere condolences to the families of the deceased. May they find strength. Prayers for those still missing. Hope they can be rescued. Wish speedy recovery to the injured.Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot expressed his condolences to the families of those people who lost their lives in the Uttarakhand flood.5 shepherds with 180 sheep, goats swept away in floods, 125 or more people missing: CM RawatFive locals including shepherds with their 180 sheep & goats swept away in the flash flood. We are assuming that around 125 people are missing. The number can be higher: Chief Minister Trivendra Singh RawatChief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that 5 shepherds and 180 sheep and goats have been swept away by the flash floods and 125 or more people are also missing, reports ANI.PM Modi announces ex-gratia: ₹2 lakh to dead, ₹50,000 to seriously injuredPM @narendramodi has approved an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the tragic avalanche caused by a Glacier breach in Chamoli, Uttrakhand. Rs. 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced ₹2 lakh ex-gratia to the family of people who have lost their lives in the flood and ₹50,000 to those who have been seriously injured, the PMO tweeted.Chief minister Rawat announces ₹4 lakh cash to family of those dead in floodsState government to give financial assistance of ₹4 lakhs each to the kin of the deceased: Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. pic.twitter.com/Qr8EBo1BKvUttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announces ₹4 lakh cash as financial assistance to family of those dead in floods.LIVE | Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat press meet about latest updatesLIVE : चमोली में आई प्राकृतिक आपदा को लेकर प्रेसवार्ता। https://t.co/jprXHgW28xUttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat addresses the media about the latest situation in the state after his visit to the flood affected sites.ITBP personnel rescue 16 people trapped in Tapovan tunnelITBP has shared pictures of the rescue operations at Tapovan tunnel where 16 people trapped have been rescued.Watch | ITBP personnel rescue person trapped in Tapovan tunnel#WATCH | Uttarakhand: ITBP personnel rescue one person who was trapped in the tunnel near Tapovan dam in Chamoli.Rescue operation underway.(Video Source: ITBP) pic.twitter.com/RO91YhIdyoVideo of a person trapped inside the Tapovan tunnel being rescued by ITBP personnel, reported by ANI.Congress president Sonia Gandhi expresses concern, asks party workers to help in relief effortsI pray for the safety of all & request Congress workers & volunteers to help the people & the authorities in their relief & rescue efforts. The Indian National Congress stands with the people of Uttarakhand in this hour of tragedy and crisis: Congress President Sonia GandhiCongress president Sonia Gandhi said she was concerned about the 'disturbing news' of glacier break and the flooding in Uttarakhand. She had also requested Congress workers and volunteers in the region to assist in the relief efforts, reports ANI.ITBP rescues all 16 people trapped in Tapovan tunnel#UPDATE: ITBP rescues all 16 people who were trapped in the tunnel near Tapovan, Chamoli. #Uttarakhand https://t.co/vi2ZbTyB9NITBP rescues all 16 people trapped in Tapovan tunnel, reports ANI.IMD says dry weather likely over Uttarakhand on February 7,8PRESS RELEASE : WEATHER FORECAST FOR UTTARAKHANDDry weather is likely to prevail over Uttarakhand on 7 & 8 Feb. However, under the influence of a Western Disturbance, light rainfall/ snowfall is likely over northern part of Uttarakhand during evening of 9th to forenoon of 10th.India Meteorological Department had said that dry weather is likely to prevail over Uttarakhand on February 7 and 8.NTPC confirms damage to under construction hydropower project in TapovanAn avalanche near Tapovan in Uttarakhand has damaged a part of our under construction hydropower project in the region. While rescue operation is on, situation is being monitored continuously with the help of district administration and police.NTPC limited confirmed damages to a part of under construction hydropower project in Tapovan region.President Kovind 'confident' of relief works undertaken after Uttarakhand floodsDeeply worried about the glacier burst near Joshimath, Uttarakhand, that caused destruction in the region. Praying for well being and safety of people. Am confident that rescue and relief operations on ground are progressing well.President Ram Nath Kovind has expressed confidence that the relief works undertaken at the Uttarakhand flood sites are progressing well.Uttarakhand DGP says 16 people trapped in Tapovan dam being shifted to safer placesUttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar says 16 people, who were trapped in Tapovan Dam, are being shifted to safer places by the police, reports ANI.Uttarakhand CM reaches Reni village to assess situationUttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat reaches near Reni village in Tapovan area of Chamoli; takes stock of the situation. pic.twitter.com/Slw1Vn2Qx9Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat reached Reni village in Tapovan area to assess the situation, reports ANI.ITBP personnel digging open Tapovan tunnel blocked by debrisITBP says its personnel are digging open the Tapovan tunnel which has been blocked due to the debris caused by the flood. Many people are feared to be trapped inside the tunnel.Three bodies recovered at NTPC in Tapovan: ITBP#UPDATE | Three bodies recovered at NTPC site in Tapovan area of Chamoli in Uttarakhand, says ITBPITBP says three bodies have been recovered at NTPC site in Tapovan area of Chamoli.About 50-100 people missing. 2 bodies have been recovered: Uttarakhand DGPAbout 50-100 people missing. 2 bodies have been recovered, some injured rescued: Uttarakhand DGP Ashok KumarUttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar says that about 50-100 people are currently missing, two bodies have been recovered and some people injured in the floods have also been rescued, reports PTI.Glacial burst in UttarakhandA massive flood was reported in the Dhauliganga river near a village in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. Hundreds of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel have been rushed to carry out rescue operations at the site.Watch the full video for more.Uttarakhand CM Trivender Singh Rawat assures of help for people stranded in affected area#Uttarakhand: If you are stuck in the affected area, if you need any kind of help, please contact 1070 or 9557444486. Please do not spread rumors.All necessary steps have been taken to deal with the situation: CM of Uttarakhand Trivender Singh RawatUttarakhand CM Trivender Singh Rawat urges people not to spread rumors about the situation and also asked them to contact the helpline numbers for emergency.He also assured that all necessary steps have been taken to handle the situation.Home ministry has assured all possible help: Uttarakhand CM Trivender Singh Rawat"I have spoken to Union Home Secretary and I will speak to Home minister soon. They have assured all possible help," said Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, reports ANI.Indian army deploys choppers, troops for rescue and relief work, reports ANIIndian Army has deployed choppers and troops for supporting Uttarakhand govt and NDRF to tackle the flood. Military station near Rishikesh actively involved in coordination of rescue and relief operations with local administration. Army headquarters monitoring the situation, said Army, reports ANI.Home minister has assured every help to Uttarakhand govt: Sitharaman on Chamoli tragedyIt is a kind of tragedy which is very shocking. It's a natural disaster. Home Minister has assured that every help the Uttarakhand government would need will be extended. There shall not be any hesitation on that: Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, reports ANI3 choppers stationed at Dehradun, more to be deployed for rescue work, reports ANIThree choppers including two Mi-17 and one ALH Dhruv chopper of Air Force stationed in Dehradun and nearby areas for helping in rescue operations in flood-affected areas. More aircraft will be deployed as per the requirement on ground, ANI quoted IAF officials as saying.Over 200 jawans deployed for rescue work, reports ANIOver 200 jawans are on the job and working in collaboration with local administration. One team is on the spot to assess the situation. Another team is deployed near Joshimath to raise awareness and evacuate people. The situation is under control, said Vivek Pandey, ITBP Spokesperson, reports ANI.Meeting scheduled at Cabinet Secretariat for relief operations in Chamoli, reports ANIA meeting is scheduled at Cabinet Secretariat on relief operations in Uttarakhand's Chamoli. DGs and Home Ministry officials will join the meeting, reports ANI.PM Modi speaks to Uttarakhand CM, takes stock of rescue work at Chamoli flood sitePM Modi while in Assam, reviewed the situation in Uttarakhand. The Prime Minister spoke to chief minister and other top officials. PM Modi took stock of the rescue and relief work underway. Authorities are working to provide all possible support to the affected.100-150 casualties feared dead in Uttarakhand flood, reports ANI100-150 casualties feared in the flash flood in Chamoli district, said Uttarakhand Chief Secretary OM Prakash to ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-floods-live-updates-over-100-casualties-feared-due-to-glacial-burst-says-uttarakhand-chief-secy-reports-101612685031158.html
07-02-2021||India||Chamoli flood: 2 bodies recovered, nearly 100 missing in Uttarakhand, says report||Rescuers on Sunday recovered the bodies of two people who were killed in the flash flood in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday, news agency PTI reported citing the hill state’s director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar. About 50 to 100 more are feared to be missing, PTI also reported.For live updates on Chamoli floods click hereA massive flood was triggered in the Dhauliganga river in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district after a glacier broke off on Sunday endangering the lives of hundreds of people living along its banks. Massive destruction is also feared. In view of the massive floods, an alert has been sounded in several districts including Pauri, Tehri, Rudraprayag, Haridwar and Dehradun.Authorities have launched a search and rescue operation as hundreds of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel were rushed to the site near the Raini village. An official of the border patrol force said that some water bodies have been flooded and many riverbank side houses have also been destroyed, ANI reported. "Over 200 jawans are on the job and working in collaboration with local administration. One team is on the spot to assess the situation. Another team is deployed near Joshimath to raise awareness and evacuate people. The situation is under control," ANI quoted Vivek Pandey, spokesperson for ITBP, as saying.Four teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRD) are also at the spot and are carrying out the rescue and relief work. "Some more NDRF teams are being airlifted to Uttarakhand from Delhi. We are constantly monitoring the situation," said Union home minister Amit Shah.Also Read | Glacial burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli leads to flash flood, alert soundedMeanwhile, state chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat appealed people to refrain from spreading rumours through old flood videos. The state chief minister also provided number of disaster operations center for stranded and affected people. They can call at 1070 or 9557444486.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was in Assam for an event, has taken stock of the situation and also spoken to Rawat, the Prime Minister's Office said on Twitter. "Am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation in Uttarakhand. India stands with Uttarakhand and the nation prays for everyone’s safety there. Have been continuously speaking to senior authorities and getting updates on NDRF deployment, rescue work and relief operations," PM Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-150-labourers-missing-after-flood-in-uttarakhand-101612684785449.html
07-02-2021||India||After US, UK, India third country to inoculate highest number of people||India has become the third country after the United States and the United Kingdom where authorities have inoculated the highest number of people against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Sunday. "More than 57.75 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated against Covid-19," the health ministry said in a statement.As per the statement, 12 states in the country administered more than 200,000 people each. Uttar Pradesh which is also the most populated state of the country alone accounts for 673,542 of all vaccinated people. The health ministry said that 358,473 people were vaccinated across 8,875 sessions in the last 24 hours with as many as 115,178 sessions conducted so far. There has been a sustained increase in the number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day, it also said.The cumulative vaccination coverage includes 53,04,546 healthcare workers and 4,70,776 frontline workers.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageIn the United States, 26.5 million Americans had received one or both doses of the vaccines, news agency Bloomberg reported earlier this week. In the UK, more than 8.9 million people have received a first dose of the vaccine.The first phase of vaccination drive against the Covid-19 is in full swing in the country as authorities are inoculating thousands of healthcare and essential workers every day. In the second phase which is likely to begin in March, people older than 50 or deemed high-risk because of pre-existing medical conditions will be given priority. The vaccines will be available for the general public after the priority list is covered.The drugs regulatory body of India has currently approved two vaccines. Pune-based Serum Institute of India is manufacturing the Covishield vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University while Covaxin has been developed by Hyderabad's Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Medical Council of Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology.Meanwhile, the Covid-19 caseload in the country reached 10,826,363 after 12,059 people contracted the virus in the last 24 hours. In a significant development, the country reported its lowest death toll on Sunday as 78 people succumbed to the disease in the same period. According to the health ministry, the 78 fatalities between Saturday and Sunday morning include 25 deaths from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala, five from Punjab and four each from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. The country's death toll now stands at 154,996.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-us-uk-india-third-country-to-inoculate-highest-number-of-people-101612684332220.html
07-02-2021||India||Chhattisgarh CM demands withdrawal of cess on petrol, diesel introduced in Union budget||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday demanded that cess on petrol and diesel introduced in the Union Budget should be withdrawn claiming that it would result in inflation."Cess on petrol and diesel introduced in the Union Budget should be withdrawn. It will burden the common people and cause inflation. It is not good if only the Centre receives the cess revenue," Baghel told the reporters on Sunday.The Chief Minister was speaking to reporters at the Swami Vivekananda Airport in Raipur before leaving for his visit to the poll-bound state of Assam.During his budget speech, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the imposition of Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC) of ₹2.5 per litre on petrol and ₹4 per litre on diesel. However, there would be no additional burden on the consumer overall as Sitharaman during Budget presentation also proposed to reduce Basic Customs Duty on these items.Responding to a question about his meeting with Union Minister Piyush Goel on Friday, Baghel stated, "A delegation of ten ministers accompanied me in the meeting and every minister informed about the progress of work being done in their respective departments.""We discussed the promises we were able to keep and what work is yet to be taken up in that direction," he added.Baghel is one of the Congress Chief Ministers appointed as senior observer for overseeing election campaign management and coordination in the poll-bound Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-demands-withdrawal-of-cess-on-petrol-diesel-introduced-in-union-budget-101612683529405.html
07-02-2021||India||Govt shouldn't have 'asked' big personalities to tweet on farmers: Raj Thackeray||In the wake of comments by celebrities on the ongoing farmers' protest, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Sunday said that the government should not have "asked" big personalities like former batsman Sachin Tendulkar and legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar to tweet in their support on the issue and put their "reputation" at stake.The MNS chief said that the agitation is against the government policies and not concerning issues of national interest."The government should not have asked big personalities like Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar to tweet in support of its stand and put their reputation at stake. They are recipients of Bharat Ratna. Actors like Akshay Kumar were enough for this task," said Thackeray."This issue was about the policies of the government and not of the country. It was not a matter related to China or Pakistan. It was a matter of farmers. The Bharat Ratna recipients tweeted on behalf of the government and now they are being trolled," he said.Days after Tendulkar made comments on the protest by farmers, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar had asked the former Indian cricketer to "exercise caution while speaking about other fields"."Many people (celebrities) have reacted sharply to the stand taken by them (farmers). My suggestion to Sachin Tendulkar is he should be cautious while commenting on fields other than his domain," Pawar had said.Taking to Twitter, former Indian cricket team captain tweeted: "India's sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let's remain united as a nation. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda."His remarks came after a few international celebrities including pop star Rihanna commented on farmers' protests.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three new farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-shouldn-t-have-asked-big-personalities-to-tweet-on-farmers-raj-thackeray-101612675635485.html
07-02-2021||India||Manipur CM lauds 'farsighted' Union Budget, thanks PM, Sitharaman||Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh on Saturday, lauded the Union Budget 2021-22 and thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for their efforts in presenting a farsighted budget."The budget will lay the foundation of 'Ease of Living' because it has underlined the vision of an Atmanirbhar Bharat. I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for their efforts in presenting a farsighted Budget that aims at 'Universal Well-Being' during the testing times of COVID-19," Singh said while addressing a press conference.He stated that the budget is the foundation vision document for a new decade that underlines six pillars viz. health and well-being, physical and financial capital, inclusive development for aspirational India, reinvigorating human capital, innovation, and research and development as well as minimum government maximum governance."Under the Ujjwala Yojana, 8 crore families received free gas cylinders. In Budget 2021-22, a proposal has been made to expand the reach of the scheme to 1 crore new beneficiaries. The Government has also tried to make a provision for ensuring One Country, One Ration Card accessible to migrant labourers," he added.The chief minister said that the Government has proposed in the budget to take healthcare ahead as a priority concern. There has been an increase of 137 per cent in the health budget from ₹94,000 crore to ₹2.38 lakh crore.Singh further said that the provisions to ensure that every citizen gets clean water, roads to reach every village, highway expansion happens on a large scale, and making public transport easily accessible, in the Budget 2021-22 is commendable.Meanwhile, Singh also announced a reward of ₹10 lakh for Peh (Paoyi) village of Ukhrul district for voluntarily destroying poppy plants grown in their village to mark joining and supporting the State Government's popular 'War on Drugs' campaign.The chief minister informed that he had directed the officials of Horticulture, Agriculture and Fishery Departments to visit the village to find out suitable alternative livelihood activity for the villagers.Stating that Peh (Paoyi) would be promoted as a role model to other villages in the Government's 'War on Drugs' campaign, the Chief Minister urged other villages across the State to follow Peh (Paoyi) village's path in this regard. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cm-lauds-farsighted-union-budget-thanks-pm-sitharaman-101612675656500.html
07-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: CM Mamata likely to skip inauguration event to be attended by PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.CM Mamata Banerjee likely to skip inauguration event to be attended by PM ModiWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to give a miss to a programme during which Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of key infrastructure projects in the poll-bound state. Read moreJ-K police arrest wanted terrorist, seize arms and ammunition in JammuA wanted terrorist and self-styled commander of Lashkar-e-Mustafa, believed to be a frontal organisation of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) outfit, was arrested on Saturday on the outskirts of Jammu city. Read moreFarmers’ struggle bound to receive global support, says Shiv SenaThe Shiv Sena has questioned the Centre’s response to international celebrities for their stand on the farmers’ protest. Read moreFood and fitness: Masaba Gupta gets candid about body transformationFamous fashion designer Masaba Gupta has been quite vocal about her fitness journey lately. Read moreIndia vs England: With 53.1 overs, R Ashwin bowls his longest in a Test inningIt was after a long time that India had to toil hard with the ball in a single inning of a Test match. Read moreKangana Ranaut: 'I challenged Diljit Dosanjh to say he is not Khalistani, he didn’t'Kangana Ranaut, who has had quite a few heated faceoffs with singer-actor Diljit Dosanjh on Twitter over farmer protests, has made more allegations against him. Read moreThis US shelter is letting cats poop on names of people’s exes on Valentine’s DayBreaking up with someone is an extremely hard job, but what’s worse than that is getting over that person and go on towards a fresh start. Read moreWatch: North Pole, longest flight, all-women crew: Zoya Agarwal on The Interview||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cm-mamata-likely-to-skip-inauguration-event-to-be-attended-by-pm-modi-and-all-the-latest-news-101612681173551.html
07-02-2021||India||EU recognises India's strategic role as 'major vaccine producer'||In its first high-level dialogue on bilateral trade and investment with India, the European Union recognised New Delhi's strategic role as a "major vaccine producer" and expressed openness to discuss vaccine-related matters, informed sources said.India and the EU agreed that ensuring universal, equitable, affordable and safe vaccine is a priority, they added.Amid the pandemic which has claimed over 2.30 million lives, India, the world's largest vaccine producer, in recent weeks have supplied Covid-19 vaccines to several countries including Nepal, Bhutan, BangladeshIndia hosted the first India-EU high-level dialogue (HLD) on Friday through virtual mode. The HLD was co-chaired by Union Minister of Commerce and Industry, Piyush Goyal, and European Commission Executive Vice-President & Trade Commissioner, Valdis Dombrovskis.The dialogue has been established as part of the commitment made during the 15th India-EU Leaders' virtual Summit held on July 15, 2020, to provide ministerial-level guidance to the bilateral trade and investment relations."Both sides agreed that ensuring universal, equitable, affordable, and safe vaccine is a priority for all of us. EU side recognised India's strategic role as a Major Vaccine Producer and expressed openness to discuss Vaccine related matters for understanding the obstacles," the government sources said.According to a statement by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the ministers, during the dialogue, emphasised the importance of global cooperation and solidarity in a post-Covid-19 era and agreed for further deepening of bilateral trade and investment relationship through a series of regular engagements, aiming at quick deliverable for the businesses in these tough times.During the dialogue, Piyush Goyal said that the COVAX initiative, the global initiative aimed at equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines, without a Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) waiver, won't help in ending this pandemic and sought the EU's support is essential in this crucial endeavour to save humanity, the sources said.The ministers also agreed to meet within the next three months, with an objective for reaching consensus on a host of bilateral trade and investment cooperation issues including a bilateral Regulatory Dialogue and an India-EU Multilateral Dialogue to explore further possibilities of cooperation.In a significant step forward, regular interactions for re-initiation of bilateral trade and investment agreements, with an interim agreement to start with, were also discussed.Sources said that the objective is to take forward any of the possible deliverables in the upcoming Leaders' Summit including launching an investment facilitation mechanism, working on regulatory cooperation, removing Trade barriers, deepening research, and promoting innovation."Clean economy, addressing Multilateral issues of mutual interest, continuing on the IPR dialogue, sharing experience in building Resilient Value chains, etc," they said.During the dialogue, the sources said: "Piyush Goyal said that India has been successful in bending the Covid curve. He added that India is now witnessing a V-shaped recovery and will be the fastest-growing economy due to the Government's Atmanirbhar initiatives. India also ensured equitable and affordable vaccine access to all countries especially less developed countries."The ministers concluded with confidence and commitment towards a renewed India-EU commercial and economic partnership reflecting the full potential of bilateral commercial relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eu-recognises-india-s-strategic-role-as-major-vaccine-producer-101612682761744.html
07-02-2021||India||Glacier bursts in Uttarakhand's Chamoli, triggers flash flood||A massive glacier burst in Chamoli district, about 300 km east of Dehradun triggering a massive avalanche and a flash flood which damaged a dam on Rishi Ganga river on Sunday morning, officials saidAuthorities have launched a search and rescue operation amid fears of casualties and an alert has been sounded in all the districts downstream up to Haridwar.Following the incident, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat canceled all his programmes for the day to monitor the situation. As soon as the incident was reported, teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) rushed to the spot to start the rescue operations.Watch glacial burst near power project leads to massive flood in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli"The incident happened on Sunday morning at around 10.30 when a glacier burst near Tapovan leading to flash flood which damaged the hydel power project on it," Praveen Alok, SDRF spokesperson said."The local SDRF was informed at around 11 am following which three teams comprising about 30 men reached the spot to start the rescue operation. The avalanche has brought huge muck and debris in the river. The loss of life and property is yet to be ascertained," he said.He said that an alert has been sounded on areas along the Ganga and people have been asked to stay away from the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glacier-bursts-in-uttarakhand-s-chamoli-triggers-flash-flood-101612682370881.html
07-02-2021||India||CM Mamata Banerjee likely to skip inauguration event to be attended by PM Modi: Report||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to give a miss to a programme during which Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of key infrastructure projects in the poll-bound state’s Haldia district on Sunday, PTI reported citing an official from the state secretariat. The Trinamool Congress chief has also asked her party’s workers to skip the programme, PTI also reported.In a programme scheduled for the evening, PM Modi will inaugurate four key projects from oil, gas, and infrastructure sectors in Haldia.The exact reason for the possible absence was not shared. The "insult meted out to her" on January 23, when several people started raising Jai Shri Ram' slogans just before she was set to speak, could be the reason, the news agency also reported. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar who has a tense relationship with the state chief minister is scheduled to attend the event, it also reported.Also Read | Nadda sharpens attacks on TMC ahead of PM Modi's 1st rally in poll-bound BengalOver the last few days, political tension has been rising in West Bengal where assembly elections are due in April-May. The tussle between the BJP and Banerjee’s TMC has also intensified as the former is hoping to wrest power from the ruling party after emerging as a second-biggest party during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.On January 23, Banerjee refused to speak at an official event after a section of the crowd sitting at the audience started shouting "Jai Shree Ram" slogans. Prime Minister Modi was also part of the event organised by the central government to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of freedom fighter Subhash Chandra Bose. Expressing displeasure over the incident, Bannerjee said the "insult was unacceptable" and refused to continue with her speech as a protest.She also called for dignity at government programmes, saying they are not organised by a single political party. "I think there should be some dignity when a government programme is being held. This is not the programme of one political party. This is a programme of all parties and the people," she had said at Victoria Memorial.While the incident drew sharp condemnation from TMC leaders, the BJP’s leadership said there was nothing wrong with the slogans and accused Banerjee of indulging in appeasement politics. "None of the dignitaries said anything. Why did she lose her cool? It reflects her mindset of appeasement politics. (She) appeases a particular community before elections," said the BJP’s Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-mamata-banerjee-likely-to-skip-inauguration-event-to-be-attended-by-pm-modi-101612680842177.html
07-02-2021||India||At Assam rally, PM Modi says 'conspiracy hatched abroad to defame Indian tea'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday launched the ‘Asom Mala’ project in Assam during his second visit to the the poll-bound state in a fortnight. Modi had addressed a rally at Sivasagar district and gave land allotment certificates to 106,000 landless families on January 23.While addressing the rally in Dhekiajuli in Sonitpur district PM Modi said, "People who are conspiring to defame India have stooped so low that they're not sparing even Indian tea... Some documents have come up revealing that some foreign powers are planning to attack India's identity associated with tea. Will you accept this attack?"“North east is moving towards development with Assam in the centre of it. This development has come with a lot of sacrifices for the state," PM Modi added. Chief minister of Assam Sarbananda Sonowal and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma were also present on the occasion.He also criticized the previous governments for not focussing on the development of the North east and Assam saying, "Under our government, the North east is developing hand-in-hand with the country and this is something that the previous governments did not focus on."The Asom Mala project is aimed at improving the highways and major district roads network in the state through continuous field data collection and linkage with road asset management system. The project will also facilitate seamless multi-modal transportation and interconnect economic growth centres.Modi also laid the foundation stones of two medical colleges and hospitals, which are being set up at Biswanath and Charaideo, at a total estimated project cost of over ₹1100 crore. Each hospital will have 500 bed capacity and the colleges will have 1000 seats for the students.“I will be among the people of Assam tomorrow. At a programme in Dhekiajuli, Sonitpur district, the ‘Asom Mala’ programme will be launched, which will boost the state’s infrastructure. This initiative will contribute to Assam’s economic progress and improve connectivity. Foundation stones for medical colleges and hospitals in Biswanath and Charaideo will be laid. This will boost Assam’s health infrastructure. In the last few years, the state has made rapid strides in healthcare. This has benefitted not only Assam but also the entire northeast,” PM Modi tweeted on Saturday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northeast-is-moving-towards-development-with-assam-at-its-centre-says-pm-modi-101612680234465.html
07-02-2021||India||India is third topmost country with highest doses of Covid vaccine administered||India has become the third topmost country in the world in terms of the number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered, the Government of India (GoI) informed on Sunday adding that only the United States and the United Kingdom remain ahead of India.The government said in a press release that 12 States have vaccinated more than 2 lakh beneficiaries each. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 6,73,542 of all vaccinated beneficiaries.In the last 24 hours, 3,58,473 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 8,875 sessions. As many as 1,15,178 sessions have been conducted so far. There has been a sustained increase in the number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day.A total of 84.83 per cent of the daily new cases are from six States and Union Territories, the GoI release said.Kerala reports the highest daily new cases at 5,942. It is followed by Maharashtra with 2,768, while Karnataka reported 531 new cases. 78 fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours.Five States/UTs account for 69.23 per cent of the daily deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (25). Kerala follows with 16daily deaths and Punjab reported 5 casualties.As on February 7, 2021, till 8 am, a total of 57.75 lakh (57,75,322) beneficiaries have received the Covid-19 vaccine under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise. The cumulative vaccination coverage includes 53,04,546 healthcare workers and 4,70,776 frontline workers.In another significant development, the country has reported less than 80 daily deaths in the last 24 hours, the lowest in nine months.The country's active caseload is 1.48 lakh (1,48,766) today. The present active caseload consists of 1.37 per cent of India's Total Positive Cases. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1.05cr (1,05,22,601) today. The recovery rate is 97.19 per cent.A total of 12,059 new daily cases have been recorded in the last 24 hours whereas 11,805 patients have recovered and discharged in the last 24 hours. 81.07 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in six States/UTs.Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 6,178 newly recovered cases. 1,739 people recovered in Maharashtra in the past 24 hours followed by 503 in Tamil Nadu.As many as 17 States/UTs have not reported any deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Haryana, Goa, J&K (UT), Jharkhand, Puducherry, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Lakshadweep, Assam, Manipur, Sikkim, A&N Islands, Ladakh (UT), Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura and D&D & D&N.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-third-topmost-country-with-highest-doses-of-covid-vaccine-administered-101612680421544.html
07-02-2021||India||Glacial burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli leads to flash flood, alert sounded till Haridwar||A massive flood in the Dhauliganga river was reported near a village in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, prompting authorities to launch a search and rescue operation and sounding an alert in all the districts downstream up to Haridwar, news agency ANI reported on Sunday. Hundreds of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel have been rushed to carry out rescue operations at the site near the Raini village, where some water bodies were flooded and destroyed many riverbank side houses due to cloudburst or breaching of a reservoir, an official of the border patrol force was cited as saying by ANI. Casualties are feared, they added. “A disaster has been reported from Chamoli district. The district administration, police department and disaster management have been ordered to deal with this disaster. Do not pay attention to any kind of rumours. The government is taking all necessary steps,” Uttarakhand chief minister TS Rawat said in a tweet in Hindi.चमोली जिले में तपोवन स्थित बांध फटा,प्रदेश में अलर्ट जारी। pic.twitter.com/gk6XbNcC1p“As a precaution, the flow of Bhagirathi river has been stopped. To prevent the flow of water of Alaknanda, Srinagar Dam and Rishikesh Dam have been emptied. SDRF is on alert. I beg you not to spread rumours. Pay attention to official authentic information only. I am leaving for the scene myself,” he added.The chief minister also hinted towards the possibility of damage to the Rishiganga project in Raini village and flooding in the lower areas of Alaknanda. “There is a possibility of damage to the Rishiganga project in Rini village of Chamoli due to heavy rains and sudden water. There is also a possibility of flooding in the lower areas of Alaknanda due to sudden arrival in the river. People have been alerted in coastal areas. People settled along the river are being removed from the area,” he wrote on the microblogging site.Chamoli district magistrate Swati S Bhadauria has instructed officials to evacuate people living in villages on the bank of Dhauliganga river. The district magistrate and the superintendent of police have left for the spot, ANI reported.The water level in Dhauliganga river rose suddenly following an avalanche near a power project at Raini village in Tapovan area of Chamoli district.The State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) has also been rushed to the spot. "The local SDRF was informed at around 11am following which three teams comprising about 30 men reached the spot to start the rescue operation. The avalanche has brought huge muck and debris in the river. The loss of life and property is yet to be ascertained," Praveen Alok, SDRF’s spokesperson, said.Rawat also posted helpline numbers for those in the affected areas. “If you are stuck in the affected area, if you need any kind of help, please contact Disaster Operations Center number 1070 or 9557444486,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-flood-in-dhauliganga-river-in-uttarakhand-s-chamoli-residents-of-nearby-villages-to-be-evacuated-reports-ani-101612680316604.html
07-02-2021||India||Metro 'Fast Trains' between Noida-Greater Noida from tomorrow: All you need to know||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (NMRC) will introduce “Fast Trains” from Monday which will reduce the travel time for commuters on the Aqua Line between Noida and Greater Noida. These trains will skip stations that have low ridership during peak hours and therefore save travel time for commuters. The Aqua Line witnessed an average daily passenger count of 7,915 in December 2020.Here’s everything you need to know about the ‘Fast Trains’:1. Metro train services from terminal stations - Sector 51 station and Depot station - will start from 8am to 11am and 5pm to 8pm on weekdays will come under this system.2. Out of the 21 stations on the Aqua Line, 10 stations will be skipped by these “Fast Trains” during peak hours.3. The stations that will be skipped are: Sector-50, Sector-101, Sector-81, Sector-83, Sector-143, Sector-144, Sector-145, Sector-146, Sector-147 and Sector-148 Metro Stations.4. QR Tickets will not be sold at these stations and for these stations during “Fast Trains” running hours.5. The average run time of the Aqua Line from Sector 51 Metro station in Noida to Depot station in Greater Noida and vice versa is 45 minutes 43 seconds (one way). This will be reduced to 36 minutes 40 seconds, saving around nine minutes of travel time for the commuters.6. The run time between Sector 51 Metro station and Pari Chowk Metro station is 37 minutes presently. This will be reduced to 28 minutes 30 seconds.7. The frequency of trains from Monday to Friday will remain the same i.e., 7.5 minutes during peak hours and 10 minutes during non-peak hours.8. On weekends, Aqua Line trains will continue to run at a frequency of 15 minutes with no skipping of stations.9. Signages and regular announcements with respect to the initiative are being made at all the Metro stations of the Aqua Line.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-fast-trains-between-noida-greater-noida-from-tomorrow-all-you-need-to-101612678214264.html
07-02-2021||India||Odisha starts second phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive||Odisha on Saturday began its second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Bhubaneshwar.Additional Commissioner of Police (ACP), Odisha, Rekha Lohani, "The second phase of vaccination drive has started today in Bhubaneshwar at three places; CP Headquarters, Reserve Parade Ground, and in the 7th Batallion premises.""We have all taken the first shots. We are all feeling absolutely fine. This drive will go on till February 15. And after a gap of 21 days, the second shots will be given," she added.1200 personnel per day will be taking their first jab, she said."I took my first shot of Covaxin and feeling safe. I urge them all to vaccinate themselves against the infection," said Narmal Satpathy, DCP, Security of Police Commissionerate.Also read| India records 78 Covid-19 deaths in a day, lowest in months; toll at 154,996The second phase of the inoculation drive is to see the vaccination of frontline workers, including police and sanitation workers.At present, there are 825 active cases with a total of 3,32,733 discharges and 1,908 deaths in the state.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, as many as 54,16,849 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the country as of February 6, 8 am.India started its vaccination drive against Covid-19 on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-starts-second-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101612674079018.html
07-02-2021||India||Heritage tour on vintage cars for Kolkata’s senior citizens this Valentine week||Elderly couples or even single senior citizens in Kolkata may celebrate this Valentine week in a unique way – taking a heritage tour of the City of Joy in a vintage car. And it’s free.“This is for the first time that a heritage tour on vintage cars, some of them near a century old, has been organized in the city for senior citizens. The minimum age has to be 75 years. One can apply online and it would be a first come first serve basis,” said Prabir Roy, managing committee member of the Automobile Association of Eastern India.Every day at least seven to eight vintage and classic cars would take the participants on a heritage tour lasting for a few hours. The list of cars includes a 108-year-old Gebrüder Stoewer, a 99-year-old 12/4 Austin Tourer, a 1923-built Panther Sloper, a 1928-built Auburn 6-80, and the rare ones such as Morris 8, Rolls Royce Phantom-III and Mercedes Benz 260 Stuttgart among others.“As the cars are very old and we would be virtually bringing them out of their ventilation, so it won’t be possible for us to say which cars would be available on a given day. It would depend on availability,” said Arindam Saha, general secretary of AAEI.The journey would kick off from the AAEI’s office in south Kolkata and touch upon some of the heritage buildings such as Netaji Bhavan, Jorasanko Thakur Bari and go right up to Dakshineswar Kali Temple. As the cars are very old, they would move at an average speed of 15-20 km per hour. Each trip would last for three to four hours.“We would allow only two persons in a car. So it could be either an elderly couple or two single senior citizens. One has to apply online and reach our office. The participant would be also provided lunch at the end,” said Roy.Even though Covid-19 cases have dropped in the city, the organisers said that the cars would be thoroughly sanitized before the trip. One has to wear a mask and bring a sanitizer.Valentine Day falls on February 14 and the entire week is celebrated as Valentine week with a name for each day such as Rose Day, Propose Day and Chocolate Day among others.“Even though it is the young generation who celebrate the Valentine Day and the week with much fervour, we thought of organizing this unique tour for senior citizens who are mostly confined to their homes and are often lonely. It may rekindle the old memories,” said Saha.The programme began with a vintage and classic car rally on Sunday. The heritage tour starts from Monday and will end with Valentine’s Day next Sunday.While a vintage car is one which was manufactured before 1939, those built after 1940 are called classic cars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heritage-tour-on-vintage-cars-for-kolkata-s-senior-citizens-this-valentine-week-101612679583543.html
07-02-2021||India||Our healthcare delivery poised to adapt at all stages: President Kovind||The health sector's evolution calls for active involvement and participation of all stakeholders and use of innovation to bridge intent and execution,President Ram Nath Kovind said on Sunday as he noted that healthcare delivery in India is poised to undergo change at all stages.He also hoped that the world has learnt the right lessons from the Covid-19 pandemic. "Healthcare delivery in India is poised to undergo a change at all stages prevention, diagnosis and treatment. No single entity in the healthcare sector can deliver results and achieve outcomes," Kovind said.Addressing the 23rd annual convocation of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, he said the evolution of the sector calls for active involvement and participation of all stakeholders and use of innovation to bridge intent and execution."Though Covid-19 seems to be one-of-a-kind health-crisis that happens rarely, a section of scientists has warned us to be prepared for similar challenges ahead. The world has, let us hope, learnt the right lessons," he said, adding that the pandemic has taught the world that one cannot be safe if others are at risk and it is a lesson in universal brotherhood.Also read| Financial packages for tea garden workers brew a poll issue in DarjeelingNoting that Covid-19 has inflicted agony and misery of unprecedented levels around the globe, the President said the nation is proud of its doctors and paramedics who rose to the challenge, even if it meant a great risk to their own lives.The President said he was glad to learn that the University had trained over two lakh health care professionals, from doctors and nurses to administrators and hospital facility providers, to better respond to the outbreak."Responding to the call of Atma-Nirbhar Bharat, a self- reliant India, our nation has not only manufactured the vaccine, but has also reached out to other nations to provide the same," Kovind said, adding that the largest vaccination drive in history was now under way in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-healthcare-delivery-poised-to-adapt-at-all-stages-president-kovind-101612678725856.html
07-02-2021||India||Trudeau govt wakes up to death threat to PM Modi, provides security to top Indian diplomats||The Justin Trudeau government in Canada has finally woken up to death threats to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Indian consul general at Vancouver made by pro-Khalistan separatists on January 26 and provided armed guard security to top Indian diplomats in Ottawa and Vancouver on Saturday.The Trudeau government last Friday instructed the Royal Canadian Mounted Police to provide protection to the Indian embassies in Ottawa and Vancouver after external affairs minister S Jaishankar spoke to his Canadian counterpart Marc Garneau on February 5. The action was taken after at least four note verbale were issued to Canadian authorities at Vancouver and Ottawa after death threat to the Indian consul general on December 26, 2020. Two police complaints were also filed by the Vancouver consul general office.Also read | India takes up with Italy, Canada incidents outside missions in Rome, VancouverIn a diplomatic note to Canadian foreign ministry, the Indian high commission on February 2 informed that one Inderjit Singh Bains made death threats against Prime Minister Modi on January 26 outside the Vancouver consul general office and posted on the Facebook account of fellow separatist Narinder Singh Khalsa. The English translation of the rabble-rousing speech was sent to the Vancouver police department in a complaint filed by the consul general.Although Hindustan Times has reviewed the contents of the speech, it is not reproducing it as it is communal and incendiary. The political activist makes it clear that they will take care of Modi as they have taken care of other political leaders and Indian Army generals in the past.Also read | In probe against Khalistanis, NIA examines people linked to farmers’ protestsThe letter from Indian high commission to Canadian foreign ministry makes it amply clear that death threats to the Indian Prime Minister constitutes an act of terrorism and requested that the matter should be thoroughly investigated and the action should be taken against the individuals to mitigate any security risk posed.Since December 2020, pro-Khalistan elements in Canada have taken over the protests against farm laws and are using communal speeches to divide the Indian diaspora by extolling the virtues of so-called Khalistan leaders. A reaction to this was a large Tiranga car rally organised in support of farm laws on Saturday afternoon in Vancouver.Also read | Battle to begin with repeal of farm laws, says Mo Dhaliwal who created ‘toolkit'According to a diplomatic note written to the Canadian authorities on December 28, Inderjeet Bains is associated with Gurdwara Dashmesh Darbar in Surrey, Vancouver. He is a known offender who has earlier issued death threats against Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh (2017) and then British Columbia MP Ujjal Dosanjh (2010). The Khalistani supporter has threatened Indian diplomatic personnel time and again but the Vancouver Police Department has never initiated any legal proceeding or enforced the law even after a formal police complaint was filed by the Vancouver Consul General about him for his inflammatory speeches on December 25, 26, 2020, and January 26, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trudeau-govt-wakes-up-to-death-threat-to-pm-modi-provides-security-to-envoys-101612678127959.html
07-02-2021||India||Farmers’ struggle bound to receive global support, says Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena has questioned the Centre’s response to international celebrities for their stand on the farmers’ protest, and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s views on the violence at Capitol Hill and his rallies in Ahmedabad and the US in support of then President Donald Trump were interferences in America’s internal affairs.“The agitation at the Ghazipur border is not of the rebels or anti-national elements. They are hardcore farmers who are chanting ‘Jai Hind’ and fighting their battle. The farmers are getting support across the world. Popstar Rihanna’s support provoked strong reactions from the ‘bhakts’ of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The recent violence and rioting at Capitol Hill by Trump followers was condemned by many Indians including our Prime Minister Modi. Modi had held campaign rallies in Ahmedabad and the US for Donald Trump. That too was interference in their internal affairs," said Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut in his weekly column, Rokthok in the party mouthpiece Saamana.He said that the world is watching what is happening in the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border at Ghazipur. The executive editor of Saamana, has also taunted Indian celebrities like Akshay Kumar, Kangana Ranaut, Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar who joined the ‘India against Propaganda’ drive where they condemned the international stars for their interference in India’s internal matters.The MP has also said that the celebrities were roped in by the government after it realised that the farmers' protest was getting international attention. They had jumped in the fray after Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg and Meena Harris, who is the niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris expressed open support for the farmers.“Our celebrities did not sympathise with the farmers who have been agitating from the last three months. This demonstrates that the Central government is using them to neutralise the foreign condemnation. "The farmers are agitating not to create unrest or divide the country. It is a humanitarian struggle which is bound to receive support from across the world,” Raut said.He said the government should seriously introspect why the farmers are getting international support. Raut said that the people standing in support of the stand taken by Rihana, will be termed as anti-national. He has also criticized the use of force by the Centre against agitating farmers.The Shiv Sena has been constantly attacking the Central government in support of the farmers. It has even called the Red fort incident on Republic Day a conspiracy to defame the farmers’ movement.The farmers have been agitating at Delhi’s borders seeking the repeal of three farm laws which they say is designed to destroy their livelihood and favour the corporate lobby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-struggle-bound-to-receive-global-support-says-shiv-sena-101612677923575.html
07-02-2021||India||Heavy police deployment at Delhi borders to keep up vigil day after ‘chakka jam’||As farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agricultural laws continued, security personnel were deployed on all borders of Delhi on Sunday, a day after the ‘chakka jam’ called by protesters on Saturday concluded peacefully. Heavy deployment of police and paramilitary forces was seen at Tikri border, which connects the national capital with Haryana, as well as Ghazipur border, which connects Delhi to Uttar Pradesh. The intensive security on Saturday came in order to avoid the rerun of Republic Day violence, when clashes broke out between the police and protesters following which one farmer died after his tractor overturned and several were injured on both sides. Follow latest updates on farm stir hereOn Saturday, farmers’ ‘chakka jam’ call —blockade of national and state highways— against the internet ban near the protest sites and alleged harassment by authorities remained largely peaceful. Several thousands of farmers from across states, especially in Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan, came out in support while symbolic road blockades were observed in other parts of the country. The unions, however, had withdrawn the call for the blockade in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Delhi citing inputs regarding some “miscreants trying to disrupt peace”.As the three-hour blockade led to traffic snarls, farmers were seen offering food and water to stranded commuters on the Rohtak-Delhi highway. There were similar reports from Punjab as well. Farm leaders said protesters stalled traffic on roads in parts of Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. No untoward incident was reported from anywhere. Several protesters, however, were briefly detained by the police in several states for blocking roads.Farmers have been camping at Delhi borders for more than two and a half months now demanding a repeal of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, which farmers say favour big corporations. The Centre has refuted the concerns and offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months, but talks are currently locked in a stalemate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-police-deployment-at-delhi-borders-to-keep-up-vigil-day-after-chakka-jam-101612675862314.html
07-02-2021||India||Financial packages for tea garden workers brew a poll issue in Darjeeling||Days after the Centre and the West Bengal government announced financial packages for tea garden workers in their respective budgets, political parties in Bengal’s Darjeeling and adjoining districts have turned this into a major issue ahead of the assembly polls due in March-April.On February 1, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced in her budget speech that the Centre will spend ₹1000 crore for the welfare of tea garden workers of West Bengal and Assam. Since both states are going to the polls, opposition parties said this was part of the sops to woo voters.On Friday, while presenting the state budget, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced a ₹150 crore package for the state’s tea garden workers.The north Bengal region has 54 assembly seats. Of these, tea garden workers and their families comprise a sizeable section of voters in around 15 seats. These are located in Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts.In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) emerged as a major challenger to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) by winning seven of the north Bengal region’s eight seats, including the one in Darjeeling.The 283 tea gardens in north Bengal employ three hundred thousand permanent workers, according to garden owners and trade unions. The tea gardens have always witnessed trade union movement over demands of the workers. The Congress, Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), and the latter’s partner, the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), still have influence on these workers. Many of the workers are tribal people and Gorkhas.Against this backdrop, the Central and state budgets have become election issues in the hills with the BJP and the TMC making all efforts to woo tea garden workers in their campaigns. While the main contenders are flaunting their budgets, the Congress and the CPI (M) are calling the packages indirect bribe for voters before the polls.Saman Pathak, former CPI(M) Rajya Sabha member and state committee member of the party’s trade union front, said, “Action speaks louder than words. Had the Centre and the state been serious about welfare of the workers, they would have fixed minimum wages, given them land rights and taken action against owners of tea gardens that have not paid provident fund and gratuity to employees.”A resident of north Bengal, Pathak said, “The daily wage of ₹202 at local tea gardens is among the lowest in the country. The state government is not serious about implementing minimum wages for which a committee was formed more than five years ago.”Mani Kumar Darnal, general secretary of National Union of Plantation Workers, which is affiliated to the Congress, said, “The state and the Centre are making cosmetic moves. Healthcare and housing facilities in local tea gardens are pathetic.”Both Pathak and Darnal said the workers and their families, who have been sweating for more than hundred years, have no right on the land where they reside.Kisan Kalyani, TMC’s Jalpaiguri district committee president and also a tea plantation owner, denied the charges.“Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is deeply attached to the tea garden workers. Her Chaa Sundari scheme, a free housing project for those without home, bears testimony to that,” said Kalyani.“The state government has allocated ₹500 crore for Chaa Sundari and those who have no houses will get one in three years,” Banerjee had said during her recent north Bengal tour. She also announced that more than 4,600 workers have been given allotment letters for houses at 12 tea garden areas in Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts.Darnal said, “Workers who will get houses under Chaa Sundari have been given conditional land rights. This is a gimmick before the election.”A tea planter, who requested anonymity, said, “Since Assam has more than 600 gardens, a large chunk of the ₹1000 crore announced by the Centre will go to that state. The same thing has been happening with disbursement of the Tea Board of India’s subsidy to planters.”Pathak and Darnal demanded a white paper on the expenditure the state claims to have made since the TMC came to power in 2011.Raju Bista, BJP Lok Sabha member from Darjeeling and the party’s national spokesperson, said, “Both planters and workers have suffered during the TMC regime. Mamata Banerjee should name one scheme that her government has launched for the industry between 2011 and 2019. For 10 years, her government has ignored the plight of workers and planters. She announced the Chaa Sundari scheme in 2020. But so far it remains only on paper.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/financial-packages-for-tea-garden-workers-brew-a-poll-issue-in-darjeeling-101612675768904.html
07-02-2021||India||100 Femto satellites designed by students to be launched today||Hundred tiny Femto satellites, designed and developed by 1,000 students from across the country, will be launched into space on Sunday from Tamil Nadu’s Rameshwaram, the birthplace of former president APJ Abdul Kalam. Of the 100 satellites, 38 are from Maharashtra, which includes a satellite from Mumbai based Children's Academy. The satellites will be launched under a joint project by APJ Abdul Kalam International Foundation, Chennai-based Space Zone India and another organisation called Martin.Read more: DRDO conducts maiden launch of Akash missile at integrated test range in OdishaThe satellites are made of composite material and measure 4x4x4cm. They will be launched via a high altitude scientific balloon and will go on to attain an altitude of 35,000-38,000 metre. A Femto satellite is also called a small satellite, miniaturised satellite, or smallsat. It is a satellite with a low mass and small size, usually under 500kg. These satellites when launched in large numbers are useful for gathering of scientific data as well as for radio relay. They are also used for training purposes. The satellites are also equipped with sensors to study areas like ozone, cosmic ray, carbon dioxide and humidity.Kalam was an Indian aerospace scientist and politician who served as the 11th President of India from 2002 to 2007. He spent four decades as a scientist and science administrator, mainly at the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro). Read more: ‘Big achievement’, says DRDO chief after Centre approves LCA Tejas dealHe was also involved in India's civilian space programme and military missile development efforts owing to which he came to be known as the Missile Man of India. He also played a pivotal role in India's Pokhran-II nuclear tests in 1998. He was a recipient of several prestigious awards, including the Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian honour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-femto-satellites-designed-by-students-to-be-launched-today-101612674343407.html
07-02-2021||India||India records 78 Covid-19 deaths in a day, lowest in months; toll at 154,996||A single-day rise of 12,059 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 78 related fatalities pushed India's tally to 10,826,363 and its death toll to 154,996, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s data showed on Sunday morning. The number of daily deaths between Saturday and Sunday morning has been lowest in months and that of active cases of Covid-19 at 148,766 showed a consistent downward slide, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.Also read | 25 countries in queue for 'Made in India' vaccine, says S JaishankarAccording to the health ministry, the 78 fatalities between Saturday and Sunday morning include 25 deaths from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala, five from Punjab and four each from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Out of the 154,996 deaths across the country, 51,280 have been reported from Maharashtra, 12,382 from Tamil Nadu, 12,233 from Karnataka, 10,877 from Delhi, 10,202 from West Bengal, 8,686 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,159 from Andhra Pradesh, it said.The dashboard at 8am also showed that 10,522,601 people have recovered so far as 11,805 patients of the coronavirus disease were either cured or discharged in the last 24 hours. This has taken the national recovery rate to 97.19%, according to the health ministry. The ministry also said that 5,775,322 people have been vaccinated to date.Also read | Oxford Covid-19 shot less effective against South African variant: StudyThe health ministry had on Saturday urged states and Union territories to exponentially increase the pace of vaccination and schedule the inoculation of all healthcare workers at least once before February 20. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan also asked the states and Union territories to ensure that beneficiaries of the inaugural vaccination day on January 16 should start getting a second dose on February 13."The state health secretaries were asked to analyze the daily variation in the number of average vaccinations and take necessary steps to increase them. States/UTs were advised to ensure 100 per cent saturation of people who have already been registered on Co-Win digital platform. They were also asked to organise simultaneous vaccination sessions/day in the health facility wherever possible. Each state/UT was advised to devise a state-specific strategy to achieve this target," the health ministry said.Also read | Medical tourism to India on the up as Covid impact ebbsThe failure of potential beneficiaries to get vaccinated in the mop-up round would automatically push them to age-appropriate vaccination category, the ministry said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-78-deaths-lowest-in-months-toll-at-154996-101612673758552.html
07-02-2021||India||Convicts with good conduct given jobs at fuel station in MP's Indore||In a bid to rehabilitate the prisoners and ex-cons, Indore's Central Jail has started a fuel station outside the city jail, which will be operated by convicts with good conduct.As many as 8 prisoners have been employed at the fuel station while three are those who recently got out of prison.The fuel station was launched on Saturday by Jail Department's Director-General Arvind Kumar. At the launch of the initiative, Director General Kumar himself pumped fuel into a vehicle."Madhya Pradesh's first fuel pump will be operated by the Jail Department. There are 8 prisoners in jail who are sentenced to 1 or two years of imprisonment, they are kept in an open prison. And, there are 3 prisoners who were released on January 26, due to good conduct," Central Jail Superintendent Rakesh Bhangare told ANI.Aside from this, children of jail guards will also be employed at the petrol pump, Jail Superintendent said."The Prison Department wants the prisoners to connect with the society after their prison terms end and stay away from crime by doing good work," Bhangare added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/convicts-with-good-conduct-given-jobs-at-fuel-station-in-mp-s-indore-101612674083906.html
07-02-2021||India||We want to make Madhya Pradesh a liquor-free state: CM Shivraj||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said his government wants to ban liquor."We want to make MP a liquor-free state. It cannot be done with a liquor ban alone. Liquor will keep getting supplied if there are people to consume it. We will run a liquor-free campaign so that people stop consuming alcohol and we become a good state. We must take a resolution for this," Chouhan said in a rally.The Chief Minister announced that in the next three years every village house of Katni district will get a supply of clean drinking water through taps."In next three years, there will be taps and drinking water in every house," he said.Chouhan also said poor people would be provided with money to build pucca houses, adding that about 3,25,000 Ayushman cards were made including free treatment of up to ₹5 lakhs for the needy.Also read | PM Modi to visit Assam, launch road network and lay foundation of hospitalsChouhan asserted that Madhya Pradesh is the first government that announced capital punishment for misconduct with daughters of the state. "Under Muskan Abhiyan in Katni, 50 girls have been saved.""So far 37 have been sentenced, two have filed mercy petition," Chouhan added. The Chief Minister made these statements while inaugurating a project in Katni.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader also participated in the meeting organised with the public representatives and senior officials for the presentation of the five-year action plan for the urban areas of Katni district."I have given instructions that the riverfront should be developed on both sides of the river in Katni and it should be a place that will increase the glory of the city of Katni," he said while addressing a press conference. Chouhan inaugurated several projects here to bring about an Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-want-to-make-madhya-pradesh-a-liquor-free-state-cm-shivraj-101612672429228.html
07-02-2021||India||PM Modi to visit Assam, launch road network and lay foundation of hospitals||In his second visit in a fortnight to poll-bound Assam, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Sunday launch an ambitious road network project and lay the foundation of two medical colleges. The PM will address a rally in Dhekiajuli in Sonitpur district around noon before leaving for West Bengal. On January 23, Modi had addressed a rally at Sivasagar district and gave land allotment certificates to 106,000 landless families.Assembly election in Assam is due in April-May and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition is attempting another term in power by announcing and launching several major schemes.“I will be among the people of Assam tomorrow. At a programme in Dhekiajuli, Sonitpur district, the ‘Asom Mala’ programme will be launched, which will boost the state’s infrastructure. This initiative will contribute to Assam’s economic progress and improve connectivity,” Modi tweeted on Saturday night.Glad to see immense enthusiasm in Assam. Happy to be getting yet another opportunity to be in the state tomorrow. We will continue working for Assam’s all-round development. pic.twitter.com/b1Ve5iOGwf“Foundation stones for medical colleges and hospitals in Biswanath and Charaideo will be laid. This will boost Assam’s health infrastructure. In the last few years, the state has made rapid strides in healthcare. This has benefitted not only Assam but also the entire northeast,” he added.Also read | 'Glad to see enthusiasm': PM Modi ahead of his visit to Assam, Bengal tomorrowModelled on the lines of Bharat Mala, the Asom Mala project is aimed at improving 890km of state highways and construct and repair major district roads across the state at a cost of nearly  ₹8210 crore.To be constructed at a cost of ₹1122 crore, the medical colleges at Biswanath and Charaideo districts will have 100 MBBS seats and along with 500-bed hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-assam-launch-road-network-and-lay-foundation-of-hospitals-101612671163944.html
07-02-2021||India||9,222 in fray as Punjab civic bodies go to polls on Feb 14 amid farmers protest||With the last date for withdrawal and rejection of candidates for civic body polls ending on Saturday, the state election commission on Saturday said 9,222 candidates were left in the fray. Overall, 2,832 (around 30%) candidates are contesting as Independents; this is due to the fact that all councils have been categorised into A, B and C. The C councils are very small and here elections are not being held only on symbols.In A and B councils, 2,037 candidates of the Congress are left in fray, whereas the primary opposition in Punjab assembly, 1,606 candidates belong to the AAP. The SAD is fielding 1,569 candidates, with 1,003 are from the BJP.The BSP is also fielding 160 candidates. In the finally tally, BJP could not field any candidate from Tarn Taran.Also read| Farm union leader Rakesh Tikait calls on farmers for 'tractor revolution'﻿24 Cong candidates set to be elected unopposed in Bathinda districtAt least 24 Congress candidates are set to be elected unopposed in seven urban local bodies of the district.As per district electoral officer B Srinivasan, a total of 33 candidates, including nine independents, have no electoral opponent in the district.Besides 50 wards in the Bathinda municipal corporation, the district has six municipal councils and eight nagar panchayats.There are 769 candidates in the fray in the district.Maximum seven candidates of the ruling Congress have no challenger in from Maluka, the native place of the veteran Akali leader Sikander Singh Maluka. Maluka nagar panchayat has 11 wards. It was followed by Mehraj, the ancestral village of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, from where five Congress candidates have no electoral opponent.Also read| Delhi's borders quiet as police ramp up checksLehra Mohabbat nagar panchayat ended up with a peculiar situation where there is no candidate from four wards.It happened as the residents had announced to boycott the electoral process in support of their demand to restore it the status of a gram panchayat.None of the four key political parties have fielded candidates following unanimous decision of the residents to stay away from the polls. But independent candidates considered close to the Congress filed papers from all 11 wards at the eleventh hour on the last day of filing election papers.After scrutiny of papers and withdrawal, all seven independent candidates have no opponent from their wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9222-in-fray-as-punjab-civic-bodies-go-to-polls-on-feb-14-amid-farmers-protest-101612669273480.html
07-02-2021||India||American soldiers reach Rajasthan for joint Indo-US military exercise||A contingent American soldiers has reached Rajasthan to take part in a fortnight-long Indo-US joint military exercise along the Pakistan border, starting Monday, a defence official said.The contingent of 270 US soldiers reached Suratgarh in a special aircraft and left for Mahajan Field Firing Range where the joint ''war exercise'' will start on February, Defence spokesperson Lt Col Amitabh Sharma said on Saturday.This will be the 16th edition of the US military exercise under the military exchange program at the Mahajan Field Firing Range, he said, adding the exercise will continue till February 21. The Indian soldiers taking part in the exercise belong to the 11th Battalion of Sapt Shakti Command of Jammu and Kashmir Rifles, Lt Col Sharma said.Also read| Biden administration moves to reverse Trump's migration agreementsThe American soldiers taking part in the exercise belong to the US Army’s 2, Infantry Battalions, 3, Infantry Regiments and 1-2 Striker Brigade Combat Team, he added.On reaching Suratgarh, the Indian Army gave a warm welcome to the US Army contingent and the commanders and soldiers of the troops of the two countries greeted each other, the Lt Col said.In his statement, Lt Col Sharma said it is one of the largest military training and defence cooperation efforts between India and the United States.The joint exercise is another step in the growing military cooperation between the two countries which shows the continued strengthening in Indo-US relations, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/american-soldiers-reach-rajasthan-for-joint-indo-us-military-exercise-101612663851240.html
07-02-2021||India||Mhadei water diversion issue: Goa, Karnataka to follow SC's judgment||Amid the ongoing tension between Goa and Karnataka over Mhadei water diversion, BJP National General Secretary and Goa BJP in-charge CT Ravi on Saturday said that both the States will follow Supreme Court's judgment in this matter."We will follow the Supreme Court's judgment as far as the inter-state river dispute is concerned. We work for national interest and Goa and Karnataka are like two eyes. The interest of both the states is in line with the interest of the party," said Ravi.Goa BJP has scheduled a day-long State Executive Committee meeting in the State capital on Sunday, which will be attended by Union Minister Giriraj Singh and Ravi.Home Minister Amit Shah is also likely to make a transit visit to Goa as he will be addressing a rally in Maharashtra today. Shah is also likely to meet Union Minister Shripad Naik who is recuperating at the GMC before flying back to Delhi via Goa.Also read| Medical tourism to India on the up as Covid impact ebbsMhadei, also known as the Mandovi river in Goa and Mahadayi in Karnataka, is considered as a lifeline in the northern parts of Goa. It originates in Karnataka and meets the Arabian Sea in Panaji in Goa, while briefly flowing through Maharashtra.While the river runs 28.8 km in Karnataka, it is over 50 km in length in the state of Goa. Goa, Karnataka are battling out a two-decade-long dispute over the sharing of the Mhadei waters.The Goa government has already filed a contempt petition accusing Karnataka of diverting the river's water, despite the Supreme Court hearing another special leave petition filed by Goa which has challenged the Tribunal's award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mhadei-water-diversion-issue-goa-karnataka-to-follow-sc-s-judgment-101612666966228.html
07-02-2021||India||Plea for removal of Mathura's Shahi Idgah mosque: Court issues notices||A Mathura court has issued notices to the Shahi Idgah Masjid management committee and others, seeking their stands on a fresh plea for the removal of a 17th-century mosque from near the birthplace of Lord Krishna in the Katra Keshav Dev temple complex here.Additional District and Sessions Judge Dev Kant Shukla on Saturday issued notices after admitting the plea, ruling that the suit is "maintainable and hence admissible" for detailed hearing, District Government Counsel (Civil) Sanjai Gaur said.After admitting the civil suit, the court also issued notices to three other respondents -- the president of Sunni Waqf Board, Lucknow and the managing trustees of Sri Krishna Janmabhumi Trust Katra Keshav Dev temple and Sri Krishna Seva Sansthan, Katra Keshav Dev temple.The court sought the stands of the four respondents to the new plea by March 8, the next date of hearing, DGC Gaur said.Also read| AIMIM to contest in Gujarat civic body polls in alliance with BTPThe fresh plea has been filed by priest Pawan Kumar Shastri of the old Keshav Dev temple on behalf of the temple's deity, Thakur Keshav Dev Ji Maharaj Virajman.'Sevayat' Shastri has made three demands in his plea, firstly claiming the right to manage the entire 13.37 acres land of the Katra Keshav Dev temple complex, including the land on which the Shahi Idgah mosque stands.He sought the right to manage the entire temple complex claiming that his ancestors have been serving as priests of the deity for decades and he has inherited the right from them as the temple's real 'sevayat' (priest).Shastri has also demanded the annulment of a 1967 ruling of Mathura court which has ratified a land deal between the Shri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan and Shahi Idgah Management Committee, allowing the existence of the mosque near the temple.Also read| Farm union leader Rakesh Tikait calls on farmers for 'tractor revolution'In his third plea, Shastri has demanded a court direction to the Shahi Masjid Idgah’s management committee and Lucknow’s Sunni Waqf Board’s president to remove the mosque from its current location.Besides the present suit, three more suits are pending with Mathura courts on the issue.One suit, filed by advocate Mahendra Pratap Singh on behalf of five plaintiffs, has been admitted for the hearing by the court.The admissibility of two others, filed respectively by advocate Hari Shankar Jain for Sri Krishna Virajman through the deity's “next friend” Ranjana Agnihotri and others and advocate Shailendra Singh for Hindu Army chief Manish Yadav, are yet to be decided, DGC (Civil) Gaur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-for-removal-of-mathura-s-shahi-idgah-mosque-court-issues-notices-101612667851884.html
07-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Cong looks for Ghulam Nabi Azad’s replacement in the Rajya Sabha and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress looks for Ghulam Nabi Azad’s replacement in the Rajya SabhaAs Rajya Sabha’s Leader of the Opposition (LoP) Ghulam Nabi Azad’s term comes to an end on February 15, the Congress is weighing its options to pick his replacement, according to people aware of the developments. Read moreDelhi's borders quiet as police ramp up checksAmid the large-scale police deployment and a host of steps taken to curtail the movement of farmers, the three-hour nationwide “chakka jam” — a blockade of national and state highways — called by farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws, went off peacefully on Saturday at the three protest venues at Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. Read moreTwitter India’s public policy head resignsTwitter India’s public policy head Mahima Kaul has resigned from her post citing personal reasons, a senior executive of the social media firm confirmed on Saturday. Read moreMajor fire at state electricity distribution company office in MaharashtraA major fire broke out at a state electricity distribution company office in Khajuri in Maharashtra’s Thane on Monday, news agency ANI reported. It started early in the morning and no report of casualty has come so far. Read more'Not sure whether Bumrah should be picked for second Test': Gambhir wants pacer preserved for pink-ball matchPlaying his first Test match on home soil, India fast bowler Jasprit Bumrah had a long day along with the rest of his teammates bowling to England in the first innings of the Chennai Test. Read moreMalaika Arora takes traditional clothing up a notch in ₹2 lakh ruffled lehengaBe it a jumpsuit, a mini dress, a kaftan or a lehenga, Malaika Arora will know how to look absolutely fabulous in it. The actor is known to be a fashionista and often Malaika’s sartorial picks leave us speechless. Read moreKangana Ranaut on international support for farmer protests: "People like Kim Kardashian are their icons'Kangana Ranaut has once again claimed that the farmer protests are nothing but a huge conspiracy to break India into pieces. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cong-looks-for-ghulam-nabi-azad-s-replacement-in-the-rajya-sabha-and-all-the-latest-news-101612667822281.html
07-02-2021||India||AIMIM to contest in Gujarat civic body polls in alliance with BTP||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) will contest the municipal elections in Gujarat in alliance with the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP), said party chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Saturday.Addressing media in Surat, Owaisi informed that he will be addressing two public meetings--one in Bharuch and one in Ahmedabad on Sunday."I'm going to Bharuch from here. I will address a public meeting there in the day. We have an alliance with the Bhartiya Tribal Party here. There will also be a public meeting in Ahmedabad later in the evening," he said.AIMIM supremo added that his party will contest the municipal elections in the state and said, "This is the first time we are contesting elections here, hope the people bestow us with love."The six cities in Gujarat are going to have civic body election-- Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar--on February 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aimim-to-contest-in-gujarat-civic-body-polls-in-alliance-with-btp-101612665209793.html
07-02-2021||India||TDP MLA resigns from post against RINL's disinvestment plans||Ganta Srinivasa Rao TDP MLA from Visakhapatnam North constituency has resigned from his post in protest against the Central government's proposal to privatise the RINL (Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd) in the city."Locals can't digest plant's privatization. I resigned as a MLA to protest against privatisation. The plant has had losses as it doesn't have its own mines. Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy must put pressure on Prime Minister," Rao told ANI.He said he will launch a non-political joint action committee as a move of agitation asking the Centre to revoke its decision."People of Visakhapatnam fought for this steel plant. The steel plant has been incurring losses due to the lack of its own mines. If the central government allocated mines to the plant, it will be in profits. But privatisation is not a solution for the problem," he added.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Reddy on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to reconsider the disinvestment plans of RINL and explore other opportunities to put the plant back on track.In a letter, Reddy said the recent decision of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) which has given in-principle approval for 100 per cent strategic disinvestment of the government of India's shareholding in RINL, Visakhapatnam, along with management control by way of privatization has become a cause of concern for the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tdp-mla-resigns-from-post-against-rinl-s-disinvestment-plans-101612664432253.html
07-02-2021||India||Tikait’s decision to not have chakka jam in UP, Uttarakhand 'hasty': SKM leader||Senior farmer leader Darshan Pal Saturday said the decision by BKU leader Rakesh Tikait to not hold 'chakka jam' in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand was taken in "a hasty manner" and it would have been better had he first discussed his plan with the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha.Earlier this week, the Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions leading the protests at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- against a trio of farm laws for over 70 days, had announced a nationwide 'chakka jam' on February 6.On Friday, Tikait told reporters that there would be no road blockade in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Saturday.A senior farmer leader, who didn't wish to be named, said that the BKU leader's "sudden decision" surprised some leaders of the SKM."It would have been better if Rakesh Tikait had talked and discussed about his proposal of not having chakka jam in UP and Uttarakhand with us before telling it to the media. He, of course, did discuss it with the SKM later and it was a joint thing," Pal told reporters at a press conference at the Singhu border."So basically what we are trying to say here is that he announced it in a hasty manner. Nothing else," he added.Pal, however, cleared that everything is fine within the SKM and people shouldn't assume that there are any differences between the leaders.Later in the evening, the SKM issued a statement, claiming that 'chakka jam' was also held in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Saturday."Chakka jam programme in Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand and Bihar was a complete success," it stated.It also stated that farmers organised chakka jam in more than 200 places in Madhya Pradesh while in Maharashtra, farmers led the chakka jam in many places, including Wardha, Pune and Nashik."The success of Chakka Jam was also seen in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala and Tamil Nadu," it stated.The three-hour long nationwide 'chakka jam' by protesting farmers was held on Saturday amid tight security, even as there was no such event in the national capital which was turned into a fortress with heavy security deployment by the Delhi Police, paramilitary and reserve forces personnel to prevent any untoward situation.The Delhi Police had also used drone cameras to keep a tight vigil at protest sites.Ten Delhi Metro stations, including Mandi House and ITO, were closed for the duration of the 'chakka jam' from 12 noon to 3 pm, and reopened after the protest ended.Around 50 people were detained near Shaheedi Park in central Delhi for allegedly holding an agitation in support of the 'chakka jam’. PTI MG BUN BUN RDM RDM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tikaits-decision-to-not-have-chakka-jam-in-up-uttarakhand-hasty-skm-leader-101612663278821.html
07-02-2021||India||Major fire at state electricity distribution company office in Maharashtra’s Thane; none injured||A major fire broke out at a state electricity distribution company office in Khajuri in Maharashtra’s Thane on Monday, news agency ANI reported. It started early in the morning and no report of casualty has come so far.The cause of the fire is known yet. Fire tenders are at the spot and are working to douse the fire.More details are awaited.On January 23, a fire broke out in two companies and one godown on at Wagle Industrial Estate in Thane. The firefighters took four hours to douse the fire while cooling operations went on till late in the night.The fire was reported in a medical equipment supply company and spread to a diagnostic centre and the godown of Prashant Corner, a popular sweet meat shop in Thane. However, no one was injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-fire-at-state-electricity-distribution-company-office-in-maharashtra-s-thane-none-injured-101612663436707.html
07-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to visit Rajasthan next week to raise voice for protesting farmers||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi will be on a two-day visit to Rajasthan next week to raise his voice for farmers protesting the new agriculture laws, party general secretary Ajay Maken said on Saturday."To fight for farmers' interests, to raise the voice of farmers in the struggle for the repeal of the three back laws, Rahul Gandhi ji will be in Rajasthan on February 12-13," the AICC in-charge of Rajasthan said in a tweet in Hindi.A 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' was held in Rajasthan's Dausa on Friday in solidarity with the farmers camping on the borders of Delhi. The resolution passed at the meet reiterated the farmers' demand for the repeal of the three new farm laws.Speaking at the meeting, senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot said the Union government had not discussed the bills with state governments and farmers' organisations before bringing them in Parliament."We will not step back till these demands are met," the former Rajasthan Congress chief said.Thousands of farmers have been protesting demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-visit-rajasthan-next-week-to-raise-voice-for-protesting-farmers-101612662693359.html
07-02-2021||India||Andhra CM writes to PM requesting reconsideration of RINL's disinvestment plans||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to reconsider the disinvestment plans of RINL (Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd) Visakhapatnam and explore other opportunities to put the plant back on track.In a letter, Reddy said the recent decision of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) which has given in-principle approval for 100 per cent strategic disinvestment of the government of India's shareholding in RINL, Visakhapatnam, along with management control by way of privatization has become a cause of concern for the state government."RINL is the largest public-sector industrial unit in the state creating employment opportunities for close to around 20,000 people directly and many other indirect employment opportunities in the city of Vishakhapatnam," he stated.The Chief Minister recalled that the plant had a good performance between 2002 to 2015 earning profits with positive net worth but had pragmatically turned-around in 2002 after being reported to Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) as a sick company."The company has around 19,700 acres of land currently and the valuation of these lands alone could exceed one lakh crore rupees due to the location of the plant in the urban area and rapidly expanding urban sprawl," Reddy wrote.The Chief Minister noted that RINL currently has a capacity of 7.3 million tonnes and has taken up plant modernisation and capacity expansion recently which made the plant borrow loans from banks to take up the expansion."Owing to the unfavourable steel cycle globally the company was making losses since 2014-15 and was finding it difficult to service the debt. One of the major structural issues that also leads to the high cost of production is the absence of captive mine thereby affecting the profitability," he said further.Reddy pressed that the plant will again become a profitable venture given some support from the Government of India instead of taking the disinvestment route by some turnaround measures such as "allotting captive iron ore mines to bring down the input costs, swapping high-cost debt with low-cost debt, and converting debt into equity through equity conversion.""I request you to consider the following measures for revival of RINL Visakhapatnam," he said.He suggested that the operation of the plant can continue to achieve the turnaround, and said "As with all the sectors of the economy, the steel sector is also seeing a V-Shaped recovery. RINL has achieved the highest ever capacity utilization of 6.3 MTPA against the capacity of 7.3 MTPA from December 2020 and started making a monthly profit of close to ₹200 crores. Continuing this performance for a further period of two years will help the financial situation immensely."He also said that having captive iron ores mine of its own will reduce input costs for RINL. Reddy said currently, RINL is purchasing iron ore from NMDC Bailadila mines at market price, which has put the RINL at a cost disadvantage of around ₹5,260 per MT of steel (at ore level)."Many of its competitors have captive mines for more than 60 per cent of their requirements and buy only the rest from NMDC. Even SAIL has its own captive mines with reserves of iron ore sufficient for 200 years. This excess cost of iron ore has cost implications of more than Rs. 3,472 crores for RINL. It is essential to create a level playing field for all the players and hence allotment of captive mines for RINL will help tide over this cost disadvantage. Orissa is blessed with iron ore and the captive mine in Orissa State will go a long way in reviving the plant," he stated.The Andhra chief minister added that financial restructuring can also help the plant, by converting the short term loans along with long term loans into equity taking off repayment pressures and interest burden."The high-cost debt which is actually Rs. 22,000 cr is being serviced at interest rates as high as 14 per cent. Conversion of these loans into equity by the banks so as to remove the interest burden totally and listing the entity (RINL, Vizag) on the stock exchange giving the banks exit option through the stock exchange route through general public may also be explored. These measures could ease the burden of debt servicing and improve the financial sustainability," he said.Reddy added that the steel plant stands as a testimony to the will of the Telugu people and it is continued as an icon of Telugu achievement in our collective psyche to date, and added that the state government is ready to work with the Ministry of steel to protect RINL."Therefore, I request you to kindly reconsider the disinvestment plans of RINL Visakhapatnam and explore other opportunities to put the plant back on track. I assure you that Andhra Pradesh Government will closely work with the Government of India under your able leadership in making this happen and together we can revive the plant for unlocking the greater value to the society and in particular to the people of Andhra Pradesh," he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-writes-to-pm-requesting-reconsideration-of-rinl-s-disinvestment-plans-101612659133296.html
07-02-2021||India||Farm union leader Rakesh Tikait calls on farmers for 'tractor revolution'||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday called on peasants across the country to join the “tractor revolution” as part of the ongoing protests at Delhi's borders against the new agri laws introduced by the Centre.During a speech to supporters at the Ghazipur protest site, Tikait reached out to the farming community, many of whom especially in the Delhi-NCR region have been upset over the National Green Tribunal's ban on diesel vehicles, including tractors, that are over 10 years old.“The tractors which run in the farms will now run at the NGT's office in Delhi also. Until recently, they had not asked which vehicles are 10 years old. What is their plan? Phase out tractors older than 10 years and help the corporates? But the tractors older than 10 years will also run and the movement (for repeal of the new farm laws) will also be strengthened,” Tikait, 51, told the crowd amid cheers.Also Read | Intervention by PM Modi may resolve farm bills issues, says Sharad PawarHe said more and more farmers across the country will participate in the ongoing farmers' stir for rollback of the contentious laws. Recently, 20,000 tractors were in Delhi and the next target is taking that number to 40 lakh, Tikait said.He also called on tractor owners to attach their vehicles with the 'tractor kraanti' (tractor revolution).“Write 'Tractor Kranti 2021, 26 January' on your tractors. Wherever you will go, you will be respected. We have a target of 40 lakh tractors,” he said.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, whose emotional appeal recently had revived the protest that was losing momentum post the January 26 violence in Delhi, also called on villagers to bring a fistful of soil from their farmlands to the agitation sites and take back a similar amount of 'mitti' of the revolution from the protest sites.“Go and spread this revolutionary soil in your farmlands and never will traders look at your farmlands (to usurp it),” Tikait said.Exhorting supporters to keep the momentum going, he asked them to be prepared to reach protest sites as the agitation at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu border points of Delhi could go on till October.Also Read | Traffic snarls across states as farmers block key highways“Be prepared at villages, whenever a call is made, reach the protest the way the youth (from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh) has done (after the January 26 episode),” he said.Ghazipur has earlier witnessed the influence of Tikait over the farmers' community in north India when hundreds of people, including women and children, from villages in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand reached here with water and home-made food on the BKU leader's call.Tikait had made a call for water and food from villages following disruptions in water supply at the protest site by local authorities in the wake of the January 26 violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-union-leader-rakesh-tikait-calls-on-farmers-for-tractor-revolution-101612658834002.html
07-02-2021||India||PDM to hold 'historic' rally in Pakistan's Hyderabad on February 9||Sindh Chief Minister Syed Murad Ali Shah on Saturday announced a "historic" rally of the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) - the 11-party opposition alliance - in Hyderabad on February 9.Talking to the media in Sehwan, the chief minister said that people from all over the country would attend the PDM rally in the Sindh province on Tuesday, ARY News reported.Key opposition leaders including Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) vice president Maryam Nawaz, Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) chairman Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari and PDM chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman would address the rally.Commenting over local body elections in Sindh, Murad Ali Shah said that the LG polls will be held across the province as per the Constitution, according to ARY News.Ali Shah also spoke on the federal government's move to amend the Constitution by bringing an ordinance to allow open balloting in the upcoming Senate elections.This comes after the PDM on Thursday announced a long march against the Prime Minister Imran Khan-led government on March 26, which is seen as one of the major components of the opposition's anti-government movement, which began last year."Caravans of long march will leave for Islamabad from across the country on March 26," Rehman said, while adding that the PDM had decided that "we will contest the Senate elections jointly; there will be a joint strategy for it and we will not compete against each other. We will field joint candidates."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdm-to-hold-historic-rally-in-pakistan-s-hyderabad-on-february-9-101612658334028.html
07-02-2021||India||‘Kidnapped, imprisoned for 3 days’: Navy sailor killed, father demands justice||The father of the 27-year-old Navy official who succumbed to injuries on Saturday after being set on fire by unidentified persons in Maharashtra's Palghar has sought justice for his son."I want justice for my son. That's the message I want to get across via media. He gave a statement before dying that he was kidnapped and imprisoned for three days, being made an object of ransom. He was then brought to Palghar and burnt to death," said Mithilesh Dubey, father of Suraj Kumar Dubey.On Saturday, Dattatray Shinde, Superintendent of Police (SP), Palghar said that Dubey who was abducted outside Chennai airport on January 31 was taken to the jungles of Vevaji in Palghar and set on fire."The abductors had demanded a ransom of ₹10 lakh to release him, but the demand was not fulfilled by the family of the Navy official. Enraged at this, the kidnappers set the man on fire and left him to die in the jungle," Shinde said.Shinde further said that Dubey was found with burn injuries in the jungles of Palghar on Friday after which he was rushed to a hospital in Dahanu where his condition deteriorated."He was then moved to INS Ashwini where he succumbed to his injuries," he added.Maharashtra police have registered against three unidentified persons and a probe has been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/father-of-navy-sailor-killed-in-palghar-demands-justice-101612658144415.html
07-02-2021||India||Relief, anger as Valley gets back 4G net after 18 months||The residents of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday expressed relief over the restoration of high-speed mobile internet services in the region but maintained that it wasn’t a cause of celebration as they deserved an apology from authorities for denying them, what they called “their basic right”, for 18 months.Authorities suspended 4G mobile internet services in J&K on August 4, 2019, a day before the central government nullified the Constitution’s Article 370, which accorded special privileges to the region, and bifurcated it into two UTs — J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one. The government also suspended landline and internet services, fearing widespread protests in the restive region. The UT has moved several steps towards normalcy since then, with the gradual restoration of communication lines.In an order issued on Saturday, Shaleen Kabra, principal secretary (home), ordered restoration of 4 services in the region and directed inspectors general of police in Jammu and Kashmir divisions to ensure compliance and “closely monitor the impact of lifting of restrictions”.Tariq Ahmad, a 19-year-old college student from Srinagar, welcomed the move but said it was too little too late. “It is alright that they have restored the internet because it was the need of the hour but I don’t think there is any excitement as people are aware that they have lost a lot in these one and a half years. We lost our dignity, our statehood and most importantly our special status,” he said.Political analyst and author, Gowhar Geelani, said the authorities had not done them any favour by restoring 4G mobile services. “After having snatched your right to high-speed internet service for 18-long months, restoring internet is not something to celebrate about. It is actually a moment to reflect how compensation can be sought from the cellular companies who took money for the services they have failed to provide for so long,” he said.In August 2020, high-speed internet was restored in two districts of J&K — Ganderbal and Udhampur districts — based on the parameters laid down by the special committee, which recommended that the areas, where high-speed services are allowed, should have low intensity of terrorist activities.Anuradha Bhasin, the executive editor of a local daily, said she didn’t see any reason to thank the government for the move. “I actually see some going out of their way to thank govt [government] functionaries for 4G restoration. They’re not offering us charity. We should be asking for compensation for our deprivation and losses,” she said in a tweet.“It is better late than never. The government has realised how much losses our economy has suffered. This move will give a boost to the economic recovery now,” president, Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), Sheikh Aashiq told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relief-anger-as-valley-gets-back-4g-net-after-18-months-101612646718943.html
07-02-2021||India||SC judge hails Modi as ‘most loved Prime Minister’||Supreme Court judge MR Shah on Saturday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the “most popular, loved, vibrant and visionary leader” at a virtual public function to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Gujarat high court.“I am glad and feel proud and privileged to participate in this important function of release of commemorative stamp of Gujarat HC on completion of 60 years and that too by our most popular, loved, vibrant and visionary leader, Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendrabhai Modi,” said justice Shah at the beginning of the function, which had the Prime Minister as its chief guest.As the sitting Supreme Court judge was about to conclude his address, justice Shah, who hails from Gujarat, once again referred to Modi as the “most loved Prime Minister” at the virtual event, which also had Gujarat high court chief justice Vikram Nath, Union minister of law and justice Ravi Shankar Prasad, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and solicitor general Tushar Mehta in attendance.The remarks by justice Shah left some former judges of the Supreme Court divided on whether it was proper for a sitting judge of a constitutional court to express himself in such a manner at a public function.Former Chief Justice of India RM Lodha told HT that such comments by a Supreme Court judge at a public event should be avoided. “These things are absolutely avoidable. As a famous quote goes, restraint is the better part of valour,” he said.Justice Lodha added that he belonged to a different school of thought and practised restraint in his personal as well as judicial life, which was also bound by a code of conduct.Another former judge of the top court, justice Gopala Gowda said that he was “astonished” to see a sitting apex court judge showering praise on the PM when the government was the biggest litigant in the SC and had the highest stakes in policy matters.“Releasing of a commemorative stamp by the PM is a most welcome thing. But for a sitting Supreme Court judge, who is a constitutional functionary, to compliment the Prime Minister with such adjectives is unwarranted and uncalled for. The tremendous confidence of people in the judiciary will be eroded if Supreme Court judges start praising executives in this fashion,” he said.Justice Gowda said that when a judge of a constitutional court speaks, they must remember that the credibility of the institution is at stake and people’s faith must not be shaken by their remarks.However, justice BP Singh, another retired judge of the top court, did not find justice Shah’s remarks inappropriate. “He has not commented on any case in the Supreme Court. These could be his (justice Shah’s) personal views and he may genuinely feel like that for the Prime Minister. Why should it create any doubt? I don’t think it should become an issue,” said justice Singh.Last year, Supreme Court judge justice Arun Mishra (now retired) courted controversy by saying that “PM Modi was a versatile genius who thinks globally and acts locally”. The Supreme Court Bar Association had passed a resolution criticising justice Mishra’s comments as “reflecting poorly on judicial independence”.A Code of Conduct for the Supreme Court and high court judges called ‘Re-instatement of Values in Judicial Life’, was resolved in the chief justices’ conference of 1999. The 15-point code primarily recommends that a serving judge maintain an air of “aloofness” in their official and personal life.Point number 6 of the Code of Conduct lays down that a judge should practise a degree of aloofness consistent with the dignity of their office. Point number 8 states: “A judge must not enter into public debate or express his views in public on political matters or on matters that are pending or are likely to arise for judicial determination.”In his address, PM Modi said that the Supreme Court had become “number one” in the world in hearing cases through video-conferencing as he praised how the virtual hearings had facilitated ease of justice by not only increasing the ease of living of the citizens of the country, but also by facilitating the ease of doing business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judge-hails-modi-as-most-loved-prime-minister-101612646576003.html
07-02-2021||India||Twitter India’s public policy head resigns||Twitter India’s public policy head Mahima Kaul has resigned from her post citing personal reasons, a senior executive of the social media firm confirmed on Saturday. Kaul said she has stepped down from her role in the firm to take some time off.People familiar with the matter stated that Kaul quit the microblogging website in the first week of January, and will continue with the company until the end of March to help the transition. The job listing has been made public on Twitter’s website. “At the start of this year, Mahima Kaul decided to step down from her role as Twitter Public Policy Director for India and South Asia to take a well-deserved break. It’s a loss for all of us at Twitter, but after more than five years in the role we respect her desire to focus on the most important people and relationships in her personal life. Mahima will continue in her role till the end of March and will support the transition,” Twitter global policy head Monique Meche said in a statement.News of Kaul’s resignation comes at a controversial time for the website, which came under fire from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for “violating Indian law” by not taking down tweets related to “farmers genocide”. Meity sent Twitter a sternly worded notice, threatening the company with penal consequences if over 250 accounts and posts that were flagged by the government weren’t blocked.The firm, which blocked the accounts on Monday, restored them shortly after as stating that they constituted “free speech” and were “newsworthy”. The lifting of the local ban came in the backdrop of widespread outrage against Twitter for censoring free speech. The accounts are still accessible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-india-s-public-policy-head-resigns-101612646382783.html
07-02-2021||India||US vice president's niece voices support for stir again||Meena Harris, an American lawyer and niece of US vice president Kamala Harris, continued to voice her support for farmers protesting against three contentious farm laws in India, saying on Saturday that “this isn’t just about agricultural policy”.“It’s also about the persecution of a vocal religious minority. It’s police violence, militant nationalism, and attacks on labor rights. It’s global authoritarianism. Don’t tell me to stay out of your affairs. These are all of our issues,” Harris said, a day after she was targeted on social media for having supported the farmers’ agitation along with several other international personalities. The Indian government has maintained that it was an internal matter and that propaganda was being spread against the country by vested interests.“Weird to see a photo of yourself burned by an extremist mob but imagine what they would do if we lived in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-vice-president-s-niece-voices-support-for-stir-again-101612646003989.html
07-02-2021||India||US panel urges India to allow peaceful protest||The leadership of the powerful Congressional India Caucus has urged the Indian government to ensure that the norms of democracy are maintained and the protesters are allowed to demonstrate peacefully and have access to the Internet, as it discussed the issue of the ongoing farmer’s agitation in the country.Congressman Brad Sherman, Co-Chair of the Congressional India Caucus said that he convened a meeting with his other Republican Co-Chair Congressman Steve Chabot, and Vice-Chair Congressman Ro Khanna to speak with India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, regarding farmers demonstrations in India. This was the first meeting of the India Caucus, the largest country-specific caucus in the US House of Representatives, on the issue.“I urged the Indian government to make sure that the norms of democracy are maintained and that protesters are allowed to protest peaceably and to have access to the Internet, and to journalists. All friends of India hope that the parties can reach an agreement,” he said.The external affairs ministry has said any protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the ongoing efforts of the government and the farmer groups to resolve the impasse. “The Parliament of India, after a full debate and discussion, passed reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector. These reforms give expanded market access and provided greater flexibility to farmers. They also pave the way for economically and ecologically sustainable farming,” the MEA said in a statement on Wednesday.“The temporary measures with regard to internet access in certain parts of the NCR region were... understandably undertaken to prevent further violence,” it said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-panel-urges-india-to-allow-peaceful-protest-101612645849763.html
07-02-2021||India||Traffic snarls across states as farmers block key highways||The three-hour chakka jam (traffic halt) call by farm unions protesting the three agricultural laws evoked huge response on Saturday in Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan, even as symbolic road blockades were held in other parts of the country. The unions, however, withdrew the call for blockade in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Delhi citing inputs regarding some “miscreants trying to disrupt peace”.Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India, who is part of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said they have received reports of traffic being halted in almost every state and the entire protest was peaceful.Rakesh Takait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, however, alleged that attempts by miscreants to discredit the protests in some areas were thwarted by volunteers. “Because of these inputs, we had decided to call off the ‘chakka jam’ in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand,” the 51-year-old Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, credited with reviving the farmers’ stir, said. He also declared that the protest on the outskirts of the Capital will continue till October 2 and an effort will be made to “connect every village” with the agitation. He asked farmers to take soil from Ghazipur border to their farmland as a symbolic gesture to express solidarity.For 72 days, farm unions have camped outside Delhi demanding repeal of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, which farmers say favour big corporations. The Centre has refuted the concerns, and offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months, but talks are currently locked in a stalemate.Scores of protesters were also briefly detained by the police in several states on Saturday for blocking roads. Farm leaders said protesters stalled traffic on roads in parts of Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karanataka. No untoward incident was reported from anywhere. “At 42 places in Karnataka, the protests were held and police took farmers into custody.”Raising slogans against the Centre, many farmers parked their tractor-trailers or squatted in the middle of roads in Punjab and Haryana, blocking several highways, including the Chandigarh-Zirakpur, Amritsar-Pathankot, Tarn Taran-Kapurthala, Ferozepur-Fazilka, Muktsar-Kotkapura, Bathinda-Chandigarh, Ludhiana-Jalandhar, Panchkula-Pinjore and Ambala-Chandigarh highway. Protests were also held at Shambhu near Ambala and at many toll plazas. “The protest was completely peaceful,” said Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan. “Around 6,000 to 7,000 protesters on an average took part in Chakka Jam each place,” he added.In Haryana, traffic was blocked on almost all national and state highways for three hours. Rustic farmer songs were played and people perched atop truck-tractors hoisted the tricolour on the KMP Expressway even as biscuits and fruits were distributed to the protesting farmers and those stranded.In Rajasthan, farmers at many places including Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Dholpur and Jhalawar stalled traffic on the highways and main roads and held demonstrations, police said.Protests were also staged in Maharashtra’s Karad and Kolhapur. At least 40 protesters, including Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan’s wife Satvasheela Chavan, were detained in Karad, a police official said. Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna leader Raju Shetti and others were detained briefly in Kolhapur.In Telangana, police said several people were taken into preventive custody. Similar reports came from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu where farmers blocked highways in different parts.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traffic-snarls-across-states-as-farmers-block-key-highways-101612645448695.html
07-02-2021||India||4 get 5-yr-jail for ragging, abetting suicide of 18-year-old||A district court in Bhopal on Friday sentenced four women to five years in prison after holding them guilty of ragging and abetment of suicide of an 18-year-old girl in 2013, said a government advocate.Additional district judge Anil Ranjan Samadhiya pronounced the judgement against Nidhi Magre(27), Deepti Solanki(28), Kirti Gaur(28) and Divyanshi Sharma(27) under section 306 (abetment of suicide). The court also imposed a fine of ₹8,000 on each of them. “With promising dreams, talented and competent children go to universities, colleges and schools. But end their lives due to the torture of ragging...,” the judge observed.Government advocate Khalid Qureshi said, “One of the faculty member Manish Gupta was acquitted by the court.”Talking about the case, Qureshi said, “A second-year Bachelor of Pharmacy student of RKDF College in Bhopal died by suicide on August 6, 2013. Police had recovered a suicide note in which she blamed four seniors and a faculty member for harassing her.”“The 4 seniors used to force her to complete their assignments . The girl complained to the faculty but no action was taken. When the four came to know about it, they had started mentally torturing her. Upset with this, the girl committed suicide,” he added. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-get-5-yr-jail-for-ragging-abetting-suicide-of-18yearold-101612645135714.html
07-02-2021||India||Talks with China to continue: Jaishankar on LAC standoff||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said senior military commanders of India and China have held nine rounds of talks on the process of disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh and the parleys will continue in future as well. Addressing reporters in Vijayawada, he said so far there was no “visible expression” of the talks on ground.The minister was replying to a query on whether there would be any ministerial level talks between both the countries on skirmishes between troops of the Asian giants.The two countries have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks to resolve the face-off, but no significant headway has been made so far.“So, military commanders have held nine rounds of meetings so far. We believe some progress has been made, but it is not, in a kind of situation where there is a visible expression of that on the ground,” he said.He added India has so far supplied Covid- 19 vaccine to 15 countries and another 25 nations were in the queue at different levels to get the dose. “I think right now we have already supplied to about 15 countries... I would say there would be another about 25 countries which are at different stages in the pipeline.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-with-china-to-continue-jaishankar-on-lac-standoff-101612644995400.html
07-02-2021||India||Medical tourism to India on the up as Covid impact ebbs||Twenty-one end-stage kidney, liver and heart patients from Myanmar arrived at New Delhi’s Apollo Hospital on Friday in a chartered flight arranged by the hospital, as medical tourism that was hit by the Covid-19 pandemic has started picking up again.Most of these patients are lined up to undergo organ transplants, and had been waiting for months for travel restrictions due to the pandemic to ease as transplant surgeries are not widely done in their country.“With initial lockdowns and travel restrictions imposed worldwide due to Covid-19, the condition of these patients had deteriorated to such an extent that a transplant was the only way out. These patients were chronic cases of kidney, liver and cardiovascular diseases and have been waiting for organ transplants for over six months now,” the hospital said in a statement.“Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals along with the Indian embassy has arranged for a special chartered flight to get these patients to India for immediate kidney/liver transplants and expedite treatment for patients requiring attention for cardiovascular ailments,” it added.The ministry of external affairs (MEA), government of India, did not officially comment on the arrival of these patients; however, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that special permission was given for airlifting the 21 ill persons on humanitarian grounds.Medical tourism in India had been steadily growing over the past few years. The government data for 2019 and 2018 showed at least 6% of the overall tourist flow to India was of people arriving for treatment. Foreign tourist arrivals for medical reasons in 2019 were 697,453 — 6.4% of the total; for 2018, the number was 644,036, 6.1% of the total tourist inflow.While the ministry of tourism is yet to make public data on international patients who arrived for treatment to India in 2020, most hospitals that had 10-15% of their patient rush from overseas said they did not see the usual rush of international patients last year because of the pandemic.“The percentage of international patients dropped substantially last year; it is picking up this year but very gradually. The normal rush is still not there. In our hospital we would see about 10-15% foreign patients annually, which is now as low as 2-3%, but patients have started coming in,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, Institute of Critical Care & Anesthesiology, Medanta hospital.Also, patients who travel to India for treatment currently are largely those needing critical care.“These are all patients suffering from chronic conditions that can be life-threatening such as organ failure, cancers or brain tumor. For the initial few months there were absolutely no patients from the overseas. By July critical patients started trickling in. Travel for elective procedures such as putting orthpaedic implants, etc, however, has vanished completely,” said Dr Sibal.Dr Mehta says, “Also, no patients are coming from countries that are called bubble safe such as the UK or the US. Most patients are from Asian or African countries. It will take some time before things actually get back to normal. After all, not everyone can afford to charter a flight.”Apollo Hospital has an information centre at Yangon, Myanmar, and on the request of patients, a special flight was arranged to fly them to India.“The Indian mission in Myanmar was of great help in transporting these patients. They had been waiting for a while, some even for over six months, to get treated. These are all critically ill patients who were on regular follow-up but couldn’t travel for treatment. We tried to treat them optimally through virtual consultations, but now they needed surgery,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director, Apollo Hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-tourism-to-india-on-the-up-as-covid-impact-ebbs-101612644405066.html
07-02-2021||India||Internet at Delhi borders snapped again, for 24 hrs||As farmers held a three-hour chakka jam protest against the Centre’s frequent suspension of internet at protest sites, heavy police barricading and the three new agriculture laws, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Saturday snapped internet services again at Delhi’s borders for 24 hours.The 24-hour internet suspension began at midnight on Friday and was to end at 11.59pm on Saturday.The suspension of internet services was announced in the interest of “maintaining public safety and averting public emergency”, the order issued on February 5 said. Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri borders and surrounding areas came under the purview of this suspension order.The MHA ordered the first suspension of internet services amid the ongoing protest on January 26, when the farmers’ tractor march led to a violent stand-off between protesters and Delhi Police.A group of protesters who entered the Capital deviated from the pre-agreed route of their tractor march and entered the Red Fort. Since then, there have been regular suspensions of internet services in the Capital’s border areas.Saturday’s three-hour chakka jam, in which state and national highways across the country were blocked between 12 noon and 3pm, except in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, was in protest against these internet suspensions, among other things.Similar orders blocking internet services had been passed in Haryana as well — after January 26.The service disruption as well as the months-long protests in the national capital and surrounding areas have drawn the attention of the international media while global celebrities such as pop star Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg, on their social media accounts, extended support to the farmers’ protest.Since the three-hour chakka jam was the protesters’ first major event after the Republic Day march, the Centre, Delhi Police and Haryana Police stepped up security measures. Union home minister Amit Shah met Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava and national security adviser Ajit Doval on February 4 to review the security situation ahead of the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internet-at-delhi-borders-snapped-again-for-24-hrs-101612643861046.html
07-02-2021||India||‘Chakka jam’ passes off largely peacefully||Delhi turned into a virtual fortress on Saturday amid heavy deployment of security forces as farmers protesting against three contentious agricultural laws held demonstrations in some states including Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan as part of a three-hour “chakka jam”, even though no demonstrations were held in the national capital.Thousands of farmers across the country blocked roads with vehicles and boulders to demand a repeal of the three laws, with no major incidents of violence being reported. The government and farm unions have not been able to find a solution to the stand-off over 11 rounds of talks, and the farmers have rejected a proposal by the Centre to put the laws on hold for 18 months.On Republic Day, farmer groups broke through barricades, clashed with the Delhi Police and stormed the Red Fort, hoisting the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs, on its ramparts.While the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmers unions spearheading the agitation, said earlier that the “chakka jam”, or road blockade, would not impact Delhi and the national capital region (NCR), there was heavy police deployment across the Capital, with at least 40,000 personnel standing guard at various spots. Mobile internet services were again suspended at three border points – Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri – until Saturday night, according to a Union home ministry order.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait declared that their protest on Delhi’s outskirts will continue till October 2 and an effort will be made to “connect every village” with the agitation. He said inputs were received regarding some “miscreants trying to disrupt peace” during the “chakka jam”. “Because of these inputs, we had decided to call off the ‘chakka jam’ in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand,” the 51-year-old Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, credited with reviving the farmers’ stir after the Republic Day violence, said.After the “chakka jam” concluded, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said on Saturday evening that the protest once again proved that farmers across the country were united against the three central farm laws. It said the call for “chakka jam” received huge support across the country.Shouting slogans against the Centre and the three farm laws, many farmers parked their tractor-trailers and blocked roads in Punjab and Haryana, impacting highways including Chandigarh-Zirakpur, Amritsar-Pathankot, Tarn Taran-Kapurthala, Ferozepur-Fazilka, Muktsar-Kotkapura, Bathinda-Chandigarh, Ludhiana-Jalandhar, Panchkula-Pinjore and Ambala-Chandigarh.Farmers also squatted on roads in Odisha, Karnataka, Maharashtra and other states with flags and banners protesting against the laws. Thousands of farmers blocked the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway in Haryana.No incidents of violence were reported in the Capital, even as the Delhi Police detained 62 people from outside Shaheedi Park near Maulana Azad Medical College, where they had gathered to hold a protest in solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the three-hour-long “chakka jam” protest. They were released later in the evening, according to officials. The police also used drone cameras at several places including the protest sites at the borders for aerial surveillance. On Friday evening, they began conducting checks at entry points at Delhi’s borders.At places such as India Gate, Red Fort, and residences of the Prime Minister and President, police were on high alert and monitored the movement of vehicles. At India Gate, along with the riot control force, the police also stationed water cannons for emergency use. Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said: “The security around the iconic structures and important buildings was tightened. There were no protesters in the New Delhi area.”As a precaution, the entry and exit gates of many Delhi Metro stations were also shut. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said in a statement on Saturday morning that the entry and exit gates at Mandi House, ITO, Delhi Gate, Vishwavidyalaya, Lal Quila, Jama Masjid, Janpath, Central Secretariat, Khan Market and Nehru Place metro stations were closed for public. The gates were opened after 3pm, when the three-hour “chakka jam” concluded. A Delhi Metro official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that the gates were closed on the police’s instructions to prevent unruly protesters from entering the Metro premises or gathering at important locations.At the three border points – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur – the protests remained peaceful after farm leaders repeatedly told the protesters not to cross the barricades to enter Delhi or indulge in violence. The Delhi Police have placed multiple layers of barricades and cement boulders at the borders to ensure that the protesters do not drive their tractors into the national capital.Many among the protesters said they would ensure that their agitation was not marred by violence like the one during the tractor rally on January 26. At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured when the protesting farmers on their tractors deviated from the pre-approved route of the rally, assaulted police personnel when they were stopped from entering parts of central Delhi, and also stormed the Red Fort premises.“We have been sending out messages to our brothers in other states that instead of coming to Delhi for the protests, on Saturday, they should support the movement by blocking their respective state highways and internal roads. The gathering here might be fewer than usual, but that is because the participation at the highways was immense,” said Sahil Kamboj, a volunteer at the Tikri border.Farmer leader Tikait, while addressing a gathering at Ghazipur, said the Centre should repeal the farm laws by October, failing which they will intensity their protest further. “We have given time to the government till October 2 to repeal the laws. After this, we will make further plans. We won’t hold discussions with the government under pressure. We won’t return home unless our demands are met,” he said. In other parts of the country, scores of protesters were held briefly by police as they stalled traffic on roads in Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. However, no untoward incident was reported during the protests across the states. Farmers’ associations supported by opposition parties, including the Rashtriya Janata Dal, held an hour-long “chakka jam” in Bihar in response to the nationwide agitation.In Rajasthan, farmers at many places including Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Dholpur and Jhalawar stalled traffic on the highways and main roads, police said.The Congress and Left parties, too, held protests in some states in support of the “chakka jam” called by the farmer unions. “Rasta roko” protests were staged in Karad and Kolhapur cities in Maharashtra.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chakka-jam-passes-off-largely-peacefully-101612643121956.html
07-02-2021||India||Intervention by PM Modi may resolve farm bills issues, says Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday said that the highest level intervention from the Central government may help in resolving the deadlock between the Centre and farmers organisation over contentious farm bills which has resulted in over 70-day long protest, by the agrarian community. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi or the defence minister Rajnath Singh should intervene and resolve the impasse.He also slammed the Centre for failing to handle the farmers’ agitation properly and taking extreme steps against the protestors, which have never happened in the country post-independence.“In my opinion, the central government should take an initiative and a senior-level minister should intervene. I don’t want to disrespect Narendra Singh Tomar (Union agriculture minister) but the Prime Minister or defence minister should intervene then the issue may be resolved. If it happens then those leading the protest should also look for a resolution,” Pawar told reporters.“To stop protestors, roads were cemented with nails. It has never happened in the country since independence. The government took extreme measures which also shows their attitude. Whenever farmers come out on streets like this then the government is expected to show some consonance,” he said.Pawar alleged the BJP is defaming the ongoing agitation of farmers by calling them “Khalistanis” or “terrorists”. “The ruling party has taken a stand to defame farmers by calling Khalistanis and terrorists. These agitators are farmers who have made the country self-sufficient in food production. Calling them with names is not a quality of civilized culture,” the veteran leader said.Meanwhile, thousands of farmers, peasants, along with social activists and political leaders participated in the nationwide chakka jam called by Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Saturday in Maharashtra. Farmers in many parts of the state blocked national highways and state highways to show their opposition to the three laws passed by the Centre.Except for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), prominent parties including Nationalist Congress Party, Samajwadi Party, Congress, Swabhimani Sanghatna, Left parties and its affiliated bodies All India Kisan Sabha and All India Centre for Trade Unions (AICTU) participated in the agitation across the state. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the protests are not political, but the party stands for the demands of the farmers’.Reacting to comments from foreign celebrities, Pawar said that farmers are protesting despite all the odds since the last over two months and people were sympathetic towards them in the country. “Now, similar views are expressed abroad for the farmers which are not good for the country. The government must take them seriously,” he suggested.Linking these reactions over farmers’ protests with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s support to the candidature of Donald Trump as Presidential candidate for the second term, he said, “I remember when the Prime Minister was on a US tour, he declared that Trump will be elected for a second term and a few sections appreciated him. Today, people from abroad are also reacting the same way because of the same reason,” he said, blaming Modi for interfering in the internal matter of the United States.Swabhimani Sanghatna leader Raju Shetti led a protest in Kolhapur. Shetti slammed the Centre for making celebrities tweet in support of the farm laws. He said that the government has forgotten that “crores of common people” have brought them to power, but once they dump them no celebrities will ask them.Kishore Tiwari, president of Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavlamban Mission, led a protest in Yavatmal district blocking the national highway. Tiwari, who is associated with the Shiv Sean and holds MoS rank, was detained by the district police.In Mumbai, Samajwadi Party, NCP, Left parties protested in Kurla. NCP spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik participated in a protest near Kurla station. Malik, who is the party’s Mumbai unit chief, said that the three laws are an attempt to get industrialists in the agriculture sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intervention-by-pm-modi-may-resolve-farm-bills-issues-says-sharad-pawar-101612642500755.html
07-02-2021||India||Munawar Faruqui released from Indore central jail on late Saturday night||Stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui was released from Indore central jail late night on Saturday, a day after the Supreme Court granted him interim bail in a case registered against him in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly hurting religious sentiments.The delay caused in releasing the stnad-up comedianwas allegedly due to prison officials citing a warrant issued by a Prayagraj court against Faruqui. Arrested for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, Faruqui was in Indore jail since January 1.After release, Faruqui, 32, walked out of the jail and left for his home with his cousin brother Zaid Pathan and an advocate friend.Faruqui has been released after Indore central jail officials received a certified copy of Supreme Court's order, additional superintendent of Indore Central jail.LKS Bhadoriya said. Faruqui’s advocate Anshuman Srivastava said, “We handed over the certified copy of Supreme Court order to jail authorities late evening on Saturday which led to his release.”On Friday, the top court had granted him interim bail after the Madhya Pradesh High Court had rejected his bail plea on January 28. The Apex court also stayed the production warrant issued against Faruqui by a court in Prayagraj in connection with an FIR lodged there.Faruqui's lawyers on Saturday submitted a copy of the SC order in the local court, which then directed that he be released on a bond of ₹50,000 and same amount of security.But he was not released. Asked for the reason, an official of the Indore Central Jail said a court in Prayagraj had ordered Faruqui's production in a similar case on February 18.Prison officias had cited the jail manual on Saturday noon and said an order from the Prayagraj court or a competent government officer was needed to release him.In the absence of the requisite order, the comedian would have be taken to Prayagraj on Sunday morning, jail officials had said.Faruqui and four others were arrested on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA's son that objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were passed during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/munawar-faruqui-released-from-indore-central-jail-on-late-saturday-night-101612641149751.html
07-02-2021||India||Police wait for Google to help them trace creators of ‘toolkit’||The Delhi Police on Saturday said they were waiting for a response from Google from which they have sought assistance in identifying the author/creator of a “toolkit” or document, which allegedly detailed an action plan for online and offline protests associated with the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Any concrete progress in the investigation into the toolkit case will happen only when the Google helps the investigating team with the IP addresses and details of the two e-mail accounts, through which the toolkit was created, a senior police officer associated with the probe said.“We are hoping that Google will share the desired information. As of now, we are collecting details of the social media accounts that posted the toolkit or screenshots of its content,” said the officer.On Friday, the cyber prevention and awareness detection (CyPAD) unit of the city police sent a letter to Google and asked for details of the people who drafted the toolkit, edited and circulated it. Separately, police are also trying to get details of the Instagram account mentioned on the original toolkit, through which a live session was screened.Apart from the toolkit case, police have registered 44 more cases in connection with January 26 violence and the incident of January 29 when a group of people, claiming to be locals, entered the protest site at Singhu border and clashed with farmers and police.Police on Saturday updated the list of arrested persons on their website. The new list has the names of 125 persons, three more than the previous list. The names of three persons, who were arrested by the Burari police station on February 3, also figure in the updated list. Their identification was done on the basis of video footage analysis.While two persons have been arrested so far in connection with the vandalism and violence at the Red Fort, investigators said that they have been conducting raids to nab eight key suspects, including actor Deep Sidhu and one Jugraj Singh, who were allegedly involved in the violence at the UNESCO World Heritage site. Police have identified Jugraj as the one who had allegedly hoisted a religious flag at the ramparts of the fort.The other six absconding suspects have been identified as Buta Singh, Iqbal Singh, Gurjant Singh, Gurjot Singh, Jagbir Singh and Sukhdev Singh. Police have already announced R6 lakh rewards – R1 lakh each for Deep, Jugraj, Gurjant and Gurjot while R50,000 each for the other four – for information leading to their arrest.Another officer who did not want to be named said that Iqbal has been identified as the one who had done a Facebook live from the Red Fort during the violence.Officials said they have identified over 100 suspects and notices are being sent to them for joining the investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-wait-for-google-to-help-them-trace-creators-of-toolkit-101612640104797.html
07-02-2021||India||'Exercise caution': Pawar's piece of advice to Tendulkar amid farmers' stir||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday advised Bharat Ratna and former international cricketer, Sachin Tendulkar, to be cautious while commenting on issues other than his field. He also said that the common people have fiercely reacted to the stand taken by Indian celebrities to counter tweets by foreign celebrities on the ongoing issue of farmers' agitation.Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) also took on the Centre for dragging Bharat Ratna awardees Lata Mangeshkar and Tendulkar in its campaign to counter tweets by celebrities such as international pop star Rihanna. He slammed the Centre saying that the issue was of government's policy and not a national issue to use such legends to garner support.“They (Indian celebrities) have taken a stand but the common people have fiercely reacted to the position taken by them. I would also advise Tendulkar to exercise caution while speaking about any other field,” Pawar commented.Also read: Delhi-NCR peaceful as 40,000 security personnel keep vigil during ‘chakka jam’Thackeray, who was speaking to reporters, said that the Union government should have not exposed Mangeshkar and Tendulkar to social media trolling. "The government should not have asked Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar to tweet and put their reputation at stake. This is an issue of the government's policy and not of country's like some threat from China or Pakistan. Now they have to face the wrath of social media trolling."“The government should have limited its use of celebrities in its campaign to actors such as Akshay Kumar,” he remarked.He further said, "They (Tendulkar and Mangeshkar) are legends in their fields, and they are very simple people. They should not have been asked to tweet with the same hashtag. They tweeted what the government asked them to tweet, and now they are at the receiving end."Thackeray also slammed the Centre for issuing clarification to pop singer Rihanna's tweet supporting the farmers' stir.Reacting to comments from foreign celebrities on farmers’ protest, the former Union agriculture minister also said that farmers are protesting despite all odds for over two months and people were sympathetic towards them in the country. “Now, similar views are expressed abroad for the farmers which is not good for the country. The government must take them seriously,” he suggested.Linking these reactions over farmers’ protests with PM Modi’s support to the candidature of Donald Trump for US presidential polls for the second term, he said, “I remember when the Prime Minister was on a US tour, he declared that Trump will be elected for a second term and a few sections have appreciated him. Today, people from abroad are also reacting the same way because of the same reason,” he said, blaming PM Modi for interfering in the internal matter of the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exercise-caution-pawar-s-piece-of-advice-to-tendulkar-amid-farmers-stir-101612636528676.html
07-02-2021||India||AAP, Congress name candidates for civic body bypolls||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Congress on Saturday announced their candidates for the bypolls to be held in five municipal wards of Delhi on February 28. The Arvind Kejriwal led-AAP has fielded two former MLAs from the city in the fray.The AAP’s political affairs committee selected former party MLA from Bawana, Ram Chander, for ward number 32N (Rohini-C), while the Delhi Pradesh Congress committee announced Mewati Barwala for the seat.Vijay Kumar, who has been the secretary of All India Safai Mazdoor Union will be fighting for the AAP in ward 2-E (Trilokpuri), whereas, Congress has fielded its local leader Bal Kishan from the ward.For ward number 08-E (Kalyanpuri), the AAP has fielded Dhirendra (Bunty Gautam) who is a senior AAP leader from Kondli. “He has done remarkable work during the Covid pandemic. Bunty Gautam has been a part of the AAP from the time of its formation,” the party said in a statement.For the same seat the Congress has fielded Dharampal Maurya, while it has put Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad from ward number 41-E (Chauhan Bangar) in east Delhi. The AAP has fielded its former MLA from Seelampur Mohammad Ishraq Khan for the same east Delhi seat.For ward number 62N (Shalimar Bagh North) in north Delhi, AAP has fielded Sunita Mishra who it said is the area’s mohalla coordinator and also is the secretary of AAP’s women’s wing in the Shalimar Bagh assembly constituency. The Congress has given the ticket to Mamta for the same seat.The bypolls will be held on February 28 from 7:30am to 5:30pm, and the last date of filing nominations is February 8.The bypolls will be held for two wards under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) and three under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC). The model code of conduct shall be in force in the above five wards and shall continue to be in force till the completion of the election. The Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2007 is also being enforced and candidates are requested to strictly abide by it, the State Election Commission of Delhi had said on January 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-congress-name-candidates-for-civic-body-bypolls-101612634187789.html
07-02-2021||India||Delhi's borders quiet as police ramp up checks||Amid the large-scale police deployment and a host of steps taken to curtail the movement of farmers, the three-hour nationwide “chakka jam” — a blockade of national and state highways — called by farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws, went off peacefully on Saturday at the three protest venues at Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders.In view of the violence in the Capital on Republic Day during the tractor rally taken out by farmers, in which one person died and several others were injured, the Delhi Police had put in place a thick security blanket to ensure that no untoward incident takes place during the chakka jam.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said, “Considering the violence that erupted on January 26 during the tractor rally, we did not want to take any chances. Elaborate security arrangements were put in place and full-scale vigil was maintained to check any untoward incident and traffic-related inconvenience. No violence happened on Saturday and the traffic remained normal.”The blockade was not observed inside the Capital. Highways leading to Delhi were free from the blockade so that farmers could reach the protest sites. There was no blockade in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh either as decided by farmer unions, for the same reason.However, all three protest venues saw thinner crowds on Saturday with farmer leaders saying that a large number of protesters had returned to their respective states to take part in the chakka jam there.At the Singhu border, farmers did not stop any private or shared public vehicle from plying along the stretch where the protest has been taking place for over two months now. “These locals have supported us from Day One. They have already done more than their bit for our movement. So we decided not to impose the jam on them,” said Jagmohan Singh, one of the many volunteers there.At Tikri, farmer leaders on the stage continued to remind the participants to hold the chakka jam as a non-confrontational event. Several young farmers, who had been camping at Tikri border, went back to their villages and home towns to lead the blockade of state highways there.“We have been sending out messages to our brothers in other states that instead of coming to Delhi for protests, on Saturday they should support the movement by blocking their respective state highways and internal roads. The gathering here might be smaller than usual, but that is because the participation at the state level is immense,” said Sahil Kamboj, a volunteer.Despite peaceful scenes at the Tikri border, the security arrangements near the protest site were intense on Saturday. Between Friday and Saturday night, the Delhi Police had set up a multilayered security cordon comprising their personnel, paramilitary personnel, concrete barricades, barbed wire fencing, and nail boards drilled onto roads to stop farmers from entering the national capital.On the roadside near the police barricades in Ghazipur, farmers prepared a small patch of land for cultivation and planted sugarcane and potatoes.Lata Chaudhary, a farmer from Baruat, said, “The police have set up a multilayered barricading and have drilled nails onto the road to prevent our movement as though we are criminals. Today, we planted sugarcane here in front of them (police) to make them realise that we are just farmers and they should not wage a war against us.”On Friday, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait had planted flower saplings beside the police barricades. The police, on their part, added another layer of barricades on Saturday and allegedly removed the flowers planted by protesters. “The government fixed iron nails in our path, but we have planted flowers next to them, Tikait said.Also watch: 'No ghar wapsi till laws are withdrawn': BKU’s Rakesh Tikait | Farmers’ protestAt 3pm, farmers gathered at the Ghazipur border site started honking their vehicles in unison. However, at Singhu border there was no such collective honking. “In the rest of the country, the jam was for three hours. Here, it has been going on for 73 days now. If the government can’t hear us despite so long, our involvement in the chakka jam won’t make a difference,” said Manmeet Kaur, a farmer from Gurdaspur in Punjab.“You can see that thousands of farmers have gathered here. The crowd is sitting for kilometres from here. If we wanted to cause trouble, their (police’s) barricades will not be able to stop us. Our movement was always meant to be peaceful. On January 26, some unruly elements tried to defame farmers and our movement but that was a political ploy,” said Daya Ram, a farmer from Mansa in Punjab.Also read: Traffic snarls across states as farmers block key highwaysAlso read ‘Chakka jam’ passes off largely peacefully||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-protest-sites-at-delhi-borders-remain-peaceful-during-chakka-jam-101612634198747.html
07-02-2021||India||'Protests limited to one state, farmers instigated': Minister in Parliament||The opposition has not been able to point out the shortcomings in the farm bills but continues to label them as “black law”, said Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday during the third consecutive day of the debate in the Rajya Sabha over the farm bills“Opposition used all platforms to criticise the bills. I heard all their statements during the debate. Opposition is continuously saying that this is a black law and should be repealed. I have been holding meetings with farmers’ unions for the last several months. I'm asking the same question to them also, what are the black provisions in these bills? But till now, I'm waiting for their reply,” he said.The agriculture minister also underlined that the government's offer to amend the laws did not mean it had any flaws. He also said the protests over farm laws were limited to only "one state" adding that the farmers were being "instigated”.“I made it clear that if the government is ready to make amendments, it doesn't mean there is any problem in farm laws. People in a particular state are misinformed. Farmers are being misled that others would occupy their land if these laws are implemented. Let me know if there is a single provision in contract farming law which allows any trader to snatch away the land of any farmer,” he said.The minister's "one state" attack refers to the protest led by farmers mainly from Punjab, a Congress-ruled state, as he countered the opposition charge that farmers across the country are protesting against the three new laws.“Our efforts are that farmers' incomes are doubled and contribution of agriculture to GDP increases rapidly. These agriculture laws are also an important step in this direction. I want to tell this House and farmers that PM Modi is committed towards welfare of farmers,” he added.The central law on contract farming, Tomar said, does free the farmers from paying taxes on their sale and also empowers them to exit agreement with traders while as per the provisions of Punjab contract law, a farmer could be sent to jail or be liable to pay penalty of up to ₹5 lakh for violation of agreement."I also want to ask farmers, specially those from Punjab where norms are different, including commission for arhtiyas (commission agents)...we have freed farmers from tax and state governments are levying taxes...so should the agitation be against those who are levying taxes or the one who is freeing them of taxes?” he said during the debate.Opposition parties like the Congress, Shiv Sena, SAD, NCP, Samajwadi Party and Left parties who have extended their support to farmers’ demand that the laws be repealed also attacked the Centre in the upper house. Sena MP Sanjay Raut attacked the government for dubbing the farmers protesting against the farm laws as "anti-nationals" and for "defaming" their agitation. Raut alleged that anyone speaking the truth is dubbed as a "traitor" or "anti-national" and that cases of sedition have been slapped against those criticising the government."We heard minister Dharmendra Pradhan asking us to listen to the truth. For the last six years, we have been listening to the truth, even the untruth dubbed as truth. The atmosphere in the country today is such that anyone writing the truth is dubbed as traitor and anti-national…When the farmers are uniting and fighting for their rights, you see anti-national acts. They are not anti-nationals or khalistanis,” he said.Expressing concerns over the violence that took place on Republic Day at the farmers’ tractor march, Raut said: “There has been no discussion from the Centre's side on who was actually behind the violence, but over 200 farmers have been put in jails for the same.”BSP member Satish Chandra Misra demanded that the government should repeal the three farm laws and also provide legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP) on all crops. He slammed the government for trying to stop farmers' protest and alleged that multi-layered barricades, barbed wires and iron nails studded on roads have been put up on Delhi borders, calling it “human rights violation.""I am not able to understand when you (the government) are ready to suspend the laws for 1.5 years, what is stopping you to withdraw these Acts," he said.Congress MP Pratap Singh Bajwa accused the centre of passing farm laws at a time when the country was focused on and suffering from the Covid-19 pandemic to stifle opposition. This was an “undemocratic” manner to pass laws, he said. “Today we have cut electricity, water supply, internet supply of our own farmers, we have put barbed wire fences around them, resembling a Berlin Wall,” Bajwa said. These things are shameful for the world’s largest democracy, he added.Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge accused the Centre of lying about MSP.“They (Centre) lie regarding MSP. Modi ji never stops saying that Congress did not increase MSP, [the] reality is in Congress’ time MSP increased by 219%, they only increased a little over 40%,” he said.“This government has always said that they will double farmers' income, but I want to tell you that when Modi ji became the PM, within a month in June 2014 all States gave a diktat that even if one rupee above MSP is given then action will be taken. Then the states stopped giving a bonus to farmers,” he said.Kharge also said the government conspired to encroach on farmers land and give it to corporates when congress leader Rahul Gandhi convinced the Centre to change the Land Acquisition Act to give four times compensation to farmers.The Marathon 15-hour long discussion in Rajya Sabha on Motion of thanks to President's address concluded on Friday.The Centre is scheduled to reply on Monday after question hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agriculture-minister-fires-khoon-ki-kheti-jibe-at-congress-in-parliament-101612529957607.html
